00:00:00.400 - 00:00:25.894, Speaker A: But the games that do succeed will deliver more volume than every other NFT collection in the world combined. They will triple the web3 user base overnight. They will be the first mainstream use case, quite frankly, of web3. Outside of payments that we've seen, web3 offers a brand new petri dish. Our job is to buy great tech at great prices. AI is also libertarian right enable use case that people haven't been able to do today. The next hundreds of millions of players, they will come to the market through mobile.
00:00:25.974 - 00:00:27.862, Speaker B: My personal reason why I could be.
00:00:27.878 - 00:00:29.594, Speaker C: Bullish in the next twelve months is.
00:00:34.994 - 00:01:04.738, Speaker B: All right. Hey everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockchain podcast. Now, in the past few months and the coming few months, we're looking to speak with founders that are running some of the most definitive projects in next years for each of crypto's key verticals. So these are things like Defi NFTs, and obviously a big vertical that we haven't covered yet is gaming. So gaming as a space seems to have been much quieter since the heydays in 2021, but also poised to make a comeback with high profile game launches. For instance, recently Illuvium just launched.
00:01:04.738 - 00:01:53.378, Speaker B: A lot more of these games are also launching next year. So more interestingly to me personally, as someone who's based out here in Singapore, I've seen a stat where 50% of crypto game teams actually come from this region, in the Asia region where our next guest is also situated. So today there are 53 gaming focused blockchain networks this year, up from just 37 last year. So a lot of development is definitely happening and I'm really, really excited to dive into all the big questions that you guys have, which is, you know, why do we need gaming chains? What are the key types of games that are benefiting from crypto? Can we make play to earn sustainable? What are the next big catalysts for games? And to talk about this, I'm really, really excited to have the co founder of Immutable, Robbie Ferguson, on to talk about all things web3 gaming, as well as all the big things that are happening to immutable next year. So, Robby, welcome to the show, man.
00:01:53.506 - 00:01:54.962, Speaker A: Thanks, Jason. Pleasure to be here.
00:01:55.058 - 00:02:21.922, Speaker B: Awesome. So, well, I'm sure a lot of people who have been following crypto peripherally know about axie infinity, know about all these big games and play to earn back in 2021. But since then, it seems like crypto gaming has kind of quieted down a little bit from that. What I considered a really kind of cultural breakthrough moment for crypto where we broke through to the mainstream. So this year seems relatively quieter. But as someone who is at the forefront of the industry, one of the leaders, who's building one of the largest protocols, what is new with crypto gaming this year?
00:02:22.058 - 00:03:17.934, Speaker A: I think the interesting thing about this, if I may, has been at the same time as we've seen a sort of decline, we've seen a ton of web two studios increase in terms of who is building, and the majority of them are now no longer obsessed with building primary sales or tokens that sort of capture the zeitgeist of the market back when things were really heated, but instead in building very long term projects. And the reason I think this is healthy is we've shifted away from defi native teams building games who have not built games before. And that's a very difficult thing to do. And our vision is you shouldn't have to be a web3 native in order to build a successful web3 game. Instead, we're seeing tons of games being built. I mean, obviously, Korea, you have two of the largest public gaming companies building major ips on web3. In China, you have hundreds of games building natively that are looking to use web3 as global distribution and global publishing, because it's still not.
00:03:17.934 - 00:03:53.706, Speaker A: Crypto is not legal, obviously, in China and in Japan, you have some of the biggest groups, like Mitsubishi Group, investing in web3 games. You have the prime minister, Fumio Kishida, saying that web3 is a new form of capitalism and it is a core national interest is web3 gaming. So the interesting thing has been, I think the industry is actually professionalized quite a bit. People are now building games who have shipped many, many successful games before. That's the majority of developers building on our platform. And obviously, even the last two months, we've seen a macro shift idiosyncratically within gaming, but also within web3 more broadly as well.
00:03:53.790 - 00:04:24.898, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a great point about how a lot of the gaming teams back in the 2021 wave were like crypto natives and defi teams kind of pivoting over to crypto. And it's an interesting shift to see the base of people who are building games in crypto now are like big studios. And obviously one of the biggest studios in the world is Ubisoft, which partnered up with you guys. So we can talk about that later. But first, just to kind of give an overview of the current crypto gaming market, there are a few big players out there. I think Polygon is one of the bigger players. There's binance chain has a bunch of their own games, and obviously you guys.
00:04:24.898 - 00:04:35.890, Speaker B: Ronin, can you help us understand the overview of the web3 gaming space right now? Who are the biggest players? What types of consolidation have we seen over the past 1224 months?
00:04:36.042 - 00:05:08.400, Speaker A: The first thing I would say is immutable has been building in web3 gaming since 2017. It's been our sole focus. And I think that has been the main reason that a few years ago, we did not have the funding we did today. We couldn't go toe to toe with some of the biggest blockchains in the world. We didn't have a $3 billion token that we worked with. Instead, what we had was 100% dedicated focus to just building the best product and best developer experience for games. And I think that actually meant the most, because it meant when we promised a product roadmap, they knew we would only be building for gaming in the future.
00:05:08.400 - 00:05:58.366, Speaker A: We weren't distracted by other categories. This wasn't a six month adjourn for us, because suddenly this became the hottest category which was gaming to have as a thesis for our blockchain's mainstream adoption. And basically, over the last two years, we've significantly jumped from roughly 10% to now 70% market share. And the first jump was to 30 or 35% at the end of last year. And the reality was, at that point in time, really, gaming was a two horse race. I think there was that graph from Delphi Digital, where they showed the estimated market share of every blockchain in the space by looking at the funding attributed to games building those blockchains, apart from Ethel one, where obviously people are kind of waiting to see where they build. Immutable and Polygon both had roughly a billion us dollars invested into games building on our ecosystems in 2022 alone.
00:05:58.366 - 00:06:57.614, Speaker A: To put that in context, that's more than always the entirety of the nascency of social gaming or mobile gaming when it was first emerging, and that was two thirds of all gaming investments in the space, we saw Polygon in every deal. We were massively competing each other up in terms of grants, spending a ton of opex on bd headcount. And at the point that that graph came out, Sandy called me and we basically said, why are we spending so much effort competing, but more importantly, adding so much friction to game developers, especially when actually our product stacks are completely compatible. Immutable doesn't build at the scaling layer of the stack. Ultimately, we think that's going to be a commodity down the line, and it's not something that our company builds. We focus on building platform infrastructure and building deep liquidity and cross roll up liquidity products. So by combining the two, we were able to effectively take the world's leading web3 gaming platform, which is immutable, and the world's leading scaling protocol, which is polygon, and combine them to create the one stop shop.
00:06:57.614 - 00:07:32.490, Speaker A: And since that partnership, I mean in terms of well funded games, very high, seven figures or eight figures of funding, we've gone from 100 to 220 in the last eight months. Since announcing it, our win rate has gone from 34% to the high sixties. So we are very rarely losing deals. And when we do, it's typically a competitor paying way above the market in terms of grants. And at the same time, my favorite thing has been we've been able to service games so much better because the number one piece of feedback I had was what we were deciding between immutable and polygon. Now we no longer have to decide. I think that's a brilliant thing.
00:07:32.490 - 00:08:33.904, Speaker A: Obviously, today is pretty relevant because we've just put out the news around merit Circle joining forces with immutable and moving to immutable to be expanding their beams back the sphere marketplace, their circle Dao's efforts to build out this gaming ecosystem. I think this is probably one of the most significant announcements. We've had the most significant announcement post Polygon, because what it is, is it's another example of a major player in the space saying, hey, we can service our customers better, we can service game developers better by not competing, but instead by partnering. And I think immutable plus Polygon plus merit Circle beam is going to be a completely unstoppable force in markets. And we're going to be able to help games succeed at every single layer of the stack with a solution where they don't have to pick, oh, who's my scaling infrastructure, who's my gaming platform, who's my marketplace infrastructure, etcetera. All of these things can sort of be a much easier decision for them. So very excited by this.
00:08:33.904 - 00:09:07.848, Speaker A: I think there's going to be, this is a healthy kind of partnership and consolidation in the industry as well. Because ultimately, back in 2021, low interest rate environments, everyone was raising a ton of cash and they thought the way they to justify that was by building the entire stack. No other industry operates that way. Most other industries, over time, modularize. Everyone takes a horizontal layer of the stack and gets very, very good at it. You have prices become much more efficient and people can kind of specialize. And I think that's actually what's been needed in web3, people have been artificially competing, raising costs and ultimately increasing consumer dilemma.
00:09:07.848 - 00:09:23.060, Speaker A: And we are now, I think, in a position where we can just relentlessly focus on a doing more of these partnerships to bring more people on board the immutable ecosystem, and b focus on getting games live and having the user experience be exceptional.
00:09:23.232 - 00:09:59.060, Speaker B: So I think that's a great pivot to what I wanted to talk about, which is the business model of a gaming chain, because ostensibly for outsiders who is looking at different gaming chains out there, you see polygon, like you see immutable, you see Ronin, you see beam from the merit circle guys, and you think, oh, these are all kind of layer ones, allowing people to build games on top of them, but yet you're able to do this partnership with different chains and not compete with each other. So what is the best analogy to understand the business model for immutable? Because it's not quite a gaming studio, it's not quite an infrastructure provider. What exactly is the immutable kind of business model?
00:09:59.212 - 00:10:27.094, Speaker A: Immutable is we describe it as the one stop shop. But our business model effectively is a protocol fee, where we are taking clips on traits on the platform. So every single trade that occurs in the immutable protocol, we're taking a 2% clip. In exchange for that, we have things like full gas abstraction. We have incredible security through CK roll ups, which we use for our infrastructure. We have cross roll up liquidity, the global order book, enforceable royalties. But most importantly, we make money when our games make money.
00:10:27.094 - 00:11:21.446, Speaker A: So our business model is entirely incentive aligned. And it's a very different business model, say, to blockchains. We're typically taking economic bandwidth or some sort of staking value, and we'll have a lot of news to share with that. Obviously, IMX is going to be the core gas currency of ZKVM. We're going to have EIP 1559 and burning available. But I think the important thing is we are trying to build a business where we can truly see the value that we're creating, which is what is the protocol volume, how many dollars extra are traded because of our platform that we've built? And our business model is designed to align incentives with games because of that. In terms of the layer above us, I would think of that as everything from say, marketplaces to primary sales infrastructure, to publishers, to, you know, people building in game marketplaces or SDKs, to even people building entire gaming dials and stacks.
00:11:21.446 - 00:12:21.550, Speaker A: And I think the great thing about what we're building with immutable ZKVM and some things we'll announce around that is we now have this really strong offering for people who want to build a gaming business or a gaming platform. In fact, the global order book we build means that if you're a marketplace, if you are the place where a asset is listed, you can apply a taker fee. If you're the venue where an asset is purchased, you can apply a maker fee. And all the while we are allowing these trades to be picked up anywhere. So we're actually maximizing volume for marketplaces while giving them complete enforceability over the fees that they want to be able to take. And of course, if you're the original creator, you can have crater royalties. So our vision is how do we create the most powerful set of economic principles that both never violate end user security, but also empower any other player in the stack to build the most successful business possible? If I used to use a very raw analogy, I would say something like immutable is at the stripe layer of the stack, Polygon is probably at something like the AWS or cloud infrastructure layer at the stack.
00:12:21.550 - 00:12:57.316, Speaker A: And then you have people building all sorts of businesses on top. I won't create an analogy for the merit circle and sphere, but obviously at the marketplace layer, maybe something like the Shopify or the publishing services, etcetera. We think there's enormous room for people to build businesses, but at the end of the day, all gamers are going to care about is what is the user experience I'm getting? What's the liquidity I'm getting? And I think that's what everything has to drive down to rather than this. Incredible, but also pretty uninteresting to 99.9% of the world's population. Technical debates which we have every day in web3 foot r. Yeah, I hear you.
00:12:57.340 - 00:13:37.876, Speaker B: And I remember that back in 2021 a lot of the VC's were talking about how the path to scaling crypto gaming is just to make the games fun. So there's a lot of cliche to that statement, but I think there's some truth to that, in that the lifeblood of this home economy is the gamers. And the gamers don't have anything to play unless the game publishers come on. So I'm actually very curious. As someone who speaks to and works with studios, from large ones like Ubisoft, all the way to indie game studios, I'm sure you've spoken to hundreds and hundreds of those. What are the main things that these publishers want to get out of web3? Is it kind of the asset ownership side, the speculation side, the NFT side, like what is drawing publishers to build on web3.
00:13:37.900 - 00:14:38.616, Speaker A: Now, publishers view this as if they are in the indie to large sort of private game category, so not one of the giant AAA studios. They see this as a way to disrupt and achieve with a 20 or $100 million budget what other games companies are currently using multi hundred million dollar budgets and all of the benefits of their incumbency to achieve. In other words, Alluvium sees this as a way to displace the biggest players in the world by leveraging the viral acquisition you get when people truly own their digital property and are happy to share it and feel the identity and retention you get when you're actually owning part of the underlying protocol and ecosystem. And they say, well, if we build a game leveraging these, we can have far cheaper acquisition costs, we can have far higher retention costs and far higher value received from and given back to players. So I think it's the classic innovative dilemma. People see this as an opportunity to have supercharged distribution and supercharged value. For the largest games companies in the world, I would split it into the west versus Asia.
00:14:38.616 - 00:15:21.204, Speaker A: So in Asia, I actually think the companies were at the helm of free to play. They were at the helm of the shift to mobile gaming and social gaming. You had gotcha invented in Korea, you had farm bill popularized and then cloned hundreds of times. And I think they view this as the opportunity where they can be at the frontier or vanguard of web3 gaming. And that's why you have people like Nexon building maplestory IP on a blockchain. That's why you have people like Kraften building a Web three Roblox competitor with hundreds of stuff on it. The vision behind those is, hey, we can build a model and prove out how this is the next big distribution shift.
00:15:21.204 - 00:15:56.050, Speaker A: That's a marked difference, I would say, to western studios, who are typically, and we've mapped, by the way, the 61 largest games companies in the world. Of them, more than half have full time teams dedicated to web3 gaming. Only one out of the entire list was a never. And so people are working on this. But I would say a lot of the, you know, activision Blizzard is not overnight going to change their most valuable in game item monetization to web3. What they will do is they will hatch and they will make sure they have experiments. They understand the space well, well enough to, you know, acquire it once it's big enough, or learn how to leverage it in their internal systems.
00:15:56.050 - 00:16:20.960, Speaker A: But it's a very different mentality model from Asia, where they genuinely want to be at the forefront of this and see this as a way to create a better experience for players. And that's the number one thing. I spent a week in Japan two months ago. I talked to the studios there, and literally some of the biggest gaming studios in Japan. They were like, we see this as a way to deliver better value to players. This is clearly the next evolution. And that, to me, was the most magical thing.
00:16:20.960 - 00:16:43.552, Speaker A: Because they didn't talk about money or value once they were truly having the spirit of what gaming was about to them. And they are very companies focused on delivering value to players. Nintendo famously has always obsessed over player experience rather than monetization. And so I think, and that's not the company I was talking to. I'm not revealing who. But, you know, this is the interesting thing to me, is the motivations come from a very genuine place.
00:16:43.688 - 00:17:23.352, Speaker B: That is so interesting, because I remember back in 2021, I think the venture narrative is very different from what was actually happening. The venture narrative was like, the big thing for crypto gaming is you can bring your sword from game a and bring it over to game b and use it. But what was actually driving people to use or play games like Axie back in the day was because they can make money on it. Because of the speculative aspect of it that really kicked off that flywheel. So from your perspective, what is the main drive for players to come into crypto today? Is this still kind of the speculative element? Or are there kind of unique gameplay styles that can only be done in Web three? That's really drawing in users today.
00:17:23.528 - 00:17:53.548, Speaker A: So I think users should not be drawn into web3 games. Because they're described as web3. The right question to ask is, how will these players come in numbers that really are meaningful? 10 million, 100 million? And the answer is, they'll play these games without knowing their web3 under the hood. Because someone successfully built a business model where they can afford to acquire these customers. And because the wallet experience isn't cutting off 99% of users as they adopt the platform. The magic moment is going to be when 20 million people can play a web3 game. And they can sell an off ramp value.
00:17:53.548 - 00:18:18.802, Speaker A: And experience the ten x value proposition of owning that, rather than just having lines in the database. But they never even know it's web3 under the hood. And I've said that many times, but it is truly the case. It's not significant to get 200,000 people in web3 yield farming again. I mean, there's some interesting stuff there. I have nothing against people building really defi native games. We have plenty of on chain games, on immutable.
00:18:18.802 - 00:19:08.514, Speaker A: But I think all of these at some point have to deliver mainstream experiences where this is how web3 becomes a horizontal, not a vertical, where it's the layer in the stack as to how multiplayer economies is powered, rather than, oh, I'm playing a web3 game whose identity is it's a blockchain game, and I know that's going to be next, y and z. Instead, I just want it to be, I know that my items will have x value and that I can sell them as genuine scarcity around it. So that's what I think the main shift is going to be. And the games that will get that right will be ones who have profitable return on ad spend, the ones that have sustainable long term economy and business model. Now there's lots of interesting emergent models beyond that, particularly around UGC incentives. How do you have new forms of monetization aligned with creator royalties and secondary market fees? But I think the primary strategy has to be let's make mainstream games.
00:19:08.674 - 00:19:50.014, Speaker B: I guess on that note, if we were to create games to completely abstract the crypto element so that it's unnoticeable, you probably need something that's very performant, very fast chains that's very cheap. And this was the conversation that I remember a lot of folks were having during the kind of gaming bull market. And this was what led to people saying, hey, Solana is the gaming chain because it's cheap. It's making security trade offs that are applicable for games. But now, if you look back at the data, I think only about like 10% of games in crypto are actually on Solana. Most of it is still on the chains that we discussed, and most are still kind of EVM as well. So why do you think that is is technical, like a straight offs really top of mind for game developers or what's going on there?
00:19:50.174 - 00:20:28.168, Speaker A: So I think there's been a massive shift to EVM and the Ethereum based ecosystem over the last two years that has been fairly unstoppable. I think it is reasonably untenable to have a platform that is not based in Ethereum, that attempts to win gaming or any mainstream consumer category. People want to use Ethereum, they want Ethereum security, they don't want a bridge that can be hacked, they don't want a centralized solution, and they want the liquidity benefits that come from using the largest ecosystem of deposited funds and smart contracts. Which is all Ethereum as well. So I say that's one trend. The second trend I think is people have moved towards ck roll up based scaling architecture. I think it's clear that that's kind of the final frontier of scaling.
00:20:28.168 - 00:21:11.940, Speaker A: It's clearly strictly superior to most alternative solutions. And ultimately, even if you have one security incident, it breaks users trust forever and no mainstream company is going to use you. So that's why that's always been sort of concern number one for us. I think number three is it's much more than just is your blockchain performant people care about what distribution am I going to get? That's why we built the global order book, because he realized it was crazy. If you were inside a video game, you received an asset and you took off platform to list that asset for sale. You will just want to click sell inside that gaming experience inside Fortnite when you get your John Wick skin. The problem is then the buyer has to also be in Fortnite.
00:21:11.940 - 00:21:55.004, Speaker A: They can't be on Opensea or magiky or GameStop Marketplace on Sphere marketplace. And the thing that's wrong with that is a lot of the whales are going to come from these marketplaces. A lot of the sell side, individual liquidity will come from in game SDK marketplaces, etcetera. And connecting those two is incredibly important. So that's why we built the global audible product, which again is a need that we only knew about because we built games ourselves and we published games ourselves. We built batch minting for nfts and deferred minting for nfts or primitives that are widely adopted today because we built the first ever mainstream blockchain game had gods and trainers, more than 60 million nfts, I believe. And that required that architecture back when l two s didn't exist.
00:21:55.004 - 00:22:22.896, Speaker A: So I think a lot of this has come from the necessity of us going through this trials and tribulations ourselves. And then we built a lot of user experience dedicated to gaming. And then again, I think we'll just come back to focus. A lot of the other players have been trying to do many things. We've been solely dedicated. Even most hyper PFB collections back in the day were like, we are most interested in games unless there's some long term utility that's interactive associated with these collections. We just want to focus on winning games.
00:22:23.040 - 00:22:56.312, Speaker B: I guess going back to a point you made earlier as well, which is that you want games to be able to talk to each other, you want people to be able to list things on this idea of a global order book on immutable. But at the same time, you know, a lot of projects have the commercial drive to verticalize, right? To create a roll up for their own game. And each game becomes their own roll up. And I think that's because, you know, people tend to value infrastructure tokens more so than like singular games. So there's a financial incentive to verticalize. Do you think that's a wrong decision for game devs to build a game and then say, hey, let's build our own roll up and become its own kind of optimistic roll up?
00:22:56.448 - 00:23:25.042, Speaker A: I think it's the wrong decision to roll your own scaling infrastructure or build your own blockchain. Certainly. I mean, I think it's a crazy world where games companies have to build their own version of AWS or stripe to justify value accrual to their token. Games can be the most incredibly valuable things in the world. Look at the revenues that CS GO is pulling in. They're doing $13 billion in secondary marketplace volume every year. Look at the revenues Fortnite is building.
00:23:25.042 - 00:23:55.372, Speaker A: And these companies only look at that if they truly are platform companies in their DNA. And Epic is they built Fortnite to make a better platform. Steam, it's they built counter strike go to make a better platform, not vice versa. And so I think it depends if you're genuinely trying to build a platform, go for it. We welcome competition and we, you know, we think there's room for everyone to build stuff. But if you're trying to build a game, and the majority 99% of people are, I think it's a ridiculous requirement. The good news is we don't see it very often.
00:23:55.372 - 00:24:32.956, Speaker A: I do think it's important people to have economic sovereignty over some things, and even their own. At some point a game will need their own dedicated block space or 10,000 transactions per second on a roll up network to support it. If it's huge and immutable, will be supporting this with our cross roll up liquidity strategy with immutable support roll ups where they can even have their own gas token. But I think that the most important thing is that will be out of the necessity of scaling that game rather than the feeling of hey, we have to necessarily do this. It's a mixed question, but certainly I think games are always best served by obsessively focusing on hey, let's make the biggest game.
00:24:33.060 - 00:25:14.538, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I agree with that and I'd love to, on that note, move on to talking about some of the growth initiatives that you guys had over the past twelve months, because with crypto partnerships, you always see some kind of random partnerships, like if a team is using Google Drive to say, we partnered up with Google, but for you guys, it's very kind of beefy legit partnerships that I thought was quite interesting because there's a wide range of these. And I'd like to first start with the most recent one, which is the merit circle one. So you said this is the most significant one so far. And I thought the other two, Polygon and Ubisoft, were equally significant in their own rights. So can you explain what happened there? Like, what is merit Circle, first of all, for people who are not aware? And why do you think this is so important for immutable when you guys already own so much of the market?
00:25:14.666 - 00:25:55.750, Speaker A: Absolutely. So Merit Circle is the world's largest gaming focused Dao. They have one of the largest non native treasuries in the industry, more than $100 million of stablecoins or equivalent. They have things like sphere marketplace, primary sales and marketplace infrastructure, an enormous ecosystem, and a ton of web3 gaming expertise. We've been really impressed by talking to the team and what their vision for the space is. And there was an opportunity just similar to immutable, Polygon was the world's largest gaming platform, plus the world's leading scaling protocol to form this very simple solution. Now to add on the world's largest gaming focus data.
00:25:55.750 - 00:26:49.050, Speaker A: And I think that, and you kind of said this rightly, Jason. We prefer not to just announce sort of noisy, but ultimately meaningless partnerships. We prefer these to be high signal to noise, to actually tell the industry what we're focusing on and how this progresses us towards our flywheel and our mission of turning digital ownership real for 3.1 billion gamers around the world, scalably on Ethereum. And the thing I'm really excited about this partnership is this forms an opportunity where instead of competing in market, and for us both trying to pay grants for deals, to win deals onto our relative infrastructure, we can essentially be a unified force. And we can simplify again this choice for developers in terms of where they want to build. And now we have the enormous ecosystem, publishing infrastructure and distribution at Merit Circle, assisting all the games on immutable, assisting a ton of games outside of the ecosystem.
00:26:49.050 - 00:27:01.058, Speaker A: But I'm sure people coming on with this partnership as well. I mean, our market share dealt with the Polygon partnership. I think there'll be significant improvements with this for what we can bring to the gaming ecosystem as well.
00:27:01.186 - 00:27:08.818, Speaker B: And just to clarify, there because merit Circle obviously built their own subnet on avalanche called beam. So what happens to the subnet on Avalanche?
00:27:08.986 - 00:27:23.034, Speaker A: So I believe they'll still be running that. This is going to be a huge focus for them in terms of their huge efforts around infrastructure, in terms of their future efforts around deploying the treasury, and we're pretty excited to be very closely partnering with the team.
00:27:23.154 - 00:27:48.824, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes sense. And I'd love to use that to talk about the polygon one as well, because you guys had a pretty similar partnership there. But I think there was a little bit of confusion, at least when I first looked into it, in terms of, okay, what is Polygon building? What is immutable building? Because for that partnership, after the announcement, I think Polygon was already building its own ZKE EVM. And then obviously immutable has its own ZK roll up as well. So don't those two things compete, and how does that partnership work?
00:27:48.984 - 00:28:53.008, Speaker A: The beauty about the Polygon partnership is immutable essentially builds a platform that sits on top of the scaling infrastructure itself. Obviously, we're cross roller, we're blockchain agnostic, and we really want to create the best vertical experience for games. And Polygon bought three teams that were the world leaders in CK scaling technology, and they have this incredible CK scaling infrastructure. And on top of that, they also have this enormous gaming BD team and brand presence for games and the other 35% of the market share. The partnership was very simple, which was, we can create this joint product that was immutable, the platform plus Polygon's open source, scaling CKevM tech into a product known as the immutable CKeVM. And we can really simplify the choice for gaming developers to build on there with the best of both immutable and Polygon. I think it is always tricky to correspond these, particularly when people see partnership after partnership, they're like, oh, what does it mean? But now the response I get from everyone I talk to is, oh, well, this is clearly one of the single smartest deals that has been made in web3.
00:28:53.008 - 00:29:45.012, Speaker A: And we've seen this because of the impact it's had on our ability to onboard more games onto the immutable ecosystem. I think in a very similar way, we're going to see this partnership as a game changer for games in terms of simplifying their choice of where to build, getting them to market faster, and helping them build with the best possible infrastructure and experience. And I think I wanted to read this because I think this point sums it up best right so Marco, the co founder of Merit Circle, said, our gaming ecosystem to be wherever games players and developers are. This collaboration with immutable and Polygon Labs represents a huge leap towards that vision. This is ultimately the point of it. If immutable and Polygon have all of these games and they're building infrastructure that can service it, there is really no reason to be competing in market and trying to outspend each other. In fact, it's incredibly inefficient and worse outcomes for everyone.
00:29:45.188 - 00:30:28.818, Speaker B: Yeah, and it's interesting that you guys are doing this kind of consolidation in a more kind of web two type of way through acquisitions and partnerships. Because the go to in web3 so far has been we're just going to build everything ourselves, we're just going to verticalize, we're going to do our own guild, we're going to do our own chain, and then just build the entire stack yourself. But you've been a pretty vocal opponent towards what is otherwise a pretty popular business strategy in crypto. I'm curious, like, what gave you that idea that hey, we should partner with merit Circle and Polygon instead of trying to build our own infra and build our own guild? Because as I said before, I think there is a huge financial incentive for founders in this space to verticalize, to attach more option value to their token so that the market kind of gets excited. So you clearly have some very strong thoughts there. So I'm curious.
00:30:28.996 - 00:31:13.414, Speaker A: First off, I'd say it's pretty practical. Like immutable is now about a heavyweight. As they come in through gaming scale ups, we've got a quarter billion dollars in cash. Between immutable balance sheet and the foundation, we've got IMX is a $3 billion token. The vast majority of grants we've never even spent because everything is underwritten in terms of what we recommend to the foundation. Even that being said, with everything we're trying to build, this mission of a one stop shop platform. To add on top of that, trying to pioneer an incredibly intractable technological endeavor which is scaling technology at its limits in CK requires another 100 150 headcount of top tier engineers.
00:31:13.414 - 00:31:38.032, Speaker A: I'm not that crazy. I'm not that silly. I think it's splitting focus massively, and ultimately this stuff is going to end up being very different business models in very different layers in the stack. And all I care about is creating the best possible platform for games to be successful. At the end of the day, I'll use whatever blockchain infrastructure gets me there. And there's massive benefits to this partnership beyond that infrastructure. And clearly Polygon has some of the best ek scaling technology in the world right now.
00:31:38.032 - 00:31:52.580, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, we want to focus on building what our business model is at, rather than trying to bite off everything and fail to really create dominant majority market share or a good user experience on any one of those facets.
00:31:52.752 - 00:32:34.064, Speaker B: Yeah, and I'd love to talk about this last partnership as well, which is one that I'm personally most excited about because they've created some of my personal favorite games. So you guys partnered with Ubisoft, which is one of the largest publishers, the most well known publishers in kind of web two gaming, and just the gaming world in general. And I was actually very surprised to see that, because my assumption is that big game studios want nothing to do with web3, because the main benefit is I open up an economy and everybody can leech off my users. So I assume that, okay, maybe smaller indie devs could benefit from having access to the user base of a Ubisoft game, but someone like Ubisoft has nothing to gain by opening up their economy to these smaller guys. So I'm curious, how did this even come together? What is the nature of the partnership? Immutable.
00:32:34.104 - 00:33:44.086, Speaker A: And Ubisoft have been in talks for a very long time now. This is a long deal to get across the line, and the thing I was most impressed by was, and we'll be able to share more details as soon as we go public with them, but this is a very specific goal around delivering something which we think is going to have lasting impact in the space. So I unfortunately can't share more details until the press release start on the exact product as to what they're trying to build. I won't speak to Ubisoft's motivations, but I'll speak to generally, companies in that kind of genre. And I think they see this as a genuine opportunity to say, how do we deliver more value to players? And as soon as there's a shit that emerges from one of these, they suddenly get all the brand of being the market leader in one of the frontier shifts in gaming, understanding exactly how to scale and clone that IP to everything else. Because the value of these games is not limited to just one success. The value of having an experiment that is fundamentally successful is you become the market leader in how you clone that to everything else and you get to apply that superior gaming business model, the superior retention to everything else in your portfolio.
00:33:44.086 - 00:34:13.438, Speaker A: So it's not a hey, linear return, essentially, on this single game. It's if we can get this singular model right, you can scale it across a portfolio that is much, much larger, a $10 billion portfolio of games. And I think it is very much worth the R and D and IP efforts. But I think the companies that are trying it in genuine ways are the ones that are focused on how do we actually not do flashy primary sales, et cetera, but instead deliver these long term business models?
00:34:13.606 - 00:34:51.806, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes sense. And Robbie, I'd love to kind of wrap the last part of our interview with a 10,000 footlook. So for those of you who know me out there, for those of you listening, you know, I'm kind of an optimistic cynic. So I love to talk about the bearish sides as well, the risks. So, you know, looking out now, what do you think are the biggest hurdles to adoption for web3 games? Is it, you know, gating by centralized entities like App Stores taking a huge tax cut, or, you know, Epic Games stores taking down everything? Or is it kind of regulation side, the speculation side? Or is it something kind of fundamental like the sustainability of p two e business models? What are some of the things that keep you up at night?
00:34:51.830 - 00:35:22.434, Speaker A: As a founder, I've always described the impediments to wear three adoption along sort of five lines. I won't go into all of them. In short, user experience needs to be like signing up to a regular game. Until you have that high CAC compared to competitors, high customer acquisition cost will basically neutralize any possibility of competing effectively. You'd have a developer experience that is like stripe, which is what immutable is built. You cannot require everyone to build smart contracts. We have them and we're going to be EVM compatible.
00:35:22.434 - 00:36:20.718, Speaker A: But the vast majority of future developers will want to build without knowing what a smart contract or what solidity is. You have to build an economy that is simple to build without being a PhD expert that is sustainable. That's why we build games and immutable, or publish them so that we can be the IP experts in the latest thoughts and economy design and share that with everyone on the platform. So importantly, I think those three are now sold immutable passport converts incredibly well. You can sign up with iOS, you can sign up with Android, you can sign up with email, and you can even do seamless authentication pass through by the game. On the economy sides, we have multiple games coming out that are all designed fundamentally for long term sustainability, even with, you know, peaked user bases. I think scale is the next thing with immutable ZkVM we're solving the hardest thing, which is how do people have both smart contracts with EVM compatibility, but also the benefits of the insane scale that things like validity gives you.
00:36:20.718 - 00:36:45.270, Speaker A: And that's what we've built. And the final piece is the games. And this is now the number one blocker. The reality is this will be solved over the next four to six months. We now have 220 plus highly funded games on immutable. Nearly half of these are going to be going live in 2024, including a good chunk in, say, month three to month six of that year. So I think individual games timelines blow out by three, six months.
00:36:45.270 - 00:37:12.978, Speaker A: The overall portfolio is going to be delivered in 24, and from this we will see hits. There will be an incredibly high failure rate. So if you want to be optimistically pessimistic or realistic, I think the reality is 90% to 95% of all web3 games are going to fail. When we get the first hit, that rate will go down slightly. You'll have more successes because it'll be easier for people to clone that success. But the games that do succeed will deliver more volume than every other NFT collection in the world combined. They will triple the web3 user base overnight.
00:37:12.978 - 00:37:30.192, Speaker A: They will be the first mainstream use case, quite frankly, a web3 outside of payments, that we've seen. That's why we focus on quality, but also at a broad enough perspective to make sure we have multiple shots at a hit on the platform. And I think we have tons of those right now, which I'm very, very excited about.
00:37:30.288 - 00:37:48.360, Speaker B: Yeah, Robbie, you pretty much answered my next and final question as well, which is, what can we look forward to in 2024 for immutable and to the extent that on things that you can share. I know you mentioned that there are some things on Ubisoft that you can't share yet, but what are some of the bigger things that players, game devs investors out there should be keeping an eye on?
00:37:48.512 - 00:38:38.166, Speaker A: Our vision is you should be able to trade any asset on any marketplace, in any roll up, in any wallet, with any denomination of currency, and for all of those to be completely atomically connectable and tradable with shared security and invisible to the end user. We've almost finished this with the middle global book, a global order book. You can trade on any marketplace with passport. You don't have one wallet per game, per user. Unlike other invisible signing wallets, you're able to use that same set of funds on every single game. So we're massively sharing the audience that we're building with every new game coming on the platform, the next step is immutable's cross roll up liquidity, where you can have an infinite number of all ups in infinite scaling. And we're building this chain of chains where you can have an asset on chain b be bought with funds a user has from chain a.
00:38:38.166 - 00:39:22.242, Speaker A: Maybe they've sold an asset and that will be with shared security and completely atomic, invisible to the end user. And because of the global order book, we can do things like prevent fund running as soon as you signal that to Mev by locking down bids on the corresponding asset. So that's going to be huge, which is us fulfilling this mission of essentially trade any asset anywhere in any way with completely unified liquidity, which I think is one of the most intractable but most important problems to solve in web3 today. You can look forward to us continuing to iterate our SDK and interface for developers with the release of Hub, which is going to be our GUI for people to interact. There's a ton of stuff we have not released which I'll be excited. We'll have some big announcements for us this month around the future of immutable ZKvM IMX and what we're going to be building that.
00:39:22.338 - 00:39:32.254, Speaker B: That's very exciting. Robby, thank you so much for coming on the show and for people who want to follow you personally or to follow what IMX is up to, what are the best channels to do this immutable on Twitter?
00:39:34.474 - 00:39:50.700, Speaker A: On Twitter, which is my handle. Or if you want to come build, just go to immutable.com and we have a pipeline where you'll instantly sent to our bd team and we can help get you live. We can help get you on every part of the ecosystem that you may want to be perfect.
00:39:50.772 - 00:39:56.500, Speaker B: We will include those in the show notes below, as usual. And once again, thank you so much for dialing and thank you for coming on the show.
00:39:56.532 - 00:39:58.524, Speaker A: Robbie, thanks so much. Jason, pleasure.
00:39:58.644 - 00:40:08.268, Speaker C: Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple Podcasts or whatever platform you're listening to this on.
00:40:08.356 - 00:40:09.714, Speaker B: It really helps us a lot.
00:40:09.794 - 00:40:51.974, Speaker C: Or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel on YouTube as well. To not miss an episode. I'd love to hear from you guys as well, and I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me, so feel free to leave a comment there. Let us know what project you want us to bring on or what trends you want us to talk about, or tweet at merjacenchoi or heblockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting, and I'll see you in the next episode. Sorry.
