00:00:00.330 - 00:00:00.880, Speaker A: You.
00:00:04.290 - 00:00:06.814, Speaker B: Ali Yahia is a general partner at.
00:00:06.852 - 00:00:38.146, Speaker C: Andreessen Horowitz, a 16. C is an investment giant. In the last two years, they've raised $6.7 billion for their crypto funds. They're the single greatest crypto dedicated fund in the world, given their large impact in the space. I was interested in knowing how a, six and C got their start in crypto, their first investment, where they channeled their focus, and how they've evolved to where they are today. Before we get to it, let's hear an introduction from Ali.
00:00:38.258 - 00:01:06.690, Speaker A: So I actually discovered crypto and blockchain fairly early on. It was 2010, which is actually, in some ways, too early to discover the space, because I was playing around with it. I was at Stanford. I was doing research under David Mezieris, who's a professor there in the computer science department, and he does all things computer security. And I was doing research with them. We became aware of the bitcoin white paper. I was fascinated by its computer science implications, and I even mined it.
00:01:06.690 - 00:01:54.222, Speaker A: I mined it both in my dorm and in the Stanford computer cluster. But I did not really appreciate the implications of it. And so I didn't even keep track of the private keys of all of the mining. And so that was my first very visceral and emotional lesson in the space. Having sort of lost, I don't know how much it was, but it was painful enough, especially as a student, in the years that came after I kind of realized the big mistake that that was. I became fascinated by the space since then, and especially with the launch of Ethereum in 2014, it started to feel like it was a much more fundamental computer science innovation than I previously thought. Because before, it was easy to think of bitcoin, and it was easy to think of blockchain generally in financial terms.
00:01:54.222 - 00:02:45.154, Speaker A: It was easy to think about it just as an innovation over money or over sort of financial primitives in general. And I think it really clicked for me in 2014, 2015 with the Ethereum white paper and the launch of Ethereum and Ethereum ICo, that it's actually a much broader computational paradigm, that it's a new kind of computing architecture, that blockchains are actually computers. They're not ledgers, they're not data structures. They're not just about payments, they're actually computers. And one of the kinds of things you can build with them is payments, but you can build all sorts of things outside of that, some of which have actually nothing to do with finance. So that was kind of how I got excited by it. And I think the only reason I mentioned that is because there are so many ways to get into crypto, and I feel like everyone has their own path into it.
00:02:45.154 - 00:03:33.886, Speaker A: Other people might have the more kind of geopolitical, cypherpunk type of angle. They might have entered the space because of the bitcoin political sort of theory behind it and the need for sound money and the need for protection against centralized institutions that don't have the same interests as the people that they are supposed to protect or represent. Other people get into it through the computer science angle, like I did, and then more recently, of course, people get into it through, say, things like media and NFTs and things like that and games. So there are many, many paths into crypto. And I think when I got connected to the firm in 2017, I got connected by one of the general partners at the firm. His name is Martin Casado. He was the founder of a company that I was an intern for over ten years ago.
00:03:33.886 - 00:04:16.254, Speaker A: And that's how I knew him. In 2017, we caught up, we grabbed lunch. I was at Google at the time, and I told him about how I was frustrated by Google, because not only is it a big company and it's hard to actually get shit done, but also it's a company that will never touch crypto with a thousand foot pole. And he was like, oh, you're into crypto, you should meet Chris. And he was referring to Chris Dixon at the firm, who had been at the firm for a while and who had been investing in crypto for some time. So Chris and I connected, and I think that the thing that we connected on the most was that we both shared this view that blockchains were computers. And at the time, this was 2017, this was not mainstream view.
00:04:16.254 - 00:04:40.280, Speaker A: It was a somewhat controversial view to say that Ethereum is actually a computer. It's not anything other. It's not really anything that people have been talking about up until then. So we quickly bonded about that. We talked for a long while. We had a number of long conversations, and he was like, well, you should join, you should leave. Google should join us, and we will start a crypto fund.
00:04:40.280 - 00:05:24.594, Speaker A: So this was the beginning of the crypto dedicated team at the firm, because up until then, Chris had been investing in crypto since predating all of this back until 2013 or so. His pitch to me was, you should join, and we should actually make this a first class effort within the firm. We should build out a whole team. We should make sure that it's very optimized specifically for the needs of the space. So I joined in 2017, and then in 2018, we raised the first crypto fund. Crypto fund one. And then since then, we've focused a lot on building the operating functions teams internally that are most useful specifically for founders in this space.
00:05:24.594 - 00:06:30.986, Speaker A: And that includes things like our research team, which is led by Tim Roughgarden, which I can tell you more about if you're curious, and as well as, say, our regulatory and legal team, which includes people like Michelle Corber, formerly DOJ, and Miles Jennings, who's one of the best lawyers in the space. Together, like, they kind of lead our regulatory and policy and legal practice, and they help our founders navigate the thorny regulatory landscape and make sure that they do the right thing, make sure that they are compliant. And then we also have things like an engineering team to help implement some of the ideas that, say, the research team might have, or just to help portfolio companies with engineering challenges. And then beyond that, we've got the things that you may expect from HT Z. We've got a crypto dedicated recruiting team, a marketing team, a partnerships MBD team, and the whole team is sort of geared towards helping the space move forward. So it's been quite a ride. I think since then the team has grown quite a bit, and we built out all of these functions, so it's been great.
00:06:30.986 - 00:06:35.222, Speaker A: So that's the story for the firm and how it's gotten into crypto.
00:06:35.286 - 00:07:26.650, Speaker B: To recap a little bit, Chris Dixon started investing in crypto within Andreessen around early days, 2013 or so. But then 2018 was the first crypto dedicated fund which Chris and yourself created. And from there, you've just continued to grow. Building a team that can help all of your portfolio companies execute on different areas, including research, marketing, recruiting, I would guess, like legal help, which unfortunately is becoming more and more necessary, and so on. How big is the crypto team with all of these different sub teams that you mentioned?
00:07:26.720 - 00:08:11.306, Speaker A: Right now, we haven't actually announced the full size of the team, so I think that's not public yet, but I think you can probably imagine, just given that we've got all of the teams that I mentioned, sort of research, engineering, regulatory, marketing, BD and recruiting, those are sort of the major teams, as well as network operations, which we like to participate actively in the networks that we invest in. So we like to stake all of our tokens. We like to participate in governance. We like to make sure that we're active on forums and weighing in in ways that strengthen the community of each of the protocols that we invest in. So that's another team. Those are the major functions. And I think that from that, you can get a sense for the size of the team.
00:08:11.408 - 00:08:27.838, Speaker B: Is that how you try to differentiate with other crypto funds in the space? Because I'd imagine it's really hard for others to gain that sort of scale and just like, hands on involvement with their portfolio companies.
00:08:28.004 - 00:09:36.898, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely. Our model is to become very involved with every project that we invest in and to throw the entire weight of the firm behind each of our portfolio companies. And I think, to give you an example, there's this really great flywheel between sort of the research team working closely with a portfolio company, perhaps coming up with a new idea that then the engineering team can go forth and implement and help bring into production, and then have that become real, and then the marketing team can help tell a story about the work that's been done and sort of shed a light, allow the company to tell, to share their message and sort of disseminate what it is that they're working on and get distribution. All of these different components work together. The regulatory team, for example, will weigh in and make sure that the work that we're doing is mindful of all of the regulations that are necessary and that we're all aware of what the constraints are of the kind of work that we need to do. So all of these teams work very closely together, and they're very tightly knit and optimized specifically for solving problems in the space. And I just think that there's no other fund that can do that.
00:09:36.898 - 00:09:46.882, Speaker A: There's no other fund that has the talent that we have and the resources that we have to get really hands on and actually help solve real problems and move the needle.
00:09:46.946 - 00:11:04.418, Speaker B: So because of its size, there is this, I think, double edged sword that might play against Andreessen's reputation, even in crypto, and know a space that kind of wants to be decentralized finds itself very much influenced by this huge fund, where I'd love to kind of run this analysis and see how much, as a percentage of tokens in Defi Andreessen actually owns. I'd imagine it's not a negligible percentage of tokens. So if it wanted to, Andreessen could really sway the most important governance decisions within Defi. And I think that's something to be mindful of. How do you kind of deal with this issue? I know that you've been kind of maybe actively trying to limit this risk. I saw you have kind of your token delegation, initiative, things like that. So can you talk a little bit about that.
00:11:04.504 - 00:11:47.470, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. It's a good question. Actually, you would be surprised. I think the overarching trend, especially since we began, is that we own a smaller and smaller percentage of the networks that we invest in. And that is okay from our perspective, because the outcomes in crypto tend to be so much more asymmetric and potentially so much bigger than the outcomes in traditional venture. And so owning a smaller percentage of a network can get you the same return, or a much bigger return than owning a bigger percentage in traditional venture or a traditional company. Actually, for most of our investments, our percentage ownership tends to be in the low single digits, percent ownership.
00:11:47.470 - 00:12:39.278, Speaker A: So it's less than I think most people might assume. We don't really necessarily try to own much more than that level, and we are very mindful of the risks that come from owning too much of it, because then we will begin to undermine the central point of some of these networks. We are very committed to decentralization as sort of an ethos for the space, for a bunch of reasons. These protocols have to be decentralized in order to fulfill their promise, and they also have to be decentralized in order to be compliant from a regulatory standpoint. There's so many reasons why decentralization is important, and nothing in the space makes sense without it. We are very mindful of that and make sure that we don't end up with too much ownership to the point at which we begin to undermine decentralization of these protocols. So that's one thing to say.
00:12:39.278 - 00:13:58.966, Speaker A: The fact that actually our percent ownership of most of these networks is smaller than most people will think and is in the low single digit percent. The second thing to say is, as you mentioned, we do have this very aggressive, very active token delegation program where we strive to include other people and other voices in the governance process wherever we can. And so for some of the key protocols in the space that include some of the major DeFi protocols, we have gone out to players like universities like the blockchain club at, say, Stanford and Berkeley and MIT, and various other sort of cryptoactive universities, and we have engaged them and delegated a lot of our tokens to them so that they can participate in a way that's independent from us in some of the governance decisions. We've also done the same with nonprofits out in the world, as well as some of the companies in the space that they have skin in the game, because they're either building on these protocols or they're kind of related to them in some way. And that has been a fairly successful program. It has helped us not only make sure that these networks are decentralized, but also bring in additional perspectives that normally wouldn't have a voice otherwise.
00:13:59.078 - 00:14:23.278, Speaker B: How do these programs work exactly? Is it that Andreessen chooses to delegate part of its token holdings to different external organizations, and they can vote in whatever way they want, or, I mean, are there certain requirements? Can you give kind of more details on how this works?
00:14:23.444 - 00:14:49.738, Speaker A: Sure. The way that it works is that, yes, we want to delegate to people who will vote independently from us, so they're not subject to our will when it comes to deciding in which way to vote. So they could easily vote against us. And that is okay. And we do have a very rigorous process. We want to make sure that we're delegating to people who meet the bar. And that includes extensive diligence on who they are.
00:14:49.738 - 00:15:23.154, Speaker A: It includes things like potential conflicts of interest. And, yeah, we have an extensive list that I won't go into here. But yes, it's a significant process. And we do also reserve the right to undelegate, though we do have a process for that. And it's not something that we can just do on a whim, because, again, we want to be arm's length and not over control the process and over control the role that each of these delegates play in the networks that we're involved in.
00:15:23.192 - 00:15:29.218, Speaker B: Is there some sort of limit or percentage that you try to target of tokens that are delegated?
00:15:29.314 - 00:15:47.430, Speaker A: We try to delegate on the order of 50%, but it's no hard number. We try to think, reduce our influence in the network, in places where we feel like, to whatever extent we can, we want to kind of maximize decentralization. So 50% has been a good target.
00:15:47.510 - 00:15:57.674, Speaker B: I'd love to get a sense of just Andreessa's broader investment thesis, if it has one, or where its focus is when investing in crypto.
00:15:57.802 - 00:17:06.242, Speaker A: Sure. So, as I was mentioning before, I think the primary tenet of our thesis is that we see blockchains as computers, and they are computers that are different from computers that came before, in that they have this new capability of allowing for people to write programs that make commitments about how those programs will work in the future. So these are computers that can run programs that, in a sense, have a life of their own. They're kind of sovereign and execute themselves free of interference from anyone, including the people who wrote those programs, and the people who control the physical hardware that execute those programs, and also the people who interact with those programs while they run. So these really are programs that just have a life of their own, and that's not something that has ever existed before. The power relationship has always been the hardware has power over the software, because whomever controls the hardware can change the software or can turn it off. Crypto, in a sense, actually, this is credit to Chris.
00:17:06.242 - 00:17:57.726, Speaker A: This is an insight of his. Crypto inverts the power relationship between software and hardware, where in a blockchain, software has power over hardware because the software is connected in a network, that creates incentives that makes the hardware a commodity. Miners, for example, or validators, provide hardware and provide computational resources to the network, but they don't have power over how that network works, and they're subject to that network's incentives. That's a very unique thing in software that has never happened before. Sort of a computational paradigm, where the software has the power over the hardware, and it does let you do these very interesting things. It lets you write these programs that can make commitments about their behavior. And the simplest of those commitments is the commitment that, say, for example, bitcoin makes that there will only be 21 million bitcoins and that there will be no double spends.
00:17:57.726 - 00:18:52.370, Speaker A: That's sort of a simple thing that you can do with this new kind of computational paradigm, but you can do so much more outside of that. Once you have a fully programmable blockchain and you have a turing complete programming language on top of it, you can write code that expresses all sorts of more complex logic. And the most obvious thing to do first is to do something that's also still financial in nature, but maybe more sophisticated than bitcoin. You can start, say, building other kinds of financial primitives, like stablecoins, as with, say, for example, maker. Or you could start building decentralized exchanges or lending platforms or options platforms, or insurance, or all sorts of other financial primitives that benefit from the fact that this is just purely software. Anyone, anywhere in the world, can access these systems. You don't have to necessarily have a bank account or even a form of identification.
00:18:52.370 - 00:19:23.590, Speaker A: As long as you have a mobile phone and a connection to the Internet, you can participate in this new open financial system. In many ways, it's more efficient because there are no intermediaries that take enormous take rates. So there are all sorts of advantages to defi as like the first category of potential applications that you can build on top of this new computational paradigm. But it goes beyond DeFi, in our view. And this is sort of what we call, we call web three. Web three is broader than just the financial applications of blockchains. It's more than payments, it's more than DFI.
00:19:23.590 - 00:20:27.570, Speaker A: It includes things like sort of social media applications that leverage the same property of blockchains. Like, for example, you can build a social network that maybe looks a little bit like Twitter or Facebook, or some of these other social media companies from web two, but that doesn't have a multi trillion dollar monopolistic tech giant in the middle that can control who views what and who's on the platform and who isn't, and who locks you in, because they own all of your data and they own the social graph. And instead, you can build something that makes commitments about what the rules of the network are going forward, and in the long run, that users and people building on top of these networks can trust. So that's another kind of application. There's various projects in that category that we're very excited about that I think will be very influential, that, again, have nothing to do with finance or payments. It is a broader sort of web three vision. There are also interesting things you can do around sort of introducing crypto economics into games.
00:20:27.570 - 00:21:08.494, Speaker A: For example, as another example, the ability of owning something in the digital world is something that's fairly new, that blockchains enable. You can now own your identity. You can own objects, like digital objects online in the form of NFTs. You can own your Persona or your avatar in a game, and you can own it to the extent that you can actually even take it out of a game and maybe take it into a different game. And as long as the different game, as a new game recognizes those NFTs, they're still yours, and you can still use them in that new environment. And this is the beginning of what people think of as metaverse. All of these ideas are connected.
00:21:08.494 - 00:22:01.454, Speaker A: So our thesis is that this computational paradigm will enable all sorts of new things, and it already is. We already see a bunch of these applications happening, and we believe it's really just the beginning, that this is actually the starting moment where the flywheel actually begins to spin, because we now finally see real applications that have real demand begin to stress test the infrastructure. And as a result, the infrastructure gets better. And as it gets better, it unlocks the possibility of new applications. New founders come into the space, they build new and richer applications, which then again, stress test the infrastructure, and you have this self reinforcing feedback loop that makes everything better. And this is very different from what it was, say, four years ago in 2018, when it really felt like we were building infrastructure in a vacuum. And the applications weren't there yet, and it felt like it was all purely theoretical.
00:22:01.454 - 00:22:14.966, Speaker A: We were building the computational platform for some future set of applications. So now that this flywheel has begun to spin, we believe this is kind of the beginning of a kind of golden era of really interesting applications that get built.
00:22:15.068 - 00:23:02.898, Speaker B: To recap, you believe that blockchains are enabling for the first time the ability to have decentralized computation, where this relationship between hardware and software is flipped for the first time. And so your overall thesis is investing in all the different protocols and applications that will leverage this change in paradigm. And so it looks like you are by kind of default, just like industry agnostic, you'll invest in whatever applications are leveraging this new paradigm.
00:23:02.994 - 00:23:41.620, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right. We invest across the board and throughout the full vertical span of the stack. So we invest at the infrastructure layer in every company or project that's working towards making this computational substrate better and more usable and more secure and more understandable. And we're also investing at the application layer across the board as well. So companies inside of the world of DeFi, or decentralized social or dows or games or there's kind of a very broad set of applications that are now being built, and we are interested across the board.
00:23:42.070 - 00:24:00.182, Speaker B: And do you like to pick a sector leader and you back that player, or are you okay with investing in multiple, different, potentially competitors, even within the same sector?
00:24:00.326 - 00:24:17.434, Speaker A: Our model is to get very involved and to help each of our companies succeed. And so that makes it so that our model is to sort of, when we make an investment, to really support that one company and not investment competitors.
00:24:17.482 - 00:24:20.266, Speaker C: As a result, the Alio blockchain allows.
00:24:20.298 - 00:24:28.882, Speaker B: For zero knowledge smart contracts that are private by default and executed entirely off chain. With its development tools, Alio is making.
00:24:28.936 - 00:24:32.930, Speaker C: It super easy to build private and scalable applications.
00:24:33.350 - 00:24:41.762, Speaker B: Developers without previous cryptographic knowledge can take advantage of Alio studio and of Alio's own smart contract language.
00:24:41.826 - 00:24:45.254, Speaker C: Leo builders and users alike should not.
00:24:45.292 - 00:24:53.542, Speaker B: Have to make compromises between convenience and privacy. Learn more by joining the discord@alio.org slash.
00:24:53.606 - 00:25:12.430, Speaker C: Discord or heading directly to WW Allio Studio. According to Ali, we're entering the golden age of blockchain applications. Does he see that as something that's starting now in the middle of the bear market, or are we currently laying the foundation for the next bull run?
00:25:12.580 - 00:26:10.594, Speaker A: I think it actually started happening even last year with sort of the bull run of 2021, and I think it's somewhat independent from the price, like the fact that we're in a bear market now doesn't affect the fact that the fundamentals are getting better and better every day. And I think some of the things that we are more interested in are, number one, just the level of talent in the space, which is the influx of smart people that come from places like universities like Stanford or MIT, Berkeley, et cetera, or companies like Facebook, Google, sort of the web two world big tech companies, people who are very smart in the web two world who are now entering the space. From our vantage point, the kind of the influx of talent into the space is as strong as it's ever been. And these things kind of go in cycles. They tend to reinforce one another. The price does tend to create a lot of attention. That causes a lot of people to come into the space.
00:26:10.594 - 00:27:00.770, Speaker A: And when the price crashes, only kind of like it does wash away a lot of the speculative and more opportunistic people in the space. But the people who are true believers remain. And then those are the people who then come up with new ideas, start new companies, and then those new companies become the basis for the next bull run. So in many ways, the bear market is actually a great time for building, because it makes it easier to filter out noise. It makes it easier to filter out people who are non believers. So if you're recruiting someone in this environment and they decide to join you, you have a far greater chance that whomever they are, they are fully bought into the space. And they're not just doing this because they want sort of a quick payoff.
00:27:00.770 - 00:27:27.078, Speaker A: And I think just historically, most of the great companies end up have been in the past, have been started in the middle of bear markets for all of those reasons. So I think we do think that a lot of the great innovations may happen even in the middle of this downturn. And I think it's, as a result, a great time to both be building and to be investing.
00:27:27.174 - 00:27:58.226, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I totally agree with that view. So speaking of that, what are you seeing in kind of the private markets right now? Public token prices are down so much. Is it harder for the founders who do stick around to raise money in this environment?
00:27:58.418 - 00:28:38.222, Speaker A: It is harder. It is a macro trend. It's harder across the board to raise money for entrepreneurs in this market. But we are very much still in business. I think we and a number of other funds will continue to be backing through the best entrepreneurs in the space. I think it's still very well within the realm of possibility to start a company in this market. And I do think that the best founders are not dissuaded by the market conditions.
00:28:38.286 - 00:28:42.914, Speaker B: How much have valuations dropped, would you say, relative to last year?
00:28:43.032 - 00:29:05.466, Speaker A: To be honest, it's not really something we pay much attention to. I don't really kind of follow the day to day price as much as I try to focus on meeting the best founders in the space and focusing on the fundamentals and trying to think about the long term potential. So I couldn't really tell you, to be honest. I might have some estimate, but it might probably be widely off.
00:29:05.568 - 00:29:51.310, Speaker B: I mentioned at the beginning of the podcast that you guys raised close to 7 billion for the latest two crypto funds that you've raised. Can you say how much of that has been deployed? When I get it. Is that okay, you're in business? I think kind of all of the founders entrepreneurs in this space are looking at how much dry powder do investors actually have left now that it looks like this bear market might be longer than people anticipated.
00:29:51.410 - 00:30:04.558, Speaker A: I can't really share any specifics on how much we've deployed, but I will say we're very much open for business and we will be for a long time. So I think there's no concern that we won't be around to continue to.
00:30:04.564 - 00:30:21.134, Speaker B: Support the space and within kind of the deals you're seeing and just your observations on the space right now, what are the most interesting innovations and development happening in crypto?
00:30:21.262 - 00:31:19.854, Speaker A: So one way to break this down is to talk about the infrastructure, and then also to talk about some of the applications that are being built on top. So I think we can maybe start with some of the innovations at the infrastructure layer and then move on to the way that that's supporting new applications that were not possible before, or we can kind of mix them in. So I think one way to start is to break down what a blockchain is into its various component layers. So the very bottom layer of a blockchain, you have the networking layer, which is a layer that allows the various participants in the network to communicate with one another. And at that layer there are a bunch of improvements that people are making. I think one very basic example of this is how Solana is implementing an improved version of UDP called Quick. That is a protocol that was developed by Google which improves the reliability of connections between nodes in the network.
00:31:19.854 - 00:32:03.922, Speaker A: That makes the networking layer more efficient. So that's an example of work that's being done at that layer. There's also other work that's being done by other companies that add for privacy at that layer to help obfuscate who is transacting what? Because at that layer, you could imagine potentially de anonymizing everything. And that's kind of one aspect of blockchains that has been true for a long time, which is that everything's public on a blockchain. And there are key applications that can be built if you have privacy. And for certain applications, privacy is essential. You can't imagine actually using crypto to run a real enterprise or a real business if everything is transparent and public to everyone.
00:32:03.922 - 00:32:48.658, Speaker A: So some amount of privacy will be necessary. So even at the networking layer, there are already many projects that are working on privacy solutions. Then on top of that, there's the consensus layer and kind of the execution layer that a blockchain provides. We've all seen, I think, recently, people following the space, the Ethereum merge just happened. And that was an upgrade of Ethereum from proof of work to proof of stake. And that's a monumental upgrade for Ethereum that has resulted in improved energy efficiency by 1000 x. Now, Ethereum is just as efficient as running an application in a data center.
00:32:48.658 - 00:33:49.590, Speaker A: So the whole argument about how it was bad for the environment is no longer really applicable. And every proof of stake blockchain has the same advantage. Proof of stake also improved security, because it increases the budget that the blockchain has in order to incentivize validators to provide security to the network. We can go into details as to why. It also improves the finality of the blockchain, which means that transactions that hit the blockchain are finalized fairly quickly now, as opposed to having to wait sort of minutes or in some cases even hours to know that the transaction is final, and then always having some chance that the transaction gets rolled back. And the fact that we have finality now actually sets the groundwork for building scalability solutions on top that make Ethereum much, much more scalable. And also it lays the groundwork for allowing Ethereum to more easily communicate with other blockchains through bridging solutions.
00:33:49.590 - 00:35:09.674, Speaker A: So that's kind of the execution layer. You've got things like proof of stake. On Ethereum, there are a number of projects that are also bringing together some of the ideas of traditional distributed systems and the ideas of crypto from like Nakamoto Consensus at the core of bitcoin, to come up with sort of the best of both worlds, consensus algorithms that have some of the properties that bitcoin introduced, but also actually rely on some of the decades long work in the world of distributed systems. And this includes things like DM BFT, which was developed at Facebook at the DM project, but now is being used by various projects out in the wild, or Fastpay, which is in a similar bucket. And there are many other kinds of improvements to consensus that also involves zero knowledge proofs to make the dissemination of information in a network more efficient. And then beyond that, there's all sorts of work that's being done to help blockchain scale and think. One way to think about the problem of scalability is to look back at sort of the history of scaling computer systems.
00:35:09.674 - 00:36:29.862, Speaker A: And it's very clear throughout many decades of history in computer science, scaling systems usually requires both parallelism and hierarchy. Parallelism because parallelism means that you have multiple nodes in a network doing work at the same time, as opposed to having everything going through a single kind of thread of work. You can have multiple things being done at the same time, and that helps scalability, and the hierarchy helps coordinate across multiple nodes that may be doing things at the same time. So this is a way of explaining what layer twos do. Like layer twos provide you with both of those, with some amount of hierarchy where you have something that's being built on top of Ethereum that provides you with scalability, like an L two, like optimism or zk sync or starquare or some of the other l two s. And then you've got Ethereum L one, which acts as a kind of supreme Court to kind of reconcile and become like the canonical settlement layer for all of those l two s. So that's kind of the scalability.
00:36:29.862 - 00:37:13.266, Speaker A: And then there's, I think beyond that, a lot of work that's being done on programming languages to help the developer experience and to make development on blockchains more secure and easier to reason about. Then there's also work on interoperability to help blockchains communicate with one another. And then finally, there's a lot of work being done on the usability of all of this. Like building the right interfaces, building wallets, building tools for people who are building dapps that can make their experience more friendly for end users. And that was all very fast. I'm happy to kind of dive in. That's kind of the infrastructure layer.
00:37:13.266 - 00:37:16.918, Speaker A: And then we can also talk about applications on top.
00:37:17.084 - 00:38:02.818, Speaker C: Check out send go a new wallet with multi chain support to keep your crypto, NFT and digital assets secure. They aim to make private key vulnerability a thing of the past by leveraging advanced cryptography called MTC and using biometrics for account recoverability. Download the Zengo app from the App Store or Google Play. That's Zengo. And use code defiant to get $20 back on your first purchase of $200 or more. That's defiant for $20 back on your first purchase of $200 or more. When you download Sengo from the App Store or Google Play, terms and conditions apply, and see site for details.
00:38:02.818 - 00:38:27.518, Speaker C: Ali mentioned several key developments he's observing in blockchain that span from networking to usability at the application layer. These include developments in privacy programming languages, proof of stake, consensus algorithms, serum knowledge proofs, scalability, interoperability and use cases. Does he see any blockchain today that meets most of these key points?
00:38:27.684 - 00:39:33.090, Speaker A: Yeah, it is not likely that we are going to end up with a single blockchain or a single smart contract platform that rules them all. And I think the reason for that is that the trade off space is fairly rich. There are many things that you could conceivably be optimizing for, and it's very hard, if not impossible, to actually optimize for everything all at once. And so I think the likely scenario is that we're going to end up with a handful of different architectures that together end up covering most of this trade off space. And it may not be entirely dissimilar to the way that it's been in traditional computing, where if you look at the traditional computing world, there's a handful of computing architectures that include things like X 64 and arm, and also include things like GPUs, which are sort of a different kind of computing architecture that has different trade offs. It provides different kinds of functionality, and it's not a substitute for CPUs or for kind of traditional, more general purpose architectures. So I think that we will likely end up in a similar world with blockchains.
00:39:33.090 - 00:40:56.158, Speaker A: One clear trade off, for example, that I think we've observed is the trade off between decentralization and performance. And there are tensions that exist between those two things to optimize for. And it could be that, for example, Ethereum ends up serving the purpose of being kind of the most secure, most decentralized blockchain in the space, and is bridged to other blockchains that maybe serve different purposes that maybe don't require, say, like nation grade state security, but require enough security such that you as a developer can trust that the commitments that the platform has made to you as a developer are not going to be sort of changed or rugged under you. And so then, for example, for something like a game, maybe performance is more important and kind of having maximal decentralization, a nation state, great security is not as important. And so there's maybe a different kind of architecture that's better for that kind of use case. There are other kinds of axes along which you can optimize. For example, privacy may be very important for certain applications, and so building a blockchain that supports privacy end to end.
00:40:56.158 - 00:41:35.322, Speaker A: And for those, I think one of the key features that they offer is privacy. But of course there's a cost to generating zero knowledge proofs and to encrypting everything and making sure that everything is private. So there's always a trade off. So that's our view. I think there's going to be multiple kinds of architectures, there's probably not going to be hundreds of thousands. I think that with a handful of them we can hit most of the use cases. And there's also very strong network effects around these things, where every blockchain has network effects at the security layer, because the more validators or the more valuable any one of these networks are, the more secure they become.
00:41:35.322 - 00:42:07.746, Speaker A: And it makes sense to just join the most secure networks as opposed to try to create a new one that's not secure. And there's also network effects at the developer level because people become used to a particular programming language and environment. There's also composability between applications that are built on any one particular blockchain that creates strong network effect. It becomes harder to succeed if you don't have the ability to integrate with the rest of an ecosystem. So for those reasons, I think we'll have again just a handful, not hundreds.
00:42:07.858 - 00:42:57.986, Speaker B: But also not one that makes a lot of sense. And I think that's in my view too, but I've been a bit disappointed, I guess, in the level of security for the thing that makes this vision possible, which is the bridges between these blockchains to make this multi chain interoperable system. Just this past week we saw this huge hack with the binance smart chain bridge. So what's your view there? I mean, do you think it's just a matter of time between bridges become more secure, or is there kind of a different sort of technology that's needed to make these chains interoperable?
00:42:58.098 - 00:43:43.586, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's a combination of things. The first thing I'll say is just computer security is very hard. Implementing some of these things in a way that is completely bug free is difficult. It takes time, it requires a lot of effort, it requires a lot of talent, people with the right level of experience, but it's by no means impossible. So I think we will figure out the right architecture and the right implementation for a secure bridge between blockchains. And it really is a matter of having the right people involved doing the right level of diligence and making sure that all the right processes are followed so that you end up with secure code. But then also beyond that, there's also new technology which will help.
00:43:43.586 - 00:44:28.382, Speaker A: On one hand, we've got things like formal verification, which I think will likely become more and more present in this space. It hasn't featured as much so far because it's difficult to use. And let me say a little bit about what formal verification is. Formal verification allows you to prove certain properties about a computer program that you've written. So say you write a computer program normally the way that people get convinced that the code that they wrote is correct is that they just look at it, they stare at it really hard and they try to make sure that they didn't miss anything. And that's what auditing is. You hire other people to also stare at your code really hard, to try to find bugs.
00:44:28.382 - 00:45:32.630, Speaker A: And if they don't find bugs, then you assume it's secure. And that's good. Maybe for applications that are not mission and critical, there are times when you really do need a greater level of assurance, and you'd prefer to be able to make sort of rigorous claims to produce something that looks like a mathematical proof that your code is correct. And so for those kinds of use cases, one option is to write code in languages that are more suitable for formal verification, which means that the code itself looks a little bit more like math. In some cases, you also have to write a spec of what you want the code to achieve. So you want to say, for example, this code meets all of these constraints, like say, there will only be 21 million bitcoin, you cannot duplicate an asset, things like that should be impossible. And then you have an automated system prove that those constraints hold for the code that you've written, and that can give you greater levels of assurance about the correctness of the code.
00:45:32.630 - 00:46:48.410, Speaker A: So I think that as these kinds of hacks continue to happen, and then unfortunately, they likely will for some time, people will realize the value that some of these new technologies, which actually are not new, but they may be new in the space, can offer. So formal irrigation is one. Another one is also zero knowledge proofs, because oftentimes in the past, bridges have been implemented as trusted intermediaries between blockchains where we haven't really seen the deployment of a truly fully trustless bridge. And the way that they often work is that you just have a party in the middle that takes an asset from one blockchain and holds it in escrow, and then mints a version of that asset, a wrapped version of that asset in the destination chain, and then that asset can flow on that chain unimpeded until whomever wants to bridge it back burns it. And then the version that's in escrow that's held by the intermediary can then be released and returned to the source chain. So that's the way a lot of bridges work. And the problem with that, of course, is that you have this intermediary, and if that intermediary gets hacked, then everything that's in escrow can then be compromised.
00:46:48.410 - 00:47:35.274, Speaker A: So that's not the right way to do it. I think it's like a step. It gets us some amount of interoperability, but we need better technology. And zero knowledge proofs can work, because you can eliminate the role of this intermediary. If you can generate a proof that something has happened in the source chain, that you can then submit to the destination chain and have the destination chain verify it, such that this transfer can happen completely, trustlessly, without the need of any intermediaries. So I think the combination of better practices on software engineering combined with maybe things like formal verification and zero knowledge proofs will get us to a world where we have completely trustless bridges between blockchains.
00:47:35.402 - 00:47:44.718, Speaker B: Are there any projects doing this bridge using zero knowledge proof and kind of removing that intermediary?
00:47:44.814 - 00:48:08.030, Speaker A: Yeah, there are many projects. One of them is in our portfolio. It's called layer zero, and they're playing around with a lot of these ideas. There are other projects that are also not in our portfolio that include succinct labs and a number of others that are sort of exploring the space of possibilities.
00:48:08.130 - 00:48:25.150, Speaker B: If you could have like a wish list of things that get built in this bear market that would enable more mainstream adoption and usability in the next bull run, what would they be?
00:48:25.220 - 00:50:08.080, Speaker A: It's a great question. So I think what we'd really like to see is the launch and adoption, the mainstream launch of some of these new architectures that provide scalability for blockchains. So this could be through things like layer two s on top of Ethereum. It'd be nice to see, for example, optimism, arbitrum, Ck, sync, Starquare, all of the various different layer twos begin to get broader adoption on one hand, and then also next generation blockchains that include Aptos, DM, Espresso, various others to also come to life and begin supporting the kinds of applications that today tend to be impossible because the performance of blockchains today isn't quite there. And I think that combined with also improvements to existing blockchains like Solana and Ethereum, I think both of them have a very exciting roadmap ahead of them. Things like having better lower cost for data availability for Ethereum with EIP 4844 and Dank sharding, that will allow for some of these other kind of scalability solutions to fully live up to their promise. I think if those things come to pass in the next year or so, in the next couple of years, in some cases, then I think we'll be in a really good place because it will unlock all sorts of possibilities that today are not possible.
00:50:08.080 - 00:51:07.646, Speaker A: So that's kind of the infrastructure layer and specifically related to scalability, I think that privacy will unlock all sorts of new applications too. So having private infrastructure like Alio or aztec or ironfish, or some of these other privacy solutions coming to life, those will also unlock a new region of the design space. Because now you can build an application that has private state, which means, for example, you could build something like a game that I think Dark forest is a good example of this, where you have a game that has hidden state. It's state that not everyone can see. And most interesting games have some level of private state, some level of uncertainty. It's not really very fun to play a game like say, to play poker, if you can see the cards of your opponent. So this just is a simple example to illustrate why it is that privacy actually unlocks this base of possibilities even further.
00:51:07.646 - 00:51:56.946, Speaker A: So privacy is important again, also still, from an infrastructure perspective, interoperability, I think will be really important because I think it will allow the network effects in the space to compound and become even more powerful. And it will allow for applications that actually live across multiple blockchains, where certain components of an application that don't require the maximal level of security can live in a separate blockchain. But then the other portions, the other parts of that same application that do require greater security, can live on, say Ethereum or whichever blockchain is the most secure. And then through some bridging solution, you can have the two interoperate. That's not really true today. I think if you build up an application today, you kind of have to pick a blockchain. It'd be nice if you didn't have to do that.
00:51:56.946 - 00:53:07.458, Speaker A: And if you could just rely on different blockchains based on what those blockchains are good for. So interoperability I think is key. And then beyond just the infrastructure, I think it's really exciting to see the influx of world class product people and designers into the space from the web two world, from tech more broadly, because it means that we're now starting to see better products at the wallet level and at the interface level for dapps. And I think what we're going to start to see is the emergence of the right patterns to build to make crypto more user friendly and more intuitive. In the same way that I think there was a long period during which the best practices and the patterns of web two were put in place. And I think all of the kind of the major web two companies came up with all of the behaviors, all of the verbs of web two that include likes and include all of the little primitives that make web two what it is today. And something similar will happen with web three.
00:53:07.458 - 00:54:03.094, Speaker A: And I think it'll help those patterns and those standard behaviors will help bring users along into this new world and help them think about what it means to hold a private key or to have more responsibility and more control over your own participation in a particular product or network. What it means to actually own something online as opposed to just rent it or borrow it from a centralized company. I've made my wish list is like just more of that more great product, people with great ideas, more designers to make all of this more intuitive. And I could go on, I think those are some of the big ones. Those things will allow for greater applications to be built on top and happy to also talk about what those applications could be. But I tend to focus on the infrastructure first and foremost, so that's why I've been kind of focusing on that part for this conversation.
00:54:03.222 - 00:54:55.494, Speaker C: This episode is also brought to you by Circle, the sole issuer of USDC. USDC is always redeemable one to one for US dollars, has over 45 billion in circulation as of October 13, and lets users easily access both tradfi and crypto financial services. Check out Circle transparency to see USDC's weekly reserve breakdowns and monthly attestation reports, and find out why USDC is a trusted stablecoin. An important takeaway from our conversation is that Ali believes in a future of multiple blockchains that coexist together where each chain serves a particular purpose. Will we see the biggest players of today have an important role in the future of blockchains as well? Or are the next gen blockchains yet to launch?
00:54:55.622 - 00:56:17.374, Speaker A: I think that's a great question, and I think both of them are possible. What I will say is, my sense is that we're nowhere near the end game of what a blockchain looks like. There is still a lot of work that needs to be done to get to what we think. I think what we will all agree is the end game for what a blockchain should look like, what the optimal or close to optimal blockchain architecture is. I think, for example, one intuition I have is that the existence of zero knowledge proofs, which have existed for a long time but only recently, have gotten much, much better, in part because of the space, has driven them to get much, much better, and especially in the last couple of years, where the kind of the cost of generating a zero knowledge proof for any kind of computation has gone dramatically down. And maybe I should briefly explain what a zero knowledge proof is and what it can do. So very simply, with a zero knowledge proof, it is possible for someone out there who you do not trust to run a computation, basically to run a program on some kind of input and produce a result, and to then share that result with you along with a proof, a zero knowledge proof, that that result is the correct result, that they actually performed the computation correctly.
00:56:17.374 - 00:57:26.362, Speaker A: And with that proof, you can be 100% certain that that is true very efficiently, without having to rerun the computation yourself. So that is like what a zero knowledge proof allows. It also introduces the ability to do things privately. But let's maybe set that aside for now. That's powerful, because so far, all of the blockchains that are mainstream today rely on every node in the network, reexecuting every instruction of every computation on the network, because you can't trust that the computation that some other node did is actually correct without you executing it yourself again. And so that's obviously incredibly inefficient, especially if you want to actually scale to applications that require much, much more computation. Like imagine if you want to do machine learning, intensive machine learning on a blockchain where we want to do games that have millions of interactions per second or sort of significant loads, it becomes inconceivable that every node in the network will have to do all of that work in order to have this system work.
00:57:26.362 - 00:58:13.830, Speaker A: And so with zero knowledge proofs, every node, or each node out in the network can just generate a proof for the computation that they did, and then everyone else can just verify that proof and be convinced that the computation was correct without having to redo all of the work. So, because that is true, that up until recently wasn't quite possible. It was nice in theory, but wasn't quite possible because zero knowledge proofs still had a long way to go. They were still inefficient to generate. It was very costly to actually create the proof itself, and sometimes it was more costly than actually doing the duplication of work that we've been doing. Also, they're harder program, they have been harder programmed for a long time. And it had required up until recently that you write code in esoteric programming languages that nobody liked.
00:58:13.830 - 00:59:08.778, Speaker A: People like solidity. And so now more recently, because the cost of generating zero knowledge proofs and verifying them has come down so much by many orders of magnitude, to the point at which now it's much more feasible. And also the fact that people have built compilers from the popular programming languages like solidity, such that you can now write a solidity program that compiles down to a zero knowledge circuit. Those two things make it so that now you can imagine a blockchain architecture that's completely different from the kinds that we've seen before. So my view is actually, zero knowledge proof will probably play an enormous role in how these things get architected. And it could be that the existing players adopt them and change their architectures to make themselves better, or it could be that there's new players that lean into that and basically go back to the drawing board and figure out what a blockchain architecture should look like. Given that you now have this new primitive, and maybe those people win, it's hard to know.
00:59:08.778 - 00:59:21.118, Speaker A: I feel like it's good that many experiments get run, because I think we have to kind of explore the space of possibilities and eventually figure out what the best outcome is. But kind of excited about that whole direction of work.
00:59:21.204 - 00:59:29.346, Speaker B: What are some of the blockchains layer ones who are leveraging this the most?
00:59:29.528 - 01:00:05.120, Speaker A: There are a couple of them. I think one of them is espresso. Espresso is like a team out of Stanford. This is not in our portfolio. It's a team from Dan Bonet's lab. Another one is one called Sovereign labs, which also kind of relies on this heavily, that all get convinced about the validity of one another's computational work using zero knowledge proofs. There are various out there, I think, but it's still so early.
01:00:05.120 - 01:00:19.346, Speaker A: Kind of. The work in this particular part of the stack is very new, but I think I wouldn't be surprised if there will be many more in the near future.
01:00:19.448 - 01:00:49.590, Speaker B: Yeah, it looks like it's super early for this, but point being, and interesting take that. We are nowhere near the end game, so this space will continue being as fascinating as ever. But we are near the end of the podcast, and I do want to ask you what I ask most of my guests, which is, what makes you defiant?
01:00:49.670 - 01:02:05.622, Speaker A: If you think you are defiant, what makes me defiant? Just a quick story about me in my college days. One thing that I've always been kind of obsessed with is trying to break the mold and optimize my life in weird ways. So one of the things that I did in college was to try this polyphasic sleep schedule, known as the Uberman polyphasic sleep schedule, which entails 20 minutes naps every 4 hours for a total of 2 hours of sleep per day. And I did this for three months, just basically lived on only 2 hours of sleep per night or per day for three months, having 22 wakeful hours per day, which was nice and documenting that whole experience, and I would not recommend it, I think is a takeaway. But it was interesting because you do actually begin to get used to it, to the point at which it feels normal, and your body is capable of insane things, and you actually get somewhat efficient sleep in 20 minutes, and you get what you need. And there's some theory as to why it can actually be more efficient than normal sleep, so you can pack more into a smaller period of time. So I did actually feel like I had 22 wakeful hours.
01:02:05.622 - 01:02:42.382, Speaker A: I did test myself, I did like standardized tests before and during, and there was an impact, it was a negative 5% impact in performance on those tests. And it's just one data point I don't even know. I mean, it may actually be much more harmful on the creative front or other fronts. Right. But it was just interesting to experiment with that and see how far I could push myself. I stopped after three months for various reasons, including the fact that it's impossible to have a social life if you have to go back or you have to go under the table or something, to sleep for 20 minutes in the middle of a social event.
01:02:42.436 - 01:02:53.746, Speaker B: That's crazy. Oh, my God. Wow. And sorry. This 5% decrease was in what sort of test? Like, how are you measuring yourself?
01:02:53.848 - 01:03:16.102, Speaker A: I did both IQ and sat. Sat kind of general verbal and math tests to try to see whether there was a big impact. Because the thing is that I actually felt fine, I felt normal, and I didn't know, I didn't know if I actually was normal or if I was suffering or some sort of delusion.
01:03:16.166 - 01:03:21.786, Speaker B: Were you able to just get more stuff done at least? What was the end goal of this?
01:03:21.888 - 01:03:49.010, Speaker A: It was. I think it was a crazy quarter where I signed up for as many classes as I possibly could. They were all computer science classes and I wanted to still have a social life. So I would sort of be free to socialize during the day and then kind of do all of my work during the night and it kind of worked that way. I do think I got more done for that quarter. I don't know if it would have been sustainable beyond that. I also stopped because I just don't know.
01:03:49.010 - 01:04:01.530, Speaker A: There hasn't really been any long term study of what happens if you do this for a really prolonged period of time. And I don't want to wake up one day and realize that I'm like bipolar or something because I have deprived myself of sleep for so long that.
01:04:01.600 - 01:04:02.886, Speaker B: You mess with your brain.
01:04:02.998 - 01:04:04.540, Speaker A: I mess myself up.
01:04:05.390 - 01:04:14.958, Speaker B: Wow, what a crazy story. I love that. Maybe there's like a modified version of that that can work, but I don't know. I'm going to look into it.
01:04:15.124 - 01:04:47.830, Speaker A: Yeah, there are less extreme versions. There's one called the Everyman polyphasic sleep schedule, which involves 3 hours of core sleep at night and then three naps throughout the day. So you get a little bit more of an actual core period of sleep and it means that there are fewer naps. And then also it's more flexible. If you don't get the timing exactly right. It's not as bad as it is with the other one. So yes, there are maybe more chill versions, but I guess I kind of wanted to go as extreme as possible to see if it could work.
01:04:47.900 - 01:05:02.160, Speaker B: Okay. And that speaks to your defiant nature, to push yourself in extreme ways. Really respect that. Ali, it's been a pleasure. Thank you so much for. For joining me. Such an interesting talk.
01:05:02.850 - 01:05:05.420, Speaker A: Tamila. The pleasure is all mine. Thank you so much for having me.
