00:00:00.880 - 00:00:19.530, Speaker A: Well, thank you so much for joining me, Myrt. Really excited to have you on the podcast. I've been following you on Twitter for some time and I greatly appreciate your unfiltered takes and honestly, just helping kind of push the conversation forward in the community. So excited to have you here.
00:00:20.230 - 00:00:22.330, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you so much for having me.
00:00:23.070 - 00:00:46.190, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, I would love to start with a little bit of your background. I always think every guest, their journey into crypto and blockchain is unique and how they got into the industry is super interesting to me. So let's start with a little bit of your background and then how ultimately that led you to crypto.
00:00:47.010 - 00:01:19.640, Speaker B: Sure. Yeah. So I went to school for pure math, so pure math and engineering. It was like a dual degree. I originally wanted to do physics, machine learning or general pure math, like differential geometry stuff. I was like a big nerd on that. I then worked at BlackBerry for a year as an internship, back when BlackBerry and BBM was a thing, if you remember that.
00:01:19.640 - 00:02:19.474, Speaker B: So I worked on the cloud infrastructure team there and I got to ship a lot of cool stuff. Although obviously my career's usage wasn't great. But that essentially got me quite interested in the more industry and practical side of things as opposed to the theoretical angle that I was or the projectory that I was on before. And then obviously being in pure math, I took a good amount of cryptography courses and thats where I first came across blockchains and crypto and all that stuff. Funny enough, I actually thought I probably would have needed a PhD or something to be of value to the crypto industry. Obviously quite wrong looking back, but that was my thought process anyways, after graduating I worked at three of the five big banks in Canada. So for people who aren't familiar, Canada is essentially run by like an oligopoly of five banks.
00:02:19.474 - 00:03:24.872, Speaker B: And I worked at three of those building trading infrastructure payments like withdrawal systems for ATM's and also some cybersecurity. Needless to say, it wasn't for me. I then went and worked for a fintech called Clearbank, which is kind of like a similar thing to like pipe or like ramp, if anybody's familiar with that, where I was a tech lead for building some infrastructure for their corporate cards for startups to use. And this was like right around when the governments were getting quite draconian in their measures, in how they responded to Covid. And basically coincidentally there was an incident wherever my pm was like, hey, we need to send payments to these entrepreneurs in Australia. And basically to comply with certain regulations. We had to make sure the payments took some jumps through various jurisdictions until they get to Australia.
00:03:24.872 - 00:04:23.856, Speaker B: I was like, this is so stupid. Why not just use USDC or something like that? The response I got was something along the lines of crypto is a scam combined with everything that was happening on happening with the government and curfews in Montreal and stuff. I basically just got fed up and I was working at Coinbase, or I started a job at Coinbase shortly after that, maybe the next month. Then at Coinbase, I was on something called the financial hub team. What this team does is they're responsible for the fund movements within Coinbase. So if you place a trade on Coinbase or like, move money from Coinbase to exchange to, like, your Coinbase wallet, viewing your transaction histories as well as your balances across the different chains and coins and whatnot, just viewing your portfolio charts and. Yeah, I mean, that's what I was doing at Coinbase, obviously.
00:04:23.856 - 00:04:53.456, Speaker B: Like, I was somewhat of a tryhard. So I did a good amount of research into the different l one s to really understand the different pros and cons of each, or like, if the systems were designing would meet all their needs, et cetera. And that's when I came across Solana, avalanche, Cosmos, all the other ones as well. That's briefly a lightning summary of how I got here.
00:04:53.578 - 00:05:48.330, Speaker A: Beautiful story. Now, on the academic side, I kind of felt similar where I was like, do I actually know enough to contribute? And it's funny, once, like, you feel like you don't, but then once you kind of get into the ecosystem and the different communities, you're like, oh, there's actually a lot that I can do to help push this space forward. And so glad you made the jump into the crypto world. I was always personally in the past, it was much more of an EtH maxi, and I always felt like when I was reading Brian Armstrong's post, that they were very eth leaning. Did you have that general sentiment inside Coinbase, or I'm just curious to get your perspective while at Coinbase on if you felt like there was any personal favorites of layer ones?
00:05:49.310 - 00:06:34.752, Speaker B: Yeah, that's actually a very good question. I haven't been asked that before. But you are correct. Most of the Coinbase team, at least the senior guys, have been around since the early days. They're quote unquote ogs, right? And as a result, the earlier community has a much more EVM and ETH leaning culture. So very kind of EVM and l two scaling focused company, I would say at least when I was there. In fact, I was probably the go to guy, I would say maybe even within the company, me and this other guy, Nathan, for the entirety of Solana.
00:06:34.752 - 00:06:47.040, Speaker B: So whenever the wallet team would want to maybe venture into looking at Solana expansion and stuff like that, or Solana transaction histories, I would usually have a meeting with those teams.
00:06:47.540 - 00:07:09.200, Speaker A: I was always super surprised by your leaning pro Solana because I felt that I had no evidence per se, not even that it's right or wrong. It's just as you said, people come into industry at earlier times. I was always surprised by you that you were so knowledgeable on Solana.
00:07:09.830 - 00:08:00.610, Speaker B: Yeah, knowledgeable. A bit of an overstatement there, to be clear, Coinbase has a good amount of EVM focused and l two focused people. But then there's also quite a few smart people, specifically on the Bison trails acquisition, the Coinbase cloud team. Now, they're quite neutral, I would say. Like, they are very much interested in Solana and EVM and Cosmos and very intellectually honest people, just really full of extremely smart people. But I would say like, the majority are EVM focused and Solana was essentially just gaining track. As I was leaving, I started a few slack channels, social Solana stuff.
00:08:00.610 - 00:08:11.466, Speaker B: I would make compilations of Solana ecosystem tools and post it internally, et cetera. So I was trying to do my part in evangelizing somewhat.
00:08:11.618 - 00:08:47.022, Speaker A: Nice. Awesome. I personally, in my research, I truly want to be as objective as possible. It really doesn't help to have any particular bias in my point of view. I think ultimately what everybody's trying to do is figuring out how to make the industry grow. And the biggest bottleneck, in my opinion, is that underlying technology to have the scale needed to onboard hundreds of millions and ultimately billions of users. And I think Solana has just made a lot of cool choices to make that happen.
00:08:47.022 - 00:09:05.260, Speaker A: So in your kind of research, you mentioned that you deep dived a lot of these different layer ones and L2s. How ultimately, how did that research go? And then how ultimately did you decide to end up building on Solana?
00:09:07.160 - 00:09:58.852, Speaker B: So the thing that I wasn't a big fan of with regards to EBM and escaling Washington, essentially, how many conditionals are required for a successful outcome. So every conditional that you chain with less than 100% probability when multiplied keeps decreasing the probability over time. What that looks like is okay, well, if the merge goes successful, then if dank sharding. Now if ZK's, if polygonal, there's all these ifs and you chain all these and then every time you chain one, your probability of success kind of decreases. I also looked at, like, avalanche, you know, snow land. I forget exactly. Like snowball.
00:09:58.852 - 00:10:42.770, Speaker B: Yeah, snowball consensus and stuff like that. I looked at Polkadot, I looked at a bunch of different ones, and they all seemed either overly complicated or not different enough from EVM, except for Solana. So Solana seemed very practical in that if tech doesn't scale with hardware in the future, we're going to have bigger problems than blockchains. Anyways. I never understood the hate that Solana got from being reliant on hardware. It's like hardware is extremely important. Underrated in this kind of world of bits, as pure chill would say, and kind of underutilized.
00:10:42.770 - 00:11:22.500, Speaker B: And then things like small things like proof of history, which obviously eliminates the need for rallies to talk to each other to determine the next block. And then that feeds into things like turbine, which is not bittorrent, and all these different things add up, and then even just c level, where something as simple as, okay, well, I'm going to write to this account, and therefore we can collect all these accounts that are being written to and then paralyze those. Something very pragmatic, which really annoyed me with the EVM because of how inefficient the EVM was.
00:11:24.200 - 00:11:48.170, Speaker A: I personally love those key technical aspects of. Also those things drew me to Solana before the non technical people. And from coming from your engineering background, could you maybe dive a little bit deeper into each of those, as much as you want to explain to non technical people why those are important?
00:11:49.550 - 00:12:24.036, Speaker B: Yeah, this is something I struggle with, which is actually why I started writing on Twitter, which is trying to translate some of that technical stuff into something much more digestible. So, okay, proof of history. Most people kind of confuse proof of history for a consensus mechanism, but that's not actually what it is. You know, if I were to simplify it as much as possible, it's just a way of keeping time. It's just a way for keeping an accurate clock in the presence of adversaries. And what it allows for is. Right.
00:12:24.036 - 00:13:12.820, Speaker B: So when you have validators in, let's say, eth, they kind of have to talk to each other to determine, okay, who's next, who's going to propose the next block, et cetera. But Solana kind of has this predetermined schedule, which, by the way, I've had to fight some fud on this against, like, Justin Bonds and some other people. Proof of history basically allows for values to keep track of time on their own and not talk to each other. And it kind of reduces that communication overhead. And obviously, since that communication overhead is reduced, latency is reduced, and you have, you know, not only is that faster on its own, but it also enables for other things like turbine, which is essentially, like, when you're, when you're streaming blocks, you're able to kind of split them in a way similar to, like, vettorrent, by the way, you just froze. I'm not sure if you're still.
00:13:15.080 - 00:13:24.336, Speaker A: You're good on my end. Okay, so if I say frozen, let me know and I can cut it, but let me know if I unfreeze.
00:13:24.528 - 00:13:26.664, Speaker B: Okay, so where was I?
00:13:26.792 - 00:13:27.696, Speaker A: Turbine.
00:13:27.888 - 00:14:13.926, Speaker B: Turbine, yeah. So, I mean turbine. Like, if I were to just explain that to maybe somebody non technical, I would just say something like bittorrent, where you kind of just chop up, you know, certain pieces of data and then give different pieces of different validators, et cetera. Sea level is probably my favorite part of solana. And obviously, that's like, what some of these cosmos based roll ups are utilizing for the SVM and sea level can be explained very simply to non technical folks because it's essentially like, basically everything in the EVM happens serially. So you must wait for transaction a to pass before you do transaction bjdeheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheheh. Even if they have no overlap.
00:14:13.926 - 00:15:24.470, Speaker B: Right. Whereas on solana, you can say, if you're sending a transaction, you can say, hey, I'm going to actually modify the account a, and then somebody else can say, okay, well, I'm going to use account b, and then the runtime will actually say, okay, these are completely independent piece of state. I can execute them in parallel. And that's obviously, since you're going from serial to parallel, you have a very good saving in terms of performance. And obviously, there's some other things that go into this that I think probably some of the other guests in your podcasts do a better job of explaining. Like Lucas from Jito is like a master on most of the stuff, like shreds and pipelining and all that stuff, but. So, yeah, I think that pragmatic approach that Solana has taken, and obviously, like, as hardware improves over time, you're able to, like, the amount of parallel transactions that you can process increases, right?
00:15:24.850 - 00:16:08.548, Speaker A: Yeah. So, no, it's, once I started diving deeper into how modern computers work and discovered I think one big. And I kind of understand the criticism with how modern computers work today. I think a lot of people are confused about Moore's law in the sense of adding additional transistors on a chip. That is getting harder to do. But what they do instead is just add additional cores. And so when you can add more cores, that unlocks more parallels them, as you mentioned, which is cool because the Solana virtual machine allows you to take advantage of that, which.
00:16:08.548 - 00:16:16.600, Speaker A: It is funny that the ethereum virtual machine, for all of its drawbacks, still does not have parallelization, which is kind of funny.
00:16:17.060 - 00:16:51.600, Speaker B: Yeah. And like with kind of this new AI era, like obviously with chat, GPT and stuff coming out, these are things that heavily utilize hardware. And for those things to scale, you need better hardware. And so, like I said, if hardware is like this unattractive thing that blockchains shouldn't utilize, or like, if you're worried about hardware being stagnant, then we have much bigger problems than just stinking state at global, globally, at the speed of light. Right?
00:16:52.870 - 00:17:44.350, Speaker A: No, it's definitely been interesting. At my time at Tesla, they're like, don't fight physics. And in my point of view, a lot of these blockchains, essentially to onboard hundreds of millions of users or billions of users are trying to fight physics in some aspects by either keeping the hardware requirements unnecessarily low or not propagating enough data. And so I always love technical people such as yourself that are able to communicate some of these technical aspects into more normie speak, because I do think it's difficult. It is very, it's a tech driven industry, but by having people such as yourself being able to communicate some of these things and layman turns, I think it's extremely impactful. And I think, again, it's why you're so good at Twitter. Maybe jumping ship a little bit.
00:17:44.350 - 00:17:57.910, Speaker A: Can you talk about, and I think you kind of alluded to it at the beginning, but talking about how you got into Twitter, how you kind of think about using the platform and. Yeah, share some of your thoughts around it.
00:17:58.850 - 00:18:58.752, Speaker B: Yeah. So kind of like two layers to this. The first layer being like just how I got into Twitter, and then second being I got into crypto Twitter. Funny enough, when I first got into Twitter, I was just kind of interested in following Paul Graham, just reading up on startup stuff and being in that bubble so that I can consume material and expand my knowledge on some of that stuff. And then one day there was somebody, Morgan Hausel, who wrote the psychology of money, a pretty good book. And he posted something like, what is one thing that nobody's talking about? Or something like that. And basically I responded with something along the lines of how 70 to 80 year olds are considered mentally declining and have skill mismatches, but they exclusively run the country.
00:18:58.752 - 00:19:44.020, Speaker B: And then I basically put my phone away and I came back and I had ten followers at this time, and I had thousands of likes on it. I was like, wow, maybe people actually somewhat care about my perspective here. I didn't know anybody actually gave a shit. And anyway, so I got like some followers from that, and then I was like, you know, maybe I'll just keep sharing my thoughts. Fast forward, like a few months, I guess this is when I was first getting into Solana. What had happened was, so while at Coinbase, one of my coworkers, who's like a product designer, just released like, their NFT. And basically they're like, hey, guys, like free mint for all, like Coinbase, which is what Coinbase employees are called Coinbase.
00:19:44.020 - 00:20:44.592, Speaker B: And so I went to, like, their site and I went to mint it, and I was like, hell yeah, like free mint. And then it came to like something like $279, and I was, because of the gas. And I was like, wow, that's actually insane. Like, how can gas costs that much money? And then right around that time, I had just downloaded Phantom. And so I started being fed up with NFTs and started playing around with salon. NFTs joined a few communities, and I noticed that people on CT, especially these influencer types, essentially would say pretty conclusive stuff like, hey, your NFTs are in a bear market right now because the price of Solana went up and obviously the markets are efficient and stuff, or mints would get bought it all the time. And this is before, hello, Moon or soul analysis.
00:20:44.592 - 00:21:17.470, Speaker B: Basically any analytics platforms existed. Basically, I got tired of people just making unfounded claims with no basis. And I just decided to write a bunch of scripts and set up my own data pipelines. And I just analyzed what was actually happening on chain, because that's the entire point of the chain, right? Anybody has access to it. And so I would write these scripts, I would analyze if mints were bought it or not. I would see how the floor prices change over time. I also did some comparisons of marketplaces and stuff like that.
00:21:17.470 - 00:22:18.788, Speaker B: I would just take that data and then I would say I would make a thread on it on Twitter with some charts and stuff. And then people kind of appreciated that and started retweeting it, and I just kept really doing that. And then somewhere along the line, I stumbled upon people trying to fud Solana all the time. And obviously, since I was working at Coinbase and I was doing research on evms and stuff, and this goes back to an earlier point, which I made about Justin bonds made this post, I think, last January or something, where he's like, Anatolia and Raj are fraudulent and bad faith because they designed Solana to have deterministic block creation. And I was like, actually, EVM has the same thing. So I basically was just quite upset at how uninformed some of these takes on Twitter were. So I just decided to, I guess, bonk them with a reply.
00:22:18.788 - 00:22:21.080, Speaker B: And then I just never stopped since.
00:22:22.020 - 00:23:29.530, Speaker A: No, it's super impressive. I always admire. I think the hard thing is to, especially at that point in time when Ethereum, I mean, Ethereum really kicked off like the bull run, specifically in crypto, in my opinion, with defi summer and all the cool stuff that was happening with composability, the comp liquidity mining. And at that point, it was a little bit farther down the line, even as NFTs on Ethereum became stronger. If you moved to any other chain or you used any other chain, it was almost an attack on decentralization and that you didn't care about crypto. And so for me, it did take a while for me to understand, well, one, to be able to quantify decentralization, to actually, like, measure it from the engineering point of view, but then to, like, be able to talk about it publicly because there was so much FUD. So I've always admired the people that had the courage to kind of stand up to a lot of the FUD, because it's not.
00:23:29.530 - 00:23:58.870, Speaker A: It's not easy, and a lot of people will attack you, and a lot of them are uninformed, which is the funny thing about it. Like, they have very strong opinions, but they're not technical. And so that's why ultimately, I wanted to start the podcast, is to be able to talk with technical people and have them tell their stories about why they've made the decisions that they've had. Because it's not easy, and because the space is so technical, it's easy to get lost in the weeds.
00:23:59.810 - 00:25:01.170, Speaker B: Yeah, there's certainly. I think it's more of, like, the messages, the medium is the message kind of deal, where on Twitter, some of these sensationalist takes get more engagement than ones that are purely technical. And so you kind of have this game theory where these incentives, where people just say dumb stuff, and if it helps their bags then they'll retweet it and no matter how false it is. And yeah, I mean, when I first started doing this, it was a little scary because I was still at Coinbase and like, Coinbase not, doesn't have a massive salon culture or anything like that. Obviously FTX did, but we won't talk about that. So, yeah, it was scary, but I think at the end of the day, it just has to be done. Kind of my rationale for it was like, okay, well, why am I in crypto? Right? I'm in crypto because I believe in root access to your digital identity and finances.
00:25:01.170 - 00:25:56.290, Speaker B: Right. Kind of the sovereign, individual type of crypto, bro. Thinking, obviously simplifying it a bit. But that's, at the end of the day, why I'm here. And then, okay, number two, why am I in Solana? It's like, well, I'm in Solana because I think Solana is our best shot of actually executing that vision and scaling crypto and actually making sure everybody can solve custody, use, defi nfts, all this sort of stuff. And it's like, obviously, for that vision to be a reality, we need to recruit people, developers, product people, users, traders, just people. And whenever you have something like sensationalist Fud on Twitter, that even though some people, especially some of the smarter folks who have actually messaged me and said, don't even bother with this stuff, they'll say like, don't worry about it, like, just build.
00:25:56.290 - 00:26:52.540, Speaker B: And then like, the users will come and it's like, you know, maybe that's true in some sense, but crypto is like a very narrative driven thing where if you don't combat this fud or at least help provide a different perspective on these narratives, then it is kind of a sad reality that it will actually work. Like their sabotage attempts will work. And ive seen this firsthand. Investors will pull out of the round and say, I feel x about Solana. Or just today I had somebody dm me about building on Solana versus Polygon. They want this reassurance that Solana will be around in six to seven months and that everything that they built wont be completely obsolete such that they have to pour it over. So narrative is quite important and I think underrated.
00:26:53.040 - 00:27:48.060, Speaker A: I do agree. I think over the long term it will be more, I think today it is narrator driven. Just because it's so early, there's not very many users, especially in bull and bear markets, unfortunately. I think it's narrative driven over the long term. I think ultimately being reinforced by the metrics and the on chain data, uh, will kind of be its story in its own right, and people won't have to rely as much on narratives. But I definitely agree. It's a delicate balancing act from, like, fighting the fud to, like, just like, some of the takes are just so bad that you are, like, I shouldn't even address this, but maybe, um, you mentioned FTX, and I think maybe just wrapping up kind of a Solana piece, and then I want to get into what you're building at Helios.
00:27:48.060 - 00:28:15.200, Speaker A: The FTX thing is a part of Fud now and a critical critique to the Solana ecosystem, to those people that are building in other ecosystems, or have questions about it from you and your team's perspective, how do you feel about what happened with FTX? And does this change your point of view about Solana more holistically?
00:28:18.820 - 00:29:14.210, Speaker B: So I'll tackle the latter part of this, which is, does it affect our vision of Solana? And it's like, absolutely not. I picked Solana for the dev community and the tech, and those things have not only been robust, but they've actually, I would say, shown an increased amount of resilience in the face of this. So I was in this for the tech to begin with, and that has not changed at all. If anything, has actually gone better during all these massive market volatility events, the chain, you could argue, maybe, would have shown some pretty significant performance degradation seven, eight months ago. But this time it was relatively smooth, minus some oracle issues. But that's not really a chain problem as much as it's a volatility problem. So, yeah, like, holistically, nothing has changed.
00:29:14.210 - 00:29:57.900, Speaker B: If anything, just got more bullish. And I think people really overestimate the effect of Sam specifically on Solana. And you can see this from things like soccer trades. He posted this thing about Solana VC. He's kind of dumping on Solana retail, et cetera, which that has happened in the past, so I'm not going to deny that. But it overlooks the fact that Alameda and FTX weren't a Solana exclusive group. Right.
00:29:57.900 - 00:30:44.180, Speaker B: They had big investments in Nier, big investments in Polygon, which for some reason, people like to ignore, obviously, aptos as well, and a number of other kind of chain projects. So it wasn't like a Solana specific thing. And furthermore, it seems to me like more of that stuff was earlier on in Solana's history. Like Sam and FTX, these things were a bit more important during the first days of Solana. But for the past year, year and a half, they haven't really had much of effect. Everybody probably remembers the FTX. US NFT marketplace didn't do anything.
00:30:44.180 - 00:31:45.860, Speaker B: It basically has no effect. And so this is kind of a part of the narrative where the media and kind of these other chains capitalized on it and kind of, you know, obviously play their own drum, play their own instrument and try to make it seem like they're right all along. But the reality is that FTX hasn't had much of an impact recently on the salon ecosystem at all. And, you know, the things that did have involvement in like serum, for example, we saw like, the community came together, forked it like legends at like Mango Openbook, which, you know, what is the one community fork? You know, the community is at a point where things like this can happen and then the social consensus kind of take over and it just kind of shows you how strong, you know, the ecosystem is and will continue to be going forward.
00:31:47.800 - 00:32:12.370, Speaker A: I think that's beautifully put. So I'll leave it there. Moving on to Helis, tell us, was the inspiration ultimately around some of this on chain data that you were pulling yourself? Yeah, I would love to hear the backstory and how you ultimately decided to start helios and then maybe go into kind of the overarching vision.
00:32:13.390 - 00:32:59.950, Speaker B: Yeah. So you actually touched on it a bit there. Some of it was from me actually just working with the state on my own and trying to build certain tools. The main catalyst, I would say, is so a few kind of, during the peak of NFT season on Solana, there were quite a few scams and rugs and all this sort of stuff. And I would make it my mission to track these rugs because I worked at Coinbase at that time. I wanted to see, hey, can we actually maybe freeze this person's account if they use Coinbase? Usually they would actually just actually, almost always they'd use binance. So that was quite difficult.
00:32:59.950 - 00:33:48.550, Speaker B: But anyway, I would essentially try to track these scams. Some reporters, even from decrypt and the block and stuff, would actually message me and try to get help on the forensics of it. And I think Zach XBT has talked about this a bit as well. But tracking stuff on Solana is quite difficult due to the fact that the transactions are quite hard to read, especially when you compare it to Etherscan, where it's still not perfect, but it's comparatively much more easy to understand for everyday users. It was just really hard to understand. And it's not just the block explorers. I think Solana FM has done a good job on this, by the way, but also wallets.
00:33:48.550 - 00:35:10.252, Speaker B: I would do a transaction on radium and I come back to it maybe a month later, and then I would look at my transaction history and I'd be like, what did I do? What is this app interaction? What are these inner instructions and what are these random base 58 encoded strings mean? And it just basically just made me angry. And I was, like I said, I was on the financial hub team at Coinbase, which was in charge of transaction histories. So this is something that I actually work with every day on my day to day job as well. And so I essentially put together a team and a pet shack and mvp and started talking to people about this idea of making the entire chain human readable. And a lot of people resonated with the idea. And essentially we started doubling down on that vision and started parsing on chain data and exposing it via APIs that other people can use. And then along the way through just talking to all these different teams and developers within Solana, notice a few other problems that were kind of slowing them down or bogging down their productivity, and decided to essentially just so like, going back a little, the original vision was that wed be multi chain.
00:35:10.252 - 00:36:07.340, Speaker B: But then I kind of saw that theres so many different specific problems within Solana that im not going to take the approach that other infra providers have taken, which is like provide like a shallow, like node offering, but duplicate it across chains. I said like, okay, we're going to be like a vertical team within Solana that specializes in perfecting the specific Solana developer experience. Anything from geyser plugins to validator optimization or RPC optimization, to parsing Solana specific transactions accounts. And so, yeah, that's kind of a little about how we came to be. And basically the mission for at least the next year to year and a half is just building infrastructure to help boost the productivity and creativity of Solana developers so that we can actually realize this vision of the crypto economy going forward.
00:36:09.880 - 00:37:06.010, Speaker A: Solana transactions are definitely hard to read. Yeah, I share that sentiment. I definitely appreciate you and the team tackling this problem. I think, yeah, it has been interesting to see these other teams just kind of go immediately across chain and not have a very deep understanding of any specific chain. And I think especially if Solana is actually as good as we think from the technical aspect, being able to really double down in that ecosystem and scaling with Solana will be very fruitful. Ultimately happy that you and the team are so focused on making it the best user and developer experience possible. Could you talk more about some of the products that you're building at Helios and how you're trying to make the developers lives easier?
00:37:07.040 - 00:38:27.160, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So number one is what I mentioned with the APIs, we have a few API offerings, and the main idea behind the APIs is since the data is quite hard to understand on its own, we interpret that data for you instead of looking at a transaction and it's cryptic inner instructions and stuff like that. You see like, okay, this was actually a Dao vote and it was using a squads multisig, so we've interpreted that data for you. Or like, this was actually a canceled NFT listing on Maggedgeeton. And that saves the ecosystem from having to continually parse these contracts and more importantly, continue parsing them, because on Solana the programs can actually be updated, which is which at least on the same address. And so there's a lot of maintenance and pain, essentially glass chewing that happens to stay up to date with these contracts. And so number one is just interpreting all these transactions and then indexing them so that people can retrieve them and query them for either analytics or bots or any other sort of app that they want to build.
00:38:27.160 - 00:39:22.650, Speaker B: So, and then number two, and like, these aren't in order, but the other product that we have is, or are webhooks. So webhooks, I think are like, probably, I mean, I don't want to pick favorites, but probably my favorite. The reason being that. So Solana has these things called geyser plugins, which to people who aren't familiar with it, I would just describe it as like something that the RPC nodes and the validators have to stream real time data from the Solana blockchain. And that can be transaction data, it can be account data, it can be slot block data. But setting a geyser plugin up is quite difficult. You need access to a node, you need rust knowledge, you need or c knowledge, and you need to build software essentially at the end of the day, and ship it and test it and maintain it.
00:39:22.650 - 00:40:33.032, Speaker B: Webhooks are a much more web two version, much more straightforward abstraction for developers to work with, where you just specify, hey, helios, I want to watch the Magic Eden address and then maybe these two other addresses for any time that there's an NFT listing. Then when that event does happen, send to my server here, whether that's discord, whether that's just my node server or my analytics app, and that's it. So we just enable the facilitation of real time on chain events. A good example of this, actually, is discord. I'm sure you saw discord is actually, or Solana is Discord's first web3 integration, and they're actually using Helios webhooks to do that on the backend. A big problem, and this actually kind of overlaps with some of the polygons. If I mentioned earlier that Solana has, is when these brands do want to work with Solana, there's a lot of Solana specific nuances, like Geyser plugins, for example, which haven't had time to mature as an ecosystem.
00:40:33.032 - 00:41:24.830, Speaker B: And so people can much more. People can get much faster and easier resourcing when it comes to EVM, but not so much Solana. That throws brains off a little bit. So in the case of Discord, obviously they weren't about to learn geyser plugins and set that up and maintain it going perpetually forward. All they need is really a web two sort of like API, similar to like stripe or something, where they say, hey, watch all these addresses on discord for me and then let me know when their balance changes. So that's kind of like, I think something that will help enterprise adoption quite a bit going forward, and that's a big focus for us. And then number three, which is something I didn't really want to do, to be completely honest at first, is RPC nodes.
00:41:24.830 - 00:42:19.664, Speaker B: There's actually quite a few RPC node providers. But whenever I would chat with teams within Solana, they had similar complaints, like, hey, my RPC is unreliable, or, hey, it's too slow, or, hey, keep slowing down. And basically I said, okay, well, obviously, if we want to realize this mission of enabling developers productivity and creativity for the crypto economy, we need to solve that problem. I don't care how many other people are doing it, I just want the best user experience for people. Building on Solana, we also started building rpcs, and we performed some optimizations on top of them, like caching, indexing. We've expanded the Solana program libraries set of parsers so that you actually get a broader parser coverage if you use our stuff. That's the main three that we have right now.
00:42:19.664 - 00:42:45.332, Speaker B: But then we're also releasing account change webhooks and some other indexing stuff and real time streaming stuff that my co founders probably wouldn't like me to talk about too much. So I'll leave it at that. But yeah, I mean, if anybody watching this has any pain points, when it comes to developing on Solana, just let me know and we'll see what we can do.
00:42:45.476 - 00:43:17.362, Speaker A: I love it. No, it's awesome. Really excited for the Discord integration. I think it's, as you mentioned, hard for those web two companies to really be able to experiment, even if they want to. And so companies like helios being able to abstract those engineering complexities make that a lot easier. And so again, congratulations. It's awesome and excited that Discord's open to integrating more with web3.
00:43:17.362 - 00:43:46.490, Speaker A: And then on the RPC side, it's funny that ultimately you're makes sense that you didn't want to do it, but ultimately felt like it was a big enough problem that you should tackle it with yourself. Could you talk a little bit about people that aren't familiar with RPC nodes, what exactly they do in the Solana ecosystem, and maybe even talk about what you've learned on operating these nodes?
00:43:47.750 - 00:44:51.980, Speaker B: Yeah, to describe what an RPC does. And I guess it depends on who I'm abstracting this for, but basically, I'll try to make it as simple as possible. Obviously, a blockchain is just this set of nodes that talk to each other and achieve consensus. With web two systems, you call the servers themselves, and then the servers provide some sort of API for developers or users to get the underlying data behind that. So, for example, to get tweets from Twitter, you would probably call the Twitter API who has this data in their servers, and then that's how you would get it back. Rpcs are essentially these nodes. And so there's also somewhat of a nuance here, because Solana rpcs are quite different, or not quite different, but different than EVM kind of rpcs, where on Solana, rpcs and validators are actually two different types of nodes, whereas on EVM it can actually be the same.
00:44:51.980 - 00:46:08.124, Speaker B: So on Solana there's nodes that participate in consensus and vote on this is a valid transaction or not. And then there's also RPC nodes which also keep states similar to the validators, but they don't vote. I think the reason is because if they also did vote and served as much RPC traffic, then the hardware specs would be truly wild. All that is to say, an RPC node is essentially somebody or a node that has up to date state of the blockchain and exposes the data to external requesters via remote procedure calls, or rpcs. So let's say you say you want to get the latest block that the blockchain is processed, you would say heliosrPC getblock or something like that, and would return you what block the network is on. And you can see right away where you might arise to problems. Because Solana is such a fast blockchain that you need to store a lot of data and you need to store it, and you need to always be up to date.
00:46:08.124 - 00:46:30.400, Speaker B: Then you also need to make sure that you're serving that data to people who are requesting it. So there's a lot of things that a single node or these sets of nodes have to do. And so the hardware requirements for them can actually get pretty wild, like up to a terabyte or even two terabytes of ram, which is like bananas, but it's also kind of fun. I like machines that are like that strong.
00:46:31.060 - 00:46:38.100, Speaker A: Do you have like full node specs? I'm curious. And then maybe like how much it costs you to just buy the hardware?
00:46:38.760 - 00:47:32.096, Speaker B: Yeah, so the full note specs, I don't want to butcher these, so I will try to maybe reply to the podcast link on Twitter or something with them. But for sure, we have quite a few machines with 1 ram, and there's just so many different specs that I honestly don't remember the latest that we're on in terms of cost. So this is a good point for a validator. You can get away with lower spec machines. So like 256 ram or something, which is not low, but it's lower. Whereas with an RPC it really depends on how you configure that RPC. There's rpcs that might, for example, the way we structure it is we have certain rpcs optimized for account calls, like getting account information, getting program accounts.
00:47:32.096 - 00:48:34.270, Speaker B: We have ones optimized for getting transactions and stuff like that. When you have all these indexes that you need to store within the RPCs themselves, the amount of ram that you need can increase quite a bit. Which is actually why tolle would recommend you use geyser plugins and then stream the data to a postgres plugin and then serve the data through there instead. In terms of the cost, I would recommend people use. So if you are interested in setting up an RPC node and participating in running your own nodes and stuff, I would say go to latitude sh, which is a bare metal info provider. You can spin up a machine there for anywhere from 500 to dollar 800 depending on the specs a month, which is actually not bad. People think you need an entire data center with tens of thousands of dollars to do this, but it's really just a few hundred dollars a month, and then it would spin up a machine for you, you would have stage into it, and then you kind of configure it however you want.
00:48:34.270 - 00:49:39.720, Speaker B: Genesis go actually has some guides on this, so does a few other info providers, et cetera. We also have an open source tool that we're developing with Overclock, where it's like an ansible script that you just download onto your machine, get cloned to your machine, and then you can run it, and then it'll spin up an RPC node for you. So I'm sure my investors won't like that too much since I just said, just don't use us, you can use your own machines. But basically, the problem, of course, isn't spinning up the node itself, it's maintaining the node, because the RPC nodes get badgered quite a bit, especially like liquidators or NFT mentors or botters. And all these people will just make thousands of millions of calls to these RPC machines. And basically, once the machines are under that kind of load, there's a whole lot of things that can go wrong. It might time out, which might cause us to fall back behind the chain.
00:49:39.720 - 00:50:03.396, Speaker B: All the connections might get saturated. There's honestly hundreds of different problems that can happen. Maybe the RPC is just spinning up for the first time, and then it has received a bad ledger snapshot from one of the nodes that it's downloading from. It's quite painful, but yeah, that's, I guess, a lightning summary.
00:50:03.508 - 00:50:47.000, Speaker A: I think it's a great overview. No, the RPC problem, especially on Solana, you have to. There are a lot of things, and Solana is very demanding in the sense that it is trying to do a lot of things very quickly. You can definitely see from the hardware standpoint how it gets pretty wild, maybe jumping from the RPC nodes back to webhooks. Could you dive a little bit deeper into why they're your favorite personally? And then after that, maybe we'll pivot to kind of your state of the ecosystem and how you think about 2023.
00:50:47.980 - 00:51:53.470, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So I would say webhooks are my favorite simply because they're extremely easy to use, and they give you a lot of leverage and they save you. They abstract away, like a very high number of complex stuff behind in the BTS, for example, keeping up with the chain and consuming all blocks, and then watching transactions within those blocks, parsing those transactions, and then once parsing those transactions, sending those events to the servers that you've configured there's quite a lot of work that goes into doing that. First, you need to set up a system that is able to reliably listen to the chain without losing events. You need to set up systems that parse those transactions properly. So we have like over 100 transaction parsers built in right now, and we're actually, I guess it's kind of an Easter egg, but we're actually going to open source those parsers as well, so that people can contribute their own parsers. So that should be fun.
00:51:53.470 - 00:52:47.842, Speaker B: And it's just like, if you're like a web two developer, for example, you've probably worked with some sort of stripe API, like a Twilio API, which is extremely pleasant experience. If you want to accept payments, you simply go to Stripe's dashboard and you create an account. Then you have these links or webhooks such that when people go to your website, it literally just sends you the events, and then that's it. You're able to, you just went from zero to one, and you can accept payments for your business now. And Helios webhooks are essentially the same. Right? Let's say you want to create a bot or some sort of event remote system. All you had to do is just go on our website, you know, Dev Healy, static XYZ, tell us the accounts that you want to watch for, and you can input up to like 100,000 accounts, what sort of events you want to listen to, and then just tell us where you want to send us, send that event to.
00:52:47.842 - 00:53:04.654, Speaker B: And then you can essentially have a fully function on Solana system, or a system that integrates with Solana at least within literally a minute. So the TLDR, it helps bring your ideas to life faster. And I think we just need more of that.
00:53:04.782 - 00:53:41.750, Speaker A: I agree. We need more experimentation and more people, more engineers from the web, too, that are okay with playing around with these things. So again, I greatly appreciate that your team's tackling this and building it out. So I think 2021 and 2022 have been very eventful in both directions. What things are you kind of telling your team and more personally look forward to in like 2023 in the crypto world?
00:53:44.690 - 00:54:39.700, Speaker B: So I think I'm going to look at this through more of a Solana lens, as opposed to maybe a broader crypto lens. Some things that I'm looking forward to. Is one Defi making a comeback on Solana? Obviously, Mango is going to be coming back soon. Drift just launched, data markets just launched again, and there's a number of order books that are also being released, and then some downstream dependencies like Lulu Finance, which is like an order book based lending protocol. So I think Defi coming back is something I'm really looking forward to. I'm also quite excited for XNFTs, which is like a very interesting idea that almost seems obvious when you think about it, but it wasn't obvious. So like, I guess that's how you know it's a good idea.
00:54:39.700 - 00:55:21.530, Speaker B: I'm very excited for those. And we're working with Armani on, you know, trying to support that as much as possible. Obviously everybody in Solana is extremely excited for fire dancer, right? Being able to improve performance and have a second client that that's just really important for, you know, security, decentralization as well as performance. Also looking really forward to Mev. Obviously the guys at Jito are, as they like to say, all gas, no brakes on that front. So really happy to see that. And then potentially some things that I think need to get better are one, interfaces.
00:55:21.530 - 00:56:20.890, Speaker B: So to people who are unfamiliar on EVM, you kind of have interfaces, which is something that most typescript or JavaScript developers would be familiar with, where you can implement interfaces for your programs. And as long as you comply with that interface, your program or your smart contract will be considered an instance of that interface. So that's how ERC 20 tokens and NFTs on Ethereum work on SLA. That's not the case. And you kind of have individual programs which cause a lot of centralization risks, like certain entities having unilateral control over certain programs. So I think interfaces would help with that. I also think we need kind of a culture upgrade to a more cypherpunk, you know, culture in terms of values.
00:56:20.890 - 00:57:02.520, Speaker B: I do like, obviously a big fan of Solana, how practical it is. But at the same time we do, I do wonder sometimes if we're tilting too much in one direction, which is the practicality direction, as opposed to like, okay, well, we need to kind of at least strive towards immutable programs, frozen programs, more legit daos, instead of just like these NFT discord chats and more scrutiny around like centralized figures and praise protocols, not people that sort of thinking.
00:57:02.680 - 00:57:53.894, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely echo your sentiments on all the application fronts. Definitely excited for DeFi as well. And on the narrative side, going back to some of the conversations that we had earlier, unfortunately a lot of it is narrative driven. And so I think Solana specifically has suffered larger than other changes because of recent events. And I think to be honest, because they took such a different approach because they had a different virtual machine in a different programming environment. And that did start to gain traction in some sense that was almost threatening to these other ecosystems. And so people have an extra kind of incentive to attack it if it's kind of like their coin does, better than mine, which is interesting.
00:57:53.894 - 00:58:14.360, Speaker A: But maybe going forward, is there any particular narrative that you're. I mean, a culture upgrade, I think is a good way of saying it, but is there a particular culture upgrade that you think I is needed or that the Solana ecosystem could tell their story better?
00:58:18.100 - 00:59:14.492, Speaker B: I think, and like, a good amount of people disagree with me on this, but I do think we need to get better at at least striving towards immutable programs. The counterargument to this is that, well, if you freeze the programs too early, then you might stifle innovation, which is fair, although I suspect you probably would have some tooling built around that and maybe some other patterns of developments that might help to fill that gap. But, for example, FTX was compromised, which caused a concern with serum being compromised, which caused, like, an emergency fork, essentially, if FDX had been frozen, right. That program, the private key or not FTX, but serum, maybe that would played out differently.
00:59:14.556 - 00:59:20.080, Speaker A: Right. And what do you mean for, like, the non technical person? Like, what do you mean by frozen?
00:59:20.860 - 01:00:04.500, Speaker B: So I want to say this without causing flood. Okay. So I'll actually just take an example that actually happened or doesn't hasn't happened, but, like, something that actually is true today. So the NFTs that everybody uses on Solana, there's a program that controls certain aspects of that, of those NFTs. And basically, the way that program. So the contract, that Orlando contracting program, by the way, are interchangeable in Solana. That program that controls most nfts is governed by a multisig, I believe, of metaplex developers.
01:00:04.500 - 01:00:46.018, Speaker B: And so metaplex, at the very least, is an extremely good steward of this program, and they're incredibly nice team and nothing but the utmost of respect for them. But that just goes to show you, it's like, let's say Metaplex was compromised. Maybe there's a security hack, and for some reason, two of those three people at Metaplex were compromised. Let's take an extreme example. Maybe somebody literally put a gun to their head or something. Now, they have these keys, and obviously they're not going to be able to do much with it other than changing metadata, NFT. But you see my point.
01:00:46.018 - 01:02:01.788, Speaker B: They could theoretically change certain things about the NFTs that everybody inherits from in Solana. And so what you would do is you would make essentially like an, the way to describe this for non technical folks would be on Solana, most programs have this key such that that key lets developers update those programs. Okay. And by frozen, what I mean is you just take that key and you throw it away so that that program that you're using can't be updated anymore. Now this is bad in the sense that if there's a problem with the program, it now can't be fixed, but it's good in the sense that if the program is well written enough, which, I mean, humans usually don't write software very well, so there will always be problems. But assuming it was written in a secure way and it was audited by all these firms and stuff, then that means that program will continue to run as it was designed for eternity, perpetually. So a hyperstructure, which Jacob from aura or Zora has coined that term, hyperstructure, which essentially will be a program that runs forever as long as the blockchain is running and you have this confidence as a user that nobody will be able to meddle with it.
01:02:01.788 - 01:02:10.200, Speaker B: It'll just always do what it's saying and it won't be able to upgrade or anything like that. So it's essentially just throwing away the key that can upgrade the program.
01:02:10.880 - 01:02:17.340, Speaker A: And you feel like this is important just to overall increase decentralization in the overall ecosystem.
01:02:19.240 - 01:03:15.662, Speaker B: I think it's important because we need to get to that state at some point, otherwise, and I mean, it doesn't have to be necessarily like frozen. Another compromise here is it can be governed by a multi sig. So you have kind of these different people that are, that vote on if the program should be updated or not. That's, that's probably a good compromise, although some people are also against that as well, because, you know, who elects those people. And so it's, it's a complicated topic, but I would say that, like, I wonder if we've ventured so far into the programs being upgradable that it's actually going to start causing problems. Other than Toli, which obviously is probably the person with the most influence. I haven't seen many others push for immutable programs.
01:03:15.662 - 01:04:07.616, Speaker B: Obviously, some of the more technical folks have, but it's not, for example, somebody from, I think, was it Delphi digital quote, tweeted one of my posts on the metaplex magic Eden situation and was like, wait a minute, metaplex can actually upgrade every single picture, or NFT on salon to dick pics. And I was like, well, potentially they could, but it's not that simple. They wouldn't do it. It's also governed by a multisig, et cetera. But you can see how it might give rise to certain narratives, which then I actually saw a few people comment on that post, which was like, people maybe are rationalizing after the fact, but saying things like, well, that's actually why I stayed away from Solana, because, you know, the programs are upgradable and it's not like a cyberbug culture and stuff. And eth is much more decentralized in that regard. So yeah, it's nuanced.
01:04:07.616 - 01:04:16.620, Speaker B: But I do think we need some sort of boost towards at least a plan to immutability. Yeah.
01:04:17.640 - 01:05:01.690, Speaker A: Cool. Now, I've really enjoyed the talk. I always have a lot of fun talking with technical people. I love that you can explain technical concepts and even write them in a way that the majority of people understand. And I think that's an extremely valuable skill in building a team and fundraising and creating something and bringing it to life. And so I'm very excited about what you're building at Helios and the goal and vision to make application developers lives easier, faster experimenting is much needed. Any kind of closing or parting thoughts?
01:05:05.110 - 01:05:48.570, Speaker B: Parting thoughts? I mean, no, I mean, just really, thank you for obviously having me on. I really enjoy your podcast and what you're doing. I think we need much more of that, getting people's voices out there and hearing different perspectives. But yeah, I mean, if I guess I'll show a hackathon that I'm organizing for the salon community the second week of January. So I'm just asking people if they are interested in participating with the salon hackathon or sponsoring one. If you're a Solana team watching this, just shoot me a DM. We have Solana foundation and stuff helping with it, so let's build some cool stuff for Solana.
01:05:48.720 - 01:05:52.890, Speaker A: Awesome. Cool. Well, we'll end it there. Thank you again, Mart. I appreciate your time.
01:05:53.350 - 01:05:53.990, Speaker B: Yeah, likewise.
