00:00:06.650 - 00:00:43.382, Speaker A: Next we'll hear from Miles Jennings and Marta Belcher. Miles is General Counsel at Anderson Horowitz Crypto, previously a partner at Latham and Watkins, focusing on startups in heavily regulated sectors including life sciences and crypto. And Marta is general counsel at Protocol Labs. Miles and Marta are doing a superhero team up to discuss the challenges and opportunities of creating sustainable, profitable public goods public goods projects. They'll be tackling the question, how can public goods be profitable? Welcome Miles.
00:00:43.446 - 00:01:27.202, Speaker B: Marta, thank you so much for that introduction. I am so excited to be here today to talk about public goods funding with Miles Jennings. And we're really hoping to get in depth here with details like designs for impact evaluators, grant structures, decentralized funding protocols, and really how we can implement these things in stable and long term, successful and compliant ways. So audience members, please feel free to put questions into the ETH Global TV chat. We'll be taking those later on, but I'm going to jump in. And Miles, I'd love to just first hear your thoughts on what are some of the issues that are really facing Dow token grant programs.
00:01:27.346 - 00:02:24.794, Speaker C: Yeah. Thanks, Marta. So I think that right now we're in a pretty unprecedented time in terms of SEC focus on the industry and looking at decentralization and what it actually means to be decentralized. There was an enforcement action in August around a protocol that would often be referred to as Adeno decentralized in name only. And so I think it's becoming more critical and important than ever to really kind of ensure that all the frameworks that are put in place with respect to Dows and protocols and networks are done in the most decentralized manner. And I think that from a decentralization program perspective, I think that grant programs are really a significant challenge. One good question to ask is just are most Dow grant programs profitable? And I think that the answer to that is likely no.
00:02:24.794 - 00:03:25.950, Speaker C: In just many cases. We've talked to a lot of portfolio companies who have decentralized and now are part of Dows. They really see kind of two main issues, right? First, finding and getting the Dow to select programs or recipients of grants is very challenging because at the end of the day, it's hard to draw a direct line of connection between the value of the token or the features that are added to the grants that are given out. And as a result of that, you often see a lot of tragedy of the commons where a bunch of token holders just don't vote or don't really participate. And so getting them to do the amount of work that's required to really pick the programs that are going to help the most is a challenge. And then making sure that they pick the right people to work on those grant programs is a significant challenge. There are any number of rent seekers out there that will take grant program or take grants and then not really deliver.
00:03:25.950 - 00:05:19.490, Speaker C: And it's a challenge for Dows to have legal agreements in place to actually hold those people accountable for the money that they've been delivered. So as a result of that, one of the solutions that we've seen a lot of protocols and networks use is that they've rolled out subdoubs to administer grant programs and obviously that then kind of applies a more centralized framework to the distribution of grants. If you extrapolate that out, I mean, with current programs, I don't think that you would really argue that the, the success of a protocol or network is really dependent on its grant program. But if you extrapolate out, you know, 510 years from now when we have potentially more concentrated power within certain networks and certain protocols, that the majority of their ongoing development work is going to be done through, potentially through a grant program if things don't change. And as a result of that, you then start running into potential issues under securities laws. Because if the success of the protocol or network is really dependent on the success of the grant program, then the SEC could argue that securities law should apply because the information that the grant makers or the grant recipients have at that point could be significantly important and that could allow them to kind of manipulate the market and kind of harm investors. So as a result of that, I think if you extrapolate out grant programs and growing and greater kind of concentration within networks and protocols, I think that you could find that you ultimately run into trouble with respect to securities laws.
00:05:19.490 - 00:07:01.502, Speaker C: It's kind of a backward approach to the problem or the solution of decentralization, right? You're kind of setting the decentralization at the top of the funnel which makes it difficult to again make decisions and kind of organize. Whereas if you flipped it and you reward at the Dow level, at the end, you allow much more concentration at the bottom of the funnel where you have teams that are really hyper focused on solving certain problems and potentially receiving rewards. The last thing I'd say on this is that one of the other challenges with respect to Dows and grant programs is just legal liability risks. People are doing a lot of work in the industry trying to figure out how do we protect DAOs, how do we wrap them with legal entity structures? Some people think that that's not in line with the ethos of decentralization and blockchain in particular, but at the end of the day, the assets of investors and founders live in the real world and as a result of that, they need protection there. And so it would surprise people, right? But a grant recipient could go out, buy a gun and shoot someone and the Dow could be held liable for that. Ultimately, not having liability protection in place is going to put these Dows at risk. And if we envision a world in web3 where everything is governed by these decentralized autonomous organizations, they're going to need legal liability protection in order to really be able to deliver to their constituents.
00:07:01.646 - 00:07:08.470, Speaker B: Yeah, and I know you've written on that topic. And just to sort of follow up on that, what do you think the solution is there in terms of legal liability?
00:07:09.050 - 00:08:03.078, Speaker C: So, I mean, I think that there's a lot of different options, right? There are foreign structures, foundations in Cayman Islands where you can essentially set up a board in the Cayman Islands and then the Dow can direct that board to do things including update the protocol or the network or make grant awards to individuals. I think that there's an inherent centralization issue there. Right, because obviously you're now putting a gatekeeper in between what the Dow does and what the foundation does. And as a result, there is some centralization on top of that. A lot of people within the industry don't like the idea that they can't rely on trustless systems in order to operate. And obviously when you go off chain, you are introducing trust. So we're trying to find structures in the US.
00:08:03.078 - 00:08:34.922, Speaker C: There are non stock corporations, there are unas which are unincorporated nonprofit associations and there are potential trust structures. And then you can also kind of amalgamate and combine several of these to layer in protections. Certainly the potential to achieve limited viability is out there. And I think that it's really a facts and circumstances analysis. But we really would like to see more Dows kind of moving in that direction because as web3 grows, the need for this is just going to be stronger and stronger.
00:08:35.066 - 00:08:48.270, Speaker B: Yeah. And so I'd love to follow up on one of the points you've made a couple of times about decentralization and sort of shift to thinking about how could retrospective public goods funding really facilitate greater decentralization.
00:08:48.430 - 00:09:43.202, Speaker C: Yeah. So this was the kind know, I have to admit the first time I read the optimism and vital piece, I didn't kind of fully grasp it. I was cynical in thinking that, well, that's not really going to work because ultimately who's going to work to not know what the ultimate reward is or know that they're actually going to get it? And I didn't realize at the time that really this is the most decentralized approach that you can take to actually funding ongoing development. And in that regard, it's quite genius. By deferring the assessment and awarding of contributions, dows can reduce the determination burden and incentivize an open marketplace of ideas and participants. Right. And so really you're encouraging competition which decreases the risk of information disparity and it decreases the risk that you're centralized.
00:09:43.202 - 00:10:50.910, Speaker C: And while overall that structure lacks the inherent efficiency of centralization, I think that all of us are kind of true believers in this stuff because we think that the efficiencies of centralization can be outweighed by the free marketplace of ideas and competition that spurns the growth of more powerful tools. Just listening in today, right, I've heard people talk about examples from history and I think my favorite one is the British Longitude Awards. So in the 17 hundreds the British were, I mean, basically everyone in Europe was trying to solve how to be able to measure longitude at sea, which was becoming more and more of a problem because of the extended journeys that ships were taking. And so this is exactly what they did. They created a reward system for people to solve this problem. And as a result of creating that reward system, investors started investing in entrepreneurs that were developing systems to try and solve this stuff. And lo and behold, the longitude problem was solved.
00:10:50.910 - 00:10:59.520, Speaker C: It's just a fascinating example of how this actually works and nothing is more decentralized than that process.
00:11:00.370 - 00:11:11.266, Speaker B: Yeah. And so I would love to talk a little bit about sort of how you really align the incentives of the constituents within public goods funding and what your thoughts are on that.
00:11:11.368 - 00:11:56.290, Speaker C: Sure. So I think that that's a real challenge and the area that needs to be explored the most. Right. So I think that in my mind there's three constituents. There's developers, there's the Dow and then there's prospective investors. So on the developer side, I see the kind of biggest problem right now being just encouraging people to effectively focus on a problem. At the end of the day, if you can have greater return from duplicating a DeFi protocol that's on ethereum by developing it on Solana than you can contributing to that protocol on ethereum, I think that that's where a lot of people are headed right now.
00:11:56.290 - 00:12:53.602, Speaker C: And as a result of that, it's just very difficult to get people to focus on a straight path. And that's fine. We're kind of very early stages of all of this. But as a result of that, I think that ultimately as more and more capital flows into these systems right, I think that it'll begin to emerge that there are a greater likelihood of winners and it's less likely that capital will move from those systems. And so as a result of that, I think that you'll have more and more developers starting to focus on this space, which I think is really beneficial because it means that the real benefits of decentralization will start to be materialized. So that's developers, obviously they need to have a reward on the back end of it. And I think that the reward really incentivizes both the developers as well as incentivizing investors on the front end.
00:12:53.602 - 00:14:07.782, Speaker C: Right. Developers are going to need funding to basically work on these projects and if it's not coming through grant programs, there need to be investors that see upside on the back end. And so I'll talk about a little bit more about that in a second. But going back to the constituents part, the third constituent is then just the Dow who's obviously incentivized to see user growth, feature growth, and also the value of the token of that Dow increasing in value. And so I think that the question then becomes, okay, well then how does the Dow properly incentivize early investors to invest in the projects that people are working on? And I think that in my mind the best incentive alignment, right, is to grant them to make those awards be in tokens or at least partially in the tokens of the system. If overall the projects that those individuals are working on is designed to enhance the overall network of protocol, then it would make sense that that token would go up as a result of potentially as a result of their efforts. And so I think being rewarded for that is probably the right incentive mechanism.
00:14:07.782 - 00:15:08.078, Speaker C: Now whether or not you kind of stipulate a minimum award that gets made every year, and whether or not that award is calculated in tokens based on their dollar value on January 1 or December 31, I think is something that people need to experiment with. But at the end of the day and maybe you combine it with fees, but I think that ultimately that kind of token component has to be, is a really important one. I think that people are also talking a lot about project tokens and I think that it's a difficult subject. I think that inherently, if you're funding a given project with tokens with the upside being a reward at the end. So these are tokens that are issued by these projects. It's just really hard to see that as not being an investment contract and that the people that are buying those tokens are kind of expecting you to win the reward at the end. And so I think that more needs to be explored there.
00:15:08.078 - 00:16:13.586, Speaker C: But I think that there certainly is regulatory friction on that front. There are some other areas too, but they're also kind of, again, regulatory friction. One of the things I was thinking about is whether or not you could it would be theoretically possible to create a betting market where essentially users and investors could bet on projects winning the biggest award, and the biggest award payouts could basically reward the investors that bet on the right projects and the projects that won the most money. And then in the meantime, that money would fund the projects that people are betting on. There are commodities laws though and the CFTC has domain over what are called event contracts which really govern a lot of or what are used for information markets and betting markets. So I think that there's still some regulatory friction there. I think that those are really generally the types and I think that there's more that needs to be explored there.
00:16:13.586 - 00:16:19.700, Speaker C: And I think that Dows investment Dows are one pretty interesting area where I think that that could come from.
00:16:20.070 - 00:17:14.534, Speaker B: Yeah. And so just, I really liked what You Were Sort of Getting at in your answer to the previous question when we were talking about sort of the ways that in the past incentives For Innovation have Come About. You mentioned the longitude prize. Another sort of go to example is always the Napoleon Food Preservation Prize that led to the invention of canned food. Right. And frankly, just the entire intellectual property regime is entirely based on the idea that if you have the ability to own a particular invention later on down the line, that possibility will enable people to put in the sort of investment up front in order to develop that. Right? So that's sort of like the general sort of concept around intellectual property law as well is like, how do you incentivize innovation? And obviously, in an open source world, you do that in a very different way.
00:17:14.534 - 00:17:44.914, Speaker B: And Prizes have always been like an example of something that is very an alternative Way to Incentivize innovation other than intellectual Property. But I would love to sort of I think this all only works if there can be investment upfront. Even totally outside of the realm of the crypto space. For example, the intellectual property regime only works if there can be investment upfront. Right? So I'd love to just hear you talk a little bit about what kinds of investment structures would really work here.
00:17:45.032 - 00:19:00.730, Speaker C: Yeah, I've Been working in venture capital Industry for a long time, right? And obviously, there have been really great companies that have been developed and great technology that's come out of that. And I think that it is a clunkier mechanism probably than what people want within this space. But ultimately, I think that at least in the US. With the way that securities laws are currently framed, that you will need to make these investments in a way that are tailored to reg d and basically ensuring that they're compliant with securities laws. Because I do think it's very hard to kind of structure investments without running into securities laws. And so I think that one of the really interesting and promising things that we're seeing, right, is that there are any number of dows that are and people are experimenting with dows and different dow structures. One company that We've invested in is Syndicate, and they're basically Setting up A platform to allow people to create Dows as seamlessly and as effortlessly as possible.
00:19:00.730 - 00:20:36.120, Speaker C: So, basically, they file your LLC agreement for you, they do all the paperwork, and basically allow you to spin up a fully functional dow in a very short time frame. And so we're getting constant questions from people around what can Investment Dows do? What can a group of friends do? What can a group of anonymous people do? And what kind of investments can they make? And I think that this is really an area that needs to be explored. You could imagine that a group of token holders for a protocol or network could come together and form their own dow, which is solely for the purpose of investing in these projects. And that way, not only do they have the upside of these projects benefiting the protocol or Dow, but at the same time they potentially get exposure to the reward on the back end. And it also kind of speaks to the decentralization point that we were talking about earlier in that you have these hyper focused teams then that are focused on making the decisions around what they think is going to be best for the protocol or network as well as who they think is going to be best to do it. I think that having these small investment Dows is going to be something that really kind of unlocks a lot of potential here and I'm excited to see it. There's a lot of kind of hurdles that need to be crossed from a legal perspective because obviously whenever you're kind of investing other people's money, that stuff comes into play.
00:20:36.120 - 00:21:28.710, Speaker C: But that's really, I think, a promising option. I think another one is just the general principle of crowdfunding. Right. A lot of this stuff would look like crowdfunding and you could imagine projects listing on Mirror, for instance, and basically kind of getting seed funding to accomplish it from that perspective. Again, there are issues around securities laws and how that all works. But one of the things that would be great is if once we start really seeing and are able to show the benefits of decentralization to government regulators, congressmen and lawmakers might be more inclined to open up the potential for this type of funding. And so maybe at that point it starts out really low or you just have very small or maximum contributions.
00:21:28.710 - 00:21:54.930, Speaker C: But there's really no reason why a person shouldn't be able to invest $250 into a project just because they don't happen to have the fortune of being an accredited investor. I think these projects could really allow us to push lawmakers to open up crowdfunding laws and really give power to people to kind of back these programs.
00:21:56.070 - 00:22:06.658, Speaker B: Yeah, and you've touched on this already, but I just would love to hear more on your thoughts on sort of what role proliferation of Dows could really play in incentive alignment.
00:22:06.834 - 00:23:01.138, Speaker C: Yeah, so again, I think that the number of Dows out there I think is going to skyrocket. It is not going to just be Dows that have spun up as a result of the launch of a DeFi protocol or a Dow that's created by a network that is decentralizing. Right. So there are, as I mentioned earlier, syndicate and others that are basically kind of customizing Dows and shipping them for their customers. And as a result of that, I think the level of activity in the space is going to increase rapidly. I mean, at a 16 Z, we really envision that Web Three is going to be owned and operated by Dows and there will be just an unbelievable number of them. And many of those will be focused on investments.
00:23:01.138 - 00:23:28.298, Speaker C: And again, I think that the real goal there should be to show that people can be responsible actors and that decentralization and public goods funding has a material public benefit. And once that's done, we should be able to convince lawmakers that greater flexibility is needed with respect to US. Securities laws so that everyone can be a potential owner of Web Three and not just accredited investors.
00:23:28.474 - 00:24:24.850, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a really good point and really important policy work ahead for all of us, I think. So I'm looking at the questions in the chat and sort of noticing a theme here, which is that folks are really asking about issues regarding sort of liability and entity structures, the stuff we were talking about at the beginning here. So one person sort of asked about sort of parallels between a grant making Dow being potentially held liable for bad acts carried out using its funding and sort of parallels in the non Dow world with grant making organizations being held liable for the grant supported bad acts of their awardees. But I think that question really goes to sort of essentially just thinking about this question of liability and liabilities for Dows. And that is something you've done a lot of thought leadership on. And I think it would be useful to hear more about this liability issue.
00:24:25.000 - 00:25:39.314, Speaker C: Yeah, so, I mean, I think that it's a complex question, right? But I think that when you get down to it, a charitable organization that is responsible for grants, let's say a university endowment or all sorts of different museums, things like that, all of those have legal entities, at least in the United States. And so as a result of that, the legal entities that they choose provide them with liability protection over their activities and the activities of their employees. When you look at Dows that don't have any legal wrapper and don't have a legal entity, there is significant risk that the imputed structure, absent any other facts, is that of a general partnership. Now, this is all a matter of state law, and I can't claim to have looked at all 50 states. Right again. And this is also not legal advice to anyone. But at the end of the day, if you're imputed as a general partnership, what happens is that you're exposed to the liability of that partnership.
00:25:39.314 - 00:26:51.694, Speaker C: Each general partner is exposed to the liability of that partnership. And so any person that is a member of a grant reward program or any member of a Dow faces potential liability for the harm that is done directly related to what that Dow is doing or the grant program is doing. And so one of the things that I've been really focused on is trying to limit that risk because you want people to participate in Dow governance and you want people to participate in these grant programs. I mean it's critically important for this technology for people to participate. And so what is the lowest touch entity structure that you can put in place to potentially give you that limited liability but not risk decentralization? And I think that that is unincorporated nonprofit association and again, it's going to be facts and circumstances depending on the Dow, what its business model is and everything like that. But there are structures out there and I do would encourage all DAOs to really take a look at this issue. It's not just a US issue.
00:26:51.694 - 00:27:19.814, Speaker C: Right. This applies globally for DAOs that are not necessarily centered in the US or have most of their users in the US. They should look at other structures. There's an association structure in know the foundation structures are very flexible in the Cayman Islands. So there are lots of options out there. And my fear is that after enough time there will be harm. And Dows have been very good about compensating people that have suffered harm thus far.
00:27:19.814 - 00:27:40.110, Speaker C: Right. Compound is a good example of that where they had an Oracle failure, I think in May 2020 and they basically compensated those holders for their losses. Maybe it was this year it all flies by. But I think that as the industry matures and as more people move into it, which we all think is going to the the there's greater risk.
00:27:40.450 - 00:27:57.320, Speaker B: So Miles, we only have about a minute and a half left, but I definitely don't want to end on a note of legal liability and entities. So just a very short sort of big picture. If we get this right, what does this space look like in 510 years?
00:27:58.090 - 00:28:59.270, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that this is the true unlock for decentralization. Right. I think that the grant program stuff was always going to be a challenge and you are always going to be sacrificing upside or potential gains due to decentralization. But if you flip it, which public goods funding does, the decentralization component is on the back end is the reward and you have just a ton of actors and market participants competing with one another to improve these protocols and what could be better than an open market of people competing to improve stuff? Right? And I think that as a result of that, as many people have said today, you can imagine a world where people don't work for companies anymore, they work for ten different Dows and are just constantly contributing and improving the overall Web Three environment. And I think that that's just really exciting.
00:28:59.850 - 00:29:06.806, Speaker B: Thanks Miles. It's been so fantastic to talk with you. Really appreciate your time and thoughts here and all the leadership you're doing in the space.
00:29:06.908 - 00:29:09.540, Speaker C: Thanks a lot. Great talking to you, Marta. Hey.
