00:00:06.410 - 00:01:12.878, Speaker A: So hi everyone, my name is Danny, I'm a data scientist at Xerx and we are a Dex aggregator platform where basically we handle users intent to trade across Dex and access the am liquidity which is where mev happens across the decks or mev order flow. And that's why this is very interesting how to say topic for us. And this presentation is more of like an open research in collaboration with Flashbots and a lot of data are coming from Flashbots and also Eigenfine so shout out to them. And so for my agenda today, I want to share more about first of all what's a MEB sharing workflow look like. Let me check the chat. Okay, how does the workflow look like and what are the rows there and what are the values there that we try to identify first of all and then it's like how is the mev revenue spill it across each row today and we will review some numbers that can potentially have an overlap with what Ellen shared earlier. So I'll go quick there and then next is that looking at this funnel of this revenue spill it, where can we potentially quantify and extract the user share back potentially.
00:01:12.878 - 00:02:07.130, Speaker A: And we will share two approach here today. One is by looking at the searcher's own gen profits, the other one is by looking at the validator's bid surplus or sorry, this is actually a typo builder's bid surplus. So this is how to say like a diagram of common workflow of ofa today that we learned about. So basically we have this user have an intent behind a DAP or a wallet or you can say also RPC provider can be also the entry point and then they want to make a trade that's accessing Mm liquidity. And then there potentially will be this ofa or like a mev share service. Potentially we can call it matchmaker or solver or resolver and then they will send to a pool of searchers and the searchers will try to bid for this transaction to basically send a bundle with bids and so to win this transaction. And if there is no searcher respond with this transaction, potentially this service will just fall back to the Mempool.
00:02:07.130 - 00:03:02.866, Speaker A: So to make sure the execution quality and then once the mev share service figure out which is the highest bid for this transaction from one of the searchers, they will send bundles towards block builders. And then there is this normal flow of block builders bidding for a block towards the validators through mev boost. So there is a bunch of variables or numbers we need to identify first. So first of all there is this now we're talking about how much potentially revenue for user can be from this whole MEB flow. And potentially in the future we will see probably mev share service as a middle layer will take potentially a fee as a battery revenue and then we will see revenue from searchers that kept to themselves. And for this part potentially we can see some of them that's on chain but a lot of them can be potentially unknown or off chain. Like for example across centralized exchange and Dex.
00:03:02.866 - 00:04:02.620, Speaker A: And then next is how much revenue builders will keep and then we will see relay, but most of them basically as of today, there is no revenue for them and then there will be the revenue for validators. So to summarize this whole thing into one table, we have see this table here? Basically to summarize all the rows and it's sort of like comparison of how it was in the past and then right now with mev boost as present and potentially in the future with me boost and also ofa sharing. Design in the future. You see, more and more people are taking this piece of cake and we will see how we can potentially split further. And this is on top is a simplified how to say workflow. That's from the order flow auction article from Frontier Research. So one thing very clear here is that basically searcher now is how to say segmented or separated from directly accessing wallet or builders, but through the Order Flow Auction yet.
00:04:02.620 - 00:05:21.860, Speaker A: So to look at the numbers or basically trying to quantify the scale or total values, we want to look at this funnel chart here that I'm trying to propose for framing all this thing. So first of all, what's the total mev here? Potentially there is an unknown part that's offshore we won't see ever that's kept to searchers and then the visible parts on chain potentially we can see is what we'll call it like on chain profits from the revenue for searchers. And then after that the next step in the funnel is how much they given out to builder and validators altogether. We will basically have that data from Mev Boost proposal payouts rewards data. And then the next is after the builder layer, there's another layer of bidding markets which is bidding for block, the previous one was for bidding for bundle and the next is so we don't know for sure how much builders want to keep or given out. But as of today it seems like most of the builders will be competing to give most of the rewards to validators and potentially there could be an extra amount that's outside of this whole mev value that can be coming from builder as a subsidy. So this is a funnel of how this value actually is spilled step by step or extracted step by step.
00:05:21.860 - 00:06:40.390, Speaker A: So let's look at how big are these bars are today. So quick revisit on some numbers that Elaine mentioned earlier and this is also a call out to her slides here, which is basically emphasizing again that we will not have a way to pretty much know how much is happening on centralized exchange or Dex. What we can see is how much on Dex across dex platforms and centralized to centralized exchange is also another sort of MEB. But this is outside of the scope of our discussion today because we're talking about how much we can potentially give back for Dex users and the centralized to centralized exchange MEB isn't involved with any intent from the Dex users. So yeah, next data is coming from iconfi and this is a pretty nice breakdown of different type of mev. We can see that on this scale we can see roughly around daily of mev on chain profits that can be attributed to the searchers addresses and apparently this definitely will be under indexed compared to what's really happening in the reality because based on all the heuristics, it can only index. For example, like atomic.
00:06:40.390 - 00:07:41.962, Speaker A: So there can be a lot more to be indexed. But next is we want to look at how is this across builder and validator and it could be pretty tricky because of different type of behavior patterns of builders. So I think a normal flow as how we are looking at all the data of the builders behavior is that a lot of time searchers will put the coinbase transfer which is basically a payout of the MEB address. To builders and then builder as the person who is basically the fee recipient on the block is basically the fee recipient of gas fees. And then basically builders can potentially collect all of them but then decide how much of them out of all the total they want to transfer to validators. So we will see a transfer usually at the end of the block which is the payouts builder goes to validators. So with this approach we can potentially index but there are some sort of different Jose behaviors from some of the builders.
00:07:41.962 - 00:08:50.326, Speaker A: For example, we could see some zero profit builders, they just don't take anything. And usually sometimes searchers can also skip builders, they just put the validators fiat recipient directly in the transfer in the bundle and builder will also sometimes just put the fee recipient of the block as the validator's address. So in this case, builder is not even shown in those block production but actually they were actually handling the block. There could be also builders that's actually subsidizing for example, they can just give the gas fee, set it to proposers fee recipient address and even extra transfer at the end of the block. I was going to say basically it's pretty tricky to spill it how to say the spill it between builder and validators. So we will basically just look at them together as a whole and look at the scale. So this is just like generally when we talk about a daily total of how much proposal revenue looked like, it seems like there was some interesting difference compared to end of last year, which is the first three months.
00:08:50.326 - 00:09:51.258, Speaker A: Of mev boost alive. And then also the first three months of this year the daily was around six hundred k and now it jumps to 1 million per day. And then I did some cross check with the data on MEB boost it seems like they also have this same scale shown and then so using another piece of data from Mev inspect where we can clearly see how much is the transfer out is versus how much they keep. It also interesting to see this clear timestamp cut off where in the last three months of last year the spill it was more of like 70% to the searcher and 30% to the proposers as a whole. And then starting from beginning of this year, it totally changed to another. Basically shifted towards much less for searchers but much more for builder and proposer together. So these are some basic numbers that we know as of today.
00:09:51.258 - 00:11:39.946, Speaker A: Next question is like okay now as all the application teams and wallets who have the direct access of users order flow thinking about entering and potentially take more autonomy on users order flow, where can we even extract users kickback and how much will that be? So thinking around these questions I think there is a few things to point out that can be potentially the data that's also accessible for us to be able to quantify looking at this flow. Again one thing we can know is that when the order flow auction take the order information from the application team or the users they will be able to also know maybe how much the user already request or they want to be shared back. So user can potentially share a request of how much they want to be shared back and deliver that information to the bidders or basically searchers here and so to see how this whole thing play out. So with one thing they can account is basically if they are able to see all the ongoing profits from the searchers then they can potentially even say hey, I'm an exclusive order flow so it's only how to say plus value for you. So can I just get like 99% back? It's possible. So we're estimating more like an upper bound here and then the next place where we can see actually some sort of number that we know for sure that can be potentially enforced is at the block bidding market which is when the block builders are bidding across competition to get validators, get their blocks. MEB Boost actually have this open data set from the relay that they know what submission of all the block builders look like.
00:11:39.946 - 00:12:43.310, Speaker A: And one thing we can know is that basically the first bidder and the second highest bidder the difference we can call it potentially as like a bidding surplus where if we subtract that part the top bidder is still the highest value validator can access and they will still accept the block. And so that's a potential value that we can basically cut and give back to users. So how to say to fit the ideas into this funnel chart. We can basically see like one thing is ofa infra can potentially allow user to request some share that's visible on chain when they are giving out the order flow information. The other is like mev share infra, sorry, that's actually mev boost infra can basically cut and return a surplus of the highest bid that's above the second highest. So now we have this true approach to potentially quantify how much MEB reshare can come back for user. First thing, let's look at this searcher on chain profits data.
00:12:43.310 - 00:14:11.840, Speaker A: It doesn't really matter the scale here because as we said, it can potentially be under indexed as well. But when we look at the margin on all these how to say arbitrage profits out of the total trading volume, we actually are able to quantify how profitable per mev attacked transaction or mev victim transaction can be or basically how much mev can be extracted on a margin like bips base per transaction. And we can see actually it's interesting to see uptrush in general can be potentially more how to say higher margin than sandwiching on a median stat. But then when we're looking at the higher bond of 95 percentile and 99 percentile, there seems to be coming into the same trend. And these numbers can be like huge variants for how to say, for example, the median looks like around it's three bips and 95 percentile is around a few hundred bips and then 99 percentile, which is basically the upper bond or like the max number is around like 1000 ish. And then if we look at the breakdown of the margin distribution, we actually could see like at least clearly half of the trades that were attacked by basically mev bots can potentially produce zero to five which is like we know the median is three. And so fall into this bucket, it's around like five pips at most.
00:14:11.840 - 00:15:21.554, Speaker A: And so Tina asked us to put some number here. So I'm just putting some bold numbers here. If we think about concretely, say, now the Wallets are actually entering the game and based on their base volume per month. If we look at this like two biggest players, for example, if you have around 200 million volume per month, user can potentially expect a total of, say, 100k based on the five bips point data set and potentially maybe 2 million as like a really huge upper bound kind of estimate using the 100 bips that we saw on the 95 percentile. And if your platform has like a 1.2 billion volume per month, then the number can go up to like six hundred k on five bips estimate and 12 million on 100 bips old estimate. But caveat here is that this is like totally an upper bound because it's not all the base trading volume will be mev extractable because say it's like super small trade of like $2 and I don't think that can really produce even five bips of mev value.
00:15:21.554 - 00:16:12.930, Speaker A: So yeah, this is an upper bump. The second approach we want to check is basically the block bidding surplus and on the right side this diagram shows what that means. Basically on each slot or per block all the builders, they have the latest bid and we will check what's the highest bid across the builders and what's the second highest bid builder. And then the difference between them as we described earlier is considered as like a bidding surplus. Basically if you extract any percentage out from the highest bid it will still be the highest bid and validators had no other choice but to accept it as it's still providing the highest value for them. So this is a methodology. We will check the freshest bid from each builder and then take the highest two bids and take how to say the difference.
00:16:12.930 - 00:16:58.274, Speaker A: And that's like an estimation of the surplus for users kickback and then caveats is that it's definitely a lower bound. For example we could say why not just take a higher percentage of all the payouts for the proposal. And second of all is it's probably a very practical and enforceable portion that can be implemented through meboost. So yeah, trying to look at how much is that BIP surplus look like. So I encountered some limitation on working on this data set because it's too big. So I have to actually take only every time a slice of data of like a day. But then I check across time frame and they seem to give a pretty consistent number here.
00:16:58.274 - 00:17:52.740, Speaker A: So averagely actually we can see like per block the reshare estimate which is basically the surplus amount between the first and second bid is around 0.3 E which is $5 as the price of today. And the median can how to say vary around like one dollars ish. And then if we look at 1000 blocks it will be around two E. And then if we just do some paper math it will be like twenty five K per day. It seems like not that exciting but again it's like a lower bombed estimate. Another way to look at this is basically okay, what's the percentage of this surplus outside of the total amount of the highest bid, which gives the answer around like a 3% ish or like a 2% to 5% range seems like out of the total bidding amount.
00:17:52.740 - 00:18:57.494, Speaker A: So yeah, it seems like they're giving us sort of like a pretty consistent result. So what does that mean here? So if you want to put some concrete number here, if we look at, like a dex trading volume, total flow, and, say, just quantifying by the percentage of the dex market share you are, say, if we look at the total bit surplus per month. Basically across all the blocks in that month the total will total up to if you own 5% of the Dex market share you will get like thirty seven point five K and if you own like 50% it will be having like 375k. Again, it's a lower bond. It's the enforceable part that's coming from the block beating layer. So putting them all together as a full picture is this is what I'm thinking in my head or to share here. When we look at that Amoeb revenue split chart again, we saw that shifting of the 30% for proposal to 70% up today.
00:18:57.494 - 00:19:49.270, Speaker A: And if we just put that 5% of surplus bidding as a per part, we kind of can spill it. Then further into the numbers that we can quantify here, you would see that the biding surplus as a lower bond estimate for daily will be twenty five K and then monthly will be like seven hundred and fifty K. And then on the builder proposal revenue part I put like a red X percent question. So that is like the part that we don't know how much we can request, but potentially you can put number there. But then the search on chain profits part is like through the ofa design we know that users can already specify how much percent they want to give it back. So that's like a green x percent mark there. I put if we total them all together as the on chain visible MV revenue, you can see a daily of 1.4
00:19:49.270 - 00:20:28.934, Speaker A: million as an upper bound and then a monthly total of 42 million as an upper bond. Nice number. And then another thing to point out is definitely the iceberg apart that's below the water or basically off chain. We will never know how much that will be. I think there are some simulation potential sort of how to say service that can potentially round across a centralized exchange versus Dex and so to tell you potentially how much that is. But I don't think that data is going to be very widely accessible in a near term. So I put a question mark there.
00:20:28.934 - 00:21:09.020, Speaker A: And one thing to keep in mind is that potentially with this ofa design coming up, this how to say iceberg percentage versus the one that's above the water can be changing as well, like shifting up and down. So yeah, that's the full picture of the numbers that I've studied on this topic. And last notes is thanks to Data, flashbots data and Tina, Elaine, Sarah, Qingyuan and Robert and Tom for the help. This meme here, I just want to show that I think from the user's perspective, this is our MEB. We want to get a percentage back potentially because we are the value originator. Thank you.
