00:00:00.410 - 00:00:54.298, Speaker A: Welcome back to the DeFi MOOC. Today we're going to discuss DeFi security. Security is probably one of the most important qualities, properties of a financial ecosystem. If you can't securely transfer or exchange value, likely not that many people will use the system or it won't be very sustainable in the long run. So let's dive into defi security. So when looking at DeFi, you can look at it as an ecosystem that's technically composed of the following layers. So at the very bottom, which I have not visualized here in this very slide, you can imagine the hardware layer, right? And the hardware layer is where your cpu, your computer, your hardware is running, and for example, verifying signatures.
00:00:54.298 - 00:02:09.640, Speaker A: So this layer, this very layer needs to be secure such that all the layers that build on top of the hardware layer can function in an integrity protected way. Then there is, for example, the network layer, right? You have here the network services, such as the domain name services IP, the Internet protocol BGP, and the peer to peer overlay of permissionless blockchains, for instance, then you have the blockchain layer. The blockchain layer needs to be secure in terms of consensus protocols, for example, the longest chain rule in proof of work, the incentive mechanisms have to be intact, the block reward needs to be paid, the transaction fees have to be plentiful. For miners to be incentivized to extend the chain. On the smart contract layer, the blocks need to be well formed, transactions need to be properly signed, and contracts should have, ideally no bugs. But as you have already seen in this lecture, there are obviously plenty full of opportunities for something to go wrong. Then there's the virtual machine, so there may be bugs in the virtual machine itself.
00:02:09.640 - 00:03:04.706, Speaker A: State transitions might go wrong, et cetera. On the default application layer, there are plenty of opportunities for things to go wrong as well. So we do have fungible and non fungible tokens, for instance, ERC 20 tokens, as you might have already been exposed to. But there might be ERC 20 tokens that are bogus or do have bugs, which again might cause issues in composable DFI protocols such as exchanges, loans, et cetera. On the third party layer, DfI is interacting with the very traditional UI or website components of the Internet of Web 2.0, if you will. So here, this is really the connection between web3 and the traditional Internet.
00:03:04.706 - 00:04:12.910, Speaker A: And these components naturally have to be secure in order for DFI to function properly at the same time, if you're using oracles. So we have had an extensive lecture, a very nice lecture on oracles here, then these as well should be safe and secure. Otherwise the underlying DeFi protocols, for instance, might make the wrong assumptions. So if you look at an adversary here, this adversary can really attack on any layer, right? He can propose to try to, for example, block the transaction fee reward scheme, or he might disable through some eclipse attacks, for instance the peer discovery. He might mess with a DNS service so that peers can no longer find other nodes in the system. He might perform selfish mining. So this is for maybe here on the block and data layer.
00:04:12.910 - 00:05:16.490, Speaker A: He might, for example, serve a wrong website, serve just plain wrong Javascript HTML code to a client that's then being tricked into signing data or transactions that he doesn't want it to sign. So there's plentiful opportunities where an adversary can attack. And the goal today is that we really dive into these different layers and we discuss on each of them what are the possible attacks, or what are at least the subset of possible attacks. Obviously we can't cover everything today. It's going to be otherwise a very long night or long day, depending on your time zone, and certainly not a feasible endeavor. But we're going to do our best into diving into these different types of security relevant items and explain various attacks along the way. So come on in and jump into the DeFi security lecture.
