00:00:00.560 - 00:00:42.659, Speaker A: Real world assets will flip cryptocurrency for total value over the next one to three years. A lot of real world asset value will come from the tradfi banking sector and will start driving a lot of the adoption of defi protocols. So it won't be about defi kills tradfi. It'll be tradfi becomes the biggest user of defi. That I think is a counterintuitive, non obvious thing for people. And what does that mean for who's going to win in the defi set of protocols? I mean, regulation will become both clearer and lighter and more beneficial to the whole crypto industry. That's going to happen over the next few years.
00:00:42.659 - 00:01:17.039, Speaker A: That's going to open up a lot of things. Central bank digital currencies will emerge. I don't think that'll be a negative thing. I think that'll put more purchasing power on chain and allow more value to flow into defi protocols and into tokenized tradfi systems. So central bank digital currencies will start creating even more purchasing power, which will drive a lot of that boom. There will continue to be many, many different chains. The cost and complexity of making a chain of your own will continue to drop lower.
00:01:17.039 - 00:02:25.745, Speaker A: So there will be not hundreds of chains, not thousands, hundreds of thousands of chains. Chains will eventually be as common as databases and all those chains will be stitched together in a seamless way the way that TCPIP stitches together the Internet. And hopefully that'll be CCIP from the chainlink community, which is what we're working towards there. That will significantly change how people build applications because instead of saying, hey, I have to launch in this chain or this chain because that's where my user base is, they'll be able to launch on their own chain and then their user base will be all the chains and all the users on all the chains because they'll be able to be connected to all of those identity requirements. And various compliance requirements will become easier to meet, partly because of regulatory clarity and partly because the technology from systems like Chainlink will make them easier to meet. And so you'll have larger and larger percentage of the value happening through compliant transactions rather than just transactions with no identity and no compliance of any kind. That will also partly be driven by tradfi.
00:02:25.745 - 00:03:27.515, Speaker A: What else? Yeah, I think whole governments will embrace blockchains as a good thing. Probably starting in Asia or already happening in Asia. Across Asia also. Then in the Middle East, I think there will be a very big corridor of blockchain transactional activity between the Middle east and Asia, doing various valuable transactions for real world assets, commodities, all kinds of things across those two geographies, which are both kind of in a state of reinventing their infrastructure and eager to transact with each other and looking for a way to do those transactions in a way that's trust minimized. That'll be an interesting and valuable corridor of transactions. Yeah, I think those are probably the most the things that I think would be right now, not totally obvious to everybody, that I think are very likely to happen.
