00:00:00.360 - 00:00:50.386, Speaker A: Next JS is a popular web development framework for react based web applications, offering features like server side rendering, code splitting, internationalization, and more with little to no configuration. It was created by Vercel, a company focused on building tools for developers and designers. This week, the annual next JS conference was held where next JS 13 was announced, along with major updates. One of the biggest updates was the introduction of Turbopack. Turbopack is the web's next generation bundler built in Rust. It's the successor to webpack and is, of course blazingly fast. So why did Vercel decide to build Turbopack in Rust? And how fast is it really? We'll discuss all of that in this video, but first, if you haven't already, make sure to get your free rust cheat sheet by heading over to let'sgetrusty dot cheatsheet.
00:00:50.386 - 00:01:49.402, Speaker A: During the next J's keynote, Lee Robinson, the vp of developer experience Avarsel, explained that back in 2016, JavaScript tools were built in JavaScript, tools like Babel, a JavaScript Transpiler Terser, a JavaScript JavaScript minifier, and Webpack, a JavaScript bundler. This worked well for a while, but eventually these tools written in JavaScript could not deliver the performance needed by large and complex web applications. To solve this problem, Vercel began transitioning tools written in JavaScript to native tools written in Rust. They started off by replacing Babel with a tool written in Rust, which resulted in transpilation times being 17 times faster. Then they replaced Terser, which resulted in six times faster minification times. So upgrading web development tools written in JavaScript to native tooling written in Rust is not new for Vercel, but there was one last piece that they had left to port the bundler. Currently, the most popular JavaScript bundler is Webpack.
00:01:49.402 - 00:02:54.830, Speaker A: Writing a new bundler is a large undertaking, which requires a lot of expertise. Luckily, Vercel was able to hire the creator of Webpack, Tobius coppers Tobius assembled a team to build the successor to webpack, and the result is turbopack. So how fast is turbopack? For large applications, Turbopack shows updates ten times faster than Vite, another popular JavaScript bundler, and 700 times faster than webpack for larger applications, the difference is even greater, with turbopack oftentimes showing updates 20 times faster than vite. This is a huge win for web developers. So how does turbopack achieve these impressive performance metrics? While the Turbopack team incorporated lessons learnt from ten years of building webpack, they also took inspiration from build tools like Bazel, which focuses on using caching to never do the same work twice. And lastly, Turbopack is written in rust, the fastest, safest and coolest language on the planet. So what is the future of Turbopack? Well currently its an alpha release, so dont expect to be using it in production anytime soon.
00:02:54.830 - 00:03:29.954, Speaker A: The current plan is for Turbopack to be used inside next js, first for development and then later in production. And finally it will eventually become a standalone bundler which you can use outside of the next JS ecosystem. Also, there will be an incremental migration path for webpack users. There you have it, another JavaScript tool being rewritten in rust to be blazingly fast. Let me know what you think about rust being used for front end tooling in the comments section down below. And before you go, make sure to get your free rust cheat sheet by heading over to letsgetrusty.com cheatsheet.
00:03:29.954 - 00:03:32.650, Speaker A: With that said, ill see you in the next one.
