00:00:13.600 - 00:00:52.995, Speaker A: How's it going everybody? My name is Donny Dinch. I look after special projects at Phantom and since we joined with the acquisition of our company earlier this year, we've been quite busy. For a lot of you that have used Phantom, you may have seen some of these features. We've launched things like liquid staking with Jito, We've added an improved token page experience. We spent a lot of energy on making a lot of real time improvements in the space as well for the product. But the most recent thing that we're excited about is the launch of Phantom accounts and usernames. And so some of you may have been able to claim your username this this week rather.
00:00:52.995 - 00:01:31.405, Speaker A: And we're very excited because that introduces a novel key based authentication method that is docs free. So excited about that. A couple stats. 2024 has been pretty good. We have roughly 7 million monthly active users. Since the beginning of the year, we've done nearly $9 billion in swapper volume inside the product, and that's happened with about half a billion different transactions. So we're quite excited to be the first Solana Wallet to really come in and build a great experience.
00:01:31.405 - 00:02:08.503, Speaker A: But I think we've done a really good job of maintaining that positioning right now. That said, I think there's still a lot of work to do with wallets. This was a tweet that we saw recently that really stuck out to me because I think one thing that's very core to this mission of getting millions and millions and billions of people in crypto is that the wallet construct still has a lot of work left. We're not quite there yet. And so what we've built today has been incredible. It's been an incredible tool to support the market as it exists today. But I think we're all excited about the broad implications of getting hundreds of millions of people on blockchain.
00:02:08.503 - 00:02:58.697, Speaker A: And so the way that we really think about this situation is that the job isn't quite finished. Again, the tool that we build is great, but I don't know that it's for everyone just yet. And so what we're really excited to share today is the new thing that we've been working on. So a quick look at the wallet landscape as it looks today. We have an immense amount of respect and appreciation for all the products that have been shipped to help people onboard. But I think if you ask the broad, let's say global audience, and we're talking 5,600 million different people, this is kind of where we see a lot of the wallet experiences falling today, either it's a full wallet experience and with that comes a lot of difficulty in using it, or it's a little bit of a less of a wallet experience. But it's kind of easier with the embedded wallets that we've seen to date.
00:02:58.697 - 00:03:43.613, Speaker A: And so we see a pretty large opportunity to find ourselves building a full wallet experience that's actually very, very easy to use. So today, very excited to announce Phantom Embedded Wallets as the latest product that we've been working on. So this is, I'm going to walk through it a little bit here. This is the sign in experience. As a product designer in my, I guess, previous life I was really big on innovate or die almost had it tattooed on my arm. But at this point in life, I think innovate as a last resort kind of makes a little bit more sense. And in this situation we don't think that we need to innovate on the way that people log in and access things.
00:03:43.613 - 00:04:25.299, Speaker A: And so supporting the traditional single sign on methods like Google, Apple or email make a lot of sense to us. And then the way that we see this wallet being powered, obviously it's a seedless wallet, so you don't have to worry about a seed phrase. But something that we've done that's quite unique is it's built on an open protocol. And what that allows us to do is have all the key shares supported in a distributed manner. And so we actually work with a company, a toolset called Juicebox, that whenever you create that PIN that you just saw, that actually creates PIN shares. And those PIN shares aren't all stored by Phantom, they're stored in different realms. So at launch we'll have a realm that Phantom owns.
00:04:25.299 - 00:05:23.527, Speaker A: We're working with a partner, Triton, that will also have a realm and then we'll be working to add subsequent realms as we go. And we think this makes everything quite brute force proof and really, really helps to take Phantom out of any sort of situation in which we would be a single point of failure on anything to do with your PIN being recovered. So to walk through the UI a little bit, like all embedded wallets and wallets in general, you need to be able to sign transactions, you should be able to communicate that. The good news is we spent a couple years building a great wallet experience that we were able to tailor and bring into this embedded wallet and things like simulation, things like just making it feel like a tighter feedback loop so users understand exactly what's happening. But I think this is actually where a lot of embedded wallets kind of in for the most part. And we wanted to take it a bit further. And so the phantom embedded wallet will have an entire UX experience.
00:05:23.527 - 00:06:11.105, Speaker A: It is a full wallet experience on the inside and we think that helps users understand exactly what it is that they need to do. What's happening and then what are the, what are the tighter feedback loops of what just happened when they signed a transaction? So in addition to having viewing inventory, we also have a live feed of the activity that's happening. We include that pending data. The onus to build this has generally been on dapps and we wanted to take that away from them and help make it easier for them to integrate these wallets into their products. The other cool thing is we're adding the swapper into the embedded wallet. So now any DApp that's building any product can drop a swapper in immediately whenever they add the phantom wallet. Phantom embedded wallet, and we're quite excited about that.
00:06:11.105 - 00:07:02.015, Speaker A: The other cool thing is when you logged in, you can use Google, Apple, email, whatever. Generally when you've used embedded wallets, you get into a place where it's very siloed. I can only access it in this product or I can only access it in this product. And it's like, is it the same wallet? I have no idea. Well, with this, with phantom embedded wallet and the recent release of phantom accounts, you'll be able to access those wallets that you create anywhere in addition to the phantom clients that exist today. So logging into the mobile wallet, logging into the browser extension, logging into the embedded wallet, it's all one ecosystem now that is all surrounded by this canonical phantom account. So we're quite excited about that.
00:07:02.015 - 00:08:03.629, Speaker A: Anyway, we put together a little video. I hope it's not too loud. I'm going to play and then see what everyone thinks. Incredible team. Okay, so to quickly summarize the big announcement this week we're announcing an embedded wallet. It's going to have a full wallet ui. It's going to support phantom accounts, and we also wanted to really point out to the fact that it's going to be competitively priced.
00:08:03.629 - 00:08:34.215, Speaker A: And so by competitive we mean free. And so not only is the phantom Embedded Wallet a free product, we also see a future quite soon in which DAPPS that add phantom embedded wallet will be to monetize that. And so we're excited to and fortunate to work with a group of launch partners when this product comes to market later this fall. And that is the phantom embedded Wallet. If you want early access scan this QR code or go to boo.phantom.com and that's all. Thank you so.
