00:02:52.000 - 00:03:28.290, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon and good evening, everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of Ethg Global, and I am super excited to welcome all of you to the Superflow Reactor Summit. So all of you are watching this on ETHGlobal TV. And for those of you who are joining us, for the first time, this is a platform we'll be using for all of today's summit. And this is the place where you can ask questions, say hi to everybody else watching, and also claim your POAP. So everybody who's going to participate on this chat today will be receiving this amazing Superfluid Reactor Summit POAP. So I can't wait to meet all of you and let's get started.
00:03:28.290 - 00:04:09.896, Speaker A: So today we have an amazing next few hours planned. We're going to be talking about the future of payments. We're going to start off with introducing the Superfluid Reactor, which I'm super excited for all of you to know about as well. Then we're going to have Tony come on and talk about how do we actually successfully manage subscriptions in Web Three. Sonny will then be talking about how do we actually invest in more real time payments and just make that way more seamless than it is currently. Then we'll have Herbal talk about salary backed loans and how you can stream paychecks and salaries. Then we're going to have an amazing panel on just going through some really interesting ways to think about Web Three native business models.
00:04:09.896 - 00:04:56.648, Speaker A: We'll have Christophe, Tarun, Julian, and Mike as our panelists. And then Mia will be talking about the next kind of steps and evolution of the Superfluid protocol. And then we're going to close off with a way and a talk from Mike on just how do we think about the economy in Web Three that's a lot more connected to each other and just a lot more seamless? And we'll have another final panel on just on chain payments and how we see that world evolving with Luca, Mikhail, and Fran. And then finally, we'll have some closing remarks to wrap up today. So, super packed next few hours and I can't wait to get right into it. So next up, I want to just, without further ado, bring on our very first speaker for the day. And that is Fran from Superfluid.
00:04:56.648 - 00:05:21.648, Speaker A: And without further ado, let's welcome Friend to really tell all of you about the Superfluid Reactor. Welcome, Friend. Hi, everyone. Thanks for inviting me. I guess, yeah, I'm very excited to be here. I'm going to share my screen and show a short presentation while I do this. So welcome, everyone, to the superfluid reactor summit.
00:05:21.648 - 00:06:08.168, Speaker A: We're extremely excited to have so many people joining in to listen to this. We're very excited to be partnering with Efglobal for this. We've got a very strong relationship with EFG Global. We've sponsored a lot of their hackathons and it's a great honor for us to be able to have this platform to tell everyone a bit more about our ecosystem, our community, and the future we see enabled through our protocol. So, first of all, let me just do some science check here. I hope by now most of you know about Superfluid, but just very quickly, superfluid is a DeFi protocol for digitally native programmable cash flows. We enable users to stream money on chain with no capital lockup and with full programmability.
00:06:08.168 - 00:06:51.260, Speaker A: So effectively, Superfluid is a protocol. What this means is that it's a shared means, a shared set of rules that govern the way information or value is transmitted, right? So what we're doing is we're building the rails. We're building the rails to enable a new kind of finance that happens in real time because money streams happen every second. So everything needs to be kind of rebuilt to use and to adapt to these real time money streams. And the way we envision this is a completely free flowing economy, right, where money can flow from application to application, from hand to hand, in a peer to peer fashion on the blockchain with no friction. That's what superfluid means. Superfluid means no friction.
00:06:51.260 - 00:07:42.572, Speaker A: But obviously a protocol in itself is not that useful, right? It's just, again, a set of rules that govern the way information is transferred. What's really necessary and what we are really building for is for builders like you to enable you to come and build applications that leverage this cool technology that we've invented, right? But that in itself is not useful. There's so many use cases that can be explored. There's so many different verticals, there's so many different ways that streaming money can really change the way a lot of people experience the transfer of value. And that's something we can't do alone. There's just no way we can explore all these different niches and industries where money streaming could potentially have a big impact. And this is the reason why we're always trying to build for builders.
00:07:42.572 - 00:08:27.100, Speaker A: We're always trying to invite more and more builders to come and explore the opportunities of the Superfluid protocol. So far we've sponsored over 20 hackathons. We've had over 400 projects built at Hackathons. We're incubating a lot of projects, although so far it's been mostly informal. We have a lot of integrations and there are a few projects that are already live and that you can go out and test right now that leverage the Superfluid protocol. But ultimately what we noticed is that a lot of products tried to build something at a hackathon, but it wasn't quite enough, right? A lot of people don't know how to go from a project built at a hackathon to a real life production application. That step is not that easy.
00:08:27.100 - 00:09:28.144, Speaker A: But that step is what we did and it's what we can help you do, right? Superfluid was born out of Hackathon, which means we know how to go from a Hackathon project to a real life working startup. So we asked our community, we said, how can we help more of you? More applications go from the prototype stage to the production stage. And obviously, a lot of the people who even replied to this question were people that we had helped, right? Because we helped a lot of people. You'll hear a bit more about this from the next presenters, but we've helped people build on superfluid and go and build startups from their ideas, but we never formalized that. And what the response was pretty clear, we need to create an accelerator. So what I'm announcing now is actually the Superfluid Reactor, which is an accelerator focused on your growth. We help startups that build on Superfluid by selecting the best ones, the best teams, the best founders, and the best ideas to come and join our community and start building with us.
00:09:28.144 - 00:10:10.800, Speaker A: We follow you from fundraising, building the product and launching the product and securing those key partners that will get you started as a rocket ship and not just as a hackathon project. And the best of all is that all of this is free. We don't charge neither in money nor in equity, so it's 100% free. And the applications, the projects and the teams that we select will be able to go through all of this free of charge. And this is a very big difference compared to most accelerators out there who take a significant part of your equity. Now, if this is interesting to you, sign up here. So you can just go to Reactor Superfluid Finance, you can find all the information, there's a sign up form and everything is there.
00:10:10.800 - 00:10:51.932, Speaker A: But let me just tell you a bit more about the ways that the Superfluid Reactor can help you get ready for production. And again, the Superfluid Reactor's objective is to get you to fundraise and to production. After that, it's up to you. So we're not going to do the work for you, but we are going to help you to get there. So the first thing is technical guidance. Now, as Vincent says from our team, it's very easy to learn solidity, it's very hard to master solidity. Now, building an application for a hackathon is not the same as building an application for production, right? You can make something that works once, but working once and working a million times with no faults is completely different.
00:10:51.932 - 00:11:39.340, Speaker A: And we can help you both architecting this, but also developing the right practices in terms of testing, in terms of adversarial thinking that are really necessary when building in web free. Now, unlike Web Two, as you might know, web free contracts are generally immutable. There's a lot more that can go wrong and there's a lot less you can do about it. So it's very important that the architecture of your app is correct. And if you're coming from Web Two, there's a lot of new things that we can help you quickly learn about. So again, building a prototype is not the same as building a production application and that's where our guidance can really help you accelerate along that journey. Now, second thing I'd mention is product refinement, right? If you look at most web free products, they're not that great, but some of them are amazing.
00:11:39.340 - 00:12:41.776, Speaker A: Now, how do they do that? They do that through interviews. They do that by talking to their customers, by hearing their feedback, and by basically adopting that feedback quickly and adapting over time. So the way we can help here is obviously with general product management practices, but also with introductions to who your actual users are, right? Imagine you're building something in web free, but your target user is not really a category that you are that familiar with, right? In that case, you can talk to us. We can introduce you to the people that you need to talk to to actually understand what that category needs are, right? And this is very important in the product discovery phase. On top of this, you can always book one to one time with our product manager, Vijay, which means you can get his insight, get some of his expertise. And this is something that's always going to be available for the Superfluid reactor participants. Obviously, building a great product is very important, but you also need to get the voice out, right? You need people to know about it.
00:12:41.776 - 00:13:20.632, Speaker A: And in this regard, marketing is the way to go. But marketing in web free is again extremely different to marketing in web Two, right? If you think of web Two, most startups spend almost all of their budgets on advertising, right? They'll give their money to Facebook, to Google, just to blast out advertisements and that mostly works for them. In Web Three, that doesn't work at all. If you spend money on Twitter ads, nobody's going to read them. And in fact, that's generally bad practice and people will actively ignore your product if you advertise. So how do you do it? How do you get out there? What you need to do is build a community. How do you build a community? Well, that's really hard, but we can help you, right? We've built a community at Superfluid.
00:13:20.632 - 00:14:07.260, Speaker A: We have some people out there who are passionate about what we're building and they are the best marketing tool that you can possibly have in web free. Because in web free, marketing is organic and this is something we can talk more about. We can help you and we can also introduce some of those early supporters that can really help you build an audience, which ultimately is what you need when you're launching a product in web Three. On top of this, obviously building a great product is important, but you need to also get to market. You need to be able to get those first customers and perfect your product to the point where you meet product market fit. Now, how to do this. There's a lot of different ways, right? You can try and build in isolation and maybe you're right, maybe you're wrong, but the approach that we generally suggest is to try and involve customers in your journey as soon as possible.
00:14:07.260 - 00:15:08.688, Speaker A: And this is what we suggested to Tony from Diagonal. You're going to hear a bit more from Tony after me, but what we did with them effectively guarantees that the day they launch, they launch with great launch partners, with a product that is specifically tailored to their needs and basically with the best possible partner that they could launch with. So we're very excited to have helped them and we're very excited to hopefully in the future enable more people to launch great products with immediate go to market. Now, how do we achieve all of this? Well, most of this is not going to be us, it's going to be people we introduce. So introductions are by far the most important thing we can do for you. And this leverages over five years of industry connections that me and my co founders and our team have created, right? We've been in the industry for a while, we know a lot of people, a lot of people know us and people respect us. So if we introduce you to someone, they're going to listen, right? And they're going to help you.
00:15:08.688 - 00:16:08.088, Speaker A: And that's the single most important thing for product interviews, for marketing and community building and of course for those key partnerships and those key launch partners that can help you go to market much quicker, right? So the people we can introduce are all sorts of different key people in the industry and of course the best investors. Ultimately, whatever you do in web free is going to take time and time is money. You're going to need some sort of investment. This can come from the community or it can come from venture capital investors or angel investors. We have a very broad network of investors, we can introduce you to them and most importantly, there's a lot of investors who are looking into our ecosystem. They're very excited to see the next application built on streaming money and they're very keen to explore those applications very early stage. So this is the perfect pipeline for us to introduce you to them very early and get you with the right resources to get to production much faster.
00:16:08.088 - 00:16:54.156, Speaker A: So overall, if this sounds like something that you would like, go to reactor superfluid finance and apply now. It's a very short form that you need to fill in. We'll get back to you. And what you can expect is periodic check ins, introductions help throughout the time that you spend with us, connections with other people in the reactor project, which means you can talk about your experiences and help each other. And of course, some exclusive perks for superfluid reactor participants. Now, what else to expect from today? So we have over 3 hours of content. So during this reactor summit, we're very pleased to invite a lot of people from our ecosystem.
00:16:54.156 - 00:17:54.288, Speaker A: So you'll have people from Ricochet, Diagonal, Huma Finance, and these are all applications built on Superfluid. None of them went through the reactor because it's a new thing. But we did help them in different ways to get ready for production and we're very excited to have them now come and share their experience, share their learnings with the rest of the community. After this, we'll have two panels. The first one is about webfree native business operations and here you'll see some of our partners request network coinshift and unlock protocol who are building basically products or protocols that help businesses operate on chain. This is something we are very passionate about because at Superfluid we enable basically recurring payments, right? So these applications are using us to provide real value to real web free businesses and that's something we are very grateful that we can partner with them about. After this, we'll have another panel with people from MakerDAO and USDC so we'll be able to discuss stablecoins and on chain payments.
00:17:54.288 - 00:18:29.040, Speaker A: On chain payments, in our opinion, are something that's very unexplored and needs to be explored more. So we're going to talk about that and we're lucky to have some very important experts. So thanks a lot for listening to my talk. I assure you it's going to be the most boring, so the rest are much more exciting. But all I can ask you now is if you don't follow us on Twitter, Superfluid HQ and maybe follow me as well. And now I'll give the stage back to Kartik. Maybe there's a few questions we can answer and then we can move on to the next speaker.
00:18:29.040 - 00:19:08.680, Speaker A: Absolutely. First of all, this is incredible and thanks for kind of formalizing it. I know you've been helping out a lot of teams already. A lot of them we're going to see right now. Come on on stage and talk about what they've been doing. I guess my broader question is overall kind of if you can just give some insight into how do you think about managing this thing for the first kind of cohort here? Is there an expectation of how many teams you want to get into the first round or essentially what are you looking for in terms of what stage they should be at? Maybe we can start there. Well, we're hoping to get projects basically straight out of the hackathon, right? As I said, Superfluid is born out of hackathon.
00:19:08.680 - 00:19:56.060, Speaker A: Eve Global is kind of very embedded into our history and for us, getting projects when they're still got that excitement from the hackathon is the best time to really propel them. At the moment, we don't have a clear number in mind, but there are definitely some projects that won't make the cut for the first cohort. But there's definitely a lot of room still. So if you're out there listening. One of the reasons we wanted to launch this during Hack money is because Hackmoney is the best DeFi hackathon in the year, right. So we expect to hopefully find some great projects here and bring them into the reactor and help them from here to go forward. So don't have exact numbers, but I'm sure it will be a good cohort because I've already seen some of the applications and they're pretty exciting.
00:19:56.060 - 00:20:54.892, Speaker A: And then just in the best interest of other teams that are going to be applying, we often see a lot of people think that they're not good enough and they end up disqualifying themselves. So maybe if you can give any comments on what do you think is kind of considered an acceptable level of kind of progress so that they can convert their Acupunct projects into something broader, is there any advice you would give to when they should think about their being ready? It's really not so much about the product, it's a lot more about the team and the motivation. Right. The product obviously is important. Right. I think what a lot of people are going to see is now with the market shifting a bit, there's not as much money out there, so bad ideas are not going to have as much funding as they could have had maybe six months ago. So really a good idea is important, but ideas can change over time, right? What you build at the Hackathon might not be the idea that your startup builds over the years, but your team is not going to change.
00:20:54.892 - 00:21:32.756, Speaker A: Your founding team, your cohesion, your motivation and your grit, right. Your basically determination to make it is the most important thing. So whatever you're building when you apply, just make sure that that comes through, that we can tell that you are determined to really make this happen. Right? And then I'd say you're good. Amazing. Well that's excellent, timeless advice and thank you for kicking us off today. So without further ado, let's welcome our very first official talk which is Tony from Diagonal.
00:21:32.756 - 00:21:53.650, Speaker A: And Tony is going to be talking about how do we actually successfully manage subscriptions in web three. So Tony, please welcome and I'll let you take it from here. Hey Karthik, how are you doing today? I am doing great. All right then let me kick it off. Okay. Share my screen please. Just confirm we're all live.
00:21:53.650 - 00:22:29.784, Speaker A: Okay. All right guys, so my name is Tony Rosler, I'm a co founder of Diagonal Finance and today I'm going to talk to you guys about web free subscriptions. So the agenda of the talk today is threefold. First we're going to look at why on chain subscriptions are a hard problem and why largely we haven't seen much in this space kind of largely up until now. Secondly, we're going to talk about the benefits of streaming subscriptions. And lastly we will talk about why crypto native payment rails are important. All right? So let's just kind of set the stage.
00:22:29.784 - 00:23:33.250, Speaker A: So first we all familiar with Web Two payments and how subscriptions work. With Web Two payments, the way they work are essentially the bank pulls, let's say $10 a month out of your account once a month. Now, this works okay because you trust the bank to pull money out of your account and if the bank acts maliciously then your account is FDIC insured and you can always claim the money back. Now, the issue is a little bit that if you try and move this model to blockchains you kind of run into some problems. So the first is there is no native way to pull tokens out of a user's account simply on the execution layer in blockchains. Now, this is largely because by construction blockchains are push based payment systems where every change in state requires a transaction and every transaction requires an elliptical curve digital signature from the user's point of view. So what that means in a very naive way, if a user wants to submit a $10 a month payment, they'll have to manually sign a transaction and kind of submit this payment.
00:23:33.250 - 00:24:40.000, Speaker A: However, that's not really the full story because we can build kind of certain approval based applications on top of the execution layer. However, these payment systems have certain flaws. So all of these kind of pull based payment systems largely boil down to this mechanism where a user will infinitely prove a contract and then a bot will, on a kind of schedule will schedule transaction and execute transaction, pulling money out of the user's account and then paying the merchant at the end of the month. Now, the problems with these payment systems are firstly that they have trust assumptions. So when you are infinitely approving a smart contract, you are giving that smart contract the opportunity and the right to essentially empty your entire account for that token. Now, we have seen time and time again smart contracts have these bugs when it comes to infinite approval and there have been plenty of exploits around this area. And now the kind of important thing from a user point of view is my wallet is not FDIC insured.
00:24:40.000 - 00:25:25.780, Speaker A: So if the smart contract or the bot executing a transaction acts maliciously, there's no way for me to get my funds back. Now this is a real problem. The second point is counterparty risk. So because payments are essentially enforced by external actors, the bot has to make a transaction once a month to execute that payment. If the bot fails to execute that transaction, you will not be paying the merchant and essentially the merchant will cancel your subscription and you will not have access to that service. Now this is an issue because suppose the bot just disappears. Then yeah, there's no way for you to essentially contact that bot or sue that bot because in kind of ethereum and smart contracts agreements are enforced by code, not by courts.
00:25:25.780 - 00:26:36.300, Speaker A: Lastly, an interesting point is kind of the lack of scalability. So having kind of these scheduled transactions requires end payments to make end transactions. So the question kind of becomes so who first of all pays for the gas? And then what happens when a cost of execution of the transaction is greater than the fees earned from the bot for executing a transaction? So should the costs be pushed to the merchant side, as in kind of it should be cut into their profit margin? Should the user pay the fees so it becomes more expensive for them than it would otherwise? Or should the service provider, the payments provider, pay the fees? Now, okay, there are many different ways you can go here, but if we perhaps look at some numbers so this is based on analysis I did in last February. Granted, things may have changed, but I looked at USDC and kind of the average on a 30 day kind of average, what was the average? ERC, 20 transfer on cost. In terms of USD and Arbitrarium, we have roughly a dollar same optimism and Main has roughly ten. This is way more expensive than it would be in traditional fiat payment rails. So if we kind of summarize the problem with one thing, it's the beach problem.
00:26:36.300 - 00:27:22.712, Speaker A: What would happen to your subscription if your payments provider went to the beach and essentially your subscription would cancel? So this is not a decentralized payments provider and this is not, I believe, kind of ecosystem we want to be building. So how does streaming solve this? So, first of all, streaming has zero trust assumptions. So the user pushes money continuously from their account to the merchant's account. They are not approving anyone. Money is pushed continuously. Secondly, there is zero counterparty risk because payments are settled continuously. So this is incredibly important for businesses where essentially they provide a service to the user throughout the month and then expect to be paid by end of the month.
00:27:22.712 - 00:28:21.608, Speaker A: A good example of this is, let's say, an RPC provider like Infuria or Alchemy, where you are allowed to make RPC calls and at the end of the month they send you a bill and they expect to charge for that bill. Now, these merchants have a massive problem, which is essentially that users can rack up huge bills that they are not able to pay for. And there's really no clean way to mitigate this because you cannot settle continuously, you cannot settle every time you basically give value. So with streaming you can do that which is quite beautiful, where essentially every single second the payment is settled and money is leaving your account and entering your account. So this reduces the risk for the merchant dramatically. Lastly, scalability is incredibly important. So you only have to submit a single on chain transaction to open a subscription and a single on chain transaction to close a subscription and lastly, something which is very cool and also important is capital efficiency.
00:28:21.608 - 00:28:56.888, Speaker A: So merchants are paid every second, which essentially means they can always put their money to work, always be earning yield, and just dramatically increases their capital efficiency. All right then. But let's also kind of think a little bit more broadly. So why is streaming not only better on those verticals we touched, but why is it largely better in general? So let's consider Netflix. So as we know, Netflix has been in news a lot recently for essentially they've been struggling in terms of their revenue and their business model. So if we look and this is not all that surprising really, if we look at Netflix's business model. So Netflix charges $10 a month.
00:28:56.888 - 00:29:38.292, Speaker A: Now, this is a bad business model because essentially you have a cohort of people who have a higher willingness to pay than $10 a month. And these people are getting a bargain where they are paying less than they're willing to pay. You also have a code of people who are not willing to pay $10 a month. They're willing to pay less than that, but they're being priced out of a Netflix subscription. So this means that Netflix is just capturing a very small area under the demand curve and leaving a lot of money on the table. Now, if you introduce streaming, something very, very interesting happens. So first of all, if you just make Netflix a $10 subscription, a streaming subscription, you essentially now are creating an infinite number of price points.
00:29:38.292 - 00:29:57.820, Speaker A: Below. Look at the man curve. There is now a price point for a user who wants to subscribe for just 1 second a month. There is now a price point for a user who wants to subscribe for 2 seconds a month. Or maybe you just watch ten minutes of Netflix a month. And now the total revenue is just integral into this area. And as you can see, the total revenue captured by Netflix is much, much larger.
00:29:57.820 - 00:30:58.784, Speaker A: Now that's just with one package, we can consider a multi package setup where you have a team, family, whatever. And what you essentially see is that you can now capture all area under the demand curve. Okay? Now another important thing is that when we are dealing with streaming payments, we are dealing with on chain Verifiable payments, payments which are by construction, crypto, native. And this really allows us to reimagine and rethink from first principles how we think about and if we look at the history of crypto and DeFi, one thing that you should always keep in mind is that you should maximize for composability at every vertical of the stack. So there's a reason uniswap tokens and B, two tokens, we are C 20 and B, three tokens are 71 similar with a tokens to C tokens or ERC 20. So by moving state into a tokenized state, you become composable. And in the context of subscriptions, that can mean.
00:30:58.784 - 00:31:29.610, Speaker A: Quite a lot. But we will discuss two things. The first is that subscriptions themselves can be composable. They can be represented in the form of NFTs. All right? So let's just imagine for a second you owned an NFT saying you were the first subscriber to the Joe Rogan podcast. Now clearly this NFT would have economic and social value in today's society. However, sort of along the way, Joe Rogan would have experienced a lot of benefits as well because the moment you bought the NFT, you now acquired a real stake in his success.
00:31:29.610 - 00:32:26.464, Speaker A: So the better Joe Rogan does, the better the more valuable NFT and the better you do. Similarly, this provides Joe Rogan with organic distribution because essentially now Joe Rogan's subscribers are now his greatest brand ambassadors because incentives are aligned. And lastly, this can be very interesting from Joe Rogan from a business point of view because he can now essentially identify his subscribers, he can identify who was early and he can reward them appropriately. He can assign them property rights, for example, early access to podcasting episodes or special meet and greets at standup gigs. And he doesn't even have to provide all these services themselves. People can build services based fundamentally around these kind of building blocks because again, the subscription is fundamentally composable. Now another vertical which is very interesting to kind of investigate is your service or your business itself being on chain composable.
00:32:26.464 - 00:33:37.250, Speaker A: So what you see on the screen here is something which is a little specific to Superfluid and also what we're doing at Diagonal. But nevertheless, I think it was interesting to share. So the way Diagonal represents your business is that we represent your business as an NFT in the form of specifically it's an NFT and a super app. Now a super app is a smart contract where users stream money in to the smart contract and then the smart contract redirects that money automatically to the merchant and pays them every single second. So what you now have is you have a business which has predictable on chain verifiable revenue, which means it can do things like take out under collateralized loans because now external actors can see this is a business, this business makes this amount of money every month. It's this reliable and we can actually offer you a loan based on your risk profile, not the one of some risk agnostic pool. Okay, another kind of interesting area about this is that you can also sell your business on exchanges like OpenSea or even potentially fractionalize your business, creating kind of shareholders and distributing value to your community.
00:33:37.250 - 00:34:35.984, Speaker A: Now lastly, we want to touch on why are crypto native payment rails important. So we'll perhaps only touch on two of these verticals but let's start with Dows. So as we know, there's a kind of a B, two B Dow service industry that's really booming at the moment and has been for a long time and essentially all of these services are SaaS services which are providing services for Dows in return for compensation. Now, one thing Dows will have in common is they want to settle in crypto on crypto native payment rails because interact with Fiat is a massive headache and more specifically, if they can pay in their own token, that is a huge benefit. So clearly in this scenario, having crypto native subscriptions encrypted payment rails is very important. Secondly, you can think more in the future, perhaps gaming. So if we consider metaverse such as Decentraland, where you can create your metaverse, do your own space, you can even I remember reading Snoop Dogg was hosting concerts in Decentraland.
00:34:35.984 - 00:35:34.970, Speaker A: And the kind of economic activity which you can do in these metaverses is becoming increasingly sophisticated and I really believe eventually will be just as sophisticated as the economies we see in the real world in today's society. Now, this means there will be service providers and this means people will be demanding crypto native payment rails because they will want to settle in token. I find it very hard to believe that one day, let's say, Decentraland or Sandbox will redirect you to a Fiat gated checkout link where you have to pull your credit card down and dodge yourself to, let's say, buy an in game item. Okay, so that was kind of the talk and again yeah, I'm Tony work at Diagonal Finance. If any of this sounded interesting to you and you think streaming subscriptions are powerful, please get in touch either through kind of Twitter or you can even reach myself on Twitter or our website. And finally we're hiring for several engineering roles. So, yeah, have a great day everyone.
00:35:34.970 - 00:36:23.636, Speaker A: Tony, that was an awesome talk and a really great overview. I'm super excited and obviously good to see you on the other side after being a hacker too. My only kind of question is you kind of talked about how all these things are working now and what you are able to do. Curious what you think is missing in this space and what would actually supercharge. Yeah, so what I think is missing is frankly a clean abstraction to use this technology. So streaming payments is like I think we will discuss for quite a while, is very cool and this is very powerful. However, if you want to bring this piece of technology to the masses, to businesses or even other protocols, every protocol is not going to write the solidity to integrate this themselves.
00:36:23.636 - 00:37:12.504, Speaker A: They're not going to pay the money for the audit, they're not going to build off chain monitoring infrastructure to make sense of the payments, they're not going to build the relevant dunning flows and the SDKs to integrate into their existing payment systems. So if you really want to bring this to the masses, you need a clear abstraction which truly makes it just as simple as integrating string payments as it is to integrate stripe, or whatever it may be. There really shouldn't be a trade off from a developed point of view, and I don't think there will be in the future. So this is why I really think is missing here and also largely what motivates us at Diagonal, I say, got it, I got you. It's not like we think we need a new Opcode or a new framework for everybody to generalize deployment manifest. That yeah, that's interesting. I don't necessarily think we do.
00:37:12.504 - 00:37:54.390, Speaker A: So there have actually been people who've suggested Opcodes in the future previously, but this was rejected tremendously. And I think there's a nice blog post by Vitalik why something like an alarm Opcode doesn't make sense specifically doing asynchronous actions. It becomes very complicated. And yeah, you don't want to do this at execution layer. This is a protocol layer problem. And then the question becomes, do you want to do stuff based on external actors and trust assumptions or do you want to have on chain verifiable value transfer? And we think it's this one. I don't think many people will disagree on you with this.
00:37:54.390 - 00:38:23.004, Speaker A: Well, that's awesome. Well, I am super excited to kind of see how diagno finance progresses and just generally the fact that you can now use this thing to make a new way to think about under collateralized loans is to me super exciting. So hopefully that becomes more and more common and really appreciate you taking the time and giving this amazing talk. Sure, no problem. Thank you very much. Amazing. All right, with that, we are ready for our next talk.
00:38:23.004 - 00:38:53.820, Speaker A: And that'll be Sonny from Ricochet Exchange talking about investing in real time. So I got a preview of what he's going to talk about, but without further ado, let's welcome Sonny and I'll let you take it from here. Hi. Thanks Kartik. Just going to pull up my screen real quick. Awesome everyone, I'm Sonny, really excited to be talking to you guys about real time investing today. It's a concept I helped pioneer at Ricochet Exchange last year.
00:38:53.820 - 00:39:58.112, Speaker A: And today we're going to be basically defining what real time investing is, go over why you want to invest in real time and the advantages of doing it. And then lastly, break down some projects that are currently in the ecosystem, building on top of the concept of real time investing. So first, what is real time investing? Let's put a definition to it. So I define real time investing as initiating a superfluid payment stream by the second on chain payment stream to a special superfluid enabled smart contract which we call Super Apps, which will take the money that you've streamed into the smart contract that being the super app and periodically invest it into the target investment asset of your choice. So the only thing that you're really doing here to interact with this recurring automated investment process is simply starting a superfluid stream. There is no need to repetitively do deposits or swaps it's all abstracted into a single constant by the second superfluid stream. And so some examples of this would be streaming your money into a super app which will accumulate Ethereum for you.
00:39:58.112 - 00:40:55.264, Speaker A: Streaming your money into a super app which will invest into Bitcoin for you. You can even get more advanced such as streaming your money into a super app that will invest it into yield bearing tokens or even staked Sushi LP positions. So the possibilities with the real time investing are limitless and it's really kind of a paradigm shift when it comes to investing, which we've traditionally experienced in kind of discrete swaps, transfers and deposits. So let's talk about now why you'd want to invest in real time. Let's point out the real advantages of real time investing. So the way we traditionally experience DeFi investments and those kinds of DeFi investment vehicles is through discrete transfers. And so with real time investing, you're taking away these kinds of discrete transfers and these swaps and you're replacing them with continuous payment streams.
00:40:55.264 - 00:41:59.850, Speaker A: When you think of investing or staking your money in Aave, you traditionally take X amount, you go to Aave and you deposit it. Or if you want to swap X amount from USDC into Ethereum, you go to Sushi swap, you go to AMM and you make that happen with a single transaction, right? And if you want to invest recurring in a recurring basis, you'd have to basically go and you'd have to do these on your own. You'd have to go every so often and make these swaps, make these deposits and that's kind of cumbersome and it requires transactional upkeep. With superfluid streams we're able to and the composable nature of them. You're able to essentially hook up these payment streams into these DeFi protocols and these DeFi investment vehicles through super apps and you're able to basically abstract away those discrete transfers and deposits into continuous payment streams and basically make investing in these kinds of opportunities hands off and effortless. The second part here is the fact that real time investing is responsible. It's a responsible way to invest.
00:41:59.850 - 00:43:03.192, Speaker A: Some of us are familiar with the concept of dollar cost averaging. Dollar cost averaging is the idea of doing fixed investments on fixed intervals into an asset of your choice, right? So example here would be investing $5 into Bitcoin every single day. So the power here is that you are investing in basically every single price instead of picking and choosing different prices and trying to time the markets. And so as a result, you're diversifying away price risk, which is very powerful, especially in the kinds of markets that we're seeing today. You may believe heavily in Ethereum and the future price appreciation of it, but if you had bought in a lump earlier this year you would be like well in the red. And so with real time investing you're able to linearly accumulate these kinds of investment assets and basically remove price exposure as a one time lump thing and make it kind of a gradual linear exposure, which is a more sensible and responsible way to invest. The third aspect here is the networking of cash flows.
00:43:03.192 - 00:44:18.844, Speaker A: So the idea here is that if we have an ecosystem of money moving in real time, you can network cash flows from inbound streams into investment streams. And so this is so critical to the superfluid ecosystem that I've basically dedicated a slide to it. So the quote here is if money can move in real time, it should be able to be put to work in real time. And so the idea here is if we're having an economy where we're constantly paying for things in streams and we're receiving our income in streams and we're having this money move around by the second, we have to wait for that money to accumulate and then kind of do our swaps and investments in these kind of discrete and discrete one off transfers. The user experience hasn't been improved that much. And so the idea here is to basically connect these kinds of real time cash flows that are moving around in this digital economy to investment cash flows, such that the second that this money hits our wallet, we can put it to work with these investment cash flows. So by creating an ecosystem of real time investing apps and giving people the opportunities to invest in these traditional D Five vehicles with real time cash flows, you're able to basically provide more utility for these people that are having real time finance.
00:44:18.844 - 00:45:14.010, Speaker A: And you're also able to reduce the kind of transactional upkeep that these people would traditionally experience without these real time investing applications. So overall, it really adds more utility to people using strings. It gives you another reason to transact in streams and kind of is an incentive to enter the real time finance economy. And yeah, as the ecosystem grows, I'm sure that the use of these real time investment apps will grow as well. So that's the idea here. Kind of like if you're receiving say 10,000 USDC per month in a salary stream like a buy the second superfluid salary stream. An example of using network cash flow will be carving off a stream of like 3000 USDC per month into a real time investing app which will convert it into ethereum or something for you.
00:45:14.010 - 00:46:01.824, Speaker A: Basically kind of cash flow in investment stream out in an adjacent stream. So that's the idea of network cash flows. All right, so I want to talk about two basic entities that could use real time investing. Kind of dumbed it down into individuals and Dows or organizations. So when we think about individuals and their use of real time investing, well, traditionally when we invest, we think about that in a monthly amount, right? We say, okay, I'm going to invest $500 into my Roth IRA each month and invest $200 into ethereum. And this usually requires us to make those manual deposits on our own. We have to go into our accounts, we have to do those transfers and we have to make that in a manual fashion.
00:46:01.824 - 00:46:55.252, Speaker A: And so with real time investing you can automate that. You can basically create a customized automated investment plan by choosing different real time finance, real time investing apps and which kinds of investments you want to invest into and customize which rates you want, the rate at which you want to purchase these assets and essentially create like a streaming portfolio. You can basically say, okay, I want 100 USDC of each month, I want 100 USDC of the D Five Pulse Index index each month. These kinds of different assets, you can basically customize them into a real time streaming portfolio and make that process very easy and hands off and basically initiate it with single start stream transactions. So it's very simple. And so it's really awesome the way that we're able to abstract this away into a single start stream. It's amazing user experience and traditionally accomplishing this is very kind of difficult and technical.
00:46:55.252 - 00:47:42.120, Speaker A: Some people, they make these kind of investment scripts that connect to their wallet and do it in that kind of fashion. Some people, they try to go through centralized exchanges and facing very heavy exchange fees. This is a very kind of nice, lightweight, simple way to accomplish it through superfluid with real time investing. Another entity here are DAOs or organizations or businesses. A lot of these Dows, they sit on a lot of idle capital on chain and they have a low risk tolerance in putting that capital to work. And so a lot of the conversation around putting it to work usually comes down to the strategy of dollar cost averaging like I spoke on. And it seems really like the primary way that these Dows put their capital to work in that kind of responsible fashion.
00:47:42.120 - 00:48:27.188, Speaker A: These Dows, they don't want to be in the business of having active trading groups and things like that. They simply want to find the most simple way to gain exposure to the assets that they trust in. And real time investing is the best way to do that. You simply start a stream and there's no need for that kind of transactional upkeep, which can be difficult with Dows because you have these multi sigs. You have levels of permission with these treasuries and having to work with those kinds of recurring investments can become difficult. When you can turn it into single streams and superfluid automation, it becomes a lot easier for these Dows and reduces that kind of red tape. Another kind of red tape that real time investing reduces for Dows is decision making.
00:48:27.188 - 00:49:20.836, Speaker A: So with real time investing DApps, an example here would be like a Dow. They can trigger an on chain start stream transaction that will invest, say, 10% worth of its treasury into an asset over the course of the year with a single vote. So that really kind of paints a picture of how these Dows can basically turn their investment strategies into very kind of simple decisions because it's all kind of coming down, it's kind of all abstracted into an easy start stream transaction. So does help Dows in those kinds of that kind of sense as well. So that's the idea on who these real time investing kind of painting the picture there. Let's kind of flip the page and talk about the kinds of projects that are in the ecosystem building these kinds of real time investment solutions. So the first I want to talk about is Butter.
00:49:20.836 - 00:50:17.400, Speaker A: Butter was a hackathon project from, I believe, ETH Amsterdam. They help Dows essentially diversify away from their governance tokens over time using superfluid streams by streaming those governance tokens into balancer v two pools. And so the reason this is powerful is because Dows oftentimes they have a lot of financial exposure to their own governance token, right? I believe the Masari report reported that most Dows have like over 90% of their value locked, 90% of their treasury value locked within these governance tokens. And so Butter allows these Dows to gradually over time reduce their exposure to these governance tokens into more solid assets such as stable coins or blue chip tokens such as ethereum or wrapped bitcoin. And so that's what Butter is accomplishing. Hope to see that project take flight soon. Another project we have in the ecosystem is the Damp protocol.
00:50:17.400 - 00:51:04.920, Speaker A: Stands for Decentralized Asset Management protocol. We refer to them as Damp. They are working on a project called DSIP, which essentially allows you to dollar cost average into managed portfolio positions on Dhedge using superfluid streams. And so essentially you're automating these streams which will stream money into these different portfolio managers on Dhedge that run these kinds of different investment portfolios based on their own kind of strategies. It's quite advantageous for investors that are looking for this kind of managed exposure in a responsible fashion. And last but not least, we have Ricochet Exchange. Ricochet Exchange is the real time investing OG.
00:51:04.920 - 00:51:45.396, Speaker A: I helped co found it last year. Ricochet Exchange allows you to basically dollar cost average into investment assets into various tokens of your choice. Ricochet Exchange was the very first community deployment of a super app on polygon. So they're kind of the real OGS when it comes to not just real time investing, but also development on superfluid in general. And so they're so important that I dedicated a slide to their flagship product, the Rex Market. The Rex Market lets you essentially dollar cost average with superfluid screens. I want to kind of break down the kind of architecture of the Rex Market super app.
00:51:45.396 - 00:52:41.160, Speaker A: So the Rex Market super app here is represented by the Ricochet logo in that black box there. Essentially what we have here are users, investors, they stream in their dix into the Ricochet super app. That Ricochet Super app every 30 minutes has a keeper trigger the distribute function. The distribute function takes the dix that is accumulated in that Rex market super app turns around to SushiSwap or an AMM, swaps it to the target asset that in this case being ethereum and then distributes that ethereum back to investors all in one shot using Superfluid's Instant Distribution Agreement. And so this is an amazing user experience. They're just streaming in money and they're dollar cost averaging. And it's also very scalable because believe it or not, this Rex market could have like a million different users and it will still have the same fixed gas cost.
00:52:41.160 - 00:53:41.928, Speaker A: When it comes to distributing that target asset ethereum back to the investors because it uses something called the Instant Distribution Agreement by Superfluid, which basically assigns distribution shares to the different streamers based on the size of their streams. And so there's no need to do kind of individual transfers up and down the list of people who are investing through the rex market. So it's a very kind of interesting scalable structure to do this kind of real time investing and it's super powerful and it's honestly the very best way to do on chain DCA. I've done my homework, I've looked at all the models and this is the most scalable framework to make it happen. So it's a great app and it's made possible by superfluid. I also want to touch on the fact that using the rex market is noncustodial. So when you invest, when these people are streaming their money into the rex market contract, at any one time the rex market contract only holds 30 minutes worth of the total value streaming into it.
00:53:41.928 - 00:54:23.604, Speaker A: And so as a result there's very little TBL in these rex market contracts and so there's little smart contract risk and also that ethereum is distributed straight back to investors. So these investors, they don't have to go to the rex market contract and claim the money on their own. It just shows up straight into the wallet and so they can start using it in their day to day and take action with it and take advantage of other DeFi opportunities as they see fit as the money is straight in their wallet. So yeah, that's the deal here with rex markets, the best model for on chain dollar cost averaging. So yeah, I want to end the presentation with a call to action. Real time investing is growing. It's going to grow with the superfluid ecosystem.
00:54:23.604 - 00:54:53.536, Speaker A: And so I highly recommend that you join the community, join the real time finance and real time investing conversation by hopping in the Superfluid discord up in the Ricochet discord. You'll find the links there at Ricochet Exchange. Go build something. There are so many things that have not been built yet with real time investing. We still need an app that lets you stream your money into stake ave a tokens. There's just so many different ideas out there. And our devex team is ready to help you get off the ground with them if you want to kind of keep them up.
00:54:53.536 - 00:55:18.392, Speaker A: And we'd love to help, basically help developers bring these kinds of real time investing apps to production. And the lastly, use Ricochet Exchange, try out their app. It's live at app. Ricochet Exchange. You can try today and it'll really give you a taste for what's possible with real time investing. And yeah, I hope you guys embark on that real time investment adventure. That is my talk.
00:55:18.392 - 00:55:36.664, Speaker A: I want to thank you all for your time and attention. Go follow me at Sonny Jacer on Twitter and I hope you guys enjoy the rest of the Superfluid Reactor Summit. Thank you. Amazing. Thank you so much for that, Sonny. It's been an amazing presentation. We're getting in a couple of questions from the audience.
00:55:36.664 - 00:56:48.368, Speaker A: I'll start asking them, and in the meantime, if anybody in the audience have more questions, just type them up in the chat and we'll relay them here. So, kind of the first question is, I think we'd love to get a bit more understanding of how are people able to get the Etax Token from providing Dai? So I guess what's happening behind the scenes and if you can sort of COVID that flow, I'll start with that. Yeah, absolutely. So essentially what's happening is the ETH is being streamed into the Rex Market contract is accumulating there, the distribute takes all this, it basically sweeps all the dix that's landed in the contract. It takes it to an AMM, converts it into ETH. So basically, like, basically regular Ethereum, that wraps it into Ethax, that being the Super Token version of ethereum that's able to be distributed with the Instant Distribution Agreement, then it is sent out to investors all at once using the Instant Distribution Agreement. And the reason that's possible, accounting wise, is because the Rex Market Super app, it assigns distribution agreements sorry, distribution units to investors proportional to the size of their stream.
00:56:48.368 - 00:57:27.452, Speaker A: Right? So if you're streaming in 200 die, and I'm streaming in 100 die per month, you're going to receive twice as much of the ethereum as I do. And so based on that accounting, the Rex Market Super App is able to distribute out the Etex in the commested amounts based on this kind of proportion accounted for in the Instant Distribution Agreement. So, really cool stuff there. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Hopefully that also makes sense to the person who has a question. And there's another question that came in, but I think it's more directed towards superfluid the protocol. So I'll still ask it to you because I think you can still answer it, but if we need more clarification, we'll have somebody from the superflow team directly answer on the chat.
00:57:27.452 - 00:58:17.896, Speaker A: So the question is just overall, I guess, how dynamic actually, let me say that directly, can we control the stream using an external dynamic value in terms of what the amount is that gets distributed. Control the stream based on the what dynamic value? Just any externally defined dynamic value. Yeah. So Superfluid now has a thing called ACL. So this is called access control list. And so basically, with this kind of functionality, you're able to give a super app the ability to control your stream and change the stream rate on your behalf. And so you could have a Keeper or an Oracle or something connect to that super app, and then the super app could respond to the changes in the Oracle based on whatever kind of indicator or KPI it is, and then adjust your stream rate accordingly.
00:58:17.896 - 00:58:42.600, Speaker A: And so using that, you can accomplish something like a stream investing tool that will only invest between a price range or something like that. So, definitely possible. Awesome. Well, that's a lot more kind of power on the programmability of the streaming payment. So hopefully, Felipe, that answered your question. And with that, I want to thank you for taking the time today and really appreciate this. Awesome.
00:58:42.600 - 00:59:08.390, Speaker A: All right, with that we are ready for our next talk. So next I want to invite our bull from Human Finance to talk about how do we actually stream salary back loans. And I think this also is a really nice segue for what we just answered. So this kind of enables a lot more new creative ways to talk about this. So, without further ado, let's welcome and I'll let you take it from here. Thank you so much, Kartik. Hello, everybody.
00:59:08.390 - 01:00:07.904, Speaker A: I'm going to share my screen quickly. I changed the topic slightly to streaming income back bonds because I think salary is a component of that. And instead of talking about Human Finance and how the product works and everything, I'll kind of talk more about why this is important and why right now is the right time and how Superfluid actually enables this experience to be so much greater than what could it be. So, again, Ergil from Hemofinance, I'm one of the co founders and glad to be here. The first thing to understand is basically where things start and where they are going in the grand scheme of things. You all know, it started with this white paper by Satoshi that defined Bitcoin. What is Bitcoin, as many people call it? It's kind of like a digital gold.
01:00:07.904 - 01:00:45.920, Speaker A: It's a digital asset and it has a blockchain system behind which is a distributed ledger that keeps track of who owns what. Correct. And that obviously excited a lot of people, including many people in this room today. But that was very limited because it only defined a single type of asset and only basically who owns what. And the biggest innovation after that was actually Ethereum, because Ethereum enabled this new concept called asset portfolios, right? Because of the ERC 20 standard NFT standards. You have all these different standards. That can actually liberate people who are creators to create these kind of assets.
01:00:45.920 - 01:02:04.776, Speaker A: And we started building asset portfolios. People started to talk about these asset portfolios, their asset portfolios, their token portfolios, NFT portfolios, and naturally DeFi, as we call it, the centralized finance. Start basically thinking about, okay, how do I tie these things together, these assets together to create protocols that kind of like does some kind of a financial engineering, maybe introduce some kind of inflationary token, some reward mechanism so people can utilize asset portfolios. So for a long time, if you look at the DeFi protocols, they only understood assets, they only leveraged assets. And they only created these kind of pairing structures or bonding structures between assets to do finance, financial engineering. And we got to a point where majority of the DeFi protocols were over collateralized protocols, where you have to have a lot of assets that you need to collateralize to be able to benefit from these protocols. And that created not only a small market for a small number of whales and speculators because there's not much use for overclocking all these assets, it also created a highly capital efficient market and it also created a highly dependent market where every single token is tied to each other, right? You had all these engineered payers and things that type to each other where anytime something bad happens to one of them, we have this captain effect across the ecosystem.
01:02:04.776 - 01:03:15.196, Speaker A: And we are in one of those probably downturns right now, unfortunately. And that's also probably one of the reasons why DeFi as a kind of whole hasn't really grown as much. But innovations are right in front of us. And one of those changes happening in the whole ecosystem outside of DeFi is basically this transition from asset portfolios to income portfolios. If you think about the next billion people coming into this ecosystem, they're not bringing in millions of dollars in assets, they have not much utilization for all these overclocked class protocols and they're not necessarily interested in speculation. They are coming into this ecosystem because of the income opportunities, right? Income opportunities that are eminent in the NFD marketplaces as craters, income opportunities in dollar marketplaces, income opportunities as web three builders and developers like ours, but also income opportunities in these new play to our next town ecosystems. And people are being attracted to this and the next billion people are coming in because of income opportunities and they're starting to build income portfolios, right? Instead of the kind of real world scenario where you have maybe one job and one salary, now you have actually all these different ecosystems and communities you're a part of and you're building these income portfolios.
01:03:15.196 - 01:04:16.244, Speaker A: And this is going to be the new type of passion gig economy in the next ten to 20 years. So that's why I call it Buy by Hoddlers and welcome biddlers, because that's kind of like where we are going and the next billion is interested in. And this actually gives us a pause because if you think about the next building coming for this income opportunity and buildings income portfolios, there is no DeFi protocol today. They can actually leverage that. They can actually understand your income portfolio and can lend you against that. However, when you got stuck in assets again, we talked about this capital netsions problem, the income underwriting income and underwriting helps us solve this capital nettions problem. If you actually look at how traditional finance does lending today, income is the most critical input in lending, right? So if you want to get a mortgage, if I get a car loan, if you want to get a personal loan, credit card, business loan, doesn't matter what you want to get if you go to a lender, doesn't matter also what your credit score is.
01:04:16.244 - 01:05:10.150, Speaker A: The first and foremost thing they want to know is what is your income? Right? You need to provide this payroll statements or cash flow statements if you're business getting a loan. And then they actually put that in as the most important input into calculating what kind of a loan they're going to provide you. And there's this term called debt to income ratio and that's kind of like the critical input they use from the income. Again, yet there is no use for income today in any of the DeFi protocols. And that's kind of like why we believe it is both the time but also it is our opportunity and responsibility to provide these kind of financial opportunities. Otherwise, if you're like me, if you spend most of your time in this world and actually majority of income comes from this ecosystem, if you want to get a mortgage and go to a traditional bank today, they will laugh at you, they will not give you anything. If you want to get a car loan, they'll not give you anything.
01:05:10.150 - 01:06:45.008, Speaker A: Again, it doesn't matter what your credit score is because your income doesn't necessarily count in that world. So that's where we believe this critical input needs to have its own primitive and needs to actually become a significant part of the lending protocol. And superfluid here provide a very interesting opportunity. When we went to Ethereum Denver a few months ago and started thinking about, okay, how do we really leverage this and build this? One of the first things we realized is first and foremost, when you again go to a traditional financer and want to get a type of loan, they ask you for this copy or photo of your income statement. It's pay slip or whatever you might have, but it is much more useful for DeFi protocol for these incomes to be actually in a contract. And streaming is one of the best ways to look at and understand income on chain because streaming signals a couple of different things, right? Streaming means that the payer who's paying this income actually has very high trust in this payee because they're creating this very continuous form of payment which is streaming. It's also something where you can understand in real time if there is actually a breach of contract or if some kind of a divorce between the payer and payee because the stream is going to be cut at that point so you have full understanding of the different events that might impact this kind of underwriting.
01:06:45.008 - 01:08:00.990, Speaker A: So when you start looking into Superfluid, obviously like many of you, you're very impressed with what they have built. And it gave us a very easy SDK to utilize to understand all these different streaming incomes that are happening. And we're able to build a simple prototype that leveraged that. And not only that, it actually helps us in another way, which is one of the most important things in automated lending is to be able to collect also the money you lended automatically. Again, this doesn't necessarily happen in traditional finance, you have to remember to pay the lender back but if you're actually getting paid in a stream the moment actually the user borrows money against their stream they can also open a payback stream as well and start paying back every single second, right? So this was not necessarily again, possible in the real world international finance scenario, but it's possible in a streaming scenario because both you can have a very strong understanding of the income because you have this stream going on. And it's in a smart contract and you have the events emitted but also you can open a payback stream and the people can actually start paying back in second the moment they borrow the money from the protocol. So it's also very convenient from that perspective and creates a larger amount of trust within the protocol itself.
01:08:00.990 - 01:09:46.656, Speaker A: The other thing actually when you look at what's going on with the large ecosystem is this new paper published by Vitalik pujai and Glenn I guess about ten days ago or so and you have to read this if you haven't read this yet. It's called the Centralized Society funding Web Three soul and it's talk about the sole bank tokens. One of the challenges in undercuritalized lending of any kind, especially uncautilized lending that's income backed is mechanisms that understand who is behind us, who is on the other side of this borrowing and in our current form of our kind of like we run design, we don't have a great mechanism to actually understand who is behind us. That's why we have designed a protocol that understands the wallet and talks about the wallet and looks at the income potential of the wallet. However, going forward there is a huge enablement that comes with these soul bound tokens because soul bound tokens can make sure that certain things are necessary transferable between different wallets and they are kind of like soul bound to the person that's behind that wallet. In the paper itself it talks about basically one of the biggest enablers for this technology is basically the issuance of unculturalized and unculturalized lending. Another actually interesting utilization of this technology is creating a debt statement that actually stays in wallet, right? So if actually someone takes a debt position against their streamed income, you can actually create a token that defines their debt statement that is sole bound for its vault as well.
01:09:46.656 - 01:10:56.900, Speaker A: So there's kind of like a lot of interesting ways you can create this more contract like environments and use cases on chain. And again, when we look at the evolution of puma finance and why we started Denver, especially with Superfluid, one reason was the utilization of the superfluid streams in terms of the understanding and the signal of the income. But the other aspect of it was basically the awesomeness of the superfluid tim. Because when we started digging into how to utilize this SDK they built and the ecosystem they built, we quickly found a group of people who are very passionate to sit down with us and dig in with us into how we can build things both within superfluid ecosystem and also ecosystem. So we found great partners and we started building our prototype at Ethereum Denver two months ago utilizing their technology. And we were the DeFi track winner at Ethereum Denver. And also we were picked as the best overall project built on Superfluid.
01:10:56.900 - 01:12:03.464, Speaker A: And that really gave us the kind of courage to actually all go full time and do this as a real startup. And we just raised $8 million also in seed funding from some of the best investors. Again, thanks to Fran and the Superfluid team and they're one of confidence in us and some of our other partners. And where we're going next is providing a credit line for every wallet out there because we strongly believe income serves credit ready to use anytime. And it's also important to denote that we should never think about income only as a streaming salary because the overall growth of the ecosystem is showing us that income can come in any form. So one of my co founders, Richard, he's a big participant in the Playtor Ecosystems, he's actually earning probably upwards of $1,000 every month by just playing web three games. And we're seeing millions of people coming into these ecosystems and earnings total of billions of dollars from this ecosystem.
01:12:03.464 - 01:12:54.012, Speaker A: Same thing with crater ecosystem, same thing with metaverse, the same thing with some other mechanisms where artists actually can start earning in this ecosystem through royalties and rents of different types of tokens. So there's just this growing ecosystem of income portfolios as we see. And that's why we're so excited to be here today, talk about what we started building. We don't have a website that has an application just yet, we will have something in the coming weeks and we will be in production in Q Three this year. But in the meantime, I'm more than happy to take your questions and talk more about income backed streaming, income backed loans and anything along those lines. Thank you. Amazing.
01:12:54.012 - 01:13:38.004, Speaker A: That was super awesome. And I'm super excited to hear that all this happened in the last three months. That must have been a crazy journey already. Indeed, indeed. So maybe one kind of obvious question would be just how do you kind of expect people to use this? And what would you have some ideas for how this could be a better integration? What would you like to see from the end users and what can we do beyond just the basics of streaming this? Perfect question. So the way we kind of going about integrating this into different ecosystems is we're looking at special two ecosystems. One is the on chain payments ecosystems, right? So Superfluid obviously is a key participant in this ecosystem.
01:13:38.004 - 01:15:04.068, Speaker A: But if you look at what Superfluid is also integrating with, you see things like Request Network, for example, where Request Network is an invoicing system where hundreds of millions of dollars every year is running through their invoicing system. You see payment companies like Paymagic Utopia Labs where these are the tools utilized by DAOs and their Treasuries to pay people. So we're looking into direct integrations with those tools because we heard from many of these players and partners that people who are actually getting paid are in need of simple financing, right? So they cannot go to their own bank, they cannot necessarily go and double down on the credit cards because their income that they need to utilize to borrow against is on chain. And we will be integrating deeply with these ecosystems and partners to basically provide us as a native capability in those applications. Another partner ecosystem we are talking to right now is this, again, play to earn ecosystems and external ecosystems. So if you think about, the biggest barrier for different type of gamers to join those ecosystems is the barrier to acquired assets required to play the game. So, for example, if you want to play certain playturn games, you might need to put up $2,000, maybe sometimes more, to acquire first assets and then play the game.
01:15:04.068 - 01:15:49.668, Speaker A: And yes, there are maybe guilds that will lend you some of these assets and then they take away 80% of your income, but you never have the assets yourself. You never liberate as a player. And more you play, the guilds have more income, not you. So we're looking at basically partnering with some of these large ecosystems right now so that when they want to onboard new gamers, actually we're able to look at their future income, opportunity and lend against it. So there is more of a liberation from the players perspective to participate in more of these ecosystems. Those are the two big ecosystems we're looking at, and we're excited about the growth of those overall. We have some other ideas in mind that we haven't prioritized yet.
01:15:49.668 - 01:16:25.340, Speaker A: One of them is we're talking to some wallet partners where again we envision eventually a credit line for every wallet. So let's say you go to MetaMask, you go to Rainbow Wallet, whatever is your favorite wallet and you say check my credit line powered by Huma. Boom. You have a credit line that might originated by some of our liquidity partners. So it's kind of like the different use cases scenarios we're thinking through and building for that's a really good no, especially if it's available as like a line of credit on a wallet that just gets to a closer normal banking experience. Exactly. As a question from the audience, from Rachel.
01:16:25.340 - 01:17:21.536, Speaker A: The question is could this also be used for business income as well? Because you kind of talked about personal loans but is there any logistical difference there totally there is no difference. From a protocol's perspective, the protocol understands income, right? On a world perspective, from a world perspective, if anything, actually business income usually is more reliable as a mechanism to underwrite against and a lot of these Dows that actually also paying service dows or small businesses of the crypto world and this information is the same. It's represented either as a stream, as an invoice, as something else. So it can be utilized by both business purposes or personal purposes. Awesome. Well, hopefully that clarified your question. Maybe I'll put you on the spot with the final question which is when can we expect the app to go live? Great question.
01:17:21.536 - 01:18:03.576, Speaker A: So we're working hard with our initial set of partners for Alpha launch sometime around September. So please look forward to that and feel free to reach out to me on Telegram as well as you can also email us at GM at huma finance and we will soon put up a website where you can also join our waitlist. Thank you. Amazing. Well, please follow at Huma Finance on Twitter to keep up with everything they're doing. And with that thank you so much and we are ready for our next panel. So as we kind of bring on all of our speakers, I am super excited to welcome and kind of start this panel.
01:18:03.576 - 01:18:42.250, Speaker A: We're going to talk about web three native business opportunities. There's a lot of stuff that we've already talked about that is possible with this new business ideas to just new ways to think about using these protocols or just various protocols together. But what we want to do is focus on the ability to honestly just think about what is a on chain company look like or the future of managing businesses on chain look like. So for this amazing panel, I have four amazing panelists. I have Kristoff from Request Network, tarun from Coinshift, julian from Unlock Protocol and Mike from Superfluid. So we'll bring them all on stage and get started. So welcome everybody.
01:18:42.250 - 01:19:12.504, Speaker A: Good to see a lot of familiar faces. Hello. And before we dig in, I'm going to do the very boring thing which is I'll have each of you introduce yourself just so that for the audience who doesn't know what you are doing, they get some context. So maybe starting with Mike, we'd love to know who you are, what you do, and then we'll just go next with Julian Kristoff. Thank you Kartik. It's a pleasure to see again after all this time working with It Global. I'm Mike or Mikhaile.
01:19:12.504 - 01:19:46.188, Speaker A: I am one of the co founders of Superfluid. I had the pleasure to meet Francesco Meow, my co founders almost two years ago now and build this kind of platform that allows value to be transferred in real time on chain and with EVM network so far. Amazing. Julian. Hi, I'm Julian. I'm the CN partner at Unlock, a company that's trying to build or that actually has built a protocol for memberships. An easy way for creators, brands, communities of any kind to mint their own membership contract and then sell NFTs in the form of membership cards.
01:19:46.188 - 01:20:08.996, Speaker A: And these NFTs have an expiration date which enables recurring revenues for businesses and creators. So hey everyone, pretty excited to be here. I'm Tarun, founder and CEO of Coinshift. So we simplify Crypto Energy Management for Dows and Web. Three companies. So started out last year and yeah, I think pretty excited to be here and my turn. Hello everyone.
01:20:08.996 - 01:20:53.076, Speaker A: Christopher Flesh. I'm an ex CFO. And I'm CEO and co founder at Request Finance. And basically Request Finance is doing invoicing and payments in digital currencies and we have plans to launch a Superfood integration next month. Amazing. Well, so it looks like some alpha has already been dropped. But we'll get started with our first kind of very obvious question, which is it's definitely a trick question, but do we see actually businesses happening on chain or is it just speculation and people just trading NFTs and putting money in DeFi and yield? I'll just kind of open it up.
01:20:53.076 - 01:21:22.216, Speaker A: Anybody wants to take the first step? We'll kind of go in. Yeah, I can start. Yes, the answer is yes. There is some business happening on chain. I think just for conscious there was like 80 million, but Tarunu will speak about that. For Request Finance, we processed invoices for more than 200 million so far. And this is basically happening from our point of view for bill payments, expense reimbursements and salary payments.
01:21:22.216 - 01:21:56.120, Speaker A: And basically the companies who are doing that kind of business, they are of three different types. The first one is Crypto, native companies and DAOs. Second one is basically professional services like lawyers, marketing agencies, software development companies. And the third one is more web. Two companies transitioning to Web three. Amazing. Anyone else want to add something to this? Just to add on it and all the categories I think mentioned.
01:21:56.120 - 01:22:48.836, Speaker A: Definitely a lot of our users actually use Request Network as well. So it's a combination of invoicing, core payments, mass payouts, like a lot of things. So all the categories are definitely there and third party sort of reimbursements and all those things are really going on. So lot of crypto native companies and the good trend is there are some companies which use us, they just want to accept payment from overseas, right? And they just want like a noncustodial kind of solution so that they have full control like how they should manage it. So they also are looking to really expand through on chain sort of payments and acceptance. Right? So it's like a new sort of set of market which is coming. I would even go further in the consumer world where we're also seeing we've unlocked a bunch of creators basically monetizing with their audience and their fans and people are paying to access their content or access their communities.
01:22:48.836 - 01:23:29.864, Speaker A: One thing that I think some of you have experienced is tickets to conferences. A lot of web three events are now selling tickets through unlock and these are consumer people paying to access something. So yes, there is some business happening. Definitely I would defer to the other guys, Christophe and Tarun on the business side of things, but we're also seeing that on the consumer side of things, which is really exciting. Yeah, and I would add even that what we are speaking about basically activities that is happening on chain for businesses are resilient operations. Meaning it's not really depending on the market direction. So whether there's a bull or bear market, it's fine, it's growing anyway.
01:23:29.864 - 01:24:58.548, Speaker A: So I think I'm speaking for all of us, what we have seen at Superfluid is that last year or the years before, there was a lot more of this DeFi somewhere vibes or NFT speculation. But as the teams that operate in this industry start to grow and get funded and start building essential pieces of the infrastructure that powers all these services, well, guess what? They have to pay salaries and raise invoices and you have B to B value transfer, but also B, two C value transfer. So it's interesting to look at the blockchain industry as something that is also robust over time and not just as fragile as market price is. So I guess that anyone here had experienced over the last year or so and it's good to kind of dive into that. I don't know if you guys have seen any trends in this direction. Like have you seen more business happening on chain? Everyone's talking about is this the year of the Dow, is this the year of on chain payments? What do you think about it? That's a great question, but it's definitely the year where the builders are basically standing out and standing on top. So the big builders exactly like you were saying, Michele, the ones the companies which have funding, whether it's a Dao, a crypto native company or a startup from more the web two world.
01:24:58.548 - 01:25:48.450, Speaker A: But what we are seeing is that even the web two companies, they transition to Web Three for efficiency, like Tarun was saying earlier, and this is something that's going to stay for very long. And I think what also happened is I think in the last sort of if we call this market a beer market, I would say in the last sort of beer, we were not having boom of really USDC or our stable crypto coins, right. And all the VCs or investors have money majorly in BTC or E. And that's why the companies were not able to raise specifically in a stable sort of form. And that is it is highly coupled the growth of robust infrastructure into the speculation or other things. Right. But the last few years, it just highly decoupled from that.
01:25:48.450 - 01:26:22.844, Speaker A: And that's why two people just come to eglobals like hackathon and they can raise money that was not happening before. And they can raise in stables and they can literally run like a proper business on chain. And once that is exponentially growing, I think that is like a tremendous sort of movement in this sort of business on chain business, native operations. Right. And obviously, Dows is like, I would say, like a superset of all these things. Like, you raise money and then you finally exit to the community. So there's like a next level thing to just addition to that.
01:26:22.844 - 01:26:46.784, Speaker A: So I'll say, like crypto startups, all web three major institutions, even investors, all of these people are just now running businesses. They operate on top of crypto. So that is something, like, really good happened. Yeah. And I mean, you all mentioned USDC and stable coins. To me. It's one of the major innovation, not from this year, obviously, from, I would say, probably two or three years ago, that's finally starting to completely pyramid everything that we do in crypto.
01:26:46.784 - 01:27:24.672, Speaker A: Like, most people deploying contracts with unlock right now, actually using USDC as the base currency. They're not charging in ETH or any of the volatile cryptocurrency, even like Matic on polygon or others. They're charging in USDC. And so it's pretty clear that from a UX perspective, the predominance of stable coins now is definitely a big unlock and has given businesses, but also consumers a lot more confidence in terms of trading things. Because there's obviously the technology that you have to have to trust it, but also the currency that you're getting paid in or that you're paying in. And so seeing that is something massive and something that honestly is extremely, extremely bullish as a signal. Yeah, totally agree.
01:27:24.672 - 01:28:01.276, Speaker A: And I would add that I'm surprised that we don't see a big stable coin that is not USD effect, actually. So there are some other very big currencies in the world. And so far, a lot of businesses, even in Europe or in Asia, they are dealing with USDC. That's surprising. Yeah. Well, this is already a great panel because my job is already reduced from asking questions or getting all of you to engage. So I'm glad here that I'm but I mean, if I'm just kind of understanding all this, right? I did start off with this.
01:28:01.276 - 01:28:54.910, Speaker A: This was a trick question, right? The answer is obviously yes. And the answer here is what we're clearly seeing is that people are behaving like businesses on chain without actually needing a legal entity for lack of a better reduction. And that's kind of, first of all, just mind blowing because you can get to almost the same scale as a really successful company in tech or even any other part of non tech world and never even have to deal with largely the real world. And that just still blows my mind. Maybe the question kind of I have is all of you have customers that are in that category of companies that are not necessarily legal entities. They're directly mostly on chain. Have you kind of observed any kind of obvious patterns? Like, are all of them just behaving like exact normal companies? Like yes, they have to do payroll, they have to manage accounts receivable and send invoices or send money.
01:28:54.910 - 01:30:05.492, Speaker A: Is that just one to one? Are we seeing something better? Like maybe Turin seeing that for so many Dows? What's kind of been some highlights. Yeah, I think lot of I will say the needs, if you just compare from any company, the needs are somewhere similar, but the experience and the things they want is entirely different, I would say. So, in short, if you're holding sort of a lot of crypto assets and now you want to run like a payroll, right. What a traditional sort of system look like? You can just rely on certain bank and then you just schedule payments and you can just do lot of things through the sort of simple database, right? And you want the same operation in crypto as well. But if you just say we'll take the custody of the funds, then you want automation, they don't want it. Right. So basically I think all the operations are very similar, but the infrastructure and companies like ours request and we need to build that infrastructure layer basically to support those operations because the fundamental layer is like self custody, right? You cannot just use the same sort of tools to provide the same experience.
01:30:05.492 - 01:30:57.376, Speaker A: And now the question is how we can achieve the best experience plus building this ethos of right, delegation, trustless or permissionless kind of systems so that we can then once we combine this, this entire system is far more, I would say superior than what we have seen in the traditional sort of system, right. So that is the common pattern we see. So a lot of times we also try to apply certain principles because we have our banking app as well as a coinshift, right? And now we have as a coinshift, as a user, as a platform as well. A lot of times we compare what kind of experience we. Want, but not at the cost of taking the custody or taking the trustlessness from the user. I was going to say I guess we kind of put you on the spot. Christoph.
01:30:57.376 - 01:32:10.190, Speaker A: Is that the same kind of set of values and kind of principles that matter when you're thinking about adding more features to request or how does that kind of change anything for you? No, I'd say so basically how request finance works is you raise an invoice and you get paid on a wallet. But you can get paid on a wallet that is custodial or non custodial. You decide then the one who is making the payment so far he's paying from a non custodial wallet. So right now the integration that we've got is, for example, integration with Gnosisafe but basically projects like Coinshift seems super promising as well with an even better experience. So basically I would say I'm a bit agnostic whether most of the future users are going to do some self custody. But the way I'm thinking about it for myself is I would not do 100% of one or the other. So basically, I don't know, like 50 50 or trust some custodial services a little bit and also trust the noncustodial wallet which basically when you trust the noncustodial wallets you trust yourself.
01:32:10.190 - 01:33:08.176, Speaker A: Yes. Which has some downsides because there is no centralized risk or a single point of failure in some scenarios with not a lot of but it's not a bad thing either. I mean we've kind of been successfully doing that at scale and it is in a way working for all of your customers to some degree. But I agree, maybe one follow up that I have for Tarun is essentially like you kind of commented on, there's some new infrastructure or just infrastructure in general that we need is kind of the goal. The way you think about it, that hey, we want to make the experience just one to one with how existing banking looks like for your customers or do you think there's more than that? What's kind of the missing infrastructure pieces here for you and how do you think about that? Yeah, so the mix of definitely both things. There are certain things definitely you need to replicate as well. Like invoicing is there where it's mandatory, like you cannot miss invoicing right.
01:33:08.176 - 01:33:45.892, Speaker A: When you are building like a crypto banking layer. So this is there and then you have to have scheduling of payment. These are the certain things you can bring. But I think the interesting things which cannot be possible and people need it is like some kind of KPI based performance kind of things. Right. And how will you really do that in a normal kind of database application? It is not that easy, these new primitive what do you mean by that? Can you share more? Yeah. So let's say you want to reward certain contributors based on some KPIs, right? And it should be trustless for those contributors now.
01:33:45.892 - 01:35:29.928, Speaker A: So you don't need to ask the admin like I need this payment at this time, so I'll perform this and I'll get the money, right? So it's a trustless system which is not possible, right? So I think those kind of new primitives will be there. So I think we'll be building more kind of those kind of primitives and then there are certain things which is highly crypto native. So one example could be like right now I just feel like multisec is highly operationally inefficient, right? It is built for security, it is built for securing your funds, but it is not built for running your transactions every single day, right? So for that I think what we need is more kind of modules on top of this base layer so that you can be operationally very efficient. And that is something like new kind of things you can do like scoping out certain call data operations technically, right? Like this person can execute only these operations through multi SEG or some kind of delegation. So these kind of modules will be required and it is entirely makes and to confirm what Tarun was saying, no, I'd add that basically I think we're saying the same thing, but basically we can add workflows to how the money is sent to whom and even in which conditions. And basically the smart contract is allowing us to do that. So we could apply a smart contract together combined with superfree, for example, for streaming of payments, where basically there's total transparency and there is a trustless system for the workers, the builders, the creators to get paid in a very transparent setup.
01:35:29.928 - 01:35:56.710, Speaker A: So if I take an example in the web two industry, basically when the client pays and a sales guy gets a bonus, basically all this could be automated. If the client pays the bill, then the sales guys get a percentage. All this is automated, transparent, it's a clear workflow and it's managed by smart contract. And this does not exist yet. But I think we are building the first pillars. So step by step we are going to go there. Amazing.
01:35:56.710 - 01:36:37.410, Speaker A: I do want to give the other speakers a chance too. So what I'm hearing is there's a lot more that I think we can add on to this thing. So they're really interesting topics. So we're starting off with, okay, let's try to get the basic building blocks of running a business on chain up and going from what we already understand how any normal company would do. So you got stuff like invoicing, you got basic kind of payments, scheduling, managing payroll and just kind of money flowing in and out. Those are simple building blocks that everybody needs. And it's great that it's not custodial, but also it's fun if sometimes it's custodial because you can have the best of both worlds on where the asset is coming from.
01:36:37.410 - 01:37:47.060, Speaker A: That seems like usually the building blocks you need for running a normal business with a bank account and an illegal entity. Clearly, there's a lot more we can do here. So maybe starting off with what you think, julian, what are some of these new pieces that we can add on and how do we kind of supercharge this? Absolutely. What Christophe just said is very inspiring in that scenario because it means that when we think about companies on chain, we're very skumorphic. We're really trying to apply the same model that we have when in mean, if I'm a salesperson and I'm being paid by a company organization, but I'm also getting bonuses based on whether the customer is actually paying the company. And again with air quotes, why do I actually need to be an employee in that scenario? Is that something that maybe I am just a member of a Dow in that scenario? And so that's kind of pushing us further down the idea of kind of theory of the firm where basically the company exists as a way to reduce friction between different people inside and outside, when actually the chain itself is the thing that actually reduces a lot of that friction. And right now, if I'm a salesperson, I need to believe or I need to trust that yes, the customer is going to pay the company and then the accounting inside the company is going to report that to the HR team that's going to pay me.
01:37:47.060 - 01:38:33.356, Speaker A: Well, if this is all on chain, actually there's no need for me to get that information from the HR team. There is no need for the accounting team to actually report this thing. I can as an employee, be immediately paid when indeed the customer pays for the product. That's to me, one of the things that I'm excited about is we're going to move beyond these kind of skumorphic phase where we're just rebuilding the same models of off chain companies and organization to on chain and realizing that a lot of these is just cruft that we don't need anymore. And so that's going to reduce friction and kind of make things much smoother and much easier down the line. How does unlock fit into this equation for yeah, so the way the way we think a lot about these things is like unlock itself is a protocol for memberships. And we think that many, many businesses eventually will have a membership.
01:38:33.356 - 01:39:28.276, Speaker A: So in that framing, maybe we're more like a 2.5 model in that scenario where it's like we're still the same existing companies, the same media organization, the same creators, but they actually want to start thinking about, okay, what is it to have a membership as a core business model versus just a transactional one? So for media businesses, that means that I get a membership and I access some of the content. I don't actually necessarily pay per article. I'm going to say pay in the form of ads per article because the ad is a transactional thing where I pay with my eyeballs in that scenario, but I move into a different status where okay, now I'm a member of that organization. We also are chatting with a bunch of consumer goods product. We're thinking, you know what, it's very hard to do customer acquisition, but customer retention actually is something that can be improved a ton of times by having memberships as the core model. And so we all know that Amazon Prime is a very good example of this, where if you're a member of Amazon, you're more likely Amazon Prime.
01:39:28.276 - 01:40:02.768, Speaker A: Should I say you're more likely to actually use them to ship your next good. Because this sun cost analogy sunk cost system where you've already paid for the membership. Why would you go some other store to get free shipping? Because you get it from them right away. And we're discussing with some of the brands you might have seen that Starbucks in the US is going to do NFTs for their loyalty points. That's a pretty obvious use case of the unlock protocol in that scenario. Yeah, and also perfect example of what membership looks like in general. Right, and I think fundamentally in a way employment is a way to think about memberships.
01:40:02.768 - 01:40:32.830, Speaker A: It's a exactly right. We're seeing a bunch of Dows actually use unlock for their memberships where instead of being kind of how much you own of governance, you have one and you pay every month. And the fact that you become member of that community gives you access to certain benefits and maybe the right to actually represent the company in kind of sales deals, for example. In that scenario. Yeah, actually similarly even benefits could be memberships. Right. Like you can get all these various perks even if you're employed in a different form or just directly on exactly right.
01:40:32.830 - 01:41:37.832, Speaker A: Mike, can you think of anything else that we can use? Well, quite a few actually. I love what you said Julianne, about this idea of moving beyond the schemorphic phase of crypto where we try just to mimic what is existing in TradFi. We have seen that with every major transformational technology where people just try to replicate the existing world into the new technology standard. But I'm extremely excited to see what can be done natively on web three. Right, so there are some properties of the chain that are really powerful like transparency, custody, self custody, but also the kind of permanence or immutability and the fact that normally good chains should be uptime 100% so it never goes down. Right. And in this environment you can see how most of our operations that generate friction in the world we are living in can be deferred to the chain.
01:41:37.832 - 01:42:59.736, Speaker A: And in that case they are not only automated, but they're also taken care of independently from what the community or the organization or the company does. So you can envision services that are fully automated with very little friction or overhead that can provide outstanding value to the consumer or other businesses out there. That's what I'm extremely excited personally. But of course, looking at the world with a superfluid angle, I'm really excited about this idea of interconnecting economical players such that we remove these kind of delays that are really generating a lot of cost and friction for the world, right? So if you're thinking about this idea of payment failures or delays in payments in general the world used to run on checks being sent out by mail. Right now we have credit cards, we have a lot better infrastructure in the Tradify world. But what if you could just have a situation where a company can get all the value it generates from revenues in real time from their consumers or their clients in a way and then redirect that to the suppliers almost as it comes in. So in that case, what happens is you can really reduce the amount of capital that you need in your own account, say to then manage these delays to make sure you have the buffer to manage the cash flow.
01:42:59.736 - 01:44:05.664, Speaker A: And that means that if you take the world economy and then you kind of reduce the buffer or the working capital needed to just make the company work across the board. Can you imagine how much capital we can free up and put at work building better technologies for addressing things like climate change or those major problems humanity is facing today? So that's what makes me tick with this idea of Web Three you can have someone paying a membership through unlock that goes to a business that operates maybe in a superfluid fashion so with superfluid streams in real time. And that value goes directly to someone working for that business. That then is a collaborator that has been invoicing via request network or using the management payroll from the Conshift world. And try to connect the dots such that the person has that money ready to invest in real time through, say, Ricochet exchange. And that goes back into some sort of investment world eventually, or some LP position that then fuels the next company that's going to innovate. And then this cycle continues over and over.
01:44:05.664 - 01:45:26.952, Speaker A: So this idea that you can basically inflate the economic value of a state or an economy without adding more capital to the mix, just using the existing capital in a more efficient way really makes me excited. Although that is amazing and I was going to just open this up for everybody else. There's clearly a lot of ways to do this thing in real time with just streaming payments and superflow altogether. How do you kind of see this changes what you're doing at your core? Maybe go for it. Yeah, so I think specifically what we're trying to build is the first layer is like core treasury layer, one kind of system. Right now the treasury infrastructure does not even exist we're calling multisig wallet as a treasury sort of infrastructure, right? So that infrastructure layer needs to exist and then basically how we see this is like all any kind of core primitives to those treasury layer can be automated and then it can be run like real time. So payroll is one aspect but we are very interested in things like where our employees are sort of getting the money and then they are just doing like a DCA on Ricochet, right? And then we are already doing that, right? So it is not like these are assumptions.
01:45:26.952 - 01:46:40.772, Speaker A: People really want to do something like that and that is something like we want to bring more these kind of primitives which can literally automate the entire workflows in a very crypto native way and superfluid just do that out of the box. Only what I would love to add on top of it is the entire experience of interacting with the current system is not that great right now. And we just want to make it really seamless so that from even the Dao and Min side or the delegate side, it should be super seamless to manage the flow rate, editing the flow rate or they can just come for the right operation. Otherwise, as Mike was saying, they shouldn't be worried about any other thing, right? The payment will flow themselves. So this is definitely we are looking and then on the asset management aspect as well, we want to move forward onto that as well. Where you have certain kind of vaults where one wallet is sort of generating certain yield and that yield is redirected to the payroll vault directly. Right? And it is like harvesting directly and when you are paying from that vault you don't need to worry about I don't need to come back and do all those things.
01:46:40.772 - 01:47:17.344, Speaker A: Right? It is like directly flowing. So all your treasury operations are automated. Just an idea. Actually we did not speak about it, but I think there's no use case about paying a rent in streaming or maybe Michele, you're aware of that? Because actually that would really make sense. You get your salary in a stream way and you pay your rent in a stream way. That would be fun. Michele, are you aware of such a project? Yeah, there's been a few and someone's doing it more like from a hackathon point of view and others are doing it more like a business.
01:47:17.344 - 01:48:12.144, Speaker A: So what's interesting about it is that we manage to stream to an NFT so that if the NFT changes hands, the stream redirects automatically. So if the NFT say is your house or is a parcel of land into central land and you're renting that out to someone, the moment you sell that to someone else, the rent redirects automatically without you having to ask someone to send a stream to someone else and redirect the stream manually. Which is part of that automation we're discussing before where basically you are just delegating to the chain all the kind of business operations to some degree. So yeah, that is one of the key use cases for sure. And I'm really looking forward to seeing something like that happening, for example, in the B two C market as well. For example, I don't know if Unlock has looked into this as well to have memberships on Streams. I think we were talking about it and you and Francesco were talking about it as well.
01:48:12.144 - 01:49:00.284, Speaker A: But that would be amazing to see. And yeah, I'm just looking forward. There's an ongoing project of integrating the both where basically you're right, as long as you pay, you've got the membership and the minute the stream ends, the membership expires, basically, which I think is a very brilliant integration. I want to jump on that actually, because one point that I think Taryn made earlier is like one of the core ideas of Web and Blockchain is the Web Three and Blockchain is composability it's. The idea that these things could all work together, kind of Lego bricks versus kind of the platform monolithic approach was like, okay, you go rely on this thing for everything in your business. I think businesses have realized when it comes to kind of digital at this point, they're very reliant on a very small number of actors. Like, if you sell goods online, well, you know what, your ads are all driven by Google and Facebook and then your shipping might actually be all powered by Amazon.
01:49:00.284 - 01:49:46.236, Speaker A: And these things are scary when it comes to doing businesses, you really don't want to have this much reliance on a small number of actors. And one of the opportunities of Web Three in many ways is to actually say, no, you don't have to rely on platforms like this. You can be using open protocol. Superfluid is a good example of this. And what's actually even beyond that is not only you can use these open protocols that would not be kind of rugged under your feet if things change, but also you can collectively manage them and co own them, which is kind of also kind of a very novel. Like, I know a lot of businesses that know, selling things through Amazon or through Facebook really want to have a say on the product roadmap of these companies and say, no, you Facebook. This new kind of way you approach pages is not the right way.
01:49:46.236 - 01:50:20.570, Speaker A: We're going to struggle with this at this point. This is very much kind of impossible. Like, basically every business that relies on these platforms is at the mercy of these platforms. But with Web Three and protocols, not only they're using open things, decentralized things that are immutable or at least have a clear mutability path, basically, but also they could collectively own them, which I think is even one step beyond and one step further. Absolutely. I was going to say we're getting a couple of comments and questions from the audience too. So if you have any other questions for our speaker, please just type them in the chat and we'll be able to ask them here.
01:50:20.570 - 01:51:14.488, Speaker A: No, it's a really good point too, because I feel like in addition to seeing in a way the basic building blocks being offered on chain, essentially what you're doing is you get to play with the granularity, right? Like if I want to send a wire or some deposit, there's usually a minimum required. When you do paychecks, they do every two weeks or every month. And you kind of now have a per second, if not even less than that, as a time interval. And you get to do a lot more creative things when you can actually do this thing by milliseconds or seconds or just any denomination that's as granular. And with blockchains, we already kind of got to the point where you can now send money up to like a billionth of a dollar, if not longer or more. And that becomes more creative because now you have more service here to kind of do interesting things. And yeah, it will be amazing if your salary is streamed by the second.
01:51:14.488 - 01:51:47.348, Speaker A: And same thing for a membership. If I have to commit to an annual membership for X dollars and I decide to stop it three days in or 99 days in, you can prorate that. And those are just not easy to do in reconciliation in traditional SaaS or any other model. And I think Superflow just makes that world amazing. And beyond that, you can even automate what happens. I mean, the thing that I love about Superflow is SaaS businesses, expiring cards is a nightmare for them. It's like, oh fuck, these guys now spend like an hour on the phone to try to get them to update because they forgot about it.
01:51:47.348 - 01:52:42.708, Speaker A: And at the same time, the fact that they forgot about it is kind of a cool thing because they paid without worrying too much. But now that they're going to remind them that we exist, are they going to stop paying? And so I know there's a ton of businesses for which kind of is a challenge, but the fact that you can automate all of these things on training, actually you don't waste a dollar trying to call back a customer. It's like, hey, you stop paying, this is going to stop working for you is a massive, massive opportunity. Absolutely. And one thing that kind of just stood out to me with what you said, Mike, before is one. First of all, there's way more room to explore what new web three kind of building blocks are here for running in operations on chain. But even if you assume that there's nothing new to be invented, which is definitely not the case, there is still a massive opportunity to increase kind of anything from what you can capture in value to just the value you can generate for just the existing building blocks.
01:52:42.708 - 01:53:22.896, Speaker A: And kind of one obvious example, which comes from a comment from the chat is the fact that all these things are composable, interconnected and inspectable on chain. You have so many new benefits that you don't get in the real world. Now, I can basically design, let's say, a tax management system that just understands everything that's going on. It can fully make sense of everything without me having to connect something or having a custom integration. And you simply just get to expand the size of what you can achieve or how you can actually use that information for better decision making or just better efficiency. And we haven't even seen that world yet. And that's just even if you invent nothing new from here on, you can still have a massive improvement in the existing processes.
01:53:22.896 - 01:54:12.116, Speaker A: And I think that to me is probably the most exciting part, especially as we do a lot of logistics here on our end. Why would you not want that? And there's like 50 more things you can do on that one. Yeah, I don't think accountants will like me, or at least what I have to say now. But the fact that if you were to have visibility on the revenue streams of a business or even a consumer, that means you can pay tax in real time and that the amount you are going to pay tax is very transparent. So I can imagine how governments would love the opportunity to charge taxes in real time, for example, on a stream, so that part of your business operations are transferring directly into the government with the downside of them to have to be transparent as well in a way. Right. So that makes it fairer for everybody.
01:54:12.116 - 01:55:02.608, Speaker A: Now there's no real cheating, but then all the information is available and I guess the public can make better decision because of the visibility they get. So I mean, we can bring this to the kind of extreme, but we don't have to. The point is there is efficiency everywhere you look when you're using this type of infrastructure. And I think Web Three is just a matter of time. It's going to just unlock it over time. Yeah, the way I see it is it's super promising, but basically it's difficult to imagine that the authorities are going to set up this streaming tax system. But I see first some kind of solidarity tax system that would happen at more or less global level just for certain causes that we could do on some transactions and voluntarily.
01:55:02.608 - 01:55:57.744, Speaker A: And this is something that could happen tomorrow morning. Yes. Since we've opened attacking on accountants, one piece here is that there are so many things that exist just because there's a lack of transparency. Right. The fact that I can generate anywhere from code to manage the most amount of cases, whether they're edge cases or just common conditions, to have a consistent system that just works across anywhere from jurisdictions to standards. You effectively can get to a point where these things are generated on their own and forget even if you don't get to the point where you're paying real time tax. I can foresee some friction on that one from some government sides but the fact that you can still generate what it is automatically even if it's real time or even if it's static is still a massive improvement.
01:55:57.744 - 01:56:35.970, Speaker A: That just is a painful process for every single company here. Once a year you got to figure out what transactions are happening on chain, what are interconnected sort of swaps in there. You can fix this and sort of enable a whole new frictionalized, sort of more granular world. So I think that's to me already an improvement from this world. Yeah, definitely. And the reason why accountants are actually preparing books, the reason why bookkeeping exists is so that we pay taxes. So basically you know what I mean? Accountants would not exist anymore with that kind of job but would do some things which are probably a little bit more interesting.
01:56:35.970 - 01:57:39.030, Speaker A: You're right, this is interestingly. A perfect example of cutting out the middlemen. Yeah, we've seen finance side for existing systems, we've seen that on payment side and now there is the processing piece that is still incumbent. I know we're kind of getting close to our time on the panel so maybe one thing that I think will be interesting to end on would be kind of seeing what you're excited about. Like obviously all of you are working on open platforms and if you kind of can have anyone from requests to ideas for people to kind of build on top of what do you think is top of that list and what would you like to see more creative exploration on? I'll kind of maybe start with Julian because I think you have a lot of ideas on how memberships can actually be integrated everywhere. So I mean it's going to be a segue from what we discussed but I think mentioned a couple of minutes ago stablecoins as being one of major innovation. I think we're now at a point where we have all of these EVM chains and I think we're all building on these.
01:57:39.030 - 01:58:32.244, Speaker A: I know the bridge topic is a contentious one but I think it's also very hard for end users and businesses to at some point manage 5678 balances of tokens across different chains. And so thinking about a world that would be abstracting away some of the complexity of being on multiple EVM chains where as a user I start a stream from one chain and I know the stream is going to go through a bridge onto something else. Wherever that something else is, is something that I'm really excited to see. I know there's a ton of teams that are working on this but for me that's the next big unlock ha in. The ecosystem. It's like how can our protocol abstract away the complexity of a multi chain world? And I think it's going to be through protocol specific bridges rather than kind of agnostic bridges. And hopefully we'll see that happening in the next few months.
01:58:32.244 - 01:59:00.176, Speaker A: And so if you guys are working on anything fun on that front, please reach out to us. We'd love to hear about this amazing, true and Diva, anything you want to add? I think 100% aligned with Julian. We just feel like lot of our customer base is just setting up accounts on different chains for specific reasons. Maybe they're moving their protocol there. They have a lot of treasury assets there, right. And the most friction is like they can't between multiseg, like they can't between the money between multisegs in a very seamless way. Right.
01:59:00.176 - 01:59:44.960, Speaker A: It's very painful. So we are also sort of looking for these kind of solutions which can work out of the box and I think protocol based sort of right, efficient sort of bridges will make lot of sense for us. And front end like SARS can integrate very seamless. So I'm pretty excited on that. But one other thing I'm pretty excited is definitely on the layer two, specifically on Ethereum. Because previously we all know other than Ethereum, it was very difficult to really trust any other sort of chain where you can just park some funds right, with the security of ethereum. So I think the major DeFi is growing in the layer twos and that is something like we are very excited about to grow.
01:59:44.960 - 01:59:59.572, Speaker A: Maybe we'll build a protocol specifically on layer two. Right. And just know Superfluid did that. So it is really appealing to us. Very excited. No, absolutely. Christoph, I'll let you go next.
01:59:59.572 - 02:00:40.764, Speaker A: And then just in a few words, basically there are many innovative solutions, many opportunities of things that we can integrate and there are many other that we could create and that we don't have yet. But if we can have a next step, where the next tools and the next apps that we build are actually about execution, making them happen. So for example, build on top of Superfriit, build on top of the great projects which already exist and make them happen and help the web two economy to convert to web three. That would be really nice. And further innovation can happen a little bit later. That would be fine. You're right.
02:00:40.764 - 02:01:32.384, Speaker A: I think we've kind of essentially been talking about just how do we exist and just do everything in web three side. But there's a clear argument there's a much bigger world that we need to move to web three to be able to do these things efficiently on chain with new features. And that's a really good point that was missed. And I'm just kind of processing what Julian Interin said. You're effectively talking about having different currency bank accounts, which is still a problem even in the real world side, even if it's the same asset, just on different chain, behaves like a secondary account in a different currency and you have different properties there that you have to deal with. And I don't think you saw that at all in the Web Two world or in the banking world. So I actually am personally excited for that to just be solved where we just have an all in all solution that just doesn't let us spend any mental brain power on thinking about where it's coming from.
02:01:32.384 - 02:02:20.092, Speaker A: We'll end with Mike. I'll let you kind of share your thoughts there too. Yeah, I was just wanting to say that what you just said is something that Tarun is addressing with this ability to manage multiple safe and also multiple networks with their new V Two. So that's very exciting and we want to try to use it as well, see how it works. For me, I'm really excited about all the building blocks needed to power a Web Three native economy coming together. So you've seen invoicing treasury management, membership management, subscription management. I think we just miss some of the understanding of how to manage crypto and putting some oil on the wheels to make sure that the mechanics are fine so we don't have to go crazy chasing sea level executives.
02:02:20.092 - 02:03:25.780, Speaker A: Of a project to sign a multi SIG transaction every other day just to pay someone because they made a bounty and they deserve to be paid in time. Right? So these bits and pieces are coming along and even some of the backend infrastructure now needs to have high SLAs. Right? And when the service level agreement reaches enterprise grade and there is no friction anymore, then we will reduce so much inefficiency that will unlock a lot of time for everybody. More specifically, I'm excited about how real Time value transfer would play on top of that once that's ready, because with automation, assuming that all the friction is removed by the chains and by the tools that we're building, then kind of real time finance would HyperCharge all of that. So I'm very much looking forward to seeing how this could unfold over time with real time Finance value transfer, it's a great time to meet this year. No problem at all. It's like I am myself on one of the live streams.
02:03:25.780 - 02:04:09.748, Speaker A: Okay. No, I mean that makes total sense. And if anything, I think Superfluous reduces that friction with, in a way having a more optimistic we go ahead with that and if something is not right, you get to sort of put a pause on that instead of taking anywhere from the full penalty to going through the decision if it needs to be reversed or stopped. So hopefully that was super informative for everybody else on the audience side. And if anything, I'm just gotten more excited about running a whole company without having a legal entity and I can't wait for more building blocks to exist so we can really think about that world just being our default. So thanks again, everybody, and looking forward. Thank you in future events too.
02:04:09.748 - 02:04:32.072, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye bye. Thank you. Amazing. Bye bye. We are ready for our next talk. So you kind of got a preview of all the building blocks that we think are needed or we need to in a way perfect, but that leaves a lot of room open for what we think we can do with the world of streaming money.
02:04:32.072 - 02:05:02.384, Speaker A: So without further ado, I'd like to welcome Meow, who's going to talk about what is upcoming in the SuperFlip Protocol. So welcome to Stage and feel free to get started whenever you're ready. Yeah, thank you. Kartik, start screen. Yeah. Thanks everyone, to join our first superfluid reactor summit. So I'm meow on my GitHub.
02:05:02.384 - 02:05:26.684, Speaker A: It's hellwolf. And I'm CTO. And co founder of Superfluid Finance. So today I'm going to talk about what's next to the protocol. So maybe let's first look at Superfluid in railway mirror. So, how it was started. So, exactly 440 days ago, probably 441 now.
02:05:26.684 - 02:06:05.316, Speaker A: After a few hours, we deployed to Polygon. That was a transaction and we had two packages for builders to start with and deployed then also to XDI, both of the network. I changed the name, if you remember, it was called Matic and now it's called Polygon and it was XDI. Now. It's called Gnosis chain. So that's how we got started. So how is it today? Now we have vibrant development activities in the Monoreppo.
02:06:05.316 - 02:06:48.420, Speaker A: So we have a lot of forks on 27, we have a lot of stars, and we have quite consistent commits to our Dev branch. And our Smart Contracts project is also evolving. So we have just added the access control list to our CFA constant flow agreement. And we also switched to Hard Hat for functional testing. We also integrated with Foundry for additional fuzzing testing. We recently actually yesterday also introduced Hotfuzz, a new test framework for superfluid applications. That means your super apps also.
02:06:48.420 - 02:07:17.548, Speaker A: So you can now use something called Hotfuz, which uses Echidna from chill bits for even more sophisticated Fuzzing testing. Now we have more than two packages. We have new and better packages. JS SDK is being deprecated. You should really switch to SDK core. And we have also a redux flavor of SDK. We now put all the network support on Subgraph.
02:07:17.548 - 02:07:43.876, Speaker A: We have quite good support there and Hot files recently. And we also have something called a spec haskell. I'll talk about that later. Now we have also many more examples. So there is even an archive folder now because there's just too many, which is good. There are more docs. So if you haven't visited our docs, go to Docs Finance.
02:07:43.876 - 02:08:24.100, Speaker A: You'll see the Protocol Overview developer section, things about Sentinel and all the peripheral resources you could find. And we also have continued contributions from our community. So here are the badges for our contributors. Some of them actually joined even our team full time. We're always committed to contributing back to the community. So we have pull requests to the Truffle suit for example. We have pull requests to the Truffle plugin verify, we have issue reports and technical feedback to the Graph.
02:08:24.100 - 02:09:08.688, Speaker A: And we have also pull requests to Ekina for example. Many many more actually. And we adhere to the open collaboration and free and open source philosophy. So that's part of our way of working. As a result, we have continued usage from builders. So now according to GitHub, we have 98, almost 300 repository depending on our Ethereum contracts projects. And there's also continued download from our NPM packages from npmjs and also we are live on many more chains now.
02:09:08.688 - 02:09:46.172, Speaker A: So we just recently launched on avalanche a while ago. We also launched on layer two. Arbitrum Optimism motorcon. Also we have cumulative flows going up so that's so far a figure that I can share. So what's coming next to superfluid? More networks, of course. So first, in order to do that, we're going to enable minimal deposit. So that's only for networks with high fees.
02:09:46.172 - 02:10:47.380, Speaker A: We're talking about things like Ethereum Mainet and some of the layer twos also have relatively high fees comparing to Polygon and Gnosis chain for example. We're trying to make it more profitable for sending out closing the microstreams, meaning that those streams have really small value and deposit and with minimum deposit that will make it a slight more profitable. We're also targeting for more community engagement. So we have now a framework deployment guide updated many times and each time we go to new network it's always our community member deploy to the new network. We also have made the deployment of ERC 20 wrapper easy for almost a network. You just need to go to one of the Ether scan like scanner and click a few button. Then there is a ERC 20 wrapper super token.
02:10:47.380 - 02:12:23.840, Speaker A: We're going to do more work on the custom super token templates for you to create your own pure super tokens and if you need more custom features, you should also look into it and we'll do more work on that to make your custom super token creation process more smooth and sleek. We're going to also support a token list standard. One of the frequent asked questions how can we know the list of super tokens they are used? So we're going to work on a bit more making that available on the token lists. The next big thing for us is to do some formalizations so there will be a yellow paper, so we'll be citing existing papers, right? So things like existing EIPS, things like existing research on the theory of mining and payment system and we'll keep a fairly high standard of intellectual honesty. So we'll be reusing existing terminologies, trying to generalize existing framework if possible, not just to flag, just for the sake of it. It's not about your idea versus my idea. But at the same time we also want to highlight the original idea and contribution from superfluid money in the process.
02:12:23.840 - 02:13:26.310, Speaker A: So the yellow paper also use a technique called embedding the specification where it will be written in literate hard scale. This is one example. They're defining something called decaying flow agreement. And the benefit of doing so is that we will have well defined terminologies which basically equivalent of saying well defined types. And we also define some of the language in a more rigor definitions which is also equivalent to say have testable properties. And the idea of superfluid protocol will actually become a haskell program even, right? So the whole process will make it a sound platform for research topics. So what are the research topics? So we'll be experimenting a bit more exotic agreements, things like decaying flow, general distribution, step flow, this kind of thing.
02:13:26.310 - 02:14:13.392, Speaker A: We also explore it a bit more regarding different solvency models. Currently our system is using so called a buffer based solvency. You might be familiar with the concept of buffer if you have programmed on our protocol. But there are other techniques such as syncing the time as opposed to using buffer, et cetera. So money units models can be also a topic to be explored. We're all familiar with account token model that's quite widely used on EVM, in fact a de facto one. There might be also a chance for we to make an Eutxo model so that's our research topic and composability models.
02:14:13.392 - 02:15:14.916, Speaker A: So we use extensively callbacks to implement super apps. But there are other techniques to do composability, perhaps using state syncing as opposed to synchronous callbacks. All those can be good research topics. So the work done in the formalization will provide a very solid reference for additional superfluid money implementations. But what it can't be EVM, Superfluid V Two, a non EVM system or superfluid enabled blockchain itself, right? So these are open question. So additionally we're also going to develop a protocol validator so it will become a simulation environment for new ideas and concepts. And with that it can also provide a very good functional specification testing tool for new implementations.
02:15:14.916 - 02:16:05.092, Speaker A: So you can visualize the account balances during a test case for example. But at the same time we also need to do some deep refactoring of our existing EVM implementation. We'll deliver the functional style agreement refactoring so we split the pure code from the side effects. Side effects. We're talking about things like reading protocol parameters from Governance, EVM, storage operations callbacks to super apps, this kind of thing. In doing so it will make it also easier for formal verifications of each component, especially each agreement. And it will make ways for more feature development.
02:16:05.092 - 02:17:47.480, Speaker A: Right? Another thing we will be doing is called a token centric interface. We're phasing out of the usage of core agreement you might be familiar with if you have done some development on superfluid. So that means you'll be using more Idiomatic token kind of interface, right? So for example, it'll be token create flow will be Token update flow, token delete Flow and the IDA, the instant distribution framework you might be familiar with will become a multipurpose index. So you'll be using Token Create index instead as a subscriber to the index. You'll do like token subscribe to index, token approve index and you might be familiar with IDA that it does distribution instantly, right? So then it become token distribute to index. What about something called token update distribution flow rate of index? Very wordy mouthful, but it's something called Gda I will introduce shortly. And something about decaying flow agreement, token update decaying flow rate of index, right? So the index really become a multipurpose instrument for publisher to influence balances of all its subscribers, providing more design surface for your superfluid applications.
02:17:47.480 - 02:18:31.320, Speaker A: So all we are doing here is trying to complete the Jigsaw, a jigsaw puzzle. So that's so called superfluid payment modalities metrics. What does mean? So payment before superfluid money, there's only one that's one to one and instant. For example ERC 20 everyone familiar with, right? So sending from one account to the other instantly payment with superfluid money. So we have a metrics here. So we have one to one and we have one to L from one dimension, from the other dimension we have an instant versus streaming. So one to one instant we have also a name now called a transferable balance agreement.
02:18:31.320 - 02:19:12.150, Speaker A: One to one streaming that's basically constant flow agreement or the decaying flow agreement. One to N instant, that will be the IDA. So it will be Gda with instant distribution aka IDA we are familiar with and one to end streaming, that would be Gda with constant or decaying flow. But it's not there yet. But we will be there at some point. So called Gda is General Distribution agreement. It is a multipurpose index with instant distribution with constant flow, with decaying flow or something else.
02:19:12.150 - 02:19:59.010, Speaker A: So beyond the corporate code, there's also many things ongoing. One of the goal is to make the sentinel more profitable. So we'll make the sentinel more than just for solvency protection from hostile actors. We want add some civilian services to the Sentinels. So for example, closing stream for you by end date. I mentioned that we had a feature now called Access Control list. So basically you allow a third party to close the stream for you or even update stream for you.
02:19:59.010 - 02:20:54.900, Speaker A: How about a wrap up more underlying token for you when your balance is running low? So these are the civilian service we can add to sentinel in a decentralized manner. Also we want to add more power to our subgraph implementation, to the protocol. So the problem we are facing at the moment is that superfluid distribution index is too powerful. Because an index can change balances of oil subscribers a subgraph indexer unfortunately cannot scale as much as in its current architecture. So we're working with the Graph team to find a solution to tame it. We're also adding more features to the SDKs. That means the SDK call the SDK redux.
02:20:54.900 - 02:21:31.810, Speaker A: So I would call for everyone to be part of it. So to join this journey, we have a Biweekly protocol public forum. It's on Wednesday, 230 GMT. If you're interested, join our discord and ask for invitations. Also check out our bounties on monoreppo. There's a tag called Bounty. Also can check out our bug bounty for smart contracts on Immunify, a shout out to them.
02:21:31.810 - 02:21:51.384, Speaker A: And if you want to join us full time, there's also jobs available on Jobs superfluid Finance. So that's it. Thank you. And the slide source code you can also find from our Wiki page. So that's it. Thank you. Amazing.
02:21:51.384 - 02:22:52.712, Speaker A: Well, thank you so much for kind of going through basically the, I think, early look in that roadmap of how we think money will change. Maybe just a couple of questions I have on sort of how you're kind of thinking about this thing and also what the learning has been over the last 440 days. My kind of first one is how do you kind of decide to focus on a new chain? Is that just like, we can just deploy the same code there, or do you think you see a different demand coming in from those users that have different needs on different kind of destinations, what kind of goes on, and what are some observations that you've had from using different chains? Yeah, so currently we have an EVM implementation, right. And we don't necessarily decide. We call for deployment and we'll wait for you for the community member deploy first. So it's more of a community driven at the moment for EVMs. And on non EVM, it's more of a research side.
02:22:52.712 - 02:23:37.076, Speaker A: So it's nowhere near the deployment. Okay, awesome. Well, that clarifies the question I was going to ask. But I think one question from the audience is if you can send us a link to the slides, we'll share that with the chat and everybody there and then we'll also kind of explore that, put that on our discord for anybody who's hacking and wants to see that same thing. So thank you so much and I really appreciate you giving us a little look on next version release of Superfluid. Thank you. And with that, we are ready for our next talk, and I'd like to bring on Mike back on stage and give us an overview and some of his thoughts on the Interconnected Web Three economy.
02:23:37.076 - 02:24:06.050, Speaker A: We've already kind of gotten some sneak peeks around what we think is that world and how we think it's going to evolve. So I'd like to ask him to turn on the video and say hi and kick us off with this talk. Welcome. Hey. Hi, kartik again. So, yeah, I'd like to talk about this idea of the interconnected Web Three economy. Let me just try to share my screen and if anyone can let me know if you guys can see anything.
02:24:06.050 - 02:24:46.176, Speaker A: Everything is good. I'm just trying to put it full screen. What do you see? Yes, brilliant. So, yeah, I'd like to talk about the idea of having an interconnected Web Three economy. It's not something that we hear every day in crypto, so it's a little bit tricky to try to explain it. So I'll try to explain it by telling how inefficient our current kind of financial system is. So I'm sure that everyone here relates to this idea or this feeling of having to queue at an ATM just to take some cash out, to make a payment when you maybe are in a hurry or you want to grab something quick at the store.
02:24:46.176 - 02:26:01.860, Speaker A: So this is one of the best ways to understand how inefficient our financial system is. And was of course, you also had issues where maybe you were ordering a delivery or some sort of food online and you got kind of failed transaction and sometimes it's because of course you didn't have enough funds on your card, but sometimes it's for other reasons and so this is a very frustrating experience. Other times you are maybe someone who is working in the Web Three economy and you are just like a freelancer or contributor and you're just waiting to get paid, maybe as a UX UI designer for some design you have done. And it's just a business that pays you late because, for example, there is an internal process which needs to happen for clearance or just even to understand your details or your bank account details to send the money to you. So there are a lot of inefficiencies in kind of the fiat financial system that we can experience every day, even though we have been innovating so hard around money. So, for example, the world has changed a lot from sending checks over email to being able to put your credit card details into a website and have a subscription chart to your account every month or so. So even for this world that we have innovated so far.
02:26:01.860 - 02:27:12.236, Speaker A: So that is somewhat seamless and abstracted, even in that kind of SaaS subscription model. There are a lot of inefficiencies, both for the consumer or the one who is actually paying, that has to, for example, input the data and then making sure the card is not expired, and if it's expired, to renew it, but also for the merchant. So if you are like a SaaS company that has hundreds or thousands or even millions of users, even just a small percentage of these payments, failing is a massive headache for you. So, to put some numbers to this, let's just look at a report by Deloitte that was published in July 2019 called Economic Impact of Real Time Payments. So, all the businesses interviewed for this report, 31% of them say that their business would be willing to pay some type of fee to ensure their receivable payments immediately. So it's a massive interest from this kind of instant payment, let's say. But also, if we look a little bit deeper into the report, we see that this low speed of payments is somewhat holding up capital in the system.
02:27:12.236 - 02:28:08.672, Speaker A: So there is a lot of inefficiency in having to deal with delays when it comes to payment processing. It's not only just on the operational side, but is also on kind of the social side. So real time payments would make financial services more accessible and attractive to consumers and also they could potentially help consumers budgeting because the less delays, the less variability, the less variability, the more certainty, and hence it's easier to plan around your personal finances. So all of these are real problems for both the consumers and the business world. But have we innovated around this? Have we tried to make payments instant from a fiat, traditional financial system point of view? Yes, we did. And of course, in some countries we have seen an uptake of instant payments. For example in Korea and the United Kingdom, and in others a little bit less.
02:28:08.672 - 02:28:48.536, Speaker A: So looking at this chart, you can see, for example, the uptake of instant payments. Let's just call them instant because real time doesn't really fit what these are. So here you can see how Korea, for example, have really started to use mobile wallets or even fast payments that are bank to bank transactions that are instant, so that your money gets to your wallet as it's sent. So there is no time delay between when someone presses send and when you receive it, or just a few seconds. So there is no days or hours of delay. So we have done something, but is not probably enough. And this is still very nascent.
02:28:48.536 - 02:29:37.896, Speaker A: It's the new industry. The instant payment industry has not been there for over like 20 or 30 years. So if we try to look at how much our society has evolved over the last, say, ten years, and we look at how the payments have evolved, we see a little bit of a lag. Let me try to give you an example here. So imagine that you are in your twenty s and you wanted to watch a movie on a Saturday night. How the old world worked is that you had to go to a shop and try to rent a DVD. For example, if you didn't have that movie at home and everyone here that is 25 or 30 and above knows Blockbuster and you really had to go to the shop, so you have to go get it, then maybe you wanted to see say, Matrix and Matrix.
02:29:37.896 - 02:30:27.196, Speaker A: Maybe there were five copies available and they were all five out and you have to change a movie. So you have to browse the whole shop to find another movie to watch. They also have a limited catalog, so you can't see every movie you want. You kind of have to choose the ones that are there. And it's kind of high effort for both you and for the ones that have to refill the shelves and manage all this kind of physical goods movement around. Now, of course, you know that Netflix have been tackling this issue and so they had this beautiful paper catalogs or web catalogs that you could choose a movie from and then order it, and then it would come to your home as a DVD. So this is a massive improvement because A, you have a massive catalog now, you can really choose every movie you want is lower effort because it comes to you.
02:30:27.196 - 02:31:13.416, Speaker A: But there is still a downside, which is it's somewhat delayed. It doesn't come to you instantly. So we all know that Netflix have evolved into a kind of web online streaming platform. And so today what we can do is that we can see the movie we want across all the catalog in the world instantly, here and now, as we want it from our couch. So it's a massive change in society in terms of service provision. It's a lot more comfortable, there is a lot less effort. And so we have been seeing this massive transition from something that was a very high effort and very limited and very expensive, to something that is very easy to consume and where we want it, when we want it, and what we want as well.
02:31:13.416 - 02:32:11.100, Speaker A: And this kind of where we want, what we want, when we want has been somewhat characterized in the latest generations that have grown up in this world, where we can just decide what movie to watch in a second and then have it delivered to us immediately. The same concept of, say, Amazon Prime next day delivery, what do you want, where you want, when you want. And the issue is that this new generation has to deal with a payment infrastructure that is nowhere near these expectations. So let's look at how, for example, a SaaS payment looks like. So we believe digital money is somewhat broken because we ported this outdated financial system to the digital internet native economy we're experiencing every day. So let's look at how kind of a software payment looks like. Normally in the SaaS economy, you normally start signing up for a business in one moment, let's say now.
02:32:11.100 - 02:32:49.352, Speaker A: And let's assume this person stops using that service in a year time. So there are two actions from the user here. They kind of sign up and kind of log out or sign off. So they don't want the payment anymore, right? So the system anymore. So it's one year and it's just two interactions, the start and the end. However, if you look at how our payments world work today, especially with online credit card subscriptions, this requires twelve. Interactions between some of the service provider systems and the kind of consumer systems in this case.
02:32:49.352 - 02:33:58.784, Speaker A: And all these interactions take time, effort, cost and can fail. So across all this period of one year where the user has been using the service, a lot of items can actually go wrong. So what happens here is that maybe one of these payments is failing. And normally what would happen is that someone will chase you up, maybe tell you to update the credit card details, that the one maybe was expired and you have just to put a new one in. And so there is a cycle that starts that might just take some effort and cost from both sides because on one side they have to chase you up and on the other side you have to update the data, but normally it's resolved, say. So your page is a little bit delayed, the system doesn't stop, the service is available to you and everything is fine with the issue that there was some cost in the process that was additional to what would have been needed if the system didn't break down and the payment didn't fail. However, in a big amount of these situations over 10%, what happens is that the failure of the payment discourages the user to continue using the service.
02:33:58.784 - 02:34:42.984, Speaker A: So this actually was a user that was willing to continue paying and suddenly is not a user anymore. And so how big is this problem like in the SaaS industry alone? Well, it looks like 11% of failed payments turn into churn. This is according to a report by Forrester in November 2020. So it's a big value. And if you consider scaling this across a large organization like Netflix, I can imagine that it generates quite a lot of cost. So let's look a little bit deeper into what this kind of payment failure means for the user. For example, so there is a decrease in customer satisfaction.
02:34:42.984 - 02:35:13.944, Speaker A: Clearly there is an increase in cost of recovery because they have to recover the funds. Sometimes the user maybe didn't pay but then never pays. And this generates some debt. So failed payments can turn into bad debt that is really hard to collect because it's really hard for a company to chase you for $11.50 that you have to pay to them. But if you scale the amount of users that have to pay that amount and never do, it can create a bit of a revenue issue for the SaaS provider. So it is actually a big problem.
02:35:13.944 - 02:36:25.340, Speaker A: So we believe that services should, as services flow in real time from provider to client, payments should work in the same way, so we don't have to have so many more interactions from both parties to make this agreement work. So we believe in a better way. And so we're trying to dissect how that could look like for especially this kind of SaaS industry. So let's think about what the example I was doing before where someone signs up today and then stops using the service after one year with this kind of twelve payments one per month in between. So what would be the kind of ultimate solution to this problem? Well, ideally the minimal effort solution would be that there are two interactions here when I sign up and when I stop paying. And so it would be ideal to have this interaction when I start the system, I start subscribing to a service, I basically start potentially paying and then when I stop, I stop paying. This is the most ideal situation because we are coupling the action of turning on and off the service provision with the payment.
02:36:25.340 - 02:37:50.996, Speaker A: The issue is that if we do this with the traditional system you would either have to pay everything up front and that is unfair to the client most of the time, especially in a consumer market, or you have to pay everything at the end with a very high risk from the provider of the service. So this doesn't really work and that's one of the reasons why we have subscriptions on a monthly basis because they make it easier for both sides to at least manage their revenues and cash flow. But there is a better way. So imagine if we could start signing up for a service and start the payment at the same time and then pay along the way and then stop paying at the end. So imagine just the ability of sending a small fraction of a dollar or of a penny every second or in real time from one side to the other as the service is provided to the client, the payment goes back to the supplier. So that is a very powerful idea and it can really unlock a lot of value in our economy because it removes all this friction with this twelve payments or even more if you're signing up for like say ten years or five years or if it's rent going to your landlord. So we call this payment streaming is this idea that you can send value over time in a frictionless fashion on chain between parties.
02:37:50.996 - 02:38:59.836, Speaker A: And I just want to kind of try to expand more on what does it look like when multiple parties are trying to start this kind of payment among each other. So just for those that don't know the kind of value provision of streaming or what they bring in terms of features, let me just detail them for you in a second. So why streaming? Why would you want to send money over time a fraction of a penny per second? Well, first of all, you have this kind of constant flow so both parties know the payment is ongoing and every second money is moving along the way. So it's fair for both because nobody has to pay upfront or at the end. But you have an atomic swap between service provision and value payment also you don't have to lock any capital because your capital is only used and then moves across to the other side in real time. So either you have it or the other person has it. Which means both sides can put that capital at work while it's not moving and that transaction is really instant, so it's really powerful for capital efficiency.
02:38:59.836 - 02:39:41.230, Speaker A: Also, these streams are interconnected. So if you pay someone in a stream, that other person can forward that onto whatever the person wants to. So they can direct say, 20% of the stream to some savings account, pay their rent, pay some of their expenses or bring it into DFI. So you can create concatenated streams in an interconnected economy. Also you can have open ended streams that don't have an end date. So if you have an ongoing service but you don't know when you're going to stop using it, you don't have to know in advance or set in advance an end date. So it can be an ongoing payment rather than a finite payment.
02:39:41.230 - 02:40:42.528, Speaker A: And also there is no gas fees on the chain for as long as the stream is running. So you do pay gas to open a stream, edit it or close it, but you would never need to pay gas for the status quo or keeping the flow running. And this is a very powerful economic structure, so that you can actually move any amount of money between two points without paying any fees for the ongoing flow of money. And all of this comes with a simple token wrapping. So to add all these features to any ERC 20 token, all you have to do is just wrap it with a superfluid wrapper. So that's why streaming is so powerful, because it has the ability of leveraging all these features together. So what would this look like among multiple parties? So, as you can see here, I just tried to map blocks as entities or consumers or businesses and the green lines would look like streams and that's kind of the value flowing between them.
02:40:42.528 - 02:41:45.216, Speaker A: So imagine how efficient it would be if a business could receive all the revenues in a stream and have them, say, immediately available on a per second basis, and then use all of these revenues to then pay their suppliers and making sure that they can pay in real time. So this fundamental business could have all of the revenues in a stream or a big chunk of them, and then all of their expenses. So imagine they are almost equal because they're growing aggressively, but without basically borrowing any capital. Then you could create a company or an organization which really works on a very thin buffer. They don't have to have a lot of capital in house to absorb the shocks of normal traditional cash flows. Of course, they will need some buffer to potentially manage streams changes. If someone stops paying, then the stream will stop and so they need to absorb that and they can't just pay out directly but is greatly reduced.
02:41:45.216 - 02:42:25.984, Speaker A: And so it would be very efficient for an economy to run in this fashion. But it's not just about business to business trade or service provision. It can also be for something like investing in real time or exchanging. So let's add in here an exchange. Now you are sending a currency and you are receiving the other currency in real time. What this allows you to do as a business is if you have revenues in say, dollars or the dollar equivalent in crypto, that means that you can pay your suppliers in a different currency and get the real time market exchange rate at all time. So you don't have to bet on it.
02:42:25.984 - 02:43:34.164, Speaker A: You can if you want to, but you don't have to. So now you can see how this can expand even further. So imagine a closed loop now where someone is an employee in a company and gets paid in a stream, goes out there in the world and pays a subscription to some service like Messari for informing himself about crypto. And then someone at Messari is an employee as well, or a contributor and gets paid in a stream as well. So what you can do here is you can do some sort of closed loops where the money flows really across the different players and doesn't really sit anywhere, but it is really just efficiently flowing across the economy. So if you were to expand this even further, you would have effectively an interconnected web three economy where value could throw frictionless with no delays across the different players and have an allocation to something that is valuable or meaningful at any time, so that you can direct capital to what is meaningful for the economy. Or what is convenient for the economy.
02:43:34.164 - 02:44:47.908, Speaker A: So is this kind of idea of having an interconnected network where financial players and economic player can interact one another without intermediaries really and with instant or real time payments and the ability to have this flowing across them without any queues or delays that could create inefficiencies. So you might look at this picture and say wow, this is very interesting, but it's utopic or is far in the future and we didn't see this yet. So what I'd like to share with you now is a 3D visualization of just 300 wallets that are streaming stablecoins on polygon and they are doing so in real time over superfluid protocol. So what you're seeing here in this visualization is polygon network on a stable coin. And you can see how there are microeconomies like the one in the middle of the screen now where there are different addresses, in this case interacting with streams to one another to power a microeconomy. I tuned down the amount of addresses in this visualization to show you exactly how microeconomies are working. So this could be easier.
02:44:47.908 - 02:45:53.168, Speaker A: Super app which is doing some interesting financial transaction or just distributing tokens. This one, it's more like a reward dow or a reward stream where someone is rewarding a lot of contributors, a small amount of stablecoins over time. Then if we go here, we see like a circular economy where players are transacting to one another in what could even be like an endless loop. So there is really a lot of opportunities that we could build with this kind of infrastructure. Now let's expand to more than 1000 wallets and look at what the polygon network looks like on a stablecoin as well. So this is over 1000 wallets and now you start seeing how it looks like a brain structure. There is a lot of interconnections among different players and you can see rather sophisticated connections like the one in the bottom center of the screen now, where we're going to zoom in a second, where they can really build this interconnected web three economy and value could flow in real time across all these players with no friction.
02:45:53.168 - 02:47:11.756, Speaker A: So if we were to do this with 100% efficiency, which is of course impossible to achieve, we would reach about infinite velocity of money streaming so that there would be an infinite velocity of capital which would be very very effective in reducing friction and reducing queues in our economy. So I just wanted to kind of leave it there with this visualization of the polygon network because the possibilities are somewhat endless. And I believe this concept of frictionless interconnected economy has all the potential to transform society fundamentally because you can generate economic growth without having to inflate the pie by just reducing inefficiency in the existing GDP that a country for example, is generating. So thank you very much for your time today. If you have any questions, you can ask them now or you can find me on Twitter at Michele Deleesi or on Discord Superfli Finance. And we would love to talk about what you can build with these tools, like what applications we can generate and if anyone has any idea, we would love to hear from them. That was amazing.
02:47:11.756 - 02:47:52.440, Speaker A: I think the question I and everybody has on the chat is that is an incredible visualization. Who made this thing, what did you use and how can we make it for other things? Yeah, so the visualization is actually done by someone in the network of Francesco. So I think he would be better placed to answer that. And he has been hacking it away just for this presentation. So yesterday night he was just doing it so that we could have it for today. But it's just a know, we can do a lot, you know, we can color addresses based on what they do. So if they're a Dow or if they are an Exchange or an end of user wallet.
02:47:52.440 - 02:48:41.092, Speaker A: So we are just getting started. That's amazing. And it's like overall just I think a really good way to kind of think about structuring how we think payments would work. And you are kind of this kind of came up in our panel earlier too, which is the second you kind of have anywhere from MultiChain world to multiple apps talking to each other and just overall composability, then most things turn into a routing problem and that's where most of the efficiency comes in. And being able to say, hey, we can make this process or cut this step is an actual massive improvement. And you just kind of get that as a default here, which is great. My kind of only other question would be actually, let's see, I feel like there's a comment coming from, oh, no, it's just Fran replying to who made that visualization on the chat.
02:48:41.092 - 02:49:10.352, Speaker A: This is great. Well, I think the questions I want to ask will probably overlap with the next panel. So I'm just going to pause here and we'll just kind of go into the next one early because I was kind of curious about more real time application examples. But that's exactly what the next panel is about. So I want to thank you for doing this chat and the presentation and I love to kind of bring on the next set of panelists. Thank you, Kartik. It was a pleasure.
02:49:10.352 - 02:49:53.410, Speaker A: Right, so as we bring on everybody here on the panel, I'd like to welcome three amazing people. So Luca from Maker, akil from Circle, and friend from Superfluid. We're going to talk about just how we think on chain payments is going to evolve. Maker, circle and Superfluid are kind of the common pieces here that everybody's using for just interacting on the chain, especially as we think about stablecoins being the fundamental base layer of sending money here and what DeFi has done. So I couldn't be more excited to bring everybody on. So at this point, I'd like to ask everybody to turn on their cameras and kind of introduce themselves and say hi and we can get this started. So welcome everybody.
02:49:53.410 - 02:50:37.012, Speaker A: We already know who Fran is, but I'd love to invite Luca and Nikhil to introduce themselves and talk about what you do and just give an overview of the product for those of us on the chat that may not be aware. Thanks having me, guys. Luca here. So I work with Maker. I'm one of the core team members of Maker, pretty much looking at anything that has to do with the financial risk oversight of the protocol. I'm an independent researcher. I write my own research and publish it under a substac called Dirt Roads that I hope that some of you have heard of and invest in the space and have great chats with super smart people like FRA.
02:50:37.012 - 02:51:01.960, Speaker A: So thanks for having me. Excited to have you, Nikhil. Yeah, thanks for having me, Karthik. My name is Nikhil Chanduk. I am Chief Product Officer at Circle. What Circle does is it makes a stable coin. It sort of ships a stablecoin, which I think everybody knows about it's USDC.
02:51:01.960 - 02:51:55.800, Speaker A: We have products in the payment space that we have in market and that we are building further out. We're excited about payments, we're excited about lending, so we can talk about anything today. So thanks for having me. We're excited to have you as well. So maybe I'll kind of just jump right in. The most kind of obvious question is you've kind of seen this ecosystem evolve from multiple angles here. What's kind of been the most interesting trend about specifically payments that each of you have seen? We can start with Fran here and have you kind of just showcase what has surprised you in the last year? Well, I mean, working at Superfluid, obviously I think the most interesting part of payments is streaming, right? More in general, recurring payments.
02:51:55.800 - 02:53:10.752, Speaker A: The reason specifically I'm excited about recurring payments is that it can actually bring income on chain. And that's very interesting if you look at, for example, Erbil's presentation from earlier, right? Because bringing income on chain is what will onboard so many users, right? One of the examples he brought was Gamify, right? So like play to earn games and these are onboarding literally millions of users and they're not coming to speculate, they're coming to earn money, right? So the earning potential that recurring payments or streaming brings and the fact that those earnings are on chain and can be used for other stuff, I think is very interesting. I think we're still just scratching the surface here. I think Puma Finance is going to be a very important protocol in the future regarding lending against these earnings. In terms of other payments infrastructure, I've seen a lot built on Superfluid that I'm very excited about. We've seen Diagonal Finance, but also another startup called Drip, which are building checkouts with, let's say, specific mechanics built into the payment layer itself, right? And that's something that you can uniquely do on chain. Well, you can't really do off chain, right? So if a payment happens, then trigger something.
02:53:10.752 - 02:54:36.616, Speaker A: You can deliver a loyalty, NFT, you can deliver a social token, you can redirect a recurring, for example, referral revenue, right? All of these things you can encode directly into the payment stream because it's happening on chain. So this is kind of the most important and interesting thing for me. Amazing. Luca, anything to add? Mean I started chatting about what the guys at Superfluid were doing almost a year ago because I think, again, streaming payments can be abstracted into streaming value that can have so many applications. And I always thought that the way DeFi or crypto in general steps up to the next level is by onboarding as many use cases as possible from the real world. So I think allowing value to flow seamlessly through people to people in payments, but also in supply chains, I think is what fascinates me the most. I had a couple of chats with companies that are trying to innovate in the supply chain system by creating a seamless flow of value that goes along the chain, which is an incredible source of inefficiency these days, financially, with a lot of value trapped.
02:54:36.616 - 02:55:13.496, Speaker A: So I'm very excited to see the evolutions in that front as well. That's awesome. I think you've already kind of all touched upon topics that I want to dig into in general. And by the way, we're already kind of getting some comments from the audience. If you have any questions for our speakers, please just put them in the chat and I'll be able to ask them here. But to me, this is an interesting point because I think both maker and circle are kind of at the intersection of onboarding existing businesses that are in web two to more web three, but also then enabling a whole new set of web three native companies and types of businesses to exist. Kind of.
02:55:13.496 - 02:56:12.412, Speaker A: From how you've seen USDC or dive being used, has there been something that's kind of surprised you in terms of, like, oh, I didn't think this could be possible? Or of course, streaming is a perfect example, but I'm curious what has been an unintended consequence of a good example of how your stable coins have been utilized by people? Maybe I can take I'll say two things. One is we have the circle has this partnership with stripe where they're doing payouts on Twitter. And so the use case is Twitter have creators that they want to pay. These creators are all over the world. They want to make sure that they can essentially share earnings with them. What's an easy infrastructure to build to be able to do that. Well, clearly using on chain payouts is the best way to do it.
02:56:12.412 - 02:56:55.624, Speaker A: Doing it in a stable coin is definitely preferable. So stripe and Twitter are experimenting with USDC for these payouts. Why this is interesting. I worked at YouTube for seven, eight years. I was there really early, and YouTube is one of the earliest companies that did creator payouts. For those who don't know, if you upload a video on YouTube, you get to keep and you monetize it, you get to keep 55% building that infrastructure that connects the ad impression. The ad payout to the creator payout is extremely complex, and then scaling it to the whole world is where YouTube is at.
02:56:55.624 - 02:57:43.130, Speaker A: I think today at like two and a half billion users is incredibly complex. So I think to do that so simply is fascinating to me because that was one of the ways we built a moat around YouTube, because nobody else could do it, facebook didn't do it, and I think they're just doing it now. And so I think the power of that is pretty phenomenal. I kind of love the idea of streaming payments there. I haven't wrapped my head around ad verification to streaming a Payout to a creator I think there's some nice use cases to explore there as well. So that's sort of one bucket, I'd say. The other bucket that is really interesting to me again is I think there are two large ecosystems about to collide, which is really interesting.
02:57:43.130 - 02:58:29.724, Speaker A: One is Payments, which is how can we make it more efficient, we can make things more efficient and we can unlock more use cases because we do things on chain. So that's super interesting. Whether it's streaming, whether it's payouts, there's all manners of things we can do. The other is the Ads ecosystem. And we don't talk about Ads much in crypto because I think nobody likes ads, but Ads basically built the Internet. And yes, along the way there were some trade offs that were made that are not pleasant and not good. But I think the fundamental business need is to acquire users and have a way to acquire users, and businesses will pay money to acquire users.
02:58:29.724 - 02:59:20.736, Speaker A: What I see happening now with novel payment formats, with NFTs, with these new novel platforms coming together, it's sort of a collapse of the payments ecosystem, with the Ads ecosystem. And I think that is super interesting. Which is like if there is a wallet that pays me and if I can have a close relationship with the user because they paid me on chain and then I issue something. To them on chain and then I have a loyalty program and if that becomes super portable and allows for new networks to emerge ads market is a trillion dollar market. Payments itself is trillion dollar market. So the need for cheaper payments and the need for acquiring customers is not going to go away. And if you collapse those two things together, we are in this new world of payments and Ads working together, which I just find intellectually very fascinating.
02:59:20.736 - 02:59:51.212, Speaker A: And I think we're just seeing sprouts of that now. That is a really good framing. I do want to kind of comment and dig into that, but I don't want to Deprive Luca of any comments that he wanted to share. So I'll go for it. Yeah, sometimes I get a bit abstract, so I apologize in advance. It's the mathematician in me. I think all of us are seeing a different angle of the stablecoin and the payment system in DeFi, which is fascinating.
02:59:51.212 - 03:00:52.324, Speaker A: I think the USDC guys at Circle, they have an incredible perspective on ramping of liquidity and the true use of USDC as a means of payment, which is fascinating at Dai is slightly different. I think at Maker we are starting to see the use of Dai as a great stabilizer of DeFi. You will never imagine because Dai ultimate is a central liquidity source of DeFi, very trustable. And now, after the last two weeks, we are starting to see the value of this trust. I always thought the problem that over collateralization is not a scalable system in stable coins is a meme. It's not true, but I will go into that rabbit hole. But I think we are starting to see dai being used as a stabilizer of many use cases in DeFi from interest rates to interest rates and liquidity risk here and there.
03:00:52.324 - 03:01:21.180, Speaker A: And I think this is something that it was not imaginable a couple of years ago. Right. I think crypto instability were two things that were not going together. But I think it's something that we will see more and more and more over the years. Absolutely. And I remember just two years ago we were celebrating D Five TVL hitting a billion dollars and then now we're over 100 and nobody even thinks about that exponential leap. And the pace that everything is evolving is just truly mind blowing.
03:01:21.180 - 03:01:58.216, Speaker A: Fran, I want to also kind of give you a chance. Of course, streaming is a super interesting, massive category of its own. What's kind of been something that you've kind of seen uniquely enabled on the streaming money side? Well, actually, without mentioning streaming money, I think what Stripe did was super interesting, as Nikhil mentioned. I mean, that was just incredible. Right. It really shows you how crypto can break barriers significantly, right, where a traditional fintech would have to go and have specific partners in each country they want to make a payout in. And that effectively means only Google can do it.
03:01:58.216 - 03:02:32.272, Speaker A: With crypto, you can send money anywhere. And that's something we're seeing a lot also in superfluid. If you look at some of the teams that are using superfluid to pay compensation, they pay people all over the world. In a lot of cases, they don't even know where their team is and they can just pay that because an address is just a unique identifier. That is all you need to make a payment. Right. Contrast that with a bank where you get asked the reason for the payment, you get asked the address of the payment, I recently got asked the birthday of the payee.
03:02:32.272 - 03:03:04.620, Speaker A: Right. So it's just a completely different world. And if you think of the fact that you can establish long term financial relationships just by clicking a button and making one transaction on the blockchain, I think it's clear that there's a lot of opportunities there. And as Nikhil said, it's a massive market. So bringing payments on chain and onboarding that next billion users will be through payments. I have no doubts. Because not everybody needs to trade dog money, right, but everybody needs to make payments.
03:03:04.620 - 03:03:56.420, Speaker A: That's absolutely right. And this is exactly what I was going to comment on from Nikhil's question, which is fundamentally the reason why some of these massive kind of companies sort of got the network set up is because you have to take on anyone from the legal cost to understanding the generalization of this payout network. And it's different for every jurisdiction, different for every country, different for even different amounts, triggering various. Edge cases and you now just get to eliminate that by having an address that just exists and you can figure out multiple ways to now use that or disperse that in different places. And I think that's to me an interesting good example of a middleman where you've just made that the abstraction and it can flow anywhere from there and now you have explorations possible on both sides. So I can either figure out which Fiat railway to connect to to disperse it in different places and that's what stripe's kind of going on on the other side. Now I have the money, I can stream it in different places, but it's on the top layer.
03:03:56.420 - 03:05:04.228, Speaker A: That's where superfluid is going. And you fundamentally have programmatically sort of enabled a whole new world that just wasn't possible before. When we kind of think about that essentially of course I agree money is a massive market, everybody needs that for everything in any capitalistic world. But is kind of the thinking here that we fundamentally just get the same experiences that we already know and use in our daily lives, they're just now more transparent or faster or do you kind of believe that it changes how we also interact? I mean, Nikhili touched on the ad part of things and customer acquisitions becomes a lot more easier. But how do we think about room for improvement on now Bunny being on chain? It's an open question. I can have anybody of you? Luca? Yeah, I can say that if it's fine for the other panelists. I always joke that I think money is the most sophisticated mass market product in the world.
03:05:04.228 - 03:06:03.336, Speaker A: It's like the most complex philosophical product. We all use it, we completely ignore how it works and we are all happy, which is incredible. But I think the point is money does many things right? We always have the canonical definition that money is currency in general, is a unit of account, is a storage of value, is a means of exchange. But I think there is another point that I think is the most important is an allocator of resources. We work more where we get more money and it's four very complex functionalities that are wrapped into one. It is the banknote we have in our pockets or the money we think we have in our accounts that is actually very different from the banknotes, but people ignore it. But I think so we go used to the idea that the money of the future should be the same, should be like this omnicomprehensive product.
03:06:03.336 - 03:06:32.684, Speaker A: I don't think it's going to be the case. I think we will see different types of currency or subsets of currency doing different things and then you might have a great stable coin. I hate the term but let's keep stable coin. The great stable coin for transact, a great stable coin to access leverage. A great stable coin to store value. Great stable coin to allocate incentives. And this is what the token economy is enabling.
03:06:32.684 - 03:07:05.020, Speaker A: And I think we will start seeing this type of specialization. Do you dig in the future? What are some of the properties of these three examples? What will be different for a coin there? And why does that classification exist? I mean, I'll give an example, an infamous example of what happened in the last few months. So Terra was minting USD. People were not using USD as a mean of exchange. They were not using USD as a storage value. They were using USD as an access for leverage. That was the only thing.
03:07:05.020 - 03:07:41.428, Speaker A: It was not a stable coin. It was a money market product within a coin. And I don't want to go into the details, but it was a source of leverage. People are using Dai to store value on chain because they think they believe in this principle of decentralization and over collateralization. And the crypto natives, they love using Dai as that storage of value. But dai itself uses USDC because USDC is a great stabilizer, because represents mimics the power and the trust of the US. Economy into crypto.
03:07:41.428 - 03:08:24.944, Speaker A: And we are the largest holder of USDC in the world, at least until a couple of weeks ago. And the relationship is synergic. USDC is also used for transacting off ramping and on ramping and maybe other tokens that can flow through the superfluid protocol, for example, that are not coins, will be incredible tools to incentivize people better than currency. So I think we started to see things being differentiate themselves. And it's difficult for us because we have always considered money as one single monolithic construct. But it is not even in the real world. And I'll stop mumbling.
03:08:24.944 - 03:08:50.732, Speaker A: But even in the real world, people are using the dollar in a different way compared to how they use their local currency in emerging markets. That is a payment tool. The dollars is an international payment tool or a storage of value. And I think it will become more and more and more specialized. Now, what would be the ultimate experience of the end user? I don't know. Probably would be seamless. But in the background, many interesting things will happen.
03:08:50.732 - 03:09:24.936, Speaker A: I think that's a really interesting abstraction to dig into, I think. Fran, you wanted to say something, so I'll let you and Nikhil kind of comment on the original question. We can dig into this after wanted to comment on what Luca is saying. That's something I've been thinking about a lot. And I think with things like superfluid, where you can actually really accelerate the movement of money and automate it, we will start seeing people having basically no dollars in their bank account, right? But that's not because they're not transacting in dollars. They are transacting in dollars. They're simply transacting really quickly.
03:09:24.936 - 03:09:58.036, Speaker A: But they're not holding any dollars. They're holding maybe bitcoin or ethereum, right? So they're using dollars as a medium of exchange. But not necessarily as a store of value or stability or anything else. Right. So these kinds of things become possible as you build financial automations and financial tools that enable money to move faster and exchange forms faster. Right. If it becomes easier to for example, imagine if as a user you can put your Bitcoin or Ethereum as collateral and then borrow in a stream to pay your rent, right.
03:09:58.036 - 03:10:27.036, Speaker A: At that point, maybe the person you're paying a rent to is then reinvesting it into Bitcoin. Right? So I'm paying the rent in dollars. I'm taking the leverage in dollars, but I actually never hold dollars and the counterparty never holds dollars either. So we're using dollars purely as a unit of account for the rental contract and as a medium of exchange. But neither of us actually have dollars. Right. So it's a pretty fascinating idea if you start thinking about it.
03:10:27.036 - 03:10:55.332, Speaker A: Really is. I was going to say we're kind of coming up with the photons of the money world analogy in this case. Yeah, I love that idea, by the way. Money is many things. Lucas point cash is highly inefficient, sits in my pocket and doesn't do anything. And money, dollars in my bank account sits in the account and doesn't do anything. Well, it does do something.
03:10:55.332 - 03:11:41.056, Speaker A: It allows the bank to lend forward. But I think one of the things that Fran is pointing out, that it can do more things for me, like if I have $200 in the bank, I can have it be in Bitcoin. I can real time essentially stream my rent. I find that idea really fascinating because I came to work on this primarily because I think the risk capital in the world is misallocated and how can we get it to be allocated better? Because that's what people who are poor need is they need risk capital. They don't need a gift of money, they need a stable form of capital and they need to be able to take risk, which is in America. It's phenomenal. Like the way you can do that, and crypto does that on chain.
03:11:41.056 - 03:12:03.832, Speaker A: Now you can take on risk. You can take on risk. There's not as much risk capital, it's all over collateralized. But I think the dream is where it's under collateralized and you can have the money. If I have a $1,000 sitting in my USDC account, it's actually true for me today. I have money. Any cash I have, I put into Maple Finance.
03:12:03.832 - 03:12:48.324, Speaker A: Now it's not quite streaming, there is a lock in, but it's just money that I parked there because it's being used to fund these businesses on the other side. And there's a very specific type of business there today. But the reason I fund it is because I believe more real world businesses are going to come in through these pools that Maple are exposing. And it's highly efficient for me to be able to deploy that money. It takes me like two minutes, like go into my MetaMask, do a couple of clicks and the money is deployed. I think that kind of efficiency is really powerful in terms of creating opportunity for people. That's what gets me jazzed, which is all the other DeFi constructs are fascinating.
03:12:48.324 - 03:13:20.596, Speaker A: But if we can connect the real world to this, then we should be able to none of us should have debt cash. That doesn't mean that we don't get access to liquidity today. We hold cash because we need access to liquidity. I think we could deploy our cash and still have access to liquidity would be like the magical place to be and then we can have fun more things in the world because we would just be fundamentally more efficient. But yeah, fran, I'd love I actually was just reading your paper before starting. I find it fascinating. Yeah.
03:13:20.596 - 03:13:57.156, Speaker A: And I think I can jump in here because I think it's relevant to what Nikhili just said to describe how we can compose this monetary stack. So Dai we have an infinite balance sheet. We can print as many as we want as long as there is trust in the Dai. So we need good collateral to print Dai against. And we started with this idea of onboarding real world use cases a year ago in a bootstrap way saying okay, let's go to the borrowers directly. But it will be like the Fed trying to underwrite a mortgage of an individual, of a corporate. So it's very inefficient, it's a task.
03:13:57.156 - 03:15:06.368, Speaker A: So we are starting to do protocol to protocol liquidity. And the example of Maple is a relevant example because Maple has been currently approved by the maker community to develop a direct deposit module where there will be a Dai pool potentially where maker will be the stabilizer of that pool. Maker will print money and deposit it as a senior trench of that pool that then loans the money out together with other money through pool delegates that take first loss risk into the real economy. And in this way we are letting Dai flow in the hands of as many people as possible, but in a very sustainable way and composable way where we have a competitive advantage, infinite balance sheet at quasi zero cost of capital. Other pools have other competitive advantages. They are great in creating products, they have great access to the ultimate borrowers, they have a great user experience or structure, whatever. So we give them our advantage access to a super cheap and infinite source of capital as long as they do their job well and they do the rest of the heavy lifting and take most of the profits.
03:15:06.368 - 03:15:34.632, Speaker A: In this way we can help other borrowers to other lenders to take the right type of risk they want and not being exposed to a bank run and borrowers to access risk capital. Because I agree, this is the real what we want. We want to give good risk capital to the right borrowers and Maple is doing it to Africancy traders. Tomorrow we'll do it to somebody else. Goldfinch is doing in the emerging markets. Credits wants to do it in emerging markets. TrueFi is doing it to corporates.
03:15:34.632 - 03:16:21.672, Speaker A: So there is a lot of innovation there. Absolutely. I think no, that's a really good way to think about kind of just framing that. And I was going to say for both of you. Luca and, like, I think USDC especially, is in more of a position where you get to see more traditional businesses coming in and on ramping, kind of, from your perspective, what's holding up more volumes to kind of go up or anywhere from arson adoption to just a high kind of volume case. What are some common themes or roadblocks that you see or questions that get asked? Yeah, I think we can look at it both from a lending perspective and a borrowing perspective. I think from a lending perspective, people are still skeptical of crypto yields.
03:16:21.672 - 03:17:19.712, Speaker A: They don't fully understand it. Was it last week that US Terra died? That is not good for us. Right? Like as an industry, people just equate USDC, Dai USDT with Terra and they have the same questions. And even our largest lenders called us that day and they said, well, how does this affect you? Even though we are very clear that we are Bitcoin, when you put money into circle yield, it's over collateralized with Bitcoin and there's no connection to US terror, but still makes people nervous. And I think it's just early days in terms of people getting comfortable with yield that crypto markets can create. Also our yields are not the best right now because the Fed is giving out amazing yield. I think that is not lost on people.
03:17:19.712 - 03:18:14.480, Speaker A: So they're like, well, I can take on the risk of crypto, but for what? So I think that'll eventually settle one argument can be, well, those yields are going to converge eventually because who cares whether it's crypto or not. Well, I still think there's some time before that happens. On the under collateralized lending side, on the borrowing side, so to speak, I'd say we're just like Maple is just a year old. Even Goldfinch I think, is less than a year old. Like being in market, I'm sure those projects are longer, but them being live, it's so early. Look at the experience of lending into a pool on Maple today. You can go and evaluate the pool, you can see their history, you can see who they're lending out to, but really don't know because you really haven't digested the data.
03:18:14.480 - 03:19:14.064, Speaker A: There's no rating service on the debt that they have. There's nobody who is tracking the performance of the underwriter over a long enough period of time. And arguably there hasn't been a long enough period of time. And so at least my vision is that eventually we move into a world in which there are hundreds and thousands of underwriters on the Internet and they are in these very specific pools that are specific to industry. And if you're in climate, you want to represent carbon credits on chain and you want to make sure there's a unique representation of a carbon credit so it's not sold twice. It's like a common problem that I have found in my discussions. I talked to somebody who was doing a protocol and they were just buying invoices and they had a specific protocol where they would buy the invoices and make 10% on like a net 90 invoice and they have specific needs and that's going to get encoded in a protocol.
03:19:14.064 - 03:20:05.152, Speaker A: And then eventually they will have specific underwriters within the protocol who are essentially managing that debt. So I think this whole ecosystem will evolve really fast. We need is, I think, systems that can allocate across these different pools, systems that can evaluate the different pools, more primitives to represent these assets on chain because those primitives are very basic right now. What's the list of new primitives or variations that we need to see? I know you already cut. I think they're industry specific. Like, that's what I said. Like, you know, how do you represent a carbon credit? Like there are these voluntary carbon markets and now verification is easier for some class of use cases because you have satellite imagery.
03:20:05.152 - 03:20:38.464, Speaker A: Okay, great. So I know that the trees that you said are going to be there are there, but now there's no way of knowing. Did you sell that carbon credit three times? Well, if everything goes on chain, you can be sure that it wasn't sold three times. Right. I think it is going to be by industry. So I don't think maybe there's one protocol that rules them all and it's possible, but I think there will be some sort of like if you look at the web and then there was search and I don't know. What the equivalent of search is.
03:20:38.464 - 03:21:49.352, Speaker A: But I think we will go looking for yield across these vast pools as an economy and we're going to have to figure out what are the systems we need to sort of allocate capital across these different yield pools and people will have a zillion preferences and then all of this. How does this intersect the real world in terms of security laws? Do you only want this to be a DeFi system? Not really. If you want to attract all the money, then you have to intersect the world of securities laws at some point. How will that work? So those questions come from businesses as well. Going back to your original question like, well, if I buy this, am I buying a security? What happens if I connect my wallet to it? What if the wallet is hosted? There's all kinds of regulatory things that we're still reasoning through, but I'm very optimistic that if we can show the benefit then the demand will come, the supply will come. You can call either side the demand or the supply because the need is there. If you are starting a business today, if you want to do something new in the world, you need capital, and that need is not going away anytime soon.
03:21:49.352 - 03:22:14.924, Speaker A: And nobody will say that. It is a very efficient market for access, right? Yeah. The Internet will do for allocating this risk capital. What the Internet did for information, it made it super cheap. So how will that happen? I don't know. It's only been like nine months or a year of this ecosystem. I am very excited about it though.
03:22:14.924 - 03:22:58.140, Speaker A: So I think it goes past payments. I think payments is really one I'll give it back. Payments is really interesting because it creates that on chain data that can be used for verification. Like, is this supplier somebody who pays on time? How much have they paid? Who have they paid? Can you analyze the network of payees? What can you learn about it? Can you then grade the supplier higher or lower based on that? It's like navigating a network and building an index and learning about then. But yeah, done very differently because you're allocating money has value. Getting information wrong also has cost. But the cost is not immediate, it is diffused.
03:22:58.140 - 03:23:50.840, Speaker A: You've essentially made the case for Lucas argument for specialization needed to yeah, 100%. I just don't know if I believe that there is a stable coin per ecosystem, or if there's just different ecosystems that all have different rules and they're all normalized using dollar denominated stablecoin. Or if you look at Fran's argument, which is like in each of these ecosystems, you hold maybe the native coin, and then you use the dollar just to settle, and you're in and out of the dollar really fast. That may be just fine. I don't know which way to go. Luca, Fran, anything you want to add to mean? I agree. I think it's great to remain open minded, and I think I have no clue as well how this will develop.
03:23:50.840 - 03:24:29.424, Speaker A: And I think a good researcher reacts to new information with new hypotheses. So it is something that we keep evolving. But what is exciting of this industry for people like ourselves is we are not like journalists that are trying to predict the future. We are working to make that future real. So we also have an influence on how these things would develop. And I think I myself, I came into this industry after 15 years in traditional finance, and I see incredible amount of talent coming into this industry, and they don't really care about prices. So I think even the bear market is going to be extremely productive.
03:24:29.424 - 03:25:45.272, Speaker A: And I think more talent will come in, the more ideas and will be developed. So it's something that we can shape together and we don't need necessarily to mimic exactly what was before DeFi I also think, for example, that this is a dream because I think it will mean that we will have had a successful transition on on chain economy. I think at some point we will abandon the peg like an emerging market that doesn't need to be pegged to the dollar for credibility, but now is big enough to walk on its own legs. I think at some point maybe is the value of if they will represent the value of their economy and they will be the base for the monetary stack of a certain ecosystem. It seems impossible now, but maybe not in the future. Also considering the inflation data and the uncertainty on the value of the monetary stack we're seeing. But institutions like institutions like Circle for example, are so important because they are bridging the old world into the new rails.
03:25:45.272 - 03:26:34.236, Speaker A: And although I have no doubts that we will migrate completely in a blockchain enabled financial system, I don't know when this is going to happen. And I think if we screw things up, we might delay this adoption by 20 years, which in our perspective it seems like it's like the same as it would never happen. So I think having incredibly professional and dedicated innovative bridges between the off chain and the on chain economy is the most important thing we have. And I truly hope that the dialogue with the regulators will be constructive because it's so important for the regulators to participate in this migration, orderly migration. Otherwise it will happen anyway. But it will happen in a messy way and the weak ones will be the ones who suffer. And we don't want this to happen.
03:26:34.236 - 03:27:12.532, Speaker A: So it is very exciting. But for me, my call to action is we are not here looking at the future and trying to predict how is it going to be and bet in the capital markets based on our prediction. We are here because we want to shape it. So everyone has a responsibility in the quality of the tweets, in the quality of the research, in the quality of work, not just to speculate, but to create the future we want. And I'm not an idealist here. I think it's real and we all have this kind of personal responsibility, how we interact with the ecosystem or outside of the ecosystem. No, I think that's a really well put argument.
03:27:12.532 - 03:27:53.832, Speaker A: I wish that was my last question because this would have been a perfect note to end on. I do have one more question, but I want to give Fran a chance to comment as well and we can get to wrapping up the panel. Honestly, there's not much I can add. Those were two great interventions. The only thing I might comment to is something Nikhil said about how yields are leaving because the Fed is hiking up their own interest rates. And that's something that we've seen a few times right when we started superfluid the yields in DeFi were at zero. I don't know how many people remember that even MakerDAO I think had negative interest right at some point.
03:27:53.832 - 03:29:15.072, Speaker A: So what that tells us, the fact that they're inversely correlated tells us that the interest that we see in DeFi is purely driven by speculation because there's no actual economic activity. If there were uncollateralized borrowing and lending, then we would have yields, even if yields in the traditional markets are high. But we don't because there is nothing except for speculation at the moment. And I think it's very important to bring those payments on chain to create those markets for uncollateralized lending because that will stabilize yields. If people are borrowing on chain, then there is yield, right, regardless of what the off chain yields are, right? And that will break that inverse relationship between the yields in DeFi and Treasuries which will also mean know, crypto in general becomes a real mature market, right? So ultimately breaking the direct connection between speculation and crypto is the only way we have to make this mature. And I think payments are ultimately the Harburger of that, right? Because everybody needs to make payments. It's the simplest way to bring people on board and it will bring with it things like credit, it will bring with it things like more efficient supply chains, potentially cheaper everything, right? Because we have more efficient rails for moving value.
03:29:15.072 - 03:30:07.250, Speaker A: So overall, yeah, as Lucas said, fuel responsibility to make that future happen and work in that direction. I absolutely agree. So maybe one optimistic note to end on will be just maybe getting a preview of how each of you are kind of enabling that we'd love to learn about what you think is important for Maker to do and for Circle to do and for Superfluid to do to actually get millions more people coming in and be onboarded. I start with Maker very quickly. I spent an immense amount of energy over the last few months trying to protect this concept of Prudence because we have a responsibility managing a stable coin. And unfortunately these days it is quite evident that I was right. It doesn't feel good to be right.
03:30:07.250 - 03:31:26.584, Speaker A: And I want to keep evolving, balancing the need for Prudence because I think it is very important. So what we are trying to do at Maker is through protocol to protocol interactions, we want to onboard as much high quality collateral as possible on chain showing to the world that there is a super efficient source of capital out there that can be used to distribute to Nikit's point risk capital around the world. So showing that this value also for protocols that can build on this portable liquidity from Maker and if we are successful, the ecosystem will thrive, capital will go into the right ends, not to the ones that want to speculate or originate or run away. Maker will expand and the Dai will be in more hands and obviously we will be even more important in a DeFi ecosystem while staying being composable with others. And I want to stress, for example, there is space because everybody has a different specialization. So we have a very strong and deep strategic relationship with USDC, and it's a pillar of our construct. And we think this will remain and will expand as we grow and mature.
03:31:26.584 - 03:32:04.974, Speaker A: So I think this is what we're trying to do over the next few months. I can go, I think, click for us. We have three broad focus areas. One is we want to increase the programmability of USDC. So fundamentally, we think about USDC as a platform. We think about the platform attributes being liquidity, trust, and speed. And that's what we push on all day.
03:32:04.974 - 03:32:40.694, Speaker A: That's what frames our entire product effort. How can we be more liquid? If you want to do something with USDC, how can you do it fast? And then how do we maintain trust at all times? We're going to keep pushing on that. And that just means supporting more chains. We have more functionality coming. And as we do that, we are sort of guiding light is where the developers are. So we go where the developers tell us to go. And there are good ways of analyzing that data, and we consume the data and we follow the developers.
03:32:40.694 - 03:33:17.302, Speaker A: It's very simple. So that's on the stablecoin side. And then broadly speaking, we have two applications that we care about deeply. One is payments. Payments is we're going to do more in terms of increasing value in crypto payments and supporting various methods of payments for the merchants that we are working with. Merchants come to us today for fiat payment rails. We're going to give them a way to manage crypto rails as well in the future.
03:33:17.302 - 03:33:46.260, Speaker A: So that's one aspect. And then there's like all these accessory businesses around that. And the third thing for us is trying to figure out how to bring real world assets on chain and how to enable those markets. What is our role there? We're still reasoning through it because a lot of this is very exciting, but still very early. So I do agree with Fran's point that Payments is ready today. Everybody needs to do it. It's a great way to onboard people.
03:33:46.260 - 03:34:35.674, Speaker A: And the last thing I'd say is one thing I am careful about as I listen about this is I approach everything with a lot of curiosity and not a lot of judgment because I don't know, there's a funky new liquidity scheme that is really important to the ecosystem. I'm going to read the white paper. I'm going to try to make sense of it. And sometimes it doesn't make sense, and it's just mind boggling to us as to why something should exist, but it does. But our job at Circle is to keep making widgets. That's what we do. And we make widgets for developers and we make widgets for businesses.
03:34:35.674 - 03:35:13.260, Speaker A: And I. Am pretty confident that we have plenty of widgets to make over the next two years. I'm not bothered by the bear market, I'm not bothered by all the noise with regulation because fundamentally, I believe what we're doing is useful. We are reducing costs, we're increasing opportunity, and as long as we can make that argument in good faith and to very high scrutiny, I feel good about what we're doing. The best thing about that is it's measurable and defensible on chain. We can see it measurable and defensible on chain. So, yeah, you don't have to believe me.
03:35:13.260 - 03:35:34.834, Speaker A: You need to write something that can aggregate the data. That's it. And it's clearly working. So I totally agree. Fran, last words to you. Well, I mean, similarly to what Nikhil and Luca said, ultimately, we have to keep building. Doesn't matter, right? Whatever happens in the market doesn't matter.
03:35:34.834 - 03:36:20.526, Speaker A: We started the market when yields were negative. Didn't matter. The yields might become negative again, still doesn't matter. What we're doing is useful. It's bringing efficiency, increasing opportunity. In our case, I also feel we're fundamentally bringing something new, right? So it's even hard to tell exactly what the use cases will be. So the most important things for superfluid are actually very similar to Circle, right? It's keep building for developers and enable those developers to explore those use cases to build those applications that will onboard the users, right? Ultimately, crypto loves protocols, but protocols don't onboard users, right? Protocols are pure rules for information exchange.
03:36:20.526 - 03:37:26.790, Speaker A: We need people to build applications that solve problems, right? What we do is just provide the primitives that allow those applications to create new things, right? But we still need the builders and they need to build useful things. So ultimately, providing developer tools is the single most important thing that all of us can do. And onboarding developers will onboard users. Because if what we're doing, unless we're all being extremely wrong, we're bringing efficiency, right? And there's no way that regulatory scrutiny or the occasional implosion of ill devised financial scheme will stop this, right? It's still useful and that's not going to change regardless of what happens outside of the industry. But I just want to echo again what Luca said. I do feel that we have a responsibility to make that future happen. And it's one of the reasons I think a lot of people don't take crypto halfway, right? You see people fall down the rabbit hole and the reason they fall down the rabbit hole is that they are seeing future in the making.
03:37:26.790 - 03:37:55.310, Speaker A: And that is extremely exciting. Right. It's not like changing button colors at Google. You're literally changing the way the world experiences money, right, and experiences the transfer of value. So there's something about crypto and Web Three which is extremely exciting for builders, and building more exciting tools for those builders is extremely rewarding for us. So that's what we'll keep doing. There was a time at google where there wasn't just about changing colors.
03:37:55.310 - 03:38:40.494, Speaker A: I know you're ex Google, but there was like I was early, like mid 2000s, like 2005 Google, but there was a time but the same things happened. First they were the semiconductor companies, then they were the Cisco's of the world and eventually reached Google. Then it became about YouTube and it became about the apps. So I think we're following the same path, and I think we're somewhere in the early part of that cycle. But, yeah, it's like, I may be older than all of you, so I have seen this movie at least once before, but it's exciting. It's exciting to be part of this, to be building at this speed, which is I enjoy tremendously. That was a perfect note to end this on.
03:38:40.494 - 03:38:58.914, Speaker A: I want to thank all three of you for taking the time today. So, look, any kill friend really appreciate the amazing, thoughtful discussion, and we hope to bring you on again and have a round two of this. Thank you. Bye. Thank you very much. Thanks for joining, folks. All right, well, that marks the last panel and talk for the day.
03:38:58.914 - 03:39:33.006, Speaker A: So before we end the summit, I want to bring on Fran again to share some closing remarks. And then we'll wish all of you happy hacking, because submissions are due in two. Thank you. Thank you, cardik. So I'm just going to very quickly share my screen. Can you see my screen? So we'll just wait for you to be on the workspace so we can there you go. Perfect.
03:39:33.006 - 03:39:51.098, Speaker A: Yeah. All right. Well, thanks, everyone, for joining us today. I think it's been actually really interesting, at least for me. There were a lot of things that I learned from our early guests, from our later guests, the panels. Everything was really interesting. Just want to bring you back to Superfluid.
03:39:51.098 - 03:40:44.600, Speaker A: Right? So what we're doing at Superfluid is building a protocol. We're building streaming money with no capital lockups and programmability on chain, right? And as you might have understood by some of the panels, some of the content, the reason we're building this is really for builders, right? We saw a technical opportunity to build a very interesting tool for builders to innovate the way money works. And effectively, what we saw was an opportunity to change the way money works, right? To change the way people experience money. What happened there? I think the screen share stopped. Would you mind doing it one more time? Yeah, sorry for that. The application crashed. Okay.
03:40:44.600 - 03:42:04.330, Speaker A: Sorry for that. So, as I said, we saw an opportunity to change the way money works, right? And that's what we were building. We wanted to change the way money works, from lump sums to money streaming, right? And we can make money more fluid, and we can bring this new tool to web free. And then we realized that this meant we could network cash flows, right, by simply changing the balance of function of an ERC 20. We could enable businesses to receive and send money in real time and see this real time balance move without any actions on their behalf, right? This was something that really opened our eyes to the opportunities that bringing cash flows on chain meant, right? Because suddenly we could effectively create subscriptions, salaries, all of these beautiful things that effectively created Web Two, right? Web Two was created by Ads, arguably, but also by SaaS, right? SaaS is the most successful monetization strategy in Web Two. It's created massive companies, right? So when we understood that Sprifluid could enable this in Web free, we realized that this was really an opportunity to push Web Three forward. By enabling subscriptions, by enabling cash flows to come on chain, we could effectively create more sustainable web free economies.
03:42:04.330 - 03:42:46.986, Speaker A: And this is something that we also acted in the last panel where we talked about how yields really currently depend on speculation and the demand for speculation and leverage. But with cash flows on chain, we can change that. We can make Web free its own economy, where people are paying for services, right? Not just for leverage. And that's something we're very passionate at superfluid about. And it's the reason we organized the Summit, so that we could get people who are building these tools to talk about them and their importance of them. So just want to share with you an imaginary future which is actually not too far. So I expect we'll start seeing web free businesses that get paid through subscriptions managed by Diagonal.
03:42:46.986 - 03:43:48.898, Speaker A: Those same businesses in real time will pay their salaries through coinshift to their teams and their teams will be invoicing them through a request network. And those people working for these companies will then reinvest their money through Ricochet Exchange or another streaming investment platform and use part of that salary to maybe borrow money on Huma Finance. Right? And all of this is being built, this is literally happening in our ecosystem under our eyes right now. And I'm extremely excited to enable these kinds of use cases to happen in web free because these things have never happened before, right? Like forking uniswap for the 10th time is not as exciting as building uncollateralized lending. So come and join us. Come and create this vision for on chain networked cash flows with us. We're really excited to involve more people, build more of an ecosystem and increase the amount of money that we can flow through our system.
03:43:48.898 - 03:44:30.142, Speaker A: And our ecosystem is growing. We already have a lot of apps, but there's never enough, right? There's so many different use cases, so many different verticals to explore. And we're really excited to enable you to come and change the way the world experiences money with us. So for all of the developers in the room, join our Superfluid reactor. As I said, if you're building out hack money at the end of it, if you really like what you did and you think that you want to turn this into a business apply. If you get in, we will help you fundraise, we will help you launch, and we will not take anything. It's completely free, right? So this is the best accelerator out there because we're not going to charge you.
03:44:30.142 - 03:45:37.982, Speaker A: Now, bringing us back to Superfluid. Of course, it's streaming money on chain cash flows, but it's also building a web free native economy with onchain subscriptions, enabling credits and connecting cash flows to effectively make the web free economy leapfrog traditional finance and hopefully usher in a new internet native economy that doesn't rely on the intermediaries that we've grappled with so far. So that's it for me. I think that is an amazing wrap up of what today was all about. Thank you again for being an amazing partner and being the support system for a lot of the hackers that are trying to understand and basically change how money works. So, once again, thanks to all of the speakers. Thanks to all of you listening and watching this and spent the last few hours with us, asking questions, sharing comments, and talking about everything, web Three and money.
03:45:37.982 - 03:46:06.262, Speaker A: And to Mike and Fran, really appreciate having the opportunity to work with you here on this summit. Thanks, man. Thanks for having us. Got it. And that officially concludes our Superfluid Reactor summit. So thanks again to everybody who was part of it. And as a quick summary, if you participate in the chat, then you will be getting this amazing animated PO app very soon.
03:46:06.262 - 03:46:42.406, Speaker A: So keep an eye out on the email that you signed in with and we'll be sending this POAP to all of you shortly. And with that, I'd like to wish everybody hacking this weekend the best of luck with the submissions. Submissions are due on Sunday at 03:00 P.m.. And with that, I'd like to sign off and wish all of you a great weekend. And we'll see you all next week with the Hack money finale with some of our favorite teams that will go live. So thanks everybody. And in the meantime, enjoy with some lo fi beats.
03:46:42.406 - 03:46:43.080, Speaker A: Take care.
