00:00:04.490 - 00:00:45.642, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First headline JP morgan is finally bullish for Bitcoin After years of skepticism, JP. Morgan is now projecting Bitcoin's price could see, quote, a doubling or tripling assuming current trends hold. A research note published by the bank says the cryptocurrency is a valid alternative to gold among millennial hills, while still cautioning that Bitcoin is overbought in the near term. In addition to demographic trends, the company cites positive developments for Bitcoin, such as the recent announcement by PayPal to offer bitcoin to customers, as well as the fact that companies such as Square have added the asset to their balance sheets. JP morgan also had other crypto related news this week.
00:00:45.642 - 00:02:02.420, Speaker A: The block reports that the bank has been in talks with crypto native firms as it explores how it can offer cryptocurrency custody. The plan would likely be for Morgan to enlist sub custodians to provide services, and it has reportedly reached out to Fidelity Digital Assets and Paxos, among others. Amidst all of this Morgan blockchain news, the firm's digital currency, JPMCoin, is being used commercially for the first time this week to send payments worldwide. The company's also rebranded its banking network to the name Link that's with two eyes and invited its 500 plus financial institutions to start building on the platform. The head of the Link product, Christine Moy, called it, quote, the foundation of an enterprise main net. All these blockchain digital currency efforts have now been housed under a new business entity dubbed Onyx, which currently has more than 100 staffers. Next headline Was Finance US set up as a decoy for US regulators? Michael Del Castillo at Forbes, who I wish I had had the opportunity to work with though he arrived there after I had left, did a thorough look into Binance's approach to US regulation and in particular, its reason for establishing the regulatorily compliant Binance US.
00:02:02.420 - 00:03:24.030, Speaker A: Michael obtained a 2018 document that detailed finance's plans for the launch of the entity that would eventually become Finance US, but was at the time called, quote, the Tai Chi entity, which, Michael writes, is, quote, an allusion to the Chinese martial art whose approach is built around the principle of yield and overcome, or using an opponent's own weight against him. Michael says, quote While the then unnamed entity set up operations in the United States to distract regulators with feigned interest in compliance, measures would be put in place to move revenue in the form of licensing fees and more to the parent company Binance. Some of the more startling revelations from the document are a bold bullet point that says, quote, key Binance personnel continue to operate from a non US location to avoid enforcement risks. The document then also says, quote, License and service fees paid by the US service company to Binance are functionally US sourced trading fees. Then Michael writes but unlike an actual subsidiary whose parent company could be held accountable for regulatory violations, the Tai Chi entity would have little more than a contractual relationship. Further quote insulating binance from US enforcement. According to the document, Michael writes Essentially, it would be a decoy.
00:03:24.030 - 00:04:26.980, Speaker A: This article is perhaps the most thorough look into how Binance is playing regulatory arbitrage, in particular with US regulators. It's definitely worth a read and certainly offers arguments to people who believe Binance is playing fast and loose when it comes to US regulations, as well as those who believe US regulations regarding crypto are too stringent. Next Headline Crypto friendly bank Silvergate reports strong earnings after the OCC's letter this summer, giving banks the authority to custody crypto assets. There's been a lot of positive crypto news from banks, including those who have long been involved in the industry. For instance, Silvergate Bank, which has long been friendly to crypto companies, revealed a strong third quarter, with much success related to digital currency activity. CEO Alan Lane remains bullish on the bank's payment platform, the Silvergate Exchange Network, after seeing $36 billion in transfers during the last quarter, which surpassed the amount transferred in all of 2019. The number of digital asset customers has also risen by 23% to over 900.
00:04:26.980 - 00:05:50.406, Speaker A: Lane also says the entry of JPMorgan, which banks Silvergate customer Gemini, into the arena, has not resulted in any loss of business. Next Headline Avanti Granted Bank charter A Wyoming state regulator has voted unanimously to grant Avanti Bank and Trust a bank charter which gives the firm the same powers as national banks in its approved business lines. Avanti is authorized to offer several products and services, most notably a tokenized US dollar called Avit. Calling this token a stablecoin disruptor, Avanti says it is designed to solve problems in legacy payment systems that have long plagued traders, investors and corporate treasurers. Quote Avanti's mission is to provide a compliant bridge between the traditional and digital asset financial systems with the strictest level of institutional custody standards, said Caitlin Long, Avanti's founder and chief executive officer. Next Headline on chain metrics point to bitcoin breakout the bitcoin price has been growing steadily since the March crypto crash, and according to Coimetrics, the data suggests BTC could be preparing for its most significant breakout yet. Bitcoin's correlation with gold has been at near all time highs since March, while its correlation with the dollar has been at all time lows, further supporting the thesis that bitcoin serves as a digital version of gold.
00:05:50.406 - 00:06:28.358, Speaker A: In addition to these, correlations onchain holding is increasing. As of October 25, close to 65% of all BTC has been held for at least a year, which is near all time highs. As holders increase, velocity is at all time lows. Furthering, bitcoin's trend towards a store of value rather than a medium of exchange. Bitcoin is also being moved off centralized exchanges in increasing numbers, suggesting more bitcoin owners want full control of their keys. As the number of holders continues to grow, the bitcoin supply inflation decreases with each having, continuing to drive the price upward. Next headline.
00:06:28.358 - 00:07:16.998, Speaker A: $38 million drained from harvest finance during attack. An arbitrage trade exploited weak points in the Harvest Finance DFI protocol on Monday, allowing an attacker to make off with $33.8 million. The exploit sent Harvest native farm token tumbling 65% in less than an hour, and the total value locked in the protocol plummeted as well. The attacker returned $2.5 million for unknown reasons soon after the attack. Using a flash loan, the attacker was able to take on massive leverage with zero downside in order to manipulate the USDC USDT ratios in the Y pool of curve, which allowed the attacker to generate a profit, promising to implement UX changes to prevent such incidents in the future.
00:07:16.998 - 00:08:27.630, Speaker A: Harvest claimed to know the attacker's identity, saying they are, quote, well known in the crypto community. Harvest then provided the bitcoin address of the attacker, containing what they called, quote, a significant amount of personally identifiable information, and Harvest also put up a $100,000 bounty for the first person or team to get the attacker to return the funds to the deployer address. Although the attack is devastating, people have stopped short of calling it a hack. A Twitter thread by Crypto lawyer Gabriel Shapiro makes a case as to why this should be viewed at most as, quote, a manipulative device, scheme or artifice to defraud, or even as, quote, commodities spot market manipulation. The Harvest incident is not the only recent attack that can't be viewed as a traditional hack. On Monday, someone used a flash loan of MKR to pass a governance vote on MakerDAO, prompting the Stablecoin project to issue a warning. The event also highlighted the impact that flash loans can have on DeFi, in this case being utilized by an outside party that wanted its proposal passed.
00:08:27.630 - 00:09:12.170, Speaker A: In related News OpenZeppelin has launched OpenZeppelin Defender, a platform for building on Ethereum with security best practices built in. Hopefully, with more products like this, we will see fewer and fewer of these DFI exploits. Next headline coinbase Launching Crypto Debit Card Coinbase plans to Launch a Visa Debit card in the US. Next year that will offer 1% back in Bitcoin or 4% back in Stellar. Disclosure Stellar has been a sponsor of my podcasts. The company, which plans to start distributing the cards in the first half of next year and has opened a waitlist for US. Customers, ceased the card's launch as a significant milestone to Crypto's mainstream adoption.
00:09:12.170 - 00:10:27.970, Speaker A: Time for Fun Bits a Week's Crypto News in 46 seconds Girl Gone Crypto, which I admittedly discovered just before recording this, published a hilarious Vlog of a week in Crypto, which begins 13K. That's it. That's the video and touches on the PayPal news pokes fun at CBDCs, Filecoin and Ethereum 20 and also drinks to MicroStrategy CEO Michael Saylor. Definitely worth watching, especially for shots of her vacation in what looks like Southern California. Next Fun Bits Happy twelveTH birthday Bitcoin White Paper if you're looking for fun, pandemic friendly ideas to celebrate the 12th birthday of the Bitcoin white paper being published, I already solicited some for you from my Twitter followers. My favorite one says, quote, I'm going to have a Bitcoin cocktail, something with orange, no melting ice cubes and limited supply. And my not safe for work, but since we're all working from home anyway, runner up favorite to the question what are you doing to celebrate the 12th anniversary of the publication of the Bitcoin White paper? Was this tweet by Crypto rand coke.
00:10:27.970 - 00:10:50.490, Speaker A: All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Matt Bitwise and other topics we discussed, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the unchained podcast YouTube channel. Today. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Bossy Baker Shashak and the team at Fortune for Listening.
