00:00:01.880 - 00:01:13.968, Speaker A: So I'm Achilles, and I want to talk to you about how I think we've gotten the whole thing terribly wrong when it comes to creativity and art on chain. And to do that, I want to begin by dissecting this cursed word and this cursed contract that we call the NFT. What is the role of the NFt? The idea primarily was a sort of a magical instrument that would be able to transform and transport all sorts of masterpieces and artifacts from the offline world of digital space. And that was. Was heralded as, like, you know, this remnant sense of creativity post the mechanical production of the last 60 years. And, you know, I will take you back 90 years ago to some guy called Walter Benjamin, who was a very innovative theorists at the time, wrote many things around philosophy of all sorts, and also talked a lot about the sort of the way that art and the art industry has been basically castrated by the notion of mechanical production. So he has this notion of aura.
00:01:13.968 - 00:01:58.474, Speaker A: The aura, for Benjamin, is the sort of unquantifiable je ne sais quoi or je ne sais pas. Don't remember, I don't know French that emanates and emerges from things that are spatially and temporarily located. So things that are located somewhere and are unique have a sort of presence and a pull to them. So a thing is sacred in so far as it has its presence. So something at a gallery, an object, as sort of an artifact or some religion has an order that draws you to it because it's located from a distance from you. And then mechanical production comes along, and mechanical production is sort of the idea that you can recreate images and artworks across the world with film and pictures. And then the Mona Lisa is no longer at the louver.
00:01:58.474 - 00:02:24.076, Speaker A: The Mona Lisa is now everywhere. And the moment the Mona Lisa is everywhere, then the aura that it emanates when it's located somewhere is kind of gone. There's no distance anymore. There's no uniqueness. I have, like a screenshot here of a Manet painting who was one of the Benjamin's favorite artists, and it has even a sort of watermark at the bottom right. And this sort of artifact is no longer anywhere specifically. It's kind of everywhere.
00:02:24.076 - 00:02:56.030, Speaker A: And I don't really feel anything when I look at it because it does not have a unique presence that can sort of draw me to it. There's no distance from me to it. It's like, there. It's there. It's also on your screen if you're online, etcetera. So what some people said Washington, that the NFT, as a sort of digital, unique object, can bring back uniqueness and objecthood, right? It can have a digital aura because it's located somewhere and has a presence there and has the same kind of gravitational pull as a real object does. But what we got instead was this kind of stuff.
00:02:56.030 - 00:04:07.564, Speaker A: And I'm not really convinced that pictures with some edit on them that have different hats and shoes and shirts actually bring back the sort of sacred presence that artifacts have. And the reason for that is that the aura is not something that just emanates from ontological concerns such as objecthood, but also something that is fundamentally ritualistic. So for many men and for many others, art has a fundamentally ritualistic basis, which is that the authentic work of art has its basis in ritual. That is that the value of an art piece or of an artifact originally was its value in mediating some sort of communion between different people and to create some sort of behavioral basis for the rituals to be carried out, right? So you can think of a religious artifact like a cross in a church. The point of the cross in the church is to create the conditions for a ritual that happens around that object, and then that's imbued with some sort of metaphysical value, et cetera. And that's the origin of art for Benjamin, is the ritualistic basis. So cult value has become exhibition value.
00:04:07.564 - 00:04:39.970, Speaker A: There's no longer any sort of emanated utility of ritual from an object. This is now just an object. And that's why we've lost this sort of aura. And so bringing object back to digital objects is not sufficient to create meaningfully communal experiences that are artistic in nature. And so the NFT, as a notion, is a reduction of construction. And I think the wrong primitive for digital art in a wider sense of the word, I think we need something different instead. I think people are experimenting with different things under different guises.
00:04:39.970 - 00:05:21.676, Speaker A: And these things require three more components, right? So you have the ontology, which is the objective of something, but you also need allocatedness, which is the topology of it, and also the ritualistic basis for the object to actually be able to imbue with some kind of meaning. And for me, I call that sort of combination in the digital space, an art chain. So what is an art chain? Well, let's start with the components first. So ontology is what we have already. You have digital objects which are persistent and they're unique, and they're ownable and have provenance and are programmable. So for digital world, that's like an NFT, right? It has all these conditions in the physical space. A painting does the same thing, or a performance theater that is waiting for godos.
00:05:21.676 - 00:05:57.814, Speaker A: There also has sort of an ontology, because it's somewhere. But all of these things only exist in abstraction. So ontology and abstraction is just an object by itself. And object by itself is not sufficient for communion or meaning, because it just exists in some liminal space. So that's why these things have become fundamentally financial in value. Because the only thing you can do with an object is to trade it and to hope that its value goes up arbitrarily, or goes down arbitrarily. So over time, anything that originally might some sort of feeling to it, when it doesn't have a context around it or locateness to it, becomes merely an object and then merely a tool for speculation.
00:05:57.814 - 00:06:36.210, Speaker A: So objects clearly are not enough for communion. I think we've seen that. That's why the whole thing crashed over the last two years, is because we just had objects floating around that became eventually currencies. So what's the second component then? Occult topology? Basically, I mean, like context and location. So an object is meaningful because of its context. Where is it? How did it get there? What is it doing there? What other things are around it? Who is looking at it? Who made it, et cetera. And therefore meaningful objects are autonomous and conversant with a wider reality, because they exist in a wider context.
00:06:36.210 - 00:07:03.722, Speaker A: And that's what gives them meaning. So in digital spaces, for example, they can do so in persistent spaces with enshrined rulesets such as blockchains, because there's context around them. And then they become relational, right? They're defined insofar as they relate to something else. An example of topology is gallery space, which imbues an object with the sort of prefix of it being an art object. The same thing in the desert. And on an art object. Duchamp's toilet in a toilet is a toilet.
00:07:03.722 - 00:07:51.956, Speaker A: But Duchamp's toilet in the tate is an art object because it's sort of, you know, contextualize the historical and topological space of the gallery. Achievements in gaming are relational on topological, because you only get it if you do something to get it. So it's contextualized within a wider net of actions and behaviors. A po op, you know, an object you get if you scan a QR code somewhere is also located, has located, because it results from you being somewhere at a given point in time. The ZKTLs stuff that bas talked about earlier as well, like some proofs about something you've done are also the proofs themselves are relational and topological in nature. So the topology we have so far with so called crypto art and nfts is the only rationality against money. The only way you can get something is if you have more money than someone else.
00:07:51.956 - 00:08:53.358, Speaker A: Which means you get a rare object that relates only to other non rare objects or rare objects on that. Clearly, I think this sort of construction is not sufficient for meaning in the waters of the world. Gaming is closer to that because, you know, you get an in game object or an achievement insofar as you've done something with a reputation. And that relates you to a wider sort of more complex and expressive web of relations to other players and other objects and other achievements, etcetera. There's like a semblance of meaning there because there's some sort of context that imbues the object with some meaning vis a vis wider context. The art world, you know, I think, has even more of a sort of expressive web there because the raw materials are crafted into an artifact, right? So like there's like a sort of lineage there of something is transmorphed to something else that is conversant with its historical and formal context. Be it in like some sort of gallery or in some book, or in our conversations after we go to the gallery, or, you know, after a play or after we go to a concert, etcetera.
00:08:53.358 - 00:09:51.340, Speaker A: And there's more meaning there because, again, there's more of a sort of journey around the different locational components of the object that we're looking at. The third component, which I think is the most underlooked one, overlooked one, rather. And the more important one is the notion of a ritual. I don't want to define a ritual here necessarily, but we can sort of think about it as a communal process that has a non deterministic, interactive outcome, but it's located within the mutable. Rituals often have sacrifices involved in them. And I think there's a good reason for that, is because the sacrifice sort of implores some cost on the participants of the ritual to be able to carry out the ritual, right? If there was no sacrifice, then anyone could participate in the ritual. But if you have some sacrifice inherent in rituals, then basically be it capital sacrifice, reputation sacrifice, you know, some sort of make believe sacrifice, you create the space that's necessary for trade offs to exist and for people to actually be more involved in something and something else.
00:09:51.340 - 00:10:49.422, Speaker A: And rituals lead to like a long term. That's big words there, and it's philosophy. And I'm at a crypto conference, but, you know, nonetheless, a long term dialectical architecting of the meaning landscape, right? So, like, over many iterations of rituals, you start to create meaning and a story and a narrative that underpins the ritual and therefore the objects located within the ritual itself. And, you know, like, it's also conversation between, like, the sacred and the mortal, right? Like we sort of do rituals because we want to connect with something that's a not necessarily tangible, like love or like God or whatever it might be, or winning a raid. So here's some examples of rituals burn mechanics. I think in NFTs are very interesting rituals because you get some object and you burn for something else, right? So there's a loss there you undergo, like with Gen art mint, for example, the thing you get at the end is determined by some sort of entropy of the blockchain, right? So the moment you press mint, there's some magic happens cryptographically, you get this new object. And I think this experience actually imbues generate mints with some sort of rationality, with some ritualistic underpinning to them, and therefore with some meaning at the end.
00:10:49.422 - 00:11:30.710, Speaker A: The mass is a ritual, right? Like people congregate and there is like objects around them and they sort of go through some motions and read some parts of a text, and then they feel like they're more, you know, in touch with themselves, each other and something above them. Mmorpgs are also rituals like a raid, when everyone goes together and congregates sort of to fight some, you know, evil. Other has all of these components there itself as well. It's a communal process. It has sacrifice inherent in it, and it creates a meaning in the actions you undertake and also meaning to the object you get at the end of the raid, right? You get a rare loot. The reason why you want it is because you had to undergo the ritualistic process to get to that point. It's not just because it's rare in some sort of liminal circuit space.
00:11:30.710 - 00:12:39.302, Speaker A: So basically, I think, properly manifest world building or meaning on the meaning landscape, which are all sort of related things, is something that looks a bit like that, like people communicating with each other and with something else through a web of complex located objects that relate to each other in some sort of ritualistic aspect, right? So this is true of games, this is true of religious rituals, it's true of music concerts, it's true of creativity, and it's also true of artistic creation, artistic exhibition. It looks something like that. So I think the thing we've messed up a bit with is, we took the object as the fundamental primitive of digital art. I think, instead, when you take the whole meaning landscape as the primitive there. And I call that an r chain. So an r chain is basically a persistent, quasi autonomous, interactive artwork that is anchored to bespoke virtual machine. So the whole chain is the artwork, right? You deploy a chain, an artist deploys a chain, and that is what the artwork is, not the objects within the chains themselves.
00:12:39.302 - 00:13:34.716, Speaker A: Custom precompiles and fork choice rules allows for internal, non deterministic, communal performance art pieces, right? So you take a chain, you take the EVM, you mess with it a bit, you add sort of some custom rules. An example could be, it emits objects every 60 years. An example could be, like, if some interaction happens by the participants, then there's some other rule that allows for some other object to emerge, or something is burned at some other place, or some bridge is sort of broken, or some sort of contract is mutated according to some original ruleset. And these rules allow for an emergency coordination, therefore, an emergent dialectical relationship between the participants and the artist, in this case. So this chain is prophesized by the artist in the sense that it's deployed by someone with artwork in mind, but it's merely the vehicle for conversational interaction between participants. And in my mind, the sort of evolution of that is you had a shared contract originally where you could add another object to a smart contract. That was all you could do, and that was pretty lame.
00:13:34.716 - 00:14:36.272, Speaker A: Artists deployed contracts, which means the artists could deploy full contracts that housed their objects and artworks. But there were interactions there that were more meaningful because there was more locationality to them, there were more julistic aspects to them. And the final evolution of that is a chain that's deployed by an artist as a fully fledged, maximally expressive, eternal sort of ruin in the Internet, like a digital ruin that people can explore, interact with, and unlock different components of it. You can think of it as a performance piece that just runs forever by itself. Basically, this is a slider stole from Stan Hart's talk a couple of days ago, which has the same sort of interaction there, right? Like, what is the artwork? It's the thing that mediates the artistic creativity with the audience's insights that are taken from interacting with it meaningfully. And then the audience lives with subsequent experience, effects of perceptions. Like, sort of like, you know, some meaning emerges from the audience who interact with a great artwork, and the artist leaves with sort of an experience that can affect their future creativity and all I'm saying is like, just take this whole thing and make it a blockchain.
00:14:36.272 - 00:14:59.882, Speaker A: I think it's gonna work really, really well, and it's definitely gonna work better than monkey pictures. So what are the sort of insights here? Don't conflate the art with the NFT. Right. The NFT is a vessel for objects. It might be artistic in some respects, mostly not, but it's fundamentally just a primitive that you can use in a wider context. Digital objects are only meaningful as vessels of immersion. Properties of artworks bespoke.
00:14:59.882 - 00:15:26.800, Speaker A: Virtual machines, I think, are a very good candidate for canvases, artistic canvases with other primitives around them as various art supplies. And I think they can also function fundamentally as playgrounds for resistance to communal world making. Right. So what Benjamin was talking about as well with the death of the aura, had a positive side effect, which was that art is becoming more democratic and communal. People can interact and create together across the world in decentralized fashion. That was 935, by the way. Right.
00:15:26.800 - 00:15:58.880, Speaker A: But the good side effect was that everyone is now able to partake in meaning making. Not those who just go to the gallery, or those who are able to be exhibited in the gallery, but also everyone who's able to interact with something back then on the television or the radio, now on the Internet, and soon on sort of the blockchains. Right. And in the blockchains, the participant is as powerful in some ways as the artist himself. So, you know, here you have Amarin Abramowicz exhibition. I'm not a big fan of her, but I think this is like a good example of a collaborative artwork, right? Where it's just them staring at each other for nine minutes. That's the artwork.
00:15:58.880 - 00:16:48.400, Speaker A: But you have a participant and an artist mediated by an object, in this case, the chairs and the table, and also the gallery space, who creates some sort of meaning through their interaction. And the meaning would be not there if you just have the table in abstraction. So I think you can make this into a sort of interesting construction, basically, or like generalized construction. So this is the sort of taxonomy here. What has been the case so far is we thought that the NFTs will be community sort of scaffolds and join my community by buying my picture. I don't think that works, because, again, the objects by themselves do not have the necessary insufficient expressivity for them to become meaningfully communal. So it just ends up in a weird circle jerk of please buy my bugs and pump the floor price.
00:16:48.400 - 00:18:08.812, Speaker A: And that's very, very sad. I instead, if you reverse the causality there, and you start with the community, and you give them the correct tools to sort of congregate in a localized way with a rich topology, with rich rule sets and ritualistic bases there, which has been what's going on for thousands of years across all creative media. And then objects emerge from interaction only as a result of some interactions in there. Then the objects are meaningful, and then you can have the NFT as sort of an interesting artistic object. But it only works if it's the immersion property of a wider expressive landscape. You might notice that the stuff I'm talking about sounds a lot like the autonomous world sort of meme, because I think they're kind of like the same thing in a way. I think if you take digital art and you imbue it with topology, ontology and ritual, and you end up with something like an r chain, which is an autonomous golem that acts as the coordinating mechanism for participants and authors, it looks very much like if you take an on chain game and you imbue it with persistent autonomic expressivity, and autonomous world, both of these things are constructs that are persistent, that are open, and that are the fundamental basis for ritualistic expression and also objecthood in some respects.
00:18:08.812 - 00:18:57.560, Speaker A: So they're both like an autonomous golem in some ways. The only difference is that the left side is like artists approaching it, and the right side, sorry, my right side is artists approaching it, and the left side is sort of game developers approaching it. I think it's more likely that artists will create the first truly sort of masterpiece in the digital world era, because they just have the kind of imagination and immersivity that allows for the creation of things that are fundamentally interesting to look at and watch, not just for financial value, but it's also likely that games will look the same thing, and I think they're the same thing anyway, so it doesn't really matter which way it arrives at. I think that's it. That's it. Thank you so much for bearing with me on this rather philosophical journey.
