00:00:04.810 - 00:00:34.710, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First headline fidelity Files for a Bitcoin ETF. An affiliate of Fidelity filed for A Bitcoin ETF with the US. Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday. The proposed ETF notes the application will, quote, provide direct exposure to bitcoin and track the price of PC through Fidelity's in house Bitcoin Price index, which adjusts for the trust's expenses. Fidelity Digital Assets will custody the underlying bitcoin.
00:00:34.710 - 00:01:32.726, Speaker A: Fidelity's ETF will be named the Wise Origin. Bitcoin trust. A subtle nod to Bitcoin's pseudonymous creator. On Twitter, Alex Thorne, head of firmwide research at Galaxy Digital, pointed out that in Japanese, satoshi means wisdom and nakamoto means origin. In a statement to the block, a Fidelity spokesperson expounded on the filing, saying, quote, the digital assets ecosystem has grown significantly in recent years, creating an even more robust marketplace for investors and accelerating demand among institutions. An increasingly wide range of investors seeking access to bitcoin has underscored the need for a more diversified set of products offering exposure to digital assets. Fidelity's interest into the Bitcoin ETF race comes right on the heels of similar efforts by Van Eck, Valkyrie, NYDIG, Wisdom, Tree and SkyBridge.
00:01:32.726 - 00:02:28.940, Speaker A: Next headline. Coinbase's direct listing draws scrutiny to the firm's prospects brian Armstrong's, net worth and customer service. Mario Gabrielle, founder of Tech newsletter The Generalist, along with well known crypto analysts such as Jill Carson, Ryan Todd and Catherine Wu wrote up a comprehensive piece on the paradoxes of Coinbase as a centralized exchange championing the rise of decentralization. The article is too long to summarize here, but I recommend it for those looking for a thorough analysis on Coinbase ahead of its direct listing. Some choice highlights include the correlation between Coinbase's revenue growth and bitcoin price has been around 70% for the past few years. Institutional trading made up 64% of Coinbase's trading volume, while only accounting for 5% of revenue. Transaction fees made up 86% of Coinbase's revenue in 2020.
00:02:28.940 - 00:03:48.230, Speaker A: CNBC reports the much anticipated Coinbase direct listing is poised to make cofounder and CEO Brian Armstrong a very wealthy man at the latest valuation. Armstrong's stake in the company is worth $13.6 billion, which would leave him in the company of recent tech founders like zoom's Eric Yuan at $16 billion, Twitter's Jack Dorsey at $13 billion and Shopify's Evan Spiegel at $10 billion in net worth in Coinbase's virtual AMA or Ask Me Anything on Reddit. Armstrong made headlines by acknowledging that Coinbase would support central bank digital currencies if and when they met the exchange's listing standards. In response to a question about Coinbase providing special blockchain based shares to early customers, Allah a crypto AirDrop chief financial Officer Alicia Haas put such rumors to rest, saying there will be, quote, no opportunity to invest in the company prior to that direct listing. She revealed, however, that Coinbase had researched the idea of a security token, a digital representation of a stock instead of a standard IPO. Haas cited a lack of opportunity for institutional investors as the reason why a blockchain native security never materialized.
00:03:48.230 - 00:04:40.514, Speaker A: The Coinbase news cycle was not all positive. Last Friday, the CFTC fined the exchange $6.5 million for allegedly providing misleading information about the trading volume on its platform, GDAX, now rebranded as Coinbase Pro. Between 2015 and 2018. The CFTC pointed out two in house software programs that traded with each other inflating the asset prices and volume on GDAX. The agency also alleged that a former Coinbase employee participated in wash trading using litecoin bitcoin trading pairs. In a Tweet thread, Evan Lorenz, deputy editor at Grant's Interest Rate Observer, speculated that Coinbase, which now based on its revenues, would not be defined as an emerging growth company, quote, skated under the emerging growth deadline based on when it filed.
00:04:40.514 - 00:05:53.290, Speaker A: This means that, along with other emerging growth companies, it is now only required to disclose two years of financials. In its S One, He Riley noted that the period of time for which it provided financials quote, begins just after the CFTC said that Coinbase stopped conducting wash trades to give the illusion of more trading volume. The NFT looked into how Coinbase struggles with customer service by following several customers who lost five and six figure amounts of crypto on the platform after their accounts were hacked. They say they received little to no customer support for long periods of time. The Coinbase said that only zero zero 4% of its users had experienced such an attack. The company said it has added 2000 customer service reps to help in such circumstances, but the story is a reminder to secure your passwords and always use second factor authentication services such as Google Authenticator or a UB key. Next Headline Uniswap Finally, Unveils V Three Plans Uniswap was introduced in true crypto fashion via an announcement of an announcement in a dramatic 46 2nd video featuring three unicorns and a hidden message written in the stars.
00:05:53.290 - 00:07:20.982, Speaker A: A few hours later, Uniswap released a blog post outlining the V Three plan and setting May 5 as the target launch date. Uniswap V Three aims to be, quote, the most flexible and efficient AMM or automated market maker ever designed and will, quote, provide liquidity with up to 4000 X capital efficiency relative to Uniswap V Two. The heart of the update is centered on the concept of concentrated liquidity, which allows liquidity providers more control over the price range their markets trade on. This version of Uniswap will launch with a business source license that delays the commercial use of the code for up to two years, perhaps in response to SushiSwap, a rival that previously copied and pasted Uniswap's code to create a competitor. The question now becomes, as Jose Meseto, partner at Delphi Digital, asked on Twitter, how do you enforce a license if an anonymous and decentralized team forks the code? On a related note, Google search volume for Uniswap reached its highest point since September 2020. Next headline fadeth changes the definition of NFTs and DApps. The Financial Action Task Force, or fadeth, the intergovernmental organization tasked with developing anti money laundering and other financial surveillance policies, released draft guidance with two changes that could transform DeFi.
00:07:20.982 - 00:08:52.710, Speaker A: First, it expanded the definition of VASPs virtual asset service providers to include many DeFi applications, or DApps, that could require decentralized platforms to conform to the same anti money laundering laws traditional financial institutions follow. Secondly, Fatif changed the phrase quote assets that are fungible to quote assets that are convertible and interchangeable. The new terminology would lump certain NFTs under the same regulations as virtual assets if the tokens were used to facilitate money laundering or terrorism. Peter Van Valkenberg, director of research at Coinster, a blockchain advocacy organization, called the proposed changes problematic. In a blog post, he wrote, Quote Classification as a VASP would obligate these non custodial persons to register with a local regulator, collect and report to government masses of information about their activities and the activities of others, and to know the names and physical addresses of everyone with whom they interact. Those requirements may be reasonable for banks and other financial institutions where most money laundering takes place, but they are absolutely inappropriate for private persons participating in open computer networks. Ian Taylor, chair of trade association Crypto UK, also criticized the changes, saying, FADF are recommending to the governments that they do everything they can to stop digital asset related financial relations that aren't intermediated.
00:08:52.710 - 00:09:33.006, Speaker A: FADIF will be accepting public comments on the draft language until April 20. Next headline elon Musk mines BTC through Tesla sales, you can now buy a Tesla with bitcoin. Elon Tweeted out on Wednesday, earning 762,000 likes. His announcement comes just over a month after Tesla revealed a $1.5 billion Bitcoin investment and vague plans to accept BTC as payment. Musk went on to clarify that, quote Bitcoin paid to Tesla will be retained as Bitcoin, not converted to fiat. Currency designating Tesla as a corporate hodler.
00:09:33.006 - 00:10:13.470, Speaker A: He also noted that pay by Bitcoin capability will be available outside the US. Later this year. Time for an NFT Roundup After his historic NFT sale at Christie's, digital artist Beeple received $53 million in ether and promptly converted it to US. Dollars. In an interview with Fox News, he called the recent search in NFT prices a bubble, though he does believe that the technology behind NFTs will outlive the bubble, much like what happened with the Internet. Time magazine offered up three non fungible tokens inspired by Time's most iconic covers this week. One is God dead? Two is truth dead? Three.
00:10:13.470 - 00:10:51.630, Speaker A: Is Fiat dead? The NFTs sold for 241 ETH, or $385,000. On Superware Thursday. Jack Dorsey sold his original Tweet as an NFT for $2.9 million. Dorsey converted all proceeds from the auction to Bitcoin and donated to give directly's Africa response. The New York Times released a recent column as an NFT and is auctioning it off for the Neediest Cases Fund. The article ironically about NFTs sold for 350,000 ETH or $550,000 on Thursday.
00:10:51.630 - 00:11:47.040, Speaker A: Time for fun bits. Bitcoin's Energy Consumption Rationalized as criticism over bitcoin's environmental impact heats up, the community has banded together with ways to rationalize the energy used to power the proof of work blockchain. Nick Grossman, general partner at Union Square Ventures, views crypto mining as a battery, transforming electricity into value in the form of digital assets. He believes bitcoin as battery will shift the narrative from quote Crypto mining is a dangerously large consumer of energy. To quote Crypto mining is driving the energy transition from fossil fuels to renewables. Square crypto also chimed in, releasing the first volume of a bitcoin mythology series. The pithy introduction reads quote since there are no more prominent or prevalent myths about bitcoin than those having to do with its environmental impact, we started there.
00:11:47.040 - 00:12:34.574, Speaker A: While thought provoking and quirky, both the bitcoin as a battery concept and the idea that bitcoin's environmental concerns are mythological lack a quantitative foundation which will be necessary in the coming years for the marketing war over the environmental impact of proof of work. This week, I will allow bitcoin's creator the last word on proof of work. Quote the marginal cost of gold mining tends to stay near the price of gold. Gold mining is a waste, but that waste is far less than the utility of having gold available as a medium of exchange. I think the case will be the same for bitcoin the utility of the exchanges made possible by bitcoin will far exceed the cost of electricity used. Therefore, not having bitcoin would be the net waste. Alright, thanks for tuning in.
00:12:34.574 - 00:12:55.250, Speaker A: To learn more about Miami Mayor Francis Suarez, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the Unchained podcast channel. Today unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Nuss. Thanks for listening. Don't.
