00:00:01.280 - 00:00:32.404, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself, and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. This episode of the Blockcrunch podcast is brought to you by three projects that I'm incredibly excited about. Perpetual protocol, Periswap, and Solana. Stick around to learn more about how they're all at the forefront of Defi.
00:00:32.864 - 00:01:02.186, Speaker B: All right, hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. I'm really excited to have Mike Saul here on the show. Mike Saul is the co founder of Goldfinch, a project bringing crypto loans to the real world and Goldfinch. Goldfinch recently raised a venture round from a 16 Z and Coinbase ventures, and I'm excited to be an angel investor in the project as well. So I'm very excited to have Mike on the show today to tell us why Goldfinch may just help bank the unbanked and be the end game of Defi. So welcome to the show, Mike.
00:01:02.370 - 00:01:04.774, Speaker C: Thanks. Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm excited.
00:01:05.354 - 00:01:16.814, Speaker B: Yeah. So just before we get started discussing what Goldfinch is and what your background is, can you just help us understand kind of what is the pain point you're trying to hit with Goldfinch, and how big is this opportunity here?
00:01:17.354 - 00:02:11.340, Speaker C: Yeah, I think there's a couple of ways to describe the pain point. One is from kind of the global level, and the other is from the crypto perspective. So starting from kind of like the global level and more broadly, the pain point we're solving is for a lot of businesses around the world that have traditionally struggled to access capital, particularly in emerging markets. And the kinds of businesses that we started talking to before we started Goldfinch were fintech and lending businesses in emerging markets that are looking for financing to grow their business. And we found that particularly in the gap of, say, one hundred k to five million dollars. So businesses that need that amount to grow, they really struggle to get capital. The reason being when they need, say, less than 100k, they can usually get it from their local capital markets or from high net worth individuals.
00:02:11.340 - 00:03:12.404, Speaker C: And when they need $5 million or more, there are institutional funds that can provide that financing. But to write, say, a million dollar or $2 million, check it isn't really worth the time of these funds to go through the whole process of underwriting and due diligence. So they struggle to get capital in this sort of range. And then all of the aspects of cross border make it more difficult as well. And so that's one of the big problems that we're solving, is for borrowers around the world who need access to capital that have traditionally struggled due to these inefficiencies of the market, how do they get it where crypto is really well positioned to solve that problem? And then on the other side, from the crypto perspective, we're solving the issue of under collateralized loans on crypto. And the way we describe that is if you look at existing lending protocols, like compound and aave, they're all over collateralized. So you might put dollar 150 worth of ETH on the protocol to borrow $100 of a different crypto asset.
00:03:12.404 - 00:04:05.956, Speaker C: That almost doesn't feel like borrowing from the way we usually think about it, where you put more money in the protocol to borrow a little bit less. But most borrowers, especially the ones that we are talking to, the reason why they need to borrow money is because they don't already have more of the money. So that's a core problem that hasn't really been solved in crypto yet, making it possible to get crypto loans without putting up that crypto collateral. And so that's what we're solving here. And then in terms of thinking about, like, how big the market is, this initial gap, which we view as kind of like the wedge to get started. I mean, emerging market borrowers and microfinance is roughly $100 billion or more just on its own. But we think that all private debt could eventually move to crypto even more than that, which is a quadrillion or something crazy like that.
00:04:05.956 - 00:04:20.004, Speaker C: So we view it as a very large market, and it's really key to. To making it possible for all of these borrowers who right now can't really access the credit that's available to them and making them possible to use it through crypto.
00:04:20.824 - 00:04:33.924, Speaker B: And, like, previously, you were at Coinbase as their head of product analytics. So I'm really curious, kind of how did you stumble upon this opportunity or what inspired you or gave you the conviction to leave Coinbase and start goldfinch?
00:04:34.464 - 00:05:28.502, Speaker C: Yeah. So when we. When I was the reason I originally joined Coinbase, I was very excited about Coinbase's mission, still am, about building an open financial system. I have always thought that crypto has this amazing opportunity to expand financial inclusion and access to capital. And I love how Coinbase is helping to build all this infrastructure in the place to make that possible. And one of the things that I started noticing at Coinbase was, and Blake and I, we were both at Coinbase together and talking about this is a lot of pieces of infrastructure coming into place that made it possible to push further into this goal of financial inclusion and access to capital. The first being folks having increasing expectation to earn yield on their crypto, not just hold onto it, not just hodl, but actually stake it and earn interest and lend it and participate in these protocols.
00:05:28.502 - 00:06:10.660, Speaker C: And so there was a lot of demand from the capital side to put it to new and interesting ways and new interesting uses. The second big piece being the growth in stablecoin. So I think when we started go finish, we were like, oh, now there's a couple billion dollars of stable coins. And that's amazing. And then, since then, it's exploded to over 100 billion and continues to grow. And stable coins are really critical because a lot of these borrowers outside of the crypto space, they're not going to take a bitcoin loan or an ETH loan or any other kind of loan, but they will take USD denominated loans and other kinds of fiat currencies. And so staple coins kind of unlocked that made it possible to actually provide them loans in a currency that they can work with.
00:06:10.660 - 00:06:56.664, Speaker C: And then the third big piece was just the expansion of on and off ramps in all of these new markets to be able to exchange between crypto and local fiat currencies. And so we just started seeing all of these pieces coming into place that got us excited and made us realize that we could actually do something like this. And so that was the real prompt for leaving Coinbase and doing this, was seeing that it was possible. And then combined with that, we just started getting into all of the defi sides of things and wanting to spend more of our time directly working on that. And so that was like another big part of it, too. So those two things, seeing all the pieces come into place that made it possible and just wanting to get more involved with DeFi led us to start goldfinch in July of last year.
00:06:57.454 - 00:07:17.354, Speaker B: That's awesome. And you guys have made a lot of progress since then, and we're going to dive into some of the things that you guys have done and some of the companies that you guys have partnered with. But before that, can you explain to us how does Goldfinch actually work? So can you maybe walk us through the lifecycle of a loan and how it may differ from some popular lending protocols out there, like compound and aave.
00:07:18.134 - 00:08:05.890, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think there's, like, what we've done to get things bootstrapped just recently, and then we just shared the white paper for this more full fledged version that we are now working on building. So I think it would help to explain how this full version works. And I can do that through the lens of, say, a borrower, a lending business that wants to raise capital. And so the way the protocol works is this, say, this lending business. And it's confusing, by the way, when we say the word borrower, because the borrowers to the protocol are themselves lending businesses who are going out and making loans to other folks. But we can just say a business that's looking for financing, they can propose what we call a borrower pool to the community. And this borrower pool is like all of the.
00:08:05.890 - 00:08:40.264, Speaker C: Is like a term sheet. It has the interest rate and the repayment schedule and all of the rules about the loan. And they propose this to the backer community. And then the backers are folks who spend time evaluating the different borrower pools that are being proposed and decide which ones they think are good. They look at this particular business and say, okay, I think this is a good financing sort of opportunity that you're presenting. And they provide capital to it. And all of these borrower pools have two tranches, a junior tranche and a senior tranche.
00:08:40.264 - 00:09:18.086, Speaker C: And the junior tranche is first lost capital. So as payments come in back into the borrower pool, first they go to the senior tranche to make the senior tranche whole and what it's owed, and then to the junior tranche. And so the backers, what they do is they provide capital to the junior tranche. They provide first loss capital, and then separately, there is the senior pool. The senior pool is for where liquidity providers provide their capital. So I'm talking about a bunch of different participants here. There's the borrowers who I mentioned, and there are the backers who provide the first loss capital, and then there are the liquidity providers.
00:09:18.086 - 00:10:07.374, Speaker C: What the liquidity providers are is folks who want to provide capital, but not really spend their time evaluating the different borrower pools. So they just provide it to the senior pool, and then the senior pool. The protocol automatically allocates capital from the senior pool to all of these different borrower pools. And we can get into how they do that, but when they do, they provide to the senior tranche. So we have the senior pool providing capital to the senior tranches and the bar, the backers providing to the junior tranches. And what was essentially going on there is to kind of compensate the backers for going into this higher risk, kind of first loss capital junior tranche. The protocol reallocates a portion of the senior tranche's interest to the junior tranche, so it gives them that additional yield.
00:10:07.374 - 00:10:52.764, Speaker C: So I realized I just got into a lot of the nitty gritty mechanics of the protocol, but at a high level. The way it works is, is these borrowers are proposing these borrower pools, and the backers are providing capital directly to them by evaluating them, and then the protocol automatically provides additional capital from the senior pool. So I think, like, the key part of your question was also, how does it compare to other protocols like compound and aave? And the big difference is that it creates a way for these borrowers to be able to get financing without putting up their own capital. Instead, what they're doing is they're getting the consensus of many backers to confirm that they're good for the credit, and that's sort of how it works.
00:10:53.864 - 00:11:27.754, Speaker B: And in terms of this tranche model, we did have two projects on before, Saffron and Barn Bridge, which were some of the first projects to do this tranche model. Is it the similar idea where for Saffron and Barmbridge, they mentioned that for the junior tranche, the higher risk tranche, they'll be probably going after the crypto natives that have inherently a higher risk appetite, and for the senior tranche, they might be trying to go after some institutions in the longer run that have a lower risk appetite, but they may have a lot of capital. Is that the similar go to market strategy that you guys are going for?
00:11:28.494 - 00:12:13.484, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that is generally similar. We have talked to some institutional funds that are interested in the backer side as well. But I think what you just described, that's generally how we expected to play out, is the senior pool will be for folks who want to provide a lot more capital and don't want to spend a lot of time picking and choosing between the different borrower pools. So the way that we kind of think about the segmentation is less about, like, the size of the participant, whether they're institutional or individual, but more about the appetite that that participant has to spend time picking and choosing between the borrower pools versus kind of just putting it in one senior pool that is automatically diversifying it across other pools.
00:12:14.124 - 00:12:57.374, Speaker B: Got it. That makes a lot of sense, and I would really love to dive into these borrower businesses that you guys partner with, because that's such an interesting model since a major problem that I've come across with a lot of emerging market DeFi projects that we talked to is kind of the last mile outreach. Right? They have the technology they have to platform, but they can't seem to distribute their loans or their stable coins or their DeFi products to, say, rural entrepreneurs with no banks in far flung countries and in Goldfinch, you guys have chosen to partner with these companies to take care of the distribution. So can you tell us a little bit about the decision making process behind this? How do you choose the partners? And, you know, how do you decide which partner is good for the loans?
00:12:57.874 - 00:13:43.710, Speaker C: Yeah. So the way that we've been doing it to start is the way that it is done in traditional credit markets. So we have one person on the team, Renick, who, who has been running his own credit fund for a number of years now, doing exactly the same kinds of deals. And then we just had Sam Aub start as our chief investment officer a couple of weeks ago. And he was principal before this at lendable, doing deals with, with emerging market businesses just like this for five years. And before that was at Goldman for five years. And so we are, we have kind of like folks who have, who come from a traditional credit fund background and have spent time really just doing the manual work of evaluating these businesses.
00:13:43.710 - 00:14:11.434, Speaker C: So the process there to understand if they're good for the credit and decide if they should be kind of getting a credit line from the Goldfinch protocol is manually understanding their whole business, doing a full due diligence process. Where we talk to the team, we understand their process for underwriting. We look at their financials, their historical performance, and we kind of put that all together to understand are they sort of a good credit risk?
00:14:12.494 - 00:14:16.394, Speaker B: And what are some examples of borrow companies you guys are working with today?
00:14:16.774 - 00:15:02.252, Speaker C: Oh, yeah. So one example is a company called Quickcheck, and they are in Nigeria. And what they do is they have an app where consumers in Nigeria download the app and then based upon the information on their phone, the app instantly gives them a loan, like a $50 loan for say, a few weeks or a month. And so what QuickTech is doing is these kind of smaller consumer loans that are based on a machine learning model that uses the phone data to give the credit. And they've been around for years and they've been growing, and they're this great source of capital for consumers in Nigeria. And so they're one example where they want to grow their business. And the main thing that they need to grow their business is money because they need more capital to lend out.
00:15:02.252 - 00:15:20.184, Speaker C: And so we were talking to them. They're right in this range of needing a couple million dollars to be able to grow. And so they were just a perfect kind of initial partner. So we've extended capital, we've extended loans to them through the protocol, and then now they're able to expand their business to thousands of new borrowers in Nigeria.
00:15:20.964 - 00:15:28.014, Speaker B: And how important was it for you to partner with these companies versus trying to reach these local markets by yourself?
00:15:29.434 - 00:16:06.834, Speaker C: Very important. So, yeah, that's one of the reasons why we wanted to go to businesses like this is because we weren't going to go on the ground and find individual consumers in Nigeria. I think our background is from the crypto side. And what crypto is really good at is providing access to capital. It isn't necessarily great at like, servicing loans at this stage. It's. It's people on the ground and businesses on the ground in their markets who understand intimately their markets can pursue recourse where necessary, have different ways of working with their end consumer, their end customer.
00:16:06.834 - 00:16:33.344, Speaker C: So and so we think the actual loan servicing is best left to the folks who intimately understand their local markets. But what crypto can do is provide the capital and provide that access to capital. That's where it really shines. And so part of this initial strategy here is really working with the businesses that already have a strong sort of like ground game, like a system set up, and then they just need more capital to expand it.
00:16:34.084 - 00:17:22.983, Speaker B: Yeah. And this is such an exciting approach because one of the core thesis that I have that I've talked about on the show before is that crypto will start with speculation, with a lot of the protocols we see today, and then it bleeds over to the digital natives. You have the artists and musicians maybe coming through verticals like NFTs. And then finally, I think the end game for me is really to bridge cryptos, liquidity and capital to the outside world through projects like Goldfinch. So this is a really exciting, really exciting problem to tackle. And I'm really curious because you mentioned earlier on that there are all these borrower companies in the kind of non crypto world that you partner with. So are there similar companies to Goldfinch that is tackling this problem of bridging capital to borrower companies outside of crypto today? And what are they lacking today?
00:17:23.923 - 00:17:51.868, Speaker C: Yeah. So I think outside of crypto, it's really credit funds. That's where I mean, it's credit funds and family offices and sometimes high net worth individuals that are providing capital to these businesses. I mean, maybe larger banks like Silicon Valley bank is kind of doing it, but they don't really go into emerging markets. They're really focused on. On the US for the most part. And so it's really credit funds.
00:17:51.868 - 00:18:33.448, Speaker C: And there's two big differences that crypto does that these credit funds really struggle with. One. Well, I mean, I guess there's three. One is it makes it very easy to move capital around the world, and it can be hard for these credit funds to literally get the money into another country. A second thing is providing access. So with credit funds, you kind of have to, like, know the right people to be able to deposit into or to be able to provide money to a credit fund. And so it's kind of like a very sort of like, small group of people who actually get a chance to have exposure, whereas crypto can provide a lot more access to folks to be able to get exposure to these kinds of yields.
00:18:33.448 - 00:19:25.168, Speaker C: And then one of the really major unlocks of crypto is on the liquidity side. So when you provide money to a credit fund, it kind of can sit there for three years, five years longer, and you can't do anything with it, and you just have to wait for the interest to come back. But with crypto, it's amazing how much liquidity we could provide when you can create secondary markets on top of it and easily exchange in and out of different things. And so crypto provides both that liquidity and that access that just you don't get from credit funds today. And we think that one makes it really compelling for these businesses to be able to borrow from it. But also, we think that when you add these additional efficiencies, it'll bring down the cost of capital, which could also bring down rates for these end borrowers. So it actually could make the whole system a lot better for them as well.
00:19:25.168 - 00:19:37.288, Speaker C: So I think that's really who these businesses are talking to now, are our credit funds, and we think that crypto can kind of completely change the game for how these businesses are able to grow and get the funding to do so.
00:19:37.376 - 00:20:46.156, Speaker A: Now, before I continue, I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you. Now, whenever I want to trade a token, instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancor one x one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to Paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere, because per swap aggregates all the popular Ethereum Dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now the cool thing is theyve also integrated with Ledger live as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you are a Defi trader and you're worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges, but you also don't want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price, you have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch I'd like to talk about our sponsor perpetual protocol. If you're worried about leaving your funds on an exchange that may be hacked, but you are also tired of paying for hundreds of dollars in gas fees in defi, you should really check them out because they have built a fully on chain exchange on Ethereum and Xdai that allows up to ten x leverage. Now they've also released zero gas deposits in addition to near zero gas fees for trading.
00:20:46.156 - 00:21:28.124, Speaker A: And if you're paranoid about smart contract exploits like I am, don't worry because they have also obtained protocol level insurance via nexus mutual and unslashed finance to provide automatic coverage for all traders on perp exchange. Now today for users outside the US, if you have an Ethereum address, you can already start using perp exchange with no signups. So go to perp exchange blockchain to check it out. That's p e r p exchange blockcrunch. I'd love to also talk about our sponsor Solana, a high throughput layer one blockchain. Now in the past few months I've probably talked to two dozen teams building exciting new projects on Solana, and this is probably why. First, it's incredibly fast with 50,000 transactions per second.
00:21:28.124 - 00:21:57.172, Speaker A: 2nd, its cheap with average fees less than a cent per transaction. That means developers can deploy contracts cheaply and also not have to worry about their apps not being composable with others, as Solana does not use any type of sharding or fragmented L2 systems. Most importantly, Solana is censorship resistant with over 950 validators today. So if youre interested in building fast, scalable blockchain applications or want to test out the existing ecosystem of Defi applications and more, go to solana.com.
00:21:57.348 - 00:22:23.664, Speaker B: Blockcrunch is the difference to credit funds here. So for a lender, right? So for a lender like myself or people in crypto who want to distribute capital to these businesses around the world through Goldfinch, it's the difference between putting my capital into Goldfinch versus putting it into a credit fund. The fact that with Goldfinch, I'm really just lending out my capital, whereas for a credit fund, I'm technically investing in the fund itself.
00:22:26.224 - 00:22:59.234, Speaker C: I think that is, that's as. Yeah, it's interesting. I think the language there is not as big of a difference. Sometimes you can view it as lending when you do it through a credit fund. The big difference is that, is that you have to know the right people at the right credit funds to be able to participate because they're limited and they tend to focus on just a few people. And so it's just like a hard, it's hard for folks to get in touch with the best credit funds and be able to participate there, whereas crypto makes that much easier.
00:22:59.934 - 00:23:27.814, Speaker B: I see. That's such an interesting analogy to compare Goldfinch to a credit fund, which I haven't thought of before. If you look at traditional credit funds, sometimes they have these diversified portfolios of high yield bonds or risky bonds, and then some not so risky debt, and then it's a diversified risk portfolio. So for lenders who are looking at Goldfinch, is there a way for them to pick different risk profiles for loans to invest in, or do you manage that for them, or how does that work?
00:23:28.194 - 00:24:11.050, Speaker C: Yeah, so. Right. Well, the way this initial version will work that we're building out is there will be the individual borrower pools. And so it's possible for, as a backer, people could look at the different borrower pools, understand what kind of, what kind of, like, what the capital is being used for there, understand the business behind it, and pick and choose different businesses. And then there is the senior pool that's sort of like automatically providing across all of them. So that's kind of how it works today. There, we don't right now have the kind of concept of categorizing different borrower pools into different types, but we've built the protocol in such a way that is possible to layer on top.
00:24:11.050 - 00:24:47.404, Speaker C: So we, we expect and hope that eventually there will be so many different borrower pools that there will be certain folks who look at the different ones and decide to kind of combine them in different ways and make it possible to, say, provide some sort of like, aggregating not necessarily all the borrower pools into one big pool, but sort of aggregate them into different categories. And then you could provide capital to a particular category of borrower pools so that can all be built on top of it. But the way that we're getting started at first is really just picking and choosing between the individual borrower pools or doing the overall senior pool.
00:24:48.344 - 00:25:19.124, Speaker B: That makes sense. And this is one of my favorite questions. So Kevin Kelly, who is the founding executive editor of Wired magazine, he has this famous theory around, I think, 10,000 fans. So how do you create the first 10,000, 1000 fans? Actually, how do you create the first 1000 true fans of a business, of a product? Because that is crucial to the success of any product, to have that initial critical mass of users. So for Goldfinch, what is the plan to bootstrap the first 1000 fans? 1000 users?
00:25:19.744 - 00:26:17.624, Speaker C: Yeah, so the plan there is we are launching this program, the backer program that we're calling it, and this will be helping folks who want to be backers on the protocol and in sort of evaluating the different borrower pools. And so we will be providing a lot more details about this soon. But what this is about doing is fostering the initial group of folks who want to spend time evaluating these different pools and helping show them how to think about these different kinds of potential borrowers, how to evaluate them, what kinds of questions? And like, we're bringing in folks from, you know, traditional credit credit markets to help explain and just kind of provide that background. And so that's the initial way that we're going to bootstrap. It is build like a great community of these initial backers who are excited to participate in these individual pools. And it's going to be kind of an incentivized program to make that exciting and really provide the incentives to participate there.
00:26:18.284 - 00:26:27.614, Speaker B: And speaking of incentives, I know there is a plan for decentralization off the Goldfinch protocol. So is there a token element, and if so, how might that work?
00:26:28.394 - 00:27:12.816, Speaker C: Yeah, so as the white paper describes, there will be a token called GFI, the token. There's no token right now. We're still building everything, but the token serves a few different purposes on the protocol. So there are auditors as like a fourth row that I didn't describe before, and the auditor stake the token, and then they earn the token as a reward for making votes. And then for the backers, the back. When backers participate in different borrower pools, they can also earn, earn the token as a reward. To encourage participating in borrower pools early on, there's also a way to, like, stake the token on other backers to give them more leverage in the system.
00:27:12.816 - 00:27:26.504, Speaker C: And then the tokens will also be part of governance because, like you said, we want to be fully decentralized and have this be community owned. And so the token plays a role in that as well. So there's all these different kinds of functions for the token on the protocol.
00:27:27.724 - 00:27:57.314, Speaker B: And I'd love to kind of dive into the risks of the platform as well. And this is one of my favorite parts of any interview, too, because it allows me to go into the weeds with the founder and really kind of think from a strategic angle about how do we grow this thing? How do we defend it against, like, competition and kind of talk about the risks and so on. So in terms of the first type of risk that I have in mind, how does Goldfinch handle defaults today? So, say one of the borrower companies cannot return the loan, and because some of these loans are under collateralized, what happens in that case?
00:27:58.054 - 00:29:12.474, Speaker C: Yeah, so, I mean, there's the, there's the mechanics of it, which is when a borrower is not paying back into the protocol, the junior tranche take the first loss. So the senior pool is made whole first through the senior tranche before the backers potentially take losses. And so, and then, I mean, getting really into it when there are losses, when the borrower doesn't pay back, like that loss is then socialized across all folks who supplied capital to the protocol. So in the event of a loss, like, the folks who provided capital sort of see that loss, and there's like a write down schedule for loans when it's not being paid back. That said, we think there's multiple layers to this that help guard against losses or help highly incentivize the whole system to try to avoid them. The first is that the borrowers are presumably folks who are looking for capital in order to grow their business, and they want to keep borrowing. And so they don't have a reason to just take money and not pay it back because they need even more to keep growing.
00:29:12.474 - 00:30:20.828, Speaker C: And so it's up to the backers to really try to understand this from the borrowers. And the backers have a strong incentive to make a good assessment here because they put the first lost capital up, and so they want to make sure they're making good decisions there. And then a second point that really encourages it is this information is public on chain. And so if a borrower isn't making their payments back, well, it's not just that crypto knows that they aren't paying, but also, like any other creditor in the world, in theory, could go look at this information on chain and see that this is happening. So that's the second thing. And then the third is that we expect that most borrowers will have a legal contract with at least one of the backers, or at least like, at least someone, and that will provide confidence to the other backers to participate in it. So, for example, in some of these initial deals, we have just straightforward traditional legal agreements with these borrowers, which means that if, for whatever reason, the borrower isn't making payments, well, we have legal recourse with the borrowers to go and pursue those payments in traditional legal systems.
00:30:20.828 - 00:30:35.064, Speaker C: So we think these three sort of like, layers to it are what help reduce the risk and help incentivize all the players in the system to kind of, like, for the borrowers basically to make payments and for the backers to find really good borrowers.
00:30:35.884 - 00:30:41.144, Speaker B: And is there a rough sense about what the default rate is right now on some of these platforms?
00:30:42.324 - 00:31:34.628, Speaker C: You know, I'm not sure what the default rate is on other platforms, but, like, generally speaking, we're working for a default rate of zero. Like, we're working with borrowers who, and this is, by the way, this is different from, like, take a company like quick check when they, when they're making loans out to their end consumer. Sometimes those end consumers will have defaults. And it's about having sort of like a net overall return on the capital deployed. But quick tech, as a company, has never defaulted on debt that it has received, only working with borrowers that have great track records. And it's kind of actually, it's interesting because we're coming out of this period of COVID which is like one of the worst periods for a lot of these businesses. And so COVID was a very good stress test on how well performing these businesses could be, even during really difficult financial times.
00:31:34.628 - 00:32:06.128, Speaker C: So we're working, we're basically providing credit to businesses that were solid even during the worst possible anomaly in an economic system. And so that's what gives us a lot of confidence. So, yeah, default rates. I mean, the question would be like, what are the standard default rates of credit funds? I don't have that data, but the credit funds that we've talked to haven't ever lost money for the folks that have provided to the credit fund. So, yeah, that's sort of what we're doing, is we're working with borrowers that have always made good on their debts, money.
00:32:06.128 - 00:32:25.840, Speaker B: Okay, that's such an interesting point to highlight. So even if the final borrower, some of these local entrepreneurs or people who are looking for small loans, even if they default, it could, it actually might not bleed over to Goldfinch because the company that lends the money might not default on that loan. Is that correct?
00:32:25.992 - 00:33:37.884, Speaker C: Yeah, that's correct. A lot of, first of all, like, yeah, these borrowers are, are using the capital to make these loans out, and they're net positive overall, even though they have kind of like an average, say, rate of default among their end borrowers. And then also, like, we look at their balance sheet and we see how much money they have on hand, and we have them put up some initial capital as well. So the common phrase here is like, what's the advance rate? So if you say there's like an, an 80% advance rate, it means that the creditor is providing 80% of the capital, but the borrower is putting up 20% themselves. And so even if the borrower loses 20% of the capital, that 1st 20% came from them, and then the creditor is still made whole. So there's a lot of these kinds of sort of pieces in place that make this a better credit risk. And so it's sort of expected that some of their end borrowers will have defaults on occasion, but that they set up the business, they have a strong balance sheet, they have a good track record, and they're using some of their own capital that helps ensure that they're never going to default on their loans that they're taking.
00:33:39.184 - 00:33:57.764, Speaker B: That makes sense. And another risk that I had in mind was how easy is it for, say, one of your borrower partners with the distribution ready to also expand into the asset origination side? So say they want to start their own goldfinch and kind of end up cannibalizing on you guys. Is that a risk that you guys have thought about as well?
00:33:58.304 - 00:34:09.044, Speaker C: Oh, interesting. So you mean like a borrower who is making loans out that starts their own goldfinch to make loans out to other folks?
00:34:09.344 - 00:34:18.576, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. So basically kind of cut out Goldfinch and try to originate the stable coins, try to originate the assets from crypto natives directly.
00:34:18.760 - 00:34:50.914, Speaker C: That's interesting. Yeah, there's a bunch of different pieces. I mean, really what we hope to do is have them be able to do it directly through Goldfinch and make that even easier. So they would never even consider wanting to start their own crypto protocol from scratch because they could just do it more efficiently through Goldfinch itself. But there's a couple elements that would make it very difficult for them to do. One. The main one is that the premise of Goldfinch is that it requires the consensus of many backers to approve each loan.
00:34:50.914 - 00:35:39.600, Speaker C: And so that's why we're focusing on businesses is because it doesn't make sense for, say, hundreds of people to approve of a single $10 loan to a consumer. Like, that would never happen. But it does make sense to have a bunch of people approve of a $10 million loan to a business that can then deploy it to many, many consumers. And so, like, for a existing borrower to want to build their own goldfish, it doesn't quite work with the concept of having that consensus at the level of, like, each $10 loan. It only works at the level of, like, someone who is then going to deploy a significant amount of capital. So that would be, I think, one reason why they wouldn't do it. And then also, I mean, our plan is to make it easy for them to take capital from the protocol and deploy it directly to their consumers.
00:35:39.600 - 00:36:01.714, Speaker C: And one of the benefits of having it all be part of one protocol is aggregating the liquidity in one place. And so not only is it convincing folks to provide consensus at the individual loan level, but it's also getting a new sort of aggregated pool of capital, which there are network effects, too. And so we want to be able to have that be more compelling to just get it from Goldfinch.
00:36:02.894 - 00:36:19.414, Speaker B: Absolutely. And moving away from risks a little bit, can you share with us some milestones for Gulfinch so far, or any kind of metrics that you're okay with sharing with the community, as well as what are some of the bigger milestones on the horizon that you guys are looking for?
00:36:19.794 - 00:36:50.156, Speaker C: Yeah. So let's see. We started the business in July of last year, so we're coming up on almost exactly a year. And then in December, we deployed the initial version of the protocol. And then in January, we got the first million dollars in loans out, which are, we're serving thousands of end borrowers around the world. And then what we just kind of announced is a month or so ago, we had two and a half million dollars deploy. So we two and a half x over a few months.
00:36:50.156 - 00:37:33.924, Speaker C: And so now there's two and a half million dollars deployed to tens of thousands of borrowers around the world across three continents. And so what we're building now going forward is this whole concept of the tranching. And the next big milestone will be kind of launching this backer program that I mentioned before, which will make it possible for backers to participate in these individual deals with the additional capital coming from the senior pool. So that's, like, the next big milestone on the horizon. And then after that, it will be about enabling the protocol to have multiple different borrowers proposing different borrower pools and continue to foster the community that could kind of make this sort of propagate on its own.
00:37:35.224 - 00:37:45.324, Speaker B: That's amazing. And, Mike, as we come to the final part of the interview, there's an important question that I have to ask you, which is, what is, why did you name the business goldfinch?
00:37:46.944 - 00:38:10.994, Speaker C: Well, it really started from, we wanted. We wanted a bird, because we view birds as symbols of freedom. And so we thought a bird would be great because people like birds, and they're the symbol of freedom. And we wanted to be sort of a general term that wasn't overly sort of, like, crypto specific. So that's how we came to Goldfinch. And then we chose. Excuse me.
00:38:10.994 - 00:38:27.634, Speaker C: We chose Goldfinch specifically because we wanted a kind of a bird that was kind of a blank slate that the community could build its own sort of culture around. And so that's what sort of led us to Goldfinch. So that's the background behind that.
00:38:28.334 - 00:38:38.686, Speaker B: Got it. I thought this had something to do with the. There's a classical painting, I think, in the 16 hundreds, called the Goldfinch. So I thought it has something to do with that. But it sounds like it's something else I did.
00:38:38.750 - 00:39:03.844, Speaker C: I do like that painting, and I read the book, so that might have helped us think of Goldfinch as an option. I mean, we also like that it has kind of, like the word golden. It kind of conveys a sense of value. And Finn kind of sounds like finance a little bit, so it has pieces of it that sort of, uh, sort of reference slight aspects of. Of what it can do. But, um, yeah, I think maybe the painting, there was a subconscious element of it.
00:39:04.304 - 00:39:21.924, Speaker B: Yeah, that's amazing, because I don't think I've met anyone else who's also read the book, and I'm a huge fan of it, so it's pretty cool to hear that. And, well, Mike, thank you so much for coming on the show. This has been really fun to learn more about Gulfinch. So, for people who want to check out the platform today, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:39:22.544 - 00:39:53.556, Speaker C: Yeah, I would encourage them to. I mean, so the website is Goldfinch finance, and that has all of the sort of links out, but the best ways to get involved is to join our discord. So that's where we're actively growing the community and sharing updates and making it possible to get involved in different ways. And then there's also Twitter and our telegram. And then the website also has a link for folks who are interested in being backers in this early program. There's a banner there that links out to sort of sign up for that. So.
00:39:53.556 - 00:39:58.224, Speaker C: Yeah, but I would encourage folks to join the discord. That's where most of the conversation is happening.
00:39:58.724 - 00:40:02.092, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, once again, thank you so much for coming on, Mike. This has been fun.
00:40:02.188 - 00:40:03.084, Speaker C: Thanks for having me. This is great.
