00:00:00.120 - 00:00:11.154, Speaker A: The people that show up. Hello everyone. We continue with the second part of the mini course on the corona problem given by Professor Alexander Bruni from the University of Calgary.
00:00:11.934 - 00:01:21.962, Speaker B: Okay, so let us continue. So, we are discussing the proof of the following theorem. So, Carlos onset capital, I just remind you this, as I said, which has a chain, which is an interpolating sequence. So roughly speaking, it's just in the union of pseudo hyperbolic disk or fixed radius with centers at the interpolating sequence. So now here x is a complex Banach space. Here, consider the infinity functions with support in k and values in x capital, such that they are just also uniformly continuous with respect to pseudo hyperbolic metric role. So the theorem states that there is operator, roughly speaking, which solves the debar equation for such Banach value functions, operator is linear, norm is bounded by a constant dependent only on k.
00:01:21.962 - 00:02:29.754, Speaker B: Okay, so if you see that here just we have f, which is bounded by the definition, but it will be divided by one minus modulus z squared. And this function grows to infinity near the boundary. This is the main point that the result allows to solve the bar equations, maybe with some restricted support, but anyway, so with just growth, similar to the growth of modulus of a derivative of holomorphic function near the boundary. Okay, so as I told you, so the method of the proof is as follows. So here, just again, the following picture. Where is it? Yeah, here it is. So, we'll just consider the Blaschki product with zeros interpolating interpolation blasky product with zeros at this interpolating sequence, and consider its graph in C two.
00:02:29.754 - 00:03:35.348, Speaker B: This is a graph. Yeah. So now our function originally for which we would like to solve the bar equation is in the domain in that plane. But because it is a graph, you can simply consider it like it is in the domain on the graph, because it is one to one correspondence. The idea is just to make the substitution so that to put everything to the w domain substitution is just along the lines of the set pre images of values of the Blaschki product. So we are taking the support so close to the interpolating sequence that in this support actually Zaski product will be bihalomorphic onto the image. And therefore, what we are doing, we just take here, for instance, in some points we have the values of our function.
00:03:35.348 - 00:04:57.814, Speaker B: So we will extend it linearly using the solution of the linear solution of interpolation problem will extend linearly and holomorphically onto each of these lines. And in this way, we obtain new function on the polys cylinder in c two such that here in the axis w it will be just sufficiently small functions with values in the bound of space, but along the directions of z axis it will be bounded holomorphic function. So this is why we are doing it. So this was done using the following result from Harnett solving linearly the interpolation problem. So we have just interpolated sequence z k. Then there are some functions, bounded polymorphic function j such that they equal zero if k distant from j equals one if k equals j. And moreover, the important property is that sum over j of module jjz less represent m capital, where m capital is interpolation constant for the sequence.
00:04:57.814 - 00:05:57.644, Speaker B: Okay, in this way. So if I'll just put such function, so we'll just somehow repair it so that it will be not only functions defined at 1.1 point means that only on one fiber here, but we'll just make it so that they will be defined also in some small neighborhoods of the interpolating sequence. And therefore we obtain the solution in c two of the following interpolation problem. So here just will be some part, small part, and we construct some bounded holomorphic function in c two such that they equals one on this part. On other similar parts, they will be zero and module of sums of them still will be less or equal than two times interpolation constant. Okay, using these functions, we can solve the problem here.
00:05:57.644 - 00:06:56.960, Speaker B: So let us denote just by this space will be space on the product d, and some small disk of radio says centered at zero with values on x. So just bound at x value continuous functions holomorphic with respect to the second coordinate, with respect to no, holomorphic with respect to the first coordinate, and with respect to the second coordinate. They will be just uniformly continuous with respect to the second coordinate. So again, we'll just consider norm of these functions, just simply l infinity. Norm is values in the band express x capital. Also, we'll consider just separately instead of ds here instead of d. So we'll write just natural numbers.
00:06:56.960 - 00:08:15.632, Speaker B: So consider bounded continuous functions as a product of counting many copies of the disk of radius s and still with values in x. Okay, so now let us consider the graph as I promised you, and we'll consider the restriction operator from the unit poly disk in c two to the graph. Then we obtain the following results. So if just epsilon is sufficiently small, then there is a bounded linear operator from this space to just our space of functions, which are polymorphic with respect to the first coordinate and uniformly continuous with respect to the second of norm less than equal to m. So how to do that? So again, so we'll just glue together the data with the functions that we constructed in the previous proposition. So every man use that function will be just one. On some small neighborhoods on the graph here, in here it is one, and then on the similar neighborhoods in the premature, it will be zero.
00:08:15.632 - 00:08:48.590, Speaker B: So just glue and take some. And in this way we obtain just extension on these lines. Okay, so now let us consider what we will get from here. So let us denote by e epsilon the vector space of x valued c infinity zero one form of this type, omega fdz bar. So support will be still in some small disk centered at zero. Oh, sorry, not this. I'm sorry.
00:08:48.590 - 00:10:18.504, Speaker B: So, support will be just in the preimage of the small disk with respect to its interpolating blaschki product. So support will be just very close to the interpolating Blaschki product, and the form will be the following one. So if we substitute inside of this function, so if I restrict graphics, the graph of this function, if I restrict this function on the graph and multiply it by this derivative, this is just a reminder that bg just inverse to the blaschki product on some small part near the point z j, or interpolating sequence. So then if I just multiply that, then it will be a function from cb d epsilon over two times natural numbers with values in x. So roughly speaking, this is just substitution inside of the form. So instead of the bar, I will substitute the coordinate, this coordinate bga bar w. So this means that in this picture I'll just put everything, so it was first in the plane z, and now it will be just everything in the plane w.
00:10:18.504 - 00:11:33.934, Speaker B: And so when I'll just put in the plane w, then even if I multiply by this derivative, then still this time that will be just bounded and this values in x value space. Okay, so now the propositions that, the main proposition that in this situation there is an operator which solves a debar problem. So if I just consider omega from epsilon, then there is a linear operator from this space of forms to see rho infinity dx, which solve the debar problem. Plus it has a very good bound. So the bound will be two m with respect to f tilde. But f tilde is just not f from this form, f tilde is just smaller because I'm multiplying by the derivative of the inverse function to the Blaschki product. So in this way, I will kill just the growth one divided by one minus modulus that square, because this will be just very small.
00:11:33.934 - 00:12:20.064, Speaker B: And so we obtain that the norm will be two m times diffuse coefficient. And I will put just four warnings. So outside of the support, the solution will be the uniform limit of a sequence of x valued functions. All the forms of hi will be just bounded holomorphic function with whether some x capital. And this is just the series and b is just our oblaschi product. Minus I means that it's not just inverse, but it is one or b to the power I. Okay, so this is just the forms.
00:12:20.064 - 00:13:29.624, Speaker B: So I just briefly just mentioned how to solve it. So we have our form represented substituting instead of z the new coordinate bjw. It is possible because locally we have bihalomorphic map of vj 2d epsilon. Yeah. Then by our assumption, when I will do that, after making the substitution in zero one form, we obtain the foreign form f tilde dw bar, where f tilde will be just bounded continuous functions in here as well as x capital. Yeah, so actually it is, you can just consider it as just a sequence of bounded continuous x valued functions on the disk of radioception over two. Okay, so now what we'll do, we'll take this coefficient and extend it in the second coordinate.
00:13:29.624 - 00:14:25.934, Speaker B: Second coordinate just represents us, just the values of the pre image of blaschki product at the point. We'll extend it to the disk again. So just take this sf tilde again back in, back to the picture. So this is where we had these values, but we will extend it using linear operator on all horizontal lines here. So in this way we obtain just something from the polysynthetic polysylinder. Yeah. So we will extend it and then we obtain, what we obtain just support of this form will be inside of small disk of reduce epsilon over two and it can be regarded.
00:14:25.934 - 00:15:14.324, Speaker B: So it will just take this new variable and put it inside of x. So it will be regarded as zero one form on the disk with support inside of d epsilon over two and with values in the space h infinity dx. Yeah, so this is just the values will be again back. So now I'll consider the function will be just here, but the values will be just the values of the function on these horizontal lines with values in x. Therefore it will be h infinity and value will be in x. And this is just d. This is d.
00:15:14.324 - 00:15:55.744, Speaker B: Okay, so in this way we obtain this new form. And then what we'll do, we'll just simply solve for this banach when it forms the debar equation. So namely, we'll consider this operator. This is just the standard operator, which solves the bar equation in one variable. Okay, so consider it, and in this way we obtain just solution of the bar equation in the poly cylinder. So polysylinder such that one side will be in the omega plane. It's just unit disk.
00:15:55.744 - 00:17:11.024, Speaker B: But you see integration here actually just over epsilon over two, because the support will be just in small disk near zero, and the values will be still in h infinity dx, because it's just integral. So integral of Banach valued function. So in the case where we will start here with a function which has relatively compact image, this integral. So when we integrate it, it just using the substitution, it's easy to see that the integral will give you also a function with relatively compact image. Okay, so now we solve it and actually just a solution of the bar equation in the polys cylinder. Now just to get back the solution of our original equation, we will take this solution in the polysynth and restrict it back to the graph. The graph is complex submanifold in c two.
00:17:11.024 - 00:18:04.754, Speaker B: So over the disk, of course. And when we restrict solution of debar equation to some complex submanifold, of course it will be solution of the debar equation on the sub manifold. So after differentiation, we obtained that this restriction will solve exactly the required form, the required debar equation with the required form. Okay, so I will not give more details here. So anyway, slides are in there. You will have the slides, so you can read it if you wish. So here, actually I'm just differentiate in the distributional sense, because it might happen that our function will not have derivative at some points.
00:18:04.754 - 00:18:58.924, Speaker B: But nevertheless, you can just consider very small situation where the derivative exists. Okay, so just to obtain that outside the support, we obtain as a solution, some banach related callomorphic function represented as a series. It's easy because you see, outside of the disk of radius epsilon over two, our form was zero. So the integral will give me a callomorphic function outside this disk. And this gloomorphic function can be presented as a Loran series. And this Lorentz series will be of the following form, because it just Banach will it with values in h infinity dx. Yeah, so it will be just Laurent Banquet, Laurent series.
00:18:58.924 - 00:20:01.160, Speaker B: And then inside of the series you need to substitute. So this form, you need to put back to the graph, to the graph. This means that instead of w, you should write bz here, and then we obtain what you need. Okay, so now the main point is that if I consider functions from c rho infinity that x where z is just a curlsome set, or just more general, it will be the closure of the set. So here the j just interpolating sequence will consider, we'll consider pseudo hyperbolic disk of radius epsilon over two with centered j and take the union. So when I'll take it. So we'll just obtain something some neighborhood with the center at the interpolating sequence.
00:20:01.160 - 00:21:05.600, Speaker B: And so if this will be our z, which is definitely is a curl sunset because the j was interpolating sequence. And if f has support and z and values in x capital which is c infinity and uniformly continuous with respect to pseudo hyperbolic metric, then when you write the following form, then such form will be the element of my space e epsilon. This means that if we substitute inside of this form the inverse to be on the level j, then all these things will become bounded. So you see here z divided by some unbounded boundary. But when I multiply it by this and substitute instead of z, it will be already bounded. And that's it. And moreover, so we can control the norm.
00:21:05.600 - 00:21:39.120, Speaker B: So norm will be just bounded by c delta. I missed here. So c at delta here. So this means that supreme will be normal. Okay, so, and this is the main point, because we kill this singularity of the type one divided by one minus modulus z near the boundary. And therefore we can solve the original problem as well. So the proof is quite standard using members transformation of the disk.
00:21:39.120 - 00:23:01.432, Speaker B: So I will not give it here. So this will just remind you that this what we solved, we solved some debar equations such that the support are very close to interpolating sequences. Now in general, so if they are not so close to the interpolating sequences, then any correspond set, we can just decompose to just smaller sets k one kl and find interpolating blaschki products b one bl. So functions fl, which will be just defined and functions file such that we can just present our function f, the sum of one plus so on plus fl. Moreover, every zero one form of this type will be in the corresponding space e epsilon ix, where epsilon I will be just the epsilon of the previous section for the Blaschki product bi. And moreover, we have just this norm estimate. So, the decomposition is given simply by a suitable c infinity partition of unity subordinate of some power k.
00:23:01.432 - 00:24:14.144, Speaker B: So roughly speaking, because it's just everything is one dimensional. So for the bar equation, it doesn't matter. So, because we'll just present the right hand side of the debaur equation as sum of beta sites in some sense, and for each of them we solve the bar equation and then take the sum of these solutions, we obtain the original solution. So, but in this way, we reduce the problem to the previous case where we can just explicitly solve the equation. And then we'll take, just as a new operator, we'll take some of this operator for smaller, smaller k smaller sets, and this will be just the result. But actually, everything is presented in my paper via r1, maybe with a little bit more complicated language, but still, this is the same that I'm doing there. Okay, so imagine that we are done with this theorem, and now let us just prove the classical coralisome corona theorem using this theorem about solution of the bar equations.
00:24:14.144 - 00:25:44.890, Speaker B: Okay, so what we need here, we need the following result due to carnosome. Suppose that we have a bounded analytic function on the disk of normalize or equals one. Then given delta more than zero, there is some small epsilon inside of zero delta, but depending on delta and corresponds at k delta having a one over two chain z characteristic gamma delta strictly more than zero. So again, depends on delta here. And we can find a function psi in c infinity d between zero and one, such that outside of the set where this function equals zero and one, we obtain, no, no, sorry. Such that if we'll just remove this correspond set k delta from the disk, then it will be just in the image of the primage of the function at the point. So this means that outside of this k delta, our function psi will be either zero or one.
00:25:44.890 - 00:27:28.764, Speaker B: Okay? And moreover, so the set where modulus of the function moser equals and delta will be inside of this set where psi equals one and the set where the function is less or equal than epsilon will be in the set where psi equals zero. Okay? Moreover, so the last point is important, that if I'll just take the differential of this function, then it will be presented in this way such that g and h will be exactly in the space which we'll consider for which we can solve the equation. Okay, so this is just the classical result of correson which uses the corresponding contour. The fact that it is Kerleson set, meaning that it has a chain which is an interpolating sequence, is just due to this kind in his PhD thesis. So in garnet, you can find the details of this construction. This construction is the key point of the whole theory of the corona problem for the disk, because it gives you some very important property of bounded analytic functions on the disk. Okay, so, but this was contraption of Caroleson and now using this construction, let us solve the corona problem for the unit disk.
00:27:28.764 - 00:28:09.770, Speaker B: Unfortunately, just the simplest way to solve it. To use casual complex. The casual complex suggests some algebraic general algebraic construction from the algebraic geometry. So, it was first noted by Hermander that here you can just reduce the debar problem to some debar equations using the Kasul complex. So, I will not give you here the definition of the Kasul complex in this particular situation. In one dimensional situation, it's much easier than in multi dimensional. And so, specifically, we obtain the full length.
00:28:09.770 - 00:29:13.414, Speaker B: So, suppose that f one f I in h infinity and satisfies the following corona condition. So, just strictly separated from zero from below all these functions. And so for such delta and each of this fj, the previous serum, this one gives function in c infinity d, and some kind of correspondence as k delta j. So, we'll set, now the new function will be this one. Now what we have here. So actually this new function, five j will be less than epsilon. Why? Because of this property that it is zero when f j less than epsilon.
00:29:13.414 - 00:29:49.976, Speaker B: So it is 50 here. And therefore you will just kill all sets where one or f is very large. And then on the other part, it will be one over epsilon only. So therefore, we have this bound. Moreover. So it was constructed in the way that we have dissolution of the bezel equation, but unfortunately not in h infinity sense, because phi j will be c infinity here. Okay, so, just to correct it, we'll use the following trick.
00:29:49.976 - 00:30:31.694, Speaker B: So, first of all, we will solve the following bunch of debarred questions for Jk from one to n. And then when we'll solve it, then we'll just simply write the following formula. And one can easily check that now it will be bounded h infinity function. So, bounded holomorphic function is a disk. And this still will solve our problem. So, I'll be the equation here. But now we use ash infinity functions as a coefficient here.
00:30:31.694 - 00:31:43.094, Speaker B: Okay, so now the main point is to solve this bunch of equations and to obtain bounded solutions. Now, in the cornaissance theorem. So he proved that using duality, that all such equations have solutions which are bounded only on the boundary. But actually our method give us globally bounded solutions. And in this specific situation, I was not the first who noticed it, because it was just in the paper of Marshall and Jones, oh, sorry, of Garnet and Jones, who proved false. For such differential equations, one can obtain the bounded solution everywhere in the disk. So, but the right hand side, according to the property number three in theorem, it has exactly the form where we can solve equation using the previous consideration, and therefore, so we have these forms, so they can be written in this way.
00:31:43.094 - 00:32:37.564, Speaker B: So where a jk will be some functions with supports and correspond sets k delta and k delta will be the union of all this careless onset for j. So just remind you that here for every fj we have corners on set k delta j. And then we need to take the union of these sets over j from one to n union. And correlation sets is also a correlation set is very easy to check. And therefore, so we obtain this, and moreover the coefficient here, of course it will depend on delta. Yeah, because we are taking derivative of the function and this derivative already depends on delta. And also we have here one over epsilon and epsilon also depends on delta.
00:32:37.564 - 00:34:23.714, Speaker B: Okay, so therefore, actually we can solve this debauch equations, obtain some bounded solutions, and then using this modification of phi j, we obtain now that this new functions will be bounded callomorphic. So the bound will be one r epsilon plus y is two n. Because just here we see here we have n terms and here just twice for each of bjk and bkj. So here will be the constant c delta n. So we obtain just the solution of the Bezou equation with a constant of the solution which depends on delta n. Because it is a rough proof, we cannot say exactly what will be the behavior of this constant, but actually it is possible to do. And the best known solution for the corona problem will be of the form just seven, it will be c times one divided by delta times one plus one divided by delta.
00:34:23.714 - 00:35:26.186, Speaker B: Okay, so c is just numerical constant, but it is quite non trivial to prove this result. And the result was obtained later by takayama. Okay, so here just the best possible bound for the solution of this debar equation. So for gga here. Okay, so now this was just, I showed you how to prove it using Debar method, how to pronounce problem. But debar equations that we obtained earlier gives more. So actually one can just build some complex geometry theory on the maximal ideal space of h infinity.
00:35:26.186 - 00:36:32.610, Speaker B: And this is what I am just going to present you next, because in this way you can obtain not only such kind of linear scalar problems, you can solve also problems for Banach valid operators. Okay, so kalomorphic operators. And therefore this is the next part that we will just consider in my lectures. So the part is called what is the structure of the maximal ideal space of h infinity? So the basic facts about the structure of the maximal ideal space of h infinity was obtained by Hoffman, Kenneth Hoffman's but this actually results very important. So this is just a base. So then the big progress here. And actually he was just father of this color syria I can consider it was given in the nineties by Daniel Suarez Suarez.
00:36:32.610 - 00:37:33.244, Speaker B: And so therefore, some of these facts are just proved by him. And some of the constructions which I'll mention also later, were developed by myself. So anyway, altogether, we'll just paint some picture, which I will present. Now, first of all, we need to know what is the glissant part? Glissant part is a general notion of the serial of commutative complex Banach algebras. But here we'll consider Justin more simple definition. So, namely, we'll just consider the following extension of the pseudo hyperbolic distance to the maximal ghl space of h infinity. So, f with the head is just the Gillfund extension to the maximal ideal space of the function f.
00:37:33.244 - 00:38:49.454, Speaker B: So take just some point x in the maxim module space and consider supreme of f head at y modulus over all function f h infinity such that they are just Griffin transform at x equals zero. So in this way we obtain something which is denoted as rho xyz. Now, if our function, if our point x originally was in the disk, then this one and y if it is in the disk, then we obtain just the definition of pseudo hyperbolic metric on the disk. If not, then actually we obtain some slices where our rho xyz strictly less than one. Okay, so this will just some equivalent parts where we have rho xy equal less than one. This equivalent solution, and therefore mh infinity will just decompose to this equivalence classes. Each equivalence class is called the Gleason part.
00:38:49.454 - 00:39:48.004, Speaker B: Okay, so here it is the Gleason part. So according to Hoffman, it may occur only two situations. First of all, if it is just a single point. So this means if I start with x, and if I take any other point outside of x, then I always obtain that rho xy one. This means that it will be just glisten part single point, or the Gleason part of x will be an analytic disk. Analytic disk. This means that it will be just a continuous one to one and map of the unit disk onto the Gleason part, such that if I take the composition of this map with the extension by the Griffon transform of f, then I obtain h infinity.
00:39:48.004 - 00:40:29.514, Speaker B: So roughly speaking. So if we just restrict with the head onto this Gleason part, then you obtain h infinity on this Gleason part, okay? Function from h infinity on this Gleason part. Okay? So therefore we have the following decomposition. Decomposition. Now we would like to have more precise information about these two sets. So first of all, the set where we have all analytic disks, non trivial Gleason part, just an open and then subset of what the whole maximum dual space. The rest will be just compact.
00:40:29.514 - 00:41:24.820, Speaker B: So by and MS will denote the set of all non trivial. This means analytic disk and trivial one point parts. Okay, so now Hoffman proved that PX belongs to the analytic part. So this means that PX is analytic disk if and only if x belong to the closure of an interpolating sequence in the disk. So therefore this part, aiming with the capital, will take all possible interpolating sequences. Take the closures in the maximal ideal space, take the union, and this we obtain this mA, and the rest will be Ms. This means at any point from Ms you cannot obtain as the limit point of an interpolating sequence.
00:41:24.820 - 00:42:20.614, Speaker B: So just some singularity set here. Now just for the general knowledge, but I will not use it in the future. We need to know what is the structure of the maximal ideal space of Ma. So in my paper almost 20 years ago, I described this ma as a fiber bundle or a fixed compa priman surface of genus Moser two. So any of them can work, but in the orbits. Yeah. So, okay, so how to do it? So just briefly mention, so suppose we have just a compact Riemann surface size, and g will be just fundamental group of it.
00:42:20.614 - 00:43:19.870, Speaker B: We'll consider infinity G. The banach algebra of banner with complex valid functions on the fundamental group is point wise, multiplication is supreme norm, then beta G. We know there is a definition of stone shear compound. This means the maximal space of this algebra equipped with the Gulf anthropology. Now the universal covering. So according to uniformization theorem, the universal covering of the compact ribbon surface of genus Moses and two is a disk, and it can be presented as a principal fiber bundle with fiber g over s over s. Okay, in particular, so we have this some open cover, bisexual morphic to die of s, such the encyclopedia, some gig on this cover with values in the fundamental group such that our disc.
00:43:19.870 - 00:43:54.564, Speaker B: So our universal covering is by homomorphic to the following quotient. We'll take just direct product UI with the fundamental group disjoint union over the intersect of the COVID and then glue together two points, UIj and UGG with respect to Gij. So just equal insulation. Okay, so this is just the main construction of the principal bundle. Yeah. And in here. Now what we'll do, just obtain something different.
00:43:54.564 - 00:44:42.954, Speaker B: It's very simple. So I'll just use hand waving just to explain it to you. So, in our principal bundle, the fibers are just in one to one correspondence with G. Now, G is embedded as a dense subset into the stone chip compatrification. And simply what we'll do, we'll just close this bundle. So, take the compactification of the fibers of this bundle. Roughly speaking, in this way, we obtain just new bundle with a fiber, which is beta g.
00:44:42.954 - 00:46:42.724, Speaker B: This new bundle and our original bundle, the disc, is embedded inside of this new bundle as a dense open subset, because each fiber is embedded inside of g as a dense subset, and it is defined exactly by the same, but this has extended also on beta g. So we obtain this definition. So now our Gleason parts will be some kind of slices of this extended bundle, external bundle, okay? So namely, so we can extend the action of the group f of the fundamental group on the fundamental on the stone. Check compatrification. The action from the right, and if I take the orbit of the action and the union of all these fibers in here over the section of g from the right, then we obtain something which will be, in our case, a slice. And this slice will come together with continuous injective map of the disk inside of this new fiber bundle. Now, we have a set of cassettes with respect to the right action, so that two slices are equivalent if and only if these two points determine the same element of the set of cassettes.
00:46:42.724 - 00:47:44.454, Speaker B: Okay? And therefore, actually our compactification of the disc will be the union of the slices which are images of the disk. Now, just to describe ma, we don't need to take all of these, but we need to take anything smaller. Namely, I'll consider only some parts of the fundamental group which represent interpolating sequences. So I say that sequence in this district group gnome is interpolating. If, when I just apply gn to zero by the members transformation of the disk, it will be interpolating for h infinity. So one can easily check that when. So now take all these possible sequences and take their closures and the unions inside of the stone shear compatriot of the fundamental group.
00:47:44.454 - 00:48:50.202, Speaker B: Okay? So in this way we obtain something which is open and then subset of the stone, check compatrification. Moreover, it is invariant with respect to the right action of the group g. And in particular, it defines something which is called a sum bundle of our bundle e as beta g. This will be a sum bundle subbandle defined by the same cycle, and it is open inside of es beta G sub bundle. And now my result, one of the results shows that this subbundle will be exactly the analytical part of MA. So it will be just the set of all glisten parts, in the way that there is a continuous and one to one map onto the set of all possible non trivial glisten parts of the maximal ideal space. So namely, that ESG will be homomorphically to that.
00:48:50.202 - 00:50:45.926, Speaker B: Okay, this is just a relief. Why? Because this space is just ugly still, but it has some kind of regularity, ESG. In, in particular with the miR, we just solve some analytic problems for more general spaces like that just seven years ago. In particular, inside of this one can just develop some complex analysis and solve some kind of deeper equations. And so, the main obstacle, just to do the same on the whole maximal dual space, is the presence of the set mS, the set of all trivial Glson parts, because this part will not have any analytic structure, and therefore, we cannot just solve anything there. But luckily, Suarez proved that this set is actually totally disconnected in some sense, it is very small, and we can just cover it by finding many open sets, so that these two sets are not intersecting, but they intersect only inside of ma. And this is why we can just do some analysis on the maximal real space, because we'll just, if you know something about the behavior of our problem on the singular set MS, unfortunately, just locally in it, not only at the point, but locally in some neighborhood, then we can just solve it locally, near points of MS, and transfer the problem to ma.
00:50:45.926 - 00:51:22.860, Speaker B: And to ma. In Ma, we know how to solve the bar equations, so we can solve this problem there. So this will be contact on my last lecture. In the last lecture, first of all, I'll try at least to sketch my proof of the serum of Suarez. The dimension MS is zero, so it's totally disconnected. This proof is just much easier than the original SuaREz proof, because we use still, it is based on the basic construction of the Carlson quantum. Okay, so I believe that's it for today.
00:51:22.860 - 00:51:25.024, Speaker B: So next time I will continue.
00:51:27.144 - 00:51:28.364, Speaker A: Thank you very much.
00:51:28.784 - 00:51:31.584, Speaker B: You still have maybe a couple of minutes for questions?
00:51:31.624 - 00:52:08.704, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, we have more like seven minutes. Questions, comments? If you have a question, then please just go ahead and speak up. Maybe I can ask a quick question. Yesterday, you mentioned that you don't believe that the debar equation can be used to solve corona problem. Can you comment a bit more on what approaches.
00:52:11.964 - 00:54:06.544, Speaker B: For debar equations in multidimensional situation? So, in this situation, even here, you see, the basic is the correspond construction, so that we can avoid the singularity set ms using some specific, very complicated contours so if for instance, we'll take a ball or poly disc bolus, I believe it's just easier in some sense then in this for two dimensional ball, then kosovo complex will be just more complicated. We need to solve first debar equations for zero two forms, and then it is possible, but just with control estimates. So this part is just more or less will go just like in this case it is possible, but then after that we obtain just a bunch of one dimensional debar equations such that they have just growth of their coefficients, when we'll just approach the boundary. And still there is no nice sufficient conditions for the growth of these coefficients, so that we will be able to solve the debar equation with solution bounded on the boundary of the ball, for instance. So all previously known results in this direction are much smaller, much weaker. So they're just about some kind of functional spaces larger than h infinity. They're just spaces like HP, where p will be everything less than infinity, but still not infinity.
00:54:06.544 - 00:54:58.124, Speaker B: So we can take the intersection of it, but still will not be just able to solve it for h infinity. And I don't believe that just for now we can solve these debar equations using the known methods. Maybe in the future we'll have some involved techniques that will be, with which we will be able to solve this problem. But now we don't have any possible, actually techniques which allows us to do that. Therefore, I'm thinking that it is much easier to try to solve it using some kind of symmetries. For instance, in the ball. So you have many nice bihalomorphic maps of the ball, like in the case of the unidisk.
00:54:58.124 - 00:55:28.164, Speaker B: And so probably you can just try to use this symmetry, intercompactification of the ball, compactification in the sense of the Gelfand theory. Yeah, for h infinity. And maybe, maybe you will be able to do that. So, so far, I don't know. So it does work. Okay. Did I answer your question at least?
00:55:32.054 - 00:55:33.214, Speaker A: Other questions?
00:55:33.374 - 00:55:35.078, Speaker B: Yeah, I see something in the chat.
00:55:35.126 - 00:55:36.514, Speaker A: Yeah, there is something in the chat.
00:55:37.734 - 00:55:55.956, Speaker B: Would it be possible to give us the list of references you referred to, or even better, copy of your course notes? Yeah, sure. So, damir, can I just send tomorrow all slides to you and you just distribute it?
00:55:56.110 - 00:55:57.764, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely, yes.
00:55:58.184 - 00:56:05.364, Speaker B: Okay. Do you need it now? Maybe just in the future? I can do it even today.
00:56:06.424 - 00:56:20.744, Speaker A: Well, if you like, you can simply share them in the chat now or tomorrow, as you like. So you can, I mean, you can send them in zoom to everyone, if that's what you prefer, or you can send them to me. It's up to you.
00:56:20.784 - 00:56:25.444, Speaker B: Yeah, that's good. Yeah, that's good. I will send it to you and you will just distribute it.
00:56:27.904 - 00:56:28.924, Speaker A: Sounds good.
00:56:29.984 - 00:56:33.280, Speaker B: So that's it for today. So see you tomorrow.
00:56:33.472 - 00:56:37.304, Speaker A: Thank you. All right. And we have next.
