00:00:00.160 - 00:00:28.262, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan. That is the signer, and today's the 27 January 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies, everyone, for being absent the last two days. I did announce in the Discord channel that I wasn't going to do a refuel on Wednesday, and then I ended up, I didn't end up doing one yesterday and I said it'd be the rest of the week where I didn't do one, but I'm doing one today, right, on Friday. And the reason why I was absent was a couple of days ago.
00:00:28.262 - 00:01:03.212, Speaker A: Unfortunately, my grandmother passed away and now this wasn't a shock or anything like that. She'd been sick for quite a while. We, you know, we knew it was coming, but obviously still a shock to the family. It's still something that myself and the rest of my family are going to have to deal with and go through. But the thing that I kind of do whenever something like this happens, I mean, I've lost that. I lost another grandparent a little while ago now, but what I like to do is just keep the routine that I have rather than disrupting my whole life and trying to work around it and trying to kind of, I guess, like, grieve in different ways. I mean, everyone grieves their own way, right? So for me, I.
00:01:03.212 - 00:01:38.656, Speaker A: For me, I mean, the main thing I do, and one of the things that I get the most enjoyment out of as part of my routine is doing the refuel. So I just have to take the last two days off because, you know, obviously it was very fresh, but I'll be doing the refuel just normally going forward anyway. I don't think taking any more days off is going to help or anything like that. It's actually better for me to do the refills because I feel like that helps me more. But yeah, that's the reason I have been absent the last two days then. But with that, I think we can leave it at that for now. I don't want to go into too many details, of course, but let's move on to the news from the last two to three days.
00:01:38.656 - 00:02:07.984, Speaker A: A bunch to get through here. A bunch of exciting stuff, actually. So let's kick it off with a massive, I guess, like, improvement here to Nethermind. So Tomas from the Nethermind team announced there are massive improvements to the Nethermind client in version one 6.1, which fixes a lot of the memory usage issues and improves attestation performance too. So if you were trying to run never mind, or were running Nethermind and were having issues with it, you know, obviously highly recommend upgrading to version 116.1 to see if that fixes your issues.
00:02:07.984 - 00:03:06.914, Speaker A: I did end up having running into issues with nethermine myself, particularly around memory usage, so I'm definitely going to, going to be giving this a go. I'm running Geth on one of my setup setups with the rocker pool OdA node and my solo staking is running nether mine. But I, as I said, I did have a, I did run into issues there a little bit earlier on, not, not so much these days, but still, the fact that those issues existed, you know, now there's these improvements out, I'm definitely going to upgrade there, but I should change my Odell to Nevermind as well in the interest of client diversity. But I have it as Geth because I wanted my odao node to be as reliable as possible, given that it is obviously a big responsibility to be an OdAo member and I didn't want my, I guess my node going offline for whatever reason. And I do have fallback clients installed as well, just in case. But yeah, that's that there. Now, speaking of client diversity, I hadn't actually noticed this, but it's gotten much, much better on the execution layer side, thanks in large part due to nethermind of course, but also Aragon and Basu.
00:03:06.914 - 00:03:28.394, Speaker A: So on the ethernodes.org website you can see that Geth is under 70% market share. This is pretty crazy coming down from I think it was 90% just the six to twelve months ago, and Nevermind is at 13%, Aragon is at 11.8%, and Besu at 6.2%. Now this is from the ethernotes.org website, as I said. But there's also the client diversity.org
00:03:28.394 - 00:03:44.254, Speaker A: website which has similar numbers. You can see here on the right. On the execution layer side, Geth is 67%, nethermine is 15.2%, Aragon 10.7 and base two 6.7. Now this is looking real healthy, guys. Honestly, I mean, I never expect these things to be equal.
00:03:44.254 - 00:04:10.174, Speaker A: I mean, you can see on the left hand side and the consensus layer side of things, they're not equal either. The distribution is better there because none of them are over 40%. But I think we're getting much better on the execution side of things. And this is basically due to the fact that these other clients, you know, these other clients, other than Geth, are getting a lot better. People are having an easier time running it. They're becoming less memory intensive with updates like I just spoke about. So that's obviously very, very good for, for client diversity.
00:04:10.174 - 00:04:50.804, Speaker A: And as I said before, if we get, if we could get Geth to just below that 66 67% super majority threshold, that would already be a big step in the right direction. And we're pretty much teetering on that now, obviously. And ideally we would love Geth or any one execution layer client not to exceed 50% of market share here, but just that super majority alone at 67% counts for, or 66% counts for a lot, I believe. And I'm really glad that between Nevermind, Aragon and base who, there's actually not much of a difference in terms of percentage on the consensus layer side of things. If you take the top four, there isn't that much of a difference. But I guess like Nimbus is lagging a little bit behind. Obviously prism and Lighthouse are leading there.
00:04:50.804 - 00:05:27.126, Speaker A: But if we can get to a point where the execution layer side looks like the consensus layer side, that would be ideal. You know, Geth under 40%, never mind that, what it could be a 35% ish and then obviously Aragon and base who sharing in the rest of the market share there would be absolutely awesome to see. Now there are other execution layer clients that are being developed still, like the one from paradigm called Reth, which is built in rust. And I think there's one other one that I may be missing right now. Just it's got a labeled as others here doesn't actually have what clients they are. There are the clients here, but yeah, cooler as well. I mean they're not really, they're kind of rounding areas because only like a few people are running them.
00:05:27.126 - 00:05:56.070, Speaker A: And I'm going to assume that's the, that's the debs. But I think if they gain market share, even better, right? Like it's awesome having four consensus layer and execution layer clients, which is in of itself a massive feat. But if we can have like five on each side or even six on each side that have a decent market share, that would be phenomenal. I mean we don't need it. It's a nice to have. I think four on each side is actually more than enough and equally distributed or not equally distributed, but like fairly distributed is more than enough for client diversity. But we shouldn't stop there.
00:05:56.070 - 00:06:24.982, Speaker A: I think in the ethereum ecosystem, our superpower is the fact that we don't just settle for you know, more than enough. We want to keep going. We want to keep making things as good as they can be across pretty much every I guess, vertical within the ethereum ecosystem which is awesome to see. But yeah, just something I wanted to highlight because I just noticed it today actually that the execution layer client diversity had gotten a lot better. If you're still on geth, you want to do your part, try out. Nevermind. It's, it seems to be more stable and I've heard from other people that it is actually more stable now.
00:06:24.982 - 00:06:50.486, Speaker A: So if you've been having issues with it, now's the time to give it another go. Alright, so Lucas here has gotten a withdrawals devnet up and running with 15 deku nodes ready to rock. So you can see here that the tech who nodes are all running in Docker here. And this is part of the new withdrawals Devnet that's, that's up and running here. And you know, withdrawals. I mean there's, there hasn't been any major updates on the withdrawals front. It's just coming along.
00:06:50.486 - 00:07:13.502, Speaker A: We expect it to be late March, early April. There's nothing changed there. As I've said before, we expect the test nets or the public test nets to go through the withdrawal upgrade by the end of February. Not too long now, you know, month or even less than a month away now. And then we can expect late March to be the main net or early April to be the main net deployment. And then we can stop with this fud around withdrawals. Man it's getting bad out there.
00:07:13.502 - 00:07:42.498, Speaker A: The amount of low information people in this industry is crazy. I mean it's always been crazy to me. The, the, how many, how much information gets kind of lost and how much bad information. Sorry, how much of the good information gets lost and how much bad information just kind of rises to the top somehow. But I'm just seeing it more and more people saying you know, everyone's going to dump their ETH at the time of when withdrawals are enabled. It's going to lead to a massive sell off, blah blah blah. And I've explained my reasoning before a couple of weeks ago on the refill about why I don't think that's the case.
00:07:42.498 - 00:08:07.270, Speaker A: And I think you know out of all of that I've thought about it a lot. The strongest reasoning that I can come up with about that is the fact that most of the ETH that's currently staked is staked through LSD's right now. So if someone really wanted to exit if they were desperate to exit. Right. They would exit, they would just sell to on the secondary market and they'd be out. Right. Obviously it doesn't withdraw ETH from the Beacon chain and you're not unstaking, you're just selling your stake.
00:08:07.270 - 00:08:38.538, Speaker A: But yeah, if anyone's like super desperate to sell and, and for quite a while, if you've been like that, you have had the option to do so. Right. Um, and solo stakers are the ones that don't have LSD's. I mean, 70% of the actual eight staked are LSD's. I actually saw this stat the today or yesterday, which means 30% aren't LSD's. And I think the majority of that would be solo stakers. Now there's solo stakers that, I mean, if you started staking from the beginning ETH was dollar 500, I think, when the Beacon chain deposit contract launched.
00:08:38.538 - 00:09:02.558, Speaker A: And would you think that you'd wait all this time and unlock your ETH now if you were a solo staker, your actual 32 ETH, not the rewards, the 32 ETH and sell now, I just don't see the happening for the majority. I'm. Of course there's going to be some, but I just don't see that happening. So if you, when you take that, all that into account, just that point. Not even everything else that I've talked about before on the refill, just that point. Yeah, I don't see it. And it's obviously people just trying to push a narrative.
00:09:02.558 - 00:09:24.094, Speaker A: Just trying to. I don't know, either they've got a short on ETH or they're hoping for a better entry price. As I've said plenty of times before on the refuel, there aren't any real actual bears. They're just bulls that want a better entry price. Right. So, yeah, I've just been ignoring that mostly anyway, but I'm seeing it pop up more and more, so it becomes harder to ignore over time. But yeah, just not something that I think is based on any real merit there.
00:09:24.094 - 00:10:07.898, Speaker A: But yeah, definitely looking forward to withdrawals, obviously coming soon. All right, so speaking of testnets, Barnabas here announced that the EF a theorem Foundation DevOps is largest testnet in terms of validate account has launched successfully yesterday. So the aim was to have a network run at Mainnet validator set in order to test BLS key changes. And huge thanks to the beacon chain guys for getting an explorer up and running. So you can see here that the active validators was over 600,000, which is actually more than what Mainnet, kind of like Ethereum has as validators here. And obviously if they are trying to test the BLC BLS key changes for the BLS signatures, this would be a good way to do it. And there's a little thread here about their initial testing.
00:10:07.898 - 00:10:43.972, Speaker A: You can see they had a very rocky start due to resources exhaust. In their first attempt had too few nodes, second attempt had too little cpu ram. The third attempt was to scale the machines up a bit and now it seems a lot healthier and more stable. Pictures show the cpu such ram utilization of 24 hours. As you can see here, there's two separate images and then they just get a bit more information about what happened and withdrawal credentials. But very cool to see this, very cool to see this testing going on on this stuff. As I've said before, all of these things that are inside Ethereum right now, the core protocol layer, and especially with proof of stake in the consensus layer side of things, they are subject change like they're not set in stone.
00:10:43.972 - 00:11:06.692, Speaker A: And in Ethereum we don't really set anything in stone. We are open to changing things as long as obviously the benefit is there to doing so. But as I've said plenty of times before, you know that as time goes on this, the changes become harder and harder to do, become slower and slower to do it. And you need to convince more and more people that it's actually worth the change. Right, because the changes can be quite large. But yeah. Anyway, cool to see this testing here.
00:11:06.692 - 00:11:51.118, Speaker A: Just wanted to highlight it for you guys. All right, so something very, very positive that I noticed today was that the, quote unquote OFAC compliant blocks as tracked by Mevwatch Dot in Fo are now under 60% thanks to in large part due to the newer non censoring relayers such as agnostic boost from gnosis and the ultrasound money relay from the ultrasound money team. And they quickly gained market share with agnostic boost at 7.45%. Market share of MEV boosted blocks and ultrasound money at 60 sit at 6.77%. And this is the lowest it's been since October 2022. And this is only tracking from the merge. So the merge was December 15 and this was late October.
00:11:51.118 - 00:12:26.252, Speaker A: So the merge happened after the OFAC sanctions, obviously. So we're actually getting to the point where we're going to go lower than what it was, you know, go to an all time low post merge. Obviously before the merge it was even lower than this, and before the sanctions it was obviously, you know, even longer than this. Basically 0%. But as I said here, you know, ethereum is winning the fight against censorship. Ethereum is the only chain tackling these issues, the only chain that's been targeted in such a way by the most powerful nation state in the world, right, the United States government, with. With the officer office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, targeting tornado cash here.
00:12:26.252 - 00:12:57.004, Speaker A: So very, very positive development. Now, if we go over to the MEV watch dot in fo website, you can actually see the post merge OFAC compliant blocks sorted by just MEV boosted blocks are not all blocks, just about MEV boosted blocks is the majority. It's about 80% of blocks. But you can see that flashbots as market share has come down a lot. It is at 57% right now, and they're obviously at the biggest censoring relay up, block native at about 6.2% blocks, route regulated at 2.5, and either network at 2.26.
00:12:57.004 - 00:13:28.956, Speaker A: Now, what's really cool about this is not only are the uncensored relays or the non censoring relay is increasing in market share a lot, but they're also much better distributed. So you can see here that the top non censoring relayer has 17.2% market share where. And that's their blocks route max profit, and then 7.1% for agnostic boost and 6.8% for ultrasound money. These three are a lot more distributed than what the, the flashbots block native and blocks route regulated are, which is very positive.
00:13:28.956 - 00:13:59.460, Speaker A: Now, what I would really like to see is obviously flashbots fall below 50% dominance, and all blocks fall below 50% of that compliance here. And it seems like it really is happening. I mean, there are other non censoring relays as well. There are actually more non censoring way layers than censoring ones now. But the fact that we have ones run by really, I guess, legit players like the ultrasound money team agnostic boost and blocks route here is very, very positive. So I'm just, honestly, I'm over the moon that I came across this today. I was like, holy shit.
00:13:59.460 - 00:14:28.644, Speaker A: Like, we're actually getting this down a lot, which is very, very positive to see. Now, you can see here that post merge daily OFAC compliant blocks in this chart is trending down from the MeR. Like, I mean, at time of the merge, OFAC compliance was at 93%, guys, which I think was like the peak. Pretty much. No, 97% was the peak. And this was of all the mev boosted blocks. And that was obviously in large part due to the fact that flashbots was the only game in town, and that was late October here of mev boosted blocks.
00:14:28.644 - 00:14:58.120, Speaker A: Right. So, but then if you go from there and you keep going down, that goes from 97% to just 60, 68%. And this is mev booster blocks. Now, if you include all blocks, the trend looks really, really cool. You can see here that it goes all the way down to, you know, under 60% here, depending on what timeframe you look at. Obviously, I'm looking at the one day timeframe, but you can look at the longer periods here. But, yeah, the one day timeframe at time of the screenshot that I had was under 60%.
00:14:58.120 - 00:15:19.118, Speaker A: And you can see that the trend is just clearly down. The, the black or the gray of the dark gray is non mev boost, of which there aren't actually many. Oh, there's only like 10% of all blocks that are non mev boost. Now, that's actually grown. And then of not OFAC compliant, it's grown up to 30%. And then OfAc compliant is at 60%. So we are winning the war here.
00:15:19.118 - 00:16:10.072, Speaker A: It's been, you know, it's obviously not happening overnight, has obviously been a lot of work that's gone into this, but we are winning and it's really, really great to see this. And as I've said plenty of times before, no one has actually been censored on Ethereum. They have had, it had to wait a little bit longer to get their tornado cash transaction included, but they have not been censored. And if we get this to 50% of all of a compliant blocks, it means that you have an almost 100% guarantee to get your tornado cash transaction included in two or at most three blocks. So you're not waiting very long at all to get your transaction included. And obviously we want to get that percentage down as much as possible. But I said it before, and I'll say it again, the fact that flashbots has been so dominant means that their dominance was, was quite, was relatively easy to eat into and to get the, and they've also helped with this as well by doing, releasing things like Min bid and stuff like that.
00:16:10.072 - 00:16:52.102, Speaker A: But getting this down has obviously been really great. But yeah, just wanted to highlight that for everyone because I thought it was a really positive development in, in the MEV boost arena. And you can see here as well, related to MeV Boost, Tony has deployed a bunch of new stuff to, to MeV Boost picks. We will now find a general metrics tab, separate tabs for relays and builders with validators to come a sankey diagram with builders, relays and validators and many new charts, including racing bar charts. So this is still my favorite website for MEv related stuff in terms of tracking. Basically everything got to do with MeV Boost. I do like Mev watch that info because it focuses a lot more on the, I guess, censorship relayer side of things.
00:16:52.102 - 00:17:26.882, Speaker A: But Mev Boost Pix has a lot more pretty charts, a lot more data that you can kind of look at along with these very fancy sankey diagrams here. And you can see where all the kind of builders are talk, which built, sorry, which relays the builders are talking to and then which validators they are talking to. And then you can sort up here by relays, Mev Boost dashboard. And there's a bunch of charts with that, with builders and with validator. So it's. Well, this is coming soon, obviously, but yeah, very cool to see that this site is continuing to be upgraded, continuing, continuing to get a lot of love. Tony's just been doing an absolutely amazing job keeping this updated and keeping this relevant.
00:17:26.882 - 00:18:07.202, Speaker A: And I think people are getting a lot of value out of this, especially in the wake, obviously, of the OFAC sanctions where mev boost, or mev in general became a much hotter topic. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so a knock node rocket pool achieved 2000 nodes over the weekend, I think, or earlier this week, not the weekend. So a couple of days ago, super Fist put out this tweet here where he said that there's 2000 nodes now staked with rock, now spun up with Rockapool, which is obviously very, very cool to see. It's been growing very nicely. You guys know I'm super bullish on Rockapool generally.
00:18:07.202 - 00:19:20.036, Speaker A: It's something that took me a while to get bullish on because as you guys know, I, I'm very cautiously optimistic about what I put my weight behind. But after spending a lot of time in the rocket pool community, after talking to a lot of core rocker pool members and community and community members that care about Ethereum and rocker pool, I can safely say that I care and am bullish on Rockerpool almost as much as I am on Ethereum. Now, obviously they are two different things, but in terms of the communities and alignment and the values and what they're trying to do, I mean, I couldn't find a better place than Rockerpool, honestly, other than aetherium, because I've looked, I mean, over the years, I've definitely tried to find a community that wasn't just obviously the Ethereum community, but was really kind of dedicated to a project within Ethereum that shared the same sets of values and the same kind of set of community alignment. And I didn't really find one that I felt gelled with me until I found Rockapool. And I try to be as active as I can in the community there. It's quite hard for me because their community is quite large and the conversations move fast, but I always try to pop in whenever I can. And I mean, an Odao member, right? Obviously I own RPL, just disclosures there for those of you who don't know.
00:19:20.036 - 00:20:20.220, Speaker A: But I only became an Odao member, only spun mini pools up, and I only put my weight behind the project because of the fact that I truly believe that it is an amazing project, contributing to the decentralization of Ethereum, making sure that Ethereum staking becomes as decentralized as possible, as healthy as possible, and just keeping the beacon chain nice and secure and keeping, and lowering the cost to entry for staking with Ethereum, which is obviously the number one goal of the project, at least that's what I think it is. There's a bunch of goals, but I think that rocker pools guiding star, from what I can tell, is making it as easy as possible for anyone to stake, especially with things like lowering the minimum ETH requirement. You know, they first lowered at the 16 8th, now they're going to lower it to eight ETH. And then for ETH, obviously you still need rpl tokens as well on top of that. But I think that the, the mechanisms that they've come up with overall are very, very good. And honestly, RPL, I mean, you guys know, I don't talk about tokens other than ether. I try not to rpl as a token, actually.
00:20:20.220 - 00:20:58.004, Speaker A: Like I'm, I'm very, I'm pretty bullish on, I own a bunch of it, obviously. So that's the disclaimer there. But I am quite bullish on it because it has an actual use, it's growing with the protocol. It is, you know, not stupidly valued. It's not, you know, we're not in a bull market where things are getting ahead of themselves and it's actually one of the only tokens that seemingly or seem to outperform ETH over the long run. Now that's not to guarantee that it will do that in the future, but out of every, out of most tokens that I've looked at, there's very, very few that I'm long term bullish on for a number of different reasons, but RPL would definitely be up there. You know, if I wasn't buying ETH, I'd probably be buying RPL now.
00:20:58.004 - 00:21:19.236, Speaker A: That's not investment advice. Please don't take that as investment advice. And I only say that about RPL because I put so much weight behind Rockerpool. And I genuinely do believe that they are great builders of in the Ethereum community. So I wouldn't be saying that otherwise. But yeah, I mean, you guys know that I've got the upper, you can see it, it's all public. I have it on, I had it on Sassle east.
00:21:19.236 - 00:21:36.844, Speaker A: Now I have it on rocket dash, sassle cecil dot e, which is my Odell node address. And I have it staked as part of my rocker pool node. And I've got it staked as part of the Odell. So you can see my RPl there. I don't have any other RPL than that right now. And if I buy any more, I would definitely put it on that address. You can monitor it.
00:21:36.844 - 00:22:10.350, Speaker A: But I mean, I don't plan to sell that RPL anytime soon. I don't know, like it's just gonna stay there, right? I'm happy staking it. I'm happy earning additional RPL rewards as they come to me through my mini pools. I actually spun up another mini pool today, and I'm just so enamored by the community now. By the rocker pool community. I mean, originally I kind of came in and I thought to myself, like, came into the rocker pool community and started getting involved. And I thought, you know, this could be something that I could support because it supports ethereum, but now I want to support rocker pool because I'm just so in love with everything Rockerpool is doing.
00:22:10.350 - 00:22:31.438, Speaker A: Yes, it's good for Ethereum, but rocket Pool has its own set of values, its own community, its own kind of thing that it's doing. And I really want to be more and more a part of that, and I'm trying to be as a part of that as I can. But anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that because I've done enough shilling there. As I said, not investment advice. The RPL that I have is fully public. I don't have any others than that. And you can go check that out if you want, on chain.
00:22:31.438 - 00:23:34.766, Speaker A: But moving on to something else related to ETH, staking was a new product out of the index co op called the Diversified Staked ETH index or the DS ETH token here so you can diversify your portfolio of staked ETH tokens to help decentralize the Ethereum network. So basically what DS ETH is, it enables holders to diversify their ETH stake using a methodology that promotes decentralization and competition amongst protocol. So the initial composition of DSF will include rockapools, Reth, light, O's, STe, and Stakewise's seat too. And you can check out the blog post for more information on this and the weighting and the methodology and all that behind it. Now the reason why I think this is really cool is because this product could be used as a, obviously it is an index, but it could be used by maybe people who are having kind of decision paralysis here. And they're like, oh, you know, I don't know what to buy. Do I buy re, do I buy st, do I buy, you know, se two, do I buy this? Do I buy that? If there's other tokens that get added and they may not make the best decision because they're not well informed about which one to pick.
00:23:34.766 - 00:24:13.090, Speaker A: Now with DSE, they don't have to make that decision. The methodologists behind the index basically say, okay, well, we're going to factor in all of these different things and we're going to weight, weight these things at different weights within the index based on the criteria here, and we'll handle it all for you. Obviously they're going to take a fee for the privilege here. You can see that they're only taking a 0.25% or 25 bits fee. There's no mint or redeem fee, so that's just a flat fee on it, which is actually, I think a pretty good deal considering that they're going to be managing the whole thing, thing for you here. Now if this is something that you're interested in, you can definitely go pick it up on a uniswap v three here.
00:24:13.090 - 00:25:02.504, Speaker A: There are the liquidity pools linked in the blog post, which of course I'll link in the YouTube description below. But very cool new product out of the index carb. I think it's going to appeal to those people who, as I said, have that decision paralysis, aren't entirely sure what to go with. And they can just get exposure to the best LSD's or eight stake LSD's in the ecosystem. All right, so Aave protocol v three is now live on the Ethereum mainnet. So I talked about this the other day, how they were voting to put it live, obviously, on Ethereum mainnet, and it's finally there. I mean, I didn't expect the vote to fail, of course, it's got all the great features of v three that you may be used to from using it on other chains, such as high efficiency mode, isolation mode, gas optimizations, which is actually going to obviously be a big deal for layer one and decentralization as well here.
00:25:02.504 - 00:25:40.294, Speaker A: So yeah, if you have been using Aave v three on these L2s, you'll know all about it. If you've been using v two on, on layer one, ethereum, well, now you can use v three. So congrats to Aave for getting this shipped to the Ethereum mainnet. Very, very cool to see this. All right, so Harpy's two factor authentication for wallets is now alive. And I talked about this last week, or the week before, I believe, about how Harpy was releasing this Eagle RPC, which adds two fa to your wallet, stopping rugs and hacks from ever being sent to the blockchain. You can read this thread to learn more about this, but I did explain how this worked last week, where you basically change your RPC.
00:25:40.294 - 00:26:21.790, Speaker A: And there's actually a nice little explaining here. Your wallet provider talks to the Eagle RPC and then talks to the blockchain, and it protects you from potentially malicious things. Now, there was actually a high profile hack, I guess you could say, or rug recently, Kevin Rose, who's high profile and pretty popular in the NFT ecosystem, had, I think, $2 million worth of NFT stolen after just signing a single message on Opensea, I believe, or on a fake open sea or something like that. It was a phishing, messy message, essentially. And he had that $2 million worth of nfts he's drained. Now, something like the Eagle RPC could actually protect you from this. And because it's an RPC, it doesn't require you to install any new software or anything like that.
00:26:21.790 - 00:27:10.424, Speaker A: So all you have to do is change your RPC and metamask to Eagle RPC, and then you'll get all the benefits of this. Obviously, by doing this, you are still outsourcing your transaction, relaying to a third party. It's obviously not going to be decentralized or self sovereign as using your own node or anything like that. And, you know, you don't know if what else is going on in the Eagle RPC, just like you don't know what else is going on on a bunch of the other RPC's. But there's not really a risky eye from, from what I can see in terms of you just using this instead of. I mean, it's probably better to use this instead of infuria or alchemy because of the fact that they give you these protection features, right? If you actually are worried about accidentally signing the wrong message or sending the wrong confirming the wrong transaction, then Eagle RPC is for you. You can check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:27:10.424 - 00:27:57.344, Speaker A: All right, so last up here we have fire, who pushed a product update to optimism. So you can now use fire on optimism. So just a refresher for those of you who have forgotten what fire is. It basically is similar to harpy in that it tries to protect you against doing things that might be potentially malicious. What fire does is allows you to see exactly what's happening in a transaction. So you can see here in the screenshot that if you are sending assets out and getting assets in, so kind of swapping assets, it tells you what they are, instead of just coming up with some gibberish that metamask usually gives you. And obviously the really cool thing about this is you know exactly what's happening on the during this transaction and not having to guess and not having to hope that everything goes well, right? But yeah, I've talked about five before.
00:27:57.344 - 00:28:18.522, Speaker A: I've explained it a bunch on the refill before. I'm sure you guys remember what it is. But if you are an optimism user, which I'm sure a lot of you are, you can now use fire on optimism. Obviously not just the Ethereum mainnet anymore, but on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week.
00:28:18.522 - 00:28:18.914, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
