00:00:00.600 - 00:01:03.852, Speaker A: So today I talk to Max Borders, author of Under Throw and the Social Singularity. We have a fascinating conversation about finding the soul of crypto and web3, how power resides in the grey hats, and really how we as a community, as a group of builders, innovators, can refine our mission and why there is an increasing sense of urgency in that process. So I'm sure you're going to really love this show. So on the Metaverse show today, I'm really happy to welcome Max Borders. Max is the author of Under Throw and the Social Singularity. He has authored four wildly popular books on technological and political decentralization, including the Breakout book, the Social a Decentralist Manifesto, which explains how humanity is already building systems that will underthrow. Love that term, great centers of power.
00:01:03.852 - 00:01:19.174, Speaker A: His latest manifesto is on anti authoritarian efforts and how Jefferson's dangerous idea will spark a new revolution. So I think it should be pretty obvious whilst we've got him on the show, given that the kind of topics that we talk about. Welcome, Max.
00:01:19.284 - 00:01:21.338, Speaker B: Hey. Thank you for having me. I'm looking forward to it.
00:01:21.386 - 00:01:49.472, Speaker A: I did confess to Mac's offer that I hadn't yet read those books. I kind of saw something fly past me on Twitter and the word under throw immediately caught my attention. I kind of went through a few threads and kind of scratched the surface, really, on what is some clearly very deep thinking. Being the lazy person that I am, I thought, you know what? I've ordered the books. I'm going to get around to reading them, but I'm actually just going to get him on the show and have a conversation. And so thanks for joining, Max. Really looking forward to getting.
00:01:49.472 - 00:02:23.726, Speaker A: Getting into this. We again, had a bit of a preamble off air, and it looks like we've kind of had almost this mirror life. You're in South Carolina now. I actually spent a lot of time there as a child. My father was based there. And meanwhile, you were over here in the UK, Buckinghamshire, very close to where I am now. So, as I said, there's a lot of big, high concepts there, clearly all presumably web3 and decentralization, but also, I would imagine, some of the kind of original ethos of bitcoiners and crypto more generally.
00:02:23.726 - 00:02:43.146, Speaker A: But maybe before we get into the big ideas, let's kind of just learn a little bit about yourself. As I said, you did spend some time here in the UK, I think, I believe, at UCL. But tell us about your journey into becoming an author and an advocate for, I would presume, decentralized systems, web3, and everything it stands for to give.
00:02:43.170 - 00:03:44.906, Speaker B: A quick and dirty rather than a life story, I think the best way to describe it is disaffection with politics. I had pretty early in life decided that the place to be to make any sort of social change was Washington, DC, and I could not have been more disappointed by that notion later in life. It is where good ideas and good intentions go to die, and I think the world is waking up to that fact now. And of course that extends to all of the great capitals of the world, Brussels, London and so on. But it occurred to me somewhere along the way that fundamental societal change was going to be outside of what I call the three p's, politics, policy and punditry. And while I am certainly a pundit, a pamphleteer, even I use that as a way to inspire others for creativity, entrepreneurship and innovation. Those are far more promising vectors of change.
00:03:44.906 - 00:04:33.772, Speaker B: And I was starting to feel that way rather deeply on about 2008, and of course you mentioned it. Along came the bitcoin white paper, and I think it was October 2009. I want to say it took me, I want to say a year, a year and a half before I learned about the technology and what was going on with it. And man, I wish I had bought in at that point. I tried to do so and was thwarted by various things, but including a lack of, lack of funds, but especially just getting help doing it. I was going to put almost my last cent into it because I was sort of converted as a true believer into the idea of the technology. In any case, nevertheless, woulda, coulda, shoulda, right? Everyone has one of those stories.
00:04:33.772 - 00:05:20.706, Speaker B: What stayed with me about that, and indeed with certain things like Uber, that became exemplars of what I call subversive innovation. Bitcoin at the time, in any case, being sort of an apex predator for that subversive innovation as a way we change or liberate human beings wherever they are in the world. There's a threefold mandate involved. And I articulate it this way just by way of simplicity. And it can sound kind of boring and kind of like economics, but just bear with me a moment. The first is to reduce transaction costs or reduce cooperation cost. How is it easier for me to interact with someone collaboratively anywhere else in the world, whether that's through transaction or cooperation? So that's the first one.
00:05:20.706 - 00:06:08.874, Speaker B: The second is to raise predation costs or parasitism costs. Now, who are the parasites and the predators? Those are hostile state actors. Those are crony capitalist corporations who are in bed with those you know, an unholy alliance and various intermediaries and middlemen, we call them. So people in the web3 space are very much used to the idea of getting rid of these middlemen. That is the beauty and benefit of distributed ledgers and associated technologies. And finally, there is lowering exit costs, make it easier to leave a system, perhaps also to adopt another system. And in this case, that's usually what we want to do.
00:06:08.874 - 00:07:10.572, Speaker B: Now, that brings me to today. If you want to think about this generalized way of looking at the world through subversive innovation as opposed to politics, one of the greatest exponents of that going today is Balaji Srinivasan and his network state, which is really a how to manual. And one of the things Balaji says is you've got to first obey the one commandment. The one commandment is that you start with some sort of moral core. So what I have been trying to do in my work lately is, without becoming a moralist, really getting people excited about the moral vision. And that is a vision that I believe Satoshi, he or they or whoever shared. And that vision is of a world that underthrows great centers of power, not overthrow through violent means, but under throw through means of cooperation, exchange, and lateralized relationships between and among people everywhere in the world.
00:07:10.572 - 00:07:38.636, Speaker B: So that's, in essence, what's going on. I will say, however, that the gray tribe, I'm not sure if your listeners have heard of this term, but the gray tribe is a term. It's been articulated as there is this group of people who are sort of not so into the partisan aspects of politics, right? They're neither nor. They're neither red nor blue. They're gray. They believe in this sort of whiggish progress through technological means. A lot of them.
00:07:38.636 - 00:08:22.194, Speaker B: A lot of them are technocrats and they're evil, if you don't mind me saying. But most of them are really about the possibilities that we can do things through technological means together to make the world a better place, and so on. And there are different sort of subunits in this gray tribe, but at the end of the day, they can be rather left brained, too. Left brained. My hope is to bring an element of culture, morality, or a sense of mission morality, meaning all those good ims to the table. And hopefully there is an element of spirituality in that. And I hesitate to use that word, because sometimes that's off putting to people.
00:08:22.194 - 00:09:06.808, Speaker B: But the spirituality is this idea of, at the very least, a passionate commitment to this sense of mission, which is, frankly, good old fashioned american jingoism. And this idea of the consent of the governed, of course, that is in our founding document, the declaration of independence, speaking of UK and us, but we did not manage to instantiate it. The consent of the governed is not democracy. It is not voting. It is opt in. It is opt in governance. And so a system of opt in and opt out governance, whether that be through daos or on terra firma, is showing us the way that we can have a peaceful order that is a consent based order.
00:09:06.808 - 00:09:09.848, Speaker B: And that's in broad strokes where I'm coming from.
00:09:09.976 - 00:09:44.232, Speaker A: Very cool. So there's a lot there to unpack. Maybe a good starting point, because I think it's great that you've mentioned it, is this purposefulness, dare you say, you know, spiritual mission. And I guess how that can evade or even speak to some preconceived notions. So, for example, many people in the crypto space will kind of identify as libertarians. You know, they might kind of reference the sovereign individual as kind of their bible.
00:09:44.368 - 00:09:54.264, Speaker B: And by the way, I read that near the end of writing the social singularity and thought, my God, these guys were 20 years ahead of me.
00:09:54.344 - 00:10:18.070, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean, it's incredible how relevant it still is. It could have been written yesterday. Right. But, you know, there are others, for example, that are part of notionally the same movement, but that wouldn't subscribe to that kind of ideal, political ideal, that might have less emphasis on the individual and more focus on kind of a broader social good.
00:10:18.262 - 00:10:21.134, Speaker B: And that is, by the way, a very good thing in my mind.
00:10:21.214 - 00:11:06.044, Speaker A: Yeah. And so this is what I want to, kind of want to try to get at because of the ambiguity. Like there's a big spectrum there, like to operate in. You know, it's, it's like it's all about the individual and free markets, an extension of free market fundamentalism, effectively, and all the way through to this kind of way of social coordination, collective ownership. You have very different people occupy that same timeline with potentially very different goals. So how do you, how do you navigate that? Do you sit within a particular camp or do you try to transcend that with your kind of purposefulness? And have you found a way to unify those people?
00:11:06.504 - 00:12:09.856, Speaker B: So two questions there, two important embedded questions. And the fact that this is coming so early in our conversation says a lot about you. The thing I have a very hard time communicating is that whether someone identifies as a libertarian or a socialist or someone who's trying to erect some sort of idea of the commons or instantiate some form of commons. I just want to say, if we go back to the idea of consent in opt in systems, you're going to see a pluralism of. First you would call them ideas of the good, or instantiations of someone's preferred idea of the good. Okay. If you think of it as being on a continuum between freedom and security, some people want to opt to create systems of security such that they're willing to give up more of the surpluses of their own labor to have in the commons and have that be shared through various redistributive means.
00:12:09.856 - 00:12:53.506, Speaker B: Think of it as being rather like a kibbutz, and the kibbutz nakim are completely justified in thinking that way. Now, there are problems with scaling kibbutz beyond, say, 150, Dunbar's number. Robin Dunbar being an excellent anthropologist, and his constant of 150 seems to hold in various contexts. So I try to pay attention to that. And there are other aspects of commons management. For example, Eleanor Ostrom, the Nobel laureate, said that Commons management is totally possible for communitarian means, but those systems are usually evolved, and they're highly local. When you start to get state actors managing commons, you start to get a lot of problems.
00:12:53.506 - 00:13:49.000, Speaker B: So we have to be careful in that sense. And people throw tomatoes at me and say, oh, just another free market fundamentalist. But my point is, if we, as you suggest, transcend this idea, not completely, but transcend the idea that we're going to have a particular one true way, this monomaniacal focus on a single system, and we have a basic network, systems within systems, a holonic set of systems, where we have a few basic rules for how those systems hold together or are unified in some way. Think the hanseatic league. Dienze in German. Those kinds of systems are proven to be successful, and yet any individual city in the hanseatic league didn't have to be under the thrall of the other cities. It was a network of agreements.
00:13:49.000 - 00:14:36.228, Speaker B: And when those agreements were broken, they could reconfigure them, and so on. The Hanseatic League lasted 500 years. So we can think about the Swiss Confederacy. It's had its upgrades, but essentially Switzerland is one of the most stable, wealthiest countries in the world, and it should. It deserves our admiration. I think similar things can be said when we begin to think about instantiating micro nations in the cloud, trying special economic zones like Prospera in Honduras, or, you know, looking at the success stories, however imperfect, by someone's libertarian lights or someone's socialist lights of places like Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong, and so on. It's really about being able to experiment at a small scale without central authority intervening.
00:14:36.228 - 00:15:21.078, Speaker B: There could be reasons why there are conflicts between and among these kind of smaller jurisdictions. But at the end of the day, we want to think about a system where we have attempts at Utopia that provide a market in governance. So, yes, there is an element of market fundamentalism involved in my thinking, because market competition tends to do a much better job of attracting and retaining members, and it does so non coercively. Remember, the idea here fundamentally is the consent of the governed. And there are moral reasons why we might appeal to the idea of ahimsa in the vedantic traditions. Nonviolence. Right.
00:15:21.078 - 00:16:18.324, Speaker B: We don't like the idea of a violent, oppressive regime lording its power over us, particularly if we are minorities, in terms of our outlook or conceptions of the good. So we want to be able to create niches of possibility, but we also want those niches of possibility to fail, where failure is really a part of a darwinian system. And I'm not talking about social darwinism. Any given system, whether it is more redistributive, for example, or protects the natural environment more, or manages commons more, or is based on more of a market arrangement. I'm a big fan of english common law, anglo saxon law, going back. I think it's the best form of law, and I think the justinian civil code type statute law came along and started gobbling it up. But you might have just a generalized framework where these jurisdictions can resolve problems between and among each other using the law of torts.
00:16:18.324 - 00:16:48.138, Speaker B: How did one injure the other, and can you prove it in court? These are very simple systems that would allow this greater system to cohere and enjoy not only trade and all of the benefits that we like to think of, but also the benefits of smaller scale decentralization. Voting with your feet and attempting to realize your conception of the good through entrepreneurial means, not through oppressive or violent means.
00:16:48.306 - 00:17:03.896, Speaker A: Yeah, and we've had various guests on in the past, I'm thinking quite recently, there was one with Justin Bannon, who's the founder of one of our portfolio companies, and he's been collaborating with a professor, Professor Potts from Australia. I'm trying to remember his surname.
00:17:03.960 - 00:17:04.640, Speaker B: Jason Potts.
00:17:04.672 - 00:17:05.360, Speaker A: Jason Potts.
00:17:05.472 - 00:17:08.216, Speaker B: Friend of mine. Love the guy. He's great. He's excellent.
00:17:08.280 - 00:17:55.164, Speaker A: Computational economy. And, you know, actually, that a lot of these frameworks, whether it's socialism or nationalism or even free market fundamentalism, are kind of outdated now. You know, they're not. They're of the industrial era, and they're not fit in many ways for us to understand directionally, the kind of network tier, or whatever you want to call it. But I really like this idea of polarity and optionality and competition, competition of ideas, competition of systems, assuming, and is quite a big assumption. And there's a lot of criticism leveled here that. That the ability to opt in and out is equal.
00:17:55.164 - 00:18:32.424, Speaker A: Like, everyone has the equal opportunity to opt in and out. And there's some argumentation that it's perhaps a privilege, but again, like, that's. That's a whole episode in. In and of itself. But let's assume that it's. It's accessible enough, or increasingly accessible or increasingly achievable. So there's that polarity at the top, but what's the commonality? So what's then the commonality of, effectively, the operating system? We've kind of got these building blocks for constitutions, for governance, for coordination, be it local or global.
00:18:32.804 - 00:19:23.816, Speaker B: That's another really good question, and one that I think keeps a lot of us up at night, I will say, and we can come back to this, that it is certainly not, you know, dicking around with nfTs. I call them the lost years between 2017. And it's not to say that NFT technology fundamentally doesn't offer good things. It does. But the way the mode and manner of its use over that five years, from 2017 to 2022, I want to say, meant that there was a lot of people who were just preoccupied with nonsense. It imploded, and there was a lot of energy loss that could have been devoted to the original, something akin to what we're talking about right now, or the original Satoshi vision, or what have you. That being said, the unifying.
00:19:23.816 - 00:19:46.494, Speaker B: There are different elements. Unifying elements. One is a generalized agreement, and I've tried to. I'll tell you about this in a moment. A generalized agreement to what? To the idea of a multilateral contract, the idea of a constitution of consent, if you like. Okay. That's one idea for unification that we say.
00:19:46.494 - 00:20:48.346, Speaker B: We cede the opportunity to do certain things system wide in order to be able to do other things locally. And some of those things can be on terra firma, and some of those things can be in the digital cloud. What are earthbound goods and what are not goods and services. So these are all questions that require a certain level of experimentation that the legal framework has to accommodate, accommodate that experimentation, while retaining enough unifiedness to cohere as a whole. So we agree to each other in the manner of an actual social contract that we're going to cede certain paths up to this constitution. And that means violation can get you either ejected or you can incur certain punishments, however that's devised. But another way, I think, needs to be, and this is that moral, spiritual element that I was talking about.
00:20:48.346 - 00:22:20.530, Speaker B: And I'm not saying you have to go off and, you know, convert to orthodox Christianity or Judaism or anything else in the world, but rather, and I'm trying to form a kind of sororial, fraternal organization around this that we could talk about, if we have time, around this moral, spiritual core. And that unifiedness is a unity of vision, a unity of what are our beliefs. And this goes back to the first commandment, the one commandment of Balaji Srinivasan, which says, if you're going to try to instantiate a network state, right? Which the first step begins with what do we share in common? And my assertion is that what we share in common must be something that begins with the idea of consent. And if that something begins with the idea of consent, then it must be some form of multilateral contract where the consent is articulated in law for all to see, and you've agreed to it. And there are costs of reneging on the deal or breaking the agreement. So there's the social, cultural aspect of this is really finding people around the world who share similar commitments and binding them together as a, what I call a siblinghood. We want everybody we can find to bind together in solidarity around this idea of the consent of the governed and the virtues and values that hang onto this.
00:22:20.530 - 00:23:08.774, Speaker B: And I can enumerate several, but I think intuitively you understand that we need to return to this idea of practiced virtue. So that's the socio cultural around what are we cohering? Do we share the same values? If not, and that begins with, am I willing to force you to live by the one true way? If I am, then maybe you don't want to find kindredness with me. You want to find kindred kindredness with some other group, and they will be external to our order, and they might even be considered enemies if they threaten us. And that's just tautological. That's not me being mean or saying, why are you talking about enemies? It's just reality. The other thing being the actual contract. So the shared values, on the one hand, is the sociocultural.
00:23:08.774 - 00:24:15.500, Speaker B: Then there is the institutional substrate, and then I think there's a really room for a third component. And this is why I'm so interested in interfacing spiritually with people who are highly left brain folks, which is your audience, the people your group invests in, and so on, because they're often brilliant people, and if I can just pull them over into other parts of their brain and activate those centers of, what is your moral center? What are you committed to on this earth to leave your kids and grandkids something better than you found it, or to. To under throw power or what have you? Then we have something to talk about. So it is in that, let's call it a threefold braid of the technological. Right, because the technological can now help us facilitate the contractual, the institutional, and the moral, spiritual dimension. All of these things start to come together in a coherent whole, and then we're way more powerful than we, anybody could possibly have imagined. But we've got a long way to go.
00:24:15.612 - 00:24:57.800, Speaker A: Anybody that's in this space, you know, be it superficially, or they would categorize themselves as fundamentally part of a movement or working in the industry, professionally working industry, yeah. Very few people, if they're really honest, would debate that. Sometimes they would question the moral core or purposefulness of the work that they're doing, the community that they're part of, whether it's that they believe a particular pathway is a distraction or worse. So I think it's a great thing to remind people of, and generally in life, right.
00:24:57.992 - 00:25:01.064, Speaker B: I'm never going to be able to overcome someone's paycheck.
00:25:01.184 - 00:25:01.584, Speaker A: Sure.
00:25:01.664 - 00:25:02.440, Speaker B: Not today.
00:25:02.592 - 00:25:28.730, Speaker A: Not today, like, on most measures, is the leading path to happiness in most cultures and most systems of assessing happiness and longevity. And all these things, per purposefulness, whether you find that in your family or something that you believe is a kind of higher social cause, equates to greater levels of happiness on most measures. So I don't think that's necessarily, even if people don't necessarily on a daily basis, you know, kind of make.
00:25:28.762 - 00:26:02.850, Speaker B: Make their decision just very quickly. It's like, if I can. If I can come in contact with someone, because I can't build, I'm not a rust coder, I can't build anything. You know, I'm building sky castles. So it's like I need help from people who see the sky castle in, you know, funny little form of symbols or utterances or, you know, squeaks and pops coming out of my mouth and go, yep, I get it. I want to help build that. This is meaningful to me.
00:26:02.850 - 00:26:51.134, Speaker B: As you say, it's purposeful. If I can catch that rust coater at a point in his or her life where they're ready to make that next, that next move into something more purposeful, because they just got finished with two years of bored apes or whatever that is so vital to this, because I really do see us as being in competition with the Googles, the metas, the future surveillance state. It's already been co opted. Elon Musk is an exception, and he's at the level of the person, not at the level of the network. So we've got to do better than Elon Musk, bless him. I think he's wonderful and he's full of contradictions, but he's a net good for society. However, I think we have to.
00:26:51.134 - 00:27:02.966, Speaker B: You know, I think every, all your listeners are fully aware that this has to be at the level of the network and not at the level of the person. We can't count on the next Elon Musk to save us and also rely.
00:27:02.990 - 00:27:11.434, Speaker A: Upon benevolent, even if it might be realized. So could you talk us through how you envisage the process of under throw?
00:27:11.774 - 00:28:06.702, Speaker B: I think for me, it is not a process in the way we tend to think of, like something linear. Okay. I think it is a set of a thousand experiments in protocol design, excuse me, which is to say, 1000 being an arbitrary number. But where can we start to find some sort of pareto distribution where 200 out of those thousand projects succeeds in some measure, where success is that they persist in time and that they start to invite more human souls into their orbit? If we think about. Just look at bitcoin, and I don't want to get into the box block size debates and all that stuff, but just look at bitcoin. The number of wallet holders, the number of people who hold, you know, under $100 at least. At least $100 in bitcoin on.
00:28:06.702 - 00:28:49.952, Speaker B: On a wallet somewhere that this has been in fits and starts, certainly, but basically, wallet holders, there's been some sort of geometric growth through time of people adopting lateralizing technologies. It's not to say that bitcoin is the one true way. I'm not a bitcoin, Maxi. I'm a bitcoin. Mostly that's just due to certain kinds of realities. But if we see all of these technologies as part of a larger evolutionary fitness landscape that includes hostile state actors, there's no such thing as the perfect. There is only the darwinian process.
00:28:49.952 - 00:30:10.096, Speaker B: There's only seeing which projects succeed, which projects manage to attract more people, those that don't. And at what levels of the evolutionary fitness landscape are these failures happening? Are they local or are they catastrophic? Are they. Is something that's called crypto really just a bunch of Sam Bankman fried style, centralized companies that act more or less like central banks giving crypto a bad name? Or are we talking about really real decentralization, real censorship, resistance, these kind of properties? It is a competition between and among properties and the usefulness of those properties as perceived in the minds of those who would use them. So when we start to think about what is the first step towards underthrow, the first step is what a thousand individual innovators will take in that evolutionary fitness landscape. Now, I went from a sky castle to another abstraction, but you have to understand, if I had the answer for the one true way, I wouldn't be sitting here right now trying to inspire your audience. I'd be going to all the coders I know and say, let's build this now. Instead.
00:30:10.096 - 00:30:42.758, Speaker B: Hopefully there are a thousand geniuses out there ready to build something along these lines. Something that is going to. Another way of putting it is like this. There's an economist, Mancer Olson, who died, I want to say, around 2000, but had this. I mean, he was something of a man of the left. He had this idea and he was dead on about this. And that is the idea that civilizations essentially decline when there are concentrated benefits and dispersed costs.
00:30:42.758 - 00:31:22.014, Speaker B: If your system enables concentrated benefits and dispersed costs, you are going eventually to fail. Okay, I'm sitting on the american experiment right now. I'm watching its decline in real time. I'm just going waiting for the collapse to happen. It could happen slowly, it can happen quickly, but it's not looking good. And the idea of concentrated benefits and dispersed costs, my friend Carl Oberg really sort of opened my eyes. He said, what inverts that? The answer is innovators in the web3 space invert that.
00:31:22.014 - 00:32:07.866, Speaker B: They make it more and more costly to enforce whatever it is, and easier and easier for large constituency groups to form around new systems. If you can do that in such a way that something is unenforceable instead of, you know, and do it, do it rapidly, just like Uber was able to get in and get a toehold and it was corrupted. In a sense. The current Uber is, you know, not its original vision. It's still sticking around bitcoin, people can argue, has been corrupted and block size debates. I'm not interested in rehashing that, so hashing, so to speak. But these are examples of ways you can form large constituency groups around new systems.
00:32:07.866 - 00:33:40.322, Speaker B: What is the system that you're talking about? What are the protocols that give rise to that system and the agents that act in that system, what are the incentives they face and so on. Once you start to monkey around with that, then you can start to get real possibilities for how we collaborate, cooperate, exchange, transact, and so on in ways that eliminate middlemen, hostile state actors, or like these guys down in Prospero who started their own jurisdiction, who were able to take some of the top down features of politics, namely that they, they were able to start these special jurisdictions. Okay, what do you do with that? So as much as I am about under throw and bottom up processes, I also recognize that good old fashioned politics does yield certain fruit, and you have to seize it in those moments. So in Honduras, they had a government that created a system with constitutional muster that allowed there to be these special jurisdictions, and now they're attracting investment to those jurisdictions. They've got a lot of biotech plays right now. Longevity, age reversing technologies are currently accreting down there, and it's very promising. So when you think about this threefold mandate that I started the conversation with, that's really, it's really about adopting a mindset that serves that threefold mandate and not bored apes or whatever.
00:33:40.322 - 00:34:09.400, Speaker B: Some of the better DeFi plays distributed finance. You know, how can I get a loan and provide some sort of collateral and use escrow or separate accounts to have this being done without third parties? These are all enormously promising and are part of a larger evolutionary fitness landscape where our innovations are like, what do you call it when there's, like a. An animal or a plant that's introduced to the area and they just suddenly, just rapidly take over?
00:34:09.472 - 00:34:11.880, Speaker A: I know what you mean. I can't either.
00:34:11.912 - 00:34:30.404, Speaker B: But, yeah, sticking with the biological metaphors, because there's. We're always, in an every case, thinking in darwinian terms, and the predatory and parasitic state actors are also a part of that larger ecosystem that is with. You can't deny that. We'd like to pretend that they're not, but they are. They're the apex predators.
00:34:30.784 - 00:35:27.418, Speaker A: So on the one hand, we are operating within a very global, borderless system. We're operating in building this kind of, maybe the first truly ever global governance system and capital market, by the way, 24/7 pricing, macro and micro. But ultimately, that then has to interact with the local systems, political systems that exist today. I guess one of the perhaps initial ethos, if I think back to the really, really early days of having similar conversations to this, but with like, a much smaller group of people, when hardly any code had actually ever been built, and it was almost purely conceptual, there was almost a sense of we don't need banks and we don't need governments and we don't need this and we don't need that. We're going to create an entirely new system outside of the existing one to the point where it will just make the old one redundant. Now, that hasn't happened yet. We're only a decade in.
00:35:27.418 - 00:36:06.188, Speaker A: You know, that's a typical web cycle, so it's not arguably sufficiently long, but I would argue that only now are we really beginning to see our system directly engage and the people in it directly engage, potentially lobby existing political systems, especially in the us context. So we had this assault from the SEC that I think many people felt was highly politically motivated and to a degree understandable. Right. If your position is you want to kind of protect this system and the dollar's homogeny and everything that kind of goes with that, then, yeah, you should see crypto as a threat, right. It's understandable.
00:36:06.236 - 00:36:06.652, Speaker B: Absolutely.
00:36:06.708 - 00:36:08.788, Speaker A: If you're really predisposed to attack it.
00:36:08.876 - 00:36:15.028, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. Crypto is the invasive species. Yeah, that's what I was looking for earlier, so please carry on.
00:36:15.116 - 00:37:11.538, Speaker A: So I think it's understandable. But now we're seeing presidential candidates, multiple presidential candidates, talking about crypto and Trump. Now, some might say it's cynical, you know, it's just to kind of raise funds. I think others hope believe that it's something more fundamental than that. But either way, it's now part of political discourse in a presidential election, not in a smaller economy like El Salvador or, okay, Argentina's significantly bigger, but it's the US, right? It's the biggest economy on the planet. And now this is part of the political discourse. Now, on the one hand, I think it's not a coincidence that it's at the point that the existing financial system banks are wanting to launch products into the space.
00:37:11.538 - 00:38:05.848, Speaker A: So personally, I don't think it's a coincidence that the point that this is now crystallizing or building momentum in political discourse in the us is the exact same point that large financial institutions are launching products related to bitcoin, to crypto, potentially bringing their political weight to the table. So we're in this weird moment, right, where I don't think it's necessarily that there's this libertarian base that have managed to convince the political elite that this should be on the table. It might arguably be one part of the existing system, the financial system incumbents that are potentially trying to capture. So I don't know, how do you think this under throw is playing out right? Now, in the us context, I am.
00:38:05.976 - 00:39:12.476, Speaker B: Very concerned about it. For example, there has been the acceptance, grudging acceptance of ETF's around bitcoin, where all these large concerns, blackrock and so on, are able to make it part of their tax deferred investment portfolios. And what that means is that you have someone else with your crypto in their custody. So that is of concern to me. What does it also, what does it look like for them to neuter crypto? Because in essence, it really is from their side or from ours, if you think of them in antagonistic terms, it could be that they're trying to pry open a window, that they destroy it, or they make it, or they make a five or ten year window where it's just, the price completely collapses, and everybody says, yeah, that was stupid, and it should never have been involved with it. My hope, and it is just a hope, is that it is robust enough that it needn't be viewed that way, that if they tried such an attack or such a strategy, that it would fail. I'm not so sure.
00:39:12.476 - 00:40:35.988, Speaker B: So likewise, on the other side of this antagonistic relationship, we are trying every day to create new ways to buy ourselves time and evolve such that it doesn't matter what they do with legislation, or that it forces them to be so totalitarian that it's obvious. And what then? Either we accept a totalitarianism, which I think Covid demonstrated that a lot of people are willing to do, or people start to push back in a political sense, such that it's game over, or you're keeping that window open long enough for the current system to collapse. Now, I happen to be one who believes that that is a very definite option. And it's not to say that the totalitarians won't be even more powerful, despite the prospect of. Of the dollar being completely devalued and whatever, but everybody's going to be on their knees during a collapse, and state actors will find a way to do what they do. So I think we have to be very careful about too sanguine thinking in that regard, and yet be prepared for it to be an opportunity where we can reconstitute ourselves outside of that system. Because I definitely think that there's too much debt in the system, and it can have a cascading effect around the world.
00:40:35.988 - 00:40:57.214, Speaker B: It needn't start in the United States. It could start at bank of England. It could start any number of the central banks around the world. It could start with private debt. It could start anywhere, because the total debt, I think, is on the order of 300 trillion currently. And that is a massive number. That is a number that the world has never seen before.
00:40:57.214 - 00:41:47.602, Speaker B: So if that's the case, and there is a theoretical point beyond which that debt is going to be destructive to society, we are likely to find that pretty soon. If we do, there may be an opportunity to switch systems in a manner that it's like, well, you know, you guys screwed up. You were the wizards. You said, you're going to be able to patch all of this together by controlling interest rates or controlling the price of credit, which is centralized and silly, if you ask me. And at the end of the day, there will be, if we have the right technological means and people see a way to protect their wealth and to continue to exchange and collaborate in ways that they hadn't before. There is hope, but I'm under no illusions, Jamie. I'm not.
00:41:47.602 - 00:42:16.328, Speaker B: I think, you know, things are looking bad, but this also gives me a sense of urgency around this stuff, like, we have to do something as innovators, because there is this looming collapse. There isn't any appetite on the part of the powers that be to be fiscally more conservative or more restrained or austere. They are spending as fast as they can on shoring up their power, and that is both desperate and dangerous.
00:42:16.456 - 00:42:53.734, Speaker A: One more big question that I'm not necessarily expecting you to have the answer to, because I. I sure don't. But for me, it's a big thing in my mind. It's a big consideration. I think there's at least two ways of looking at it. But I think maybe to just reflect on this last segment dealing with web3 founders every day who are in the grind. They're trying to find product market fit, trying to find funding, all the distractions sometimes from life, let alone purposefulness, just like bathing and making sure you're looking after yourself and.
00:42:53.734 - 00:43:34.508, Speaker A: And your dependence. Right? And so in that anxiety, that kind of demand to find product market fit, in the evolutionary sense as a startup, they make compromises. And, you know, we can see that now across the web3 stack. We actually published a paper called the open metaverse under attack. You know, you could reframe that in a number of different ways, you know, the web3 economy or crypto or whatever. But it really looked at all these kind of creeping compromises that founders are making, being pragmatic to increase efficiency, increase affordability, increase scale. So, you know, layer ones, L2s, layer threes, increase centralization.
00:43:34.508 - 00:44:29.534, Speaker A: We're seeing things like stable coins where transactions can be reversed by court order. We're seeing centralization in hash power mining. You know, Mev pools. All this stuff on the one hand makes web3 more usable, dapps more usable. It extends some of the principles, some of the value of what we're talking about here in web3, but at a cost, ultimately that cost is the potential for CAPtCHA. You know, there was no way that Facebook was ever going to be able to launch a digital currency because it's a corporation. Now, the argument that we made in that paper is increasingly big tech might not look too bad in a web two context to web3 if you're sat there as a large scale statist, you know, with this kind of highly inflationary economic system, and you're going, well, you know what, like Zuckerberg's not that bad.
00:44:29.534 - 00:45:14.796, Speaker A: You know, like Bezos isn't that bad. They kind of play ball. They come to the Senate hearing, we can coerce and co op them. Whilst this kind of web3 crowd, most of them aren't even in the US, you know, and, okay, the US, the reach of the earth can extend to any jurisdiction for now, almost any jurisdiction. But it's the better of two evils, right? And I think that's, for me, that's a real concern. But to kind of come to this final question, we're talking about adaptive systems, evolutionary systems, adaptive systems. And the big thing, not even on the horizon now, the reality today, I think, is how any technology that we're building, any governance system that we're building interacts with AI.
00:45:14.796 - 00:46:02.676, Speaker A: Now, interestingly, prior to our call, I've happened to have a bit of time over the last couple of days to be thinking about web3. And are we already straddling into web four? What does that mean? What's web five look like? Currently I'm even thinking about it as a post. Web like, the way we even think of the web will fundamentally change. We're not going to be using websites and apps and clicking ads and all this stuff. And that's primarily driven by the convergence of innovations in web3 and AI. On the one hand, it could abstract away a lot of the complexity of using web3 in tokens and all this kind of stuff. On the other hand, gains in the context of AI, be that corporate or state level, fundamentally changed the game.
00:46:02.676 - 00:46:56.000, Speaker A: One of the things I was thinking about. So to play out again, like two ways of looking at this, and then I'll throw your question. So it's a bit of a preamble, but there could be an argument to say, just like with the original Internet that was state funded, the US has the ability to produce all this debt that it could be investing into quantum computing, into state level advances in AI, that actually could pay a dividend on that investment. Yeah, we're talking trillions. But actually, if you think about singularity and everything else, only a state can coordinate the level of resources required for a true evolutionary leap in AI. And so if it were to invest effectively, the economic GDP growth could wipe out that debt. Now, I'm not saying it will.
00:46:56.000 - 00:48:02.152, Speaker A: I'm definitely not saying that I have confidence in any group of politicians I've ever met that they make the right decisions. But there is form before, right? The Internet is here because the us government, in a military sense, was investing in this stuff. And look at the GDP growth, both nationally and globally, that's produced. The flip side to that is that anything we're doing now, tinkering around with web3 as a bunch, a ragtag bunch of innovators, left brain innovators, how could it compete with China AI that just kind of makes this leap where it can all of a sudden coordinate at state scale this infinitely more efficient economic system, which again, an argument could only happen in an authoritarian system, like trying to make that work in a democratic system is not going to work. So I'm just playing devil's advocate here to really stress test the adaptability of this thing that we're building. And how could it be resilient to or adaptive to cases like that, starting with AI?
00:48:02.288 - 00:48:34.632, Speaker B: I think AI is enormously promising. I don't know whether and to what extent we're going to see improvements in AI look more like geometric growth curve that continues and we're just at the base of it. Or if it's going to look more like an s curve, where we might be at the base of the curve, but it starts to plane off at some point because there's sort of a natural limit to the sort of probabilistic aggregation and vomiting out of human symbol systems, which is essentially what AI is and does, at least the LLMs, sorry.
00:48:34.648 - 00:48:44.704, Speaker A: To interrupt, but that, yeah, that plateau has already started to happen because of the limitations of monolithic platform based AI.
00:48:45.844 - 00:49:27.186, Speaker B: As it happens on my machine right now. And you're going to be angry with me because I think in your notes before the call, you said, close out all these applications. And I didn't think of my tabs as being applications, but I have five tabs open right now from five different AI concerns. Two of them are open source three of them are corporate. So that already is enormously promising to me. There's competition in the space. And I do believe that while China is a juggernaut in many respects, I don't think that a centralized AI is going to be able to yield a centralized and clandestine AI.
00:49:27.186 - 00:50:28.154, Speaker B: Chinese AI, for example, is going to be able to maintain supremacy for very long. And how does it, and, you know, what is the nature of that supremacy, supremacy at what? So those are important questions. Those are also unknowns. Provided there is a chance for there to be second movers, third mover advantages in a competitive evolutionary fitness landscape. We're going to see those. And my hope is that some of these, particularly the open source plays, can really give an advantage, because it is in those, I think we're going to find superior innovations because they're not designed with a single committee, single mind or committee of minds to do certain kinds of things, although that can be to give one a strategic advantage in certain areas. If we think about the totality of the innovations and the openness with which they're executed, that means it's going to be a really interesting ride for AI.
00:50:28.154 - 00:51:33.156, Speaker B: How that integrates with other systems, how they cross pollinate what that looks like for the web3 space, and as you say, web four and five. I hope, for example, that we can start to see more ad hoc, peer to peer networking, where there's less sort of giant server farms that instantiate the Internet. And instead we have ad hoc networks that form based on proximity to one device to another. And a cluster of devices gives us enough computing power to execute the most important things, that these are the kind of technological solutions that mean that nobody truly does control the Internet. Because right now it could be that the NSA or some other agency can just switch off the Internet for 350 million people, because they have found what the choke points are of the network. And those could, those choke points could just be human beings with guns to their heads. You know, it's like, what are you gonna do about that? There are only a certain number of ISP's and Internet service providers are at the level of the network basic stack.
00:51:33.156 - 00:52:18.040, Speaker B: Not the digital network, not the person network, but of the physical infrastructure. Those are easy people to control because they're few in number. So some sort of advance on what does tomorrow's Internet look like with these decentralized web? That we've got to innovate that, and there are people working on it, but they're not working fast enough. And finally, it is a race between the powers of central control and others. And my hope is that bureaucratic functionaries are just not as adaptive and responsive in the rank and file of, say, the United States government or that of the CCP. That they're just not. They're just not agile.
00:52:18.040 - 00:53:14.040, Speaker B: Like a group of developers out there with imaginary guy Fawkes masks, right? That those folks don the white hat, or at least the gray hat, and that they view these hostile corporate and state actors as black hats. And that the war is on. That is a whole lot of nothing being said. It's just a way of telling a little bit of a future story that gives us a glimmer of hope, because if we lose that hope, we are going to succumb to the coalescence of corporation and state, okay? Which is this unholy alliance between big, big mama money and Papa power. And the creature that slinks from their coital bed is not something any of us wants to live under. So the people who are working in web3 right now, even if they're making trade offs, even if they're making compromises to survive, they're still trying. We've just got to try.
00:53:14.152 - 00:53:30.192, Speaker A: I think that's a perfect place to end. It's been a fascinating conversation. I've got notes scribbled all over the place, trying desperately hard to not interrupt a really fascinating conversation. Would love to pick up with you on many of these things again, but big thank you for coming on the show.
00:53:30.288 - 00:53:31.824, Speaker B: Absolutely, Jamie. It was my pleasure.
