00:00:01.080 - 00:00:45.608, Speaker A: You're now listening to Alpha Leak, a podcast mini series highlighting the most under the radar projects and developments in crypto, and this series is brought to you by the Blockcrunch podcast. I'm your host, Jason Choi. I'm a general partner at Spartan Capital and an active Defi angel investor. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. And if you'd like for your project to be featured on this series, reach out to me on Twitter mrjasonchoi. Now, one of the things that I paid really close attention to recently was the avalanche ecosystem because I noticed that their total value deposited across all the projects that are built on avalanche just grew by 1000% in a month. So as an investor, whenever you see metrics like this, your ears perk up.
00:00:45.608 - 00:01:51.036, Speaker A: So to find out what happened and what are the projects that are growing on Avalanche, as well as whether this growth will last, I'm very excited to have Jay and Nick from Avalabs, which is the company behind Avalanche, to talk about their learnings and how they achieve this rapid growth and how they intend to sustain it. So there's a lot of very interesting things for operators in crypto. So if you're working for a crypto company or you're building some sort of product or dapp or protocol, this episode is very, very valuable to you because we're going to talk about small UX decisions that helped grow value by billions, how of to deploy grants for lasting impact and not just mercenary capital. What email and Uber taught us about abstraction and incentives in layer ones, and how do we cater to both Defi natives and the growing institution audience that's participating in DeFi today. And finally, I'm also going to get Jay and Nick's thoughts on what people underestimate the most about avalanche. So make sure you listen to the very end. So without further ado, here is my conversation with Jay and Nick from avalabs.
00:01:51.220 - 00:01:53.024, Speaker B: Jay, Nick, welcome to the show.
00:01:53.364 - 00:01:54.384, Speaker C: Thanks, Jason.
00:01:54.724 - 00:01:56.252, Speaker D: Thanks, Jason. Thanks for having us.
00:01:56.348 - 00:02:02.300, Speaker B: So, just to start, as a brief intro, what do you guys do at Avalabs respectively? Nick, do you want to start first?
00:02:02.452 - 00:02:34.780, Speaker D: Sure. Yeah. My name is Nick Massom. I'm the head of product at Avalabs. My primary responsibilities are around formulating long term strategy, also road mapping, competitive analysis, and then also we handle the execution of the specifications and strategies we put in place. We do. We assist our business development teams in kind of introducing projects and getting into a deeper technical analysis on what their capabilities are and helping them onboard onto avalanche.
00:02:34.780 - 00:02:42.480, Speaker D: And then finally just product analytics. So just digging into the data to try to help drive a more succinct product strategy forward.
00:02:42.632 - 00:02:44.240, Speaker B: Got it. Jay, what about you?
00:02:44.432 - 00:03:24.774, Speaker C: Yeah, my end vp of marketing. So first and foremost was tasked to really start up Avalanche and the avalabs function from the ground up. So focus on fundraising. That was kind of the first milestone. Then launching Mainnet and making sure that the Avalanche brand was known far and wide. And then also, meanwhile, from launch September 2020 all the way to up to and through today is really just about making sure that avalanche is usable. And also points of friction are alleviated by marketing and communications, but also making sure that the team at Avalabs, especially the marketing team, can scale properly.
00:03:24.774 - 00:03:30.914, Speaker C: So I think it's a little bit of internal ops and then also just making sure that everyone knows about Avalanche.
00:03:31.474 - 00:03:51.418, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And that's exactly what we're here to do as well. Just to tell people about what's going on at Avalanche and what are some of the more nuanced topics that we can unpack from this. So just to start us off, before we dive into the projects that are happening on avalanche, what would you say are the major value propositions or main innovations that avalanche brings to the crypto space?
00:03:51.586 - 00:04:40.480, Speaker C: Yeah. So I'll start with just the overview and then pass it off to nick on kind of the product strategy, at least in the overview. The two main value props that I think matter most to people right now is transaction finality that happens under 1 second and also transaction costs. Those are the things that get spoken about most often, especially with smart contract platforms. I think the second layer, which we feel like is equally as important, but doesn't really get as much recognition in kind of this ever expanding ecosystem where there's a bunch of new players on a day to day basis, is really the decentralization of it all right. Now, Avalanche runs 1000 full block producing nodes. And so the fact that those thousand nodes can, can all run in sync and come to consensus and process transaction in under 1 second is incredible.
00:04:40.480 - 00:05:42.226, Speaker C: And I come from the Ethereum landscape first and foremost, I guess bitcoin technically, but Ethereum more so. And just being an active user in the ETH space for the, for the last, I mean, even now, but for the last three or four years and then finally seeing the experience on the avalanche side as it relates to the Dapps on top of this protocol, that's where my kind of, I was blown away, honestly. I was talking to Patrick Sutton, who is the director of communications at Avalabs. And the first time we used, I think, Metamask, and it must have been pangolin. So probably earlier this year, he was like, it's like magic. It's crazy that these transactions settle this quickly and we don't have to spend too, too much money on gas costs, which, of course, kind of the pressing issues there. And I think with the product side, Nick and I are very, very close with these conversations, especially because we both value user experience, my side from more of the comms and marketing perspective, and Nick more so on the actual product level.
00:05:42.226 - 00:05:52.192, Speaker C: So I'll hand it off to him where he can maybe cover a little bit more on some of the focus areas for the last year, but also where we're going in terms of the product development.
00:05:52.328 - 00:06:47.118, Speaker D: Yeah, and to what Jay spoke about, the consensus algorithm is really the most innovative thing that it all started with. And then since then, there's just been building on top of it. So Snoman Plus plus came out that really reduced the amount of fees and reduced the amount of contention so that the network is in a place to keep scaling more gracefully. Outside of that, it's extremely green. There's a report that's being done right now that will come out shortly, showing just how little energy it takes to run avalanche and support the entire ecosystem, which is very important to us. And then looking past that and looking at the core properties that sit on top of it, you have things like the new bridge that just launched that uses SGX technologies, and that is a really, really secure. Bridges are notorious hotspots for security risk.
00:06:47.118 - 00:07:14.006, Speaker D: And everything that has been done with the bridge on that front was always a security first in mind. And to Jay's point also, we tried to create these very smooth rails and this really nice user experience so that if you're not crypto native and you're starting to use things like bridges for the first time, it doesn't feel like you're in a different planet. So those are just some of the core innovations that we've implemented now. And then we have a whole slew on the roadmap coming up in the.
00:07:14.030 - 00:07:50.924, Speaker B: Next six months, definitely. And there are a lot of blockchains out there these days. And I think multichain, compared to, say, a year or two ago, is now almost a consensus already. People assume that there will be multiple chains, and there are so many chains out there that offer lower fees, you know, faster finality, as Jay described, and faster transactions. So I'm curious, you know, how does avalanche actually scale? And what are some of the trade offs it makes? And to give you an illustration of kind of what I'm trying to get out of this question is when we look at chains like Solana, for instance, they rely really hard on hardware to scale, and the trade off might be expensive to validate. So what is that equivalent for avalanche today?
00:07:51.384 - 00:08:41.154, Speaker C: Yeah, the first thing I always do on these types of podcasts is reference this video that Goon has. It's about two or three minutes. It's on the avalanche YouTube. But basically the main kind of meat of what allows avalanche consensus scale versus past consensus models is the fact that it's probabilistic and not deterministic. And so I'll kind of leave that for the listeners as kind of a handoff. And I'll let Goon kind of take the rest because he does a better job at explaining how it all works a million times more than I could ever do it. But I think to your point of hardware, that's something that the team, especially on the engineering side, ever since I even joined, has been trying to focus on making sure that the consensus layer is really, again, where the crux of the innovation is.
00:08:41.154 - 00:09:31.410, Speaker C: And hardware, you can always beef up the hardware, but that's not really that advantageous to the end user, especially in a world where we're trying to push decentralization. Because if you have hardware that's super prohibitive to buy or even use, then you're not going to have the amount of validators that you would like. So I'm actually, I just pulled up the current technical requirements just for reference. For the podcast, you have 200gb of storage, 16gb of ram, and eight core cpu equal to or over 2 GHz. So basically you can have a pretty strong machine, like a local machine that runs like a personal computer. Honestly, you could also have it on a vps, something like that. The approach here is always to maximize decentralization in any way possible.
00:09:31.410 - 00:10:23.072, Speaker C: And I think the engineering team has done, or platform team specific to the engineering team has done an incredible job with doing that. Of course, having thousands, but also potentially more than that, having that many validators be in sync and also upgrade to the relevant patches and such is an incredible feat in itself. I think something that isn't as appreciate it, especially as people good are still wrapped around how web two works and barely know how that works. And from my perspective, every time there's an avalanche go release and I think I'm pinging Nick or I'm pinging Patrick O'Grady. About, hey, how many people have upgraded? It's just really cool to just see how people are just so on top of it. And of course they're very much more, I guess, knowledgeable about the space, but still really cool.
00:10:23.168 - 00:10:25.064, Speaker B: That's awesome. Anything to add there, Nick?
00:10:25.184 - 00:11:13.384, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, Jay touched on so much, but the platform team with Patrick and Steven and Dan and Aaron, they've just done apricots. Been all about that. It's been all about keeping the decentralization, allowing for it to scale, introducing things like pruning and state management, really fairly complex topics that I think are very hard to tackle. And then I think they're moving towards, in the next six months, you'll hear a lot more about subnets. Now, it already supports subnets, but subnets is a great way to scale where you can take state management and you can move it into these subnets. And as long as these subnets can pretty seamlessly talk to each other, you start to build a very powerful ecosystem that really can handle the demand of what someday an institutional implementation won't want.
00:11:13.534 - 00:11:18.100, Speaker B: We're going to come back to that later as well. But just so our listeners are aware, what is the subnet?
00:11:18.212 - 00:11:33.852, Speaker D: Yeah, so the subnet is essentially a set of new validators that follow their own set of rules that can be determined by the owner of that subnet that then communicates and also helps validate the mainnet.
00:11:33.948 - 00:11:57.984, Speaker B: Got it. And so from what you both said, it seems like a lot of the scalability or the, the secret sauce behind wide avalanche is so efficient and fast is because of the novel kind of consensus mechanism, would you say the downside to that is that it's riskier to use these kind of more novel consensus mechanisms that may not be as kind of familiar to people as that used by bitcoin or ethereum or is that not accurate?
00:11:58.444 - 00:11:59.764, Speaker C: That's an interesting question.
00:11:59.924 - 00:12:37.056, Speaker D: So it's not actually risky. I mean, I think if you look at what you would need to have an attack on it, it's actually much higher. The percentage is much higher than what other networks are. I think it's somewhere around 33% for many and 50% for others. And I think avalanche is far above that in the 60% to 70% rate. So the consensus algorithm actually makes it far more secure than a lot of the existing chains. You also, as Jay talked to, the decentralization is such a key point in supporting that, and we have well over 1000 validators at this point, and it just keeps growing.
00:12:37.056 - 00:12:47.248, Speaker D: And every release that the platform team is focused on, really has the decentralization in mind. It's just a core tenet of the underlying ethos of avalanche as a whole.
00:12:47.376 - 00:13:03.518, Speaker B: Yeah. So it sounds like it's really an approach that is a step function improvement on existing consensus algorithms. So just for the sake of objectivity, I want to see if, are there any trade offs here? And if not, then do you foresee maybe other blockchains adopting what avalanche has given, how well it's working out?
00:13:03.656 - 00:13:50.246, Speaker D: It's a good question. So I could see other blockchains utilizing subnets to some point. There is a lot of opportunity there. I think the issues that we struggle with at the very technical level are the same that all the blockchains are going to struggle with, which is on state growth. State management is probably the single biggest one for us to solve for. So as the chain gets bigger, how do you keep the speed and allow full nodes to run? And I think some of that we're solving with, I think snowman plus plus solves some of that. I think a lot of the pruning and archiving work that's been done along with fast syncs to get up to the tip more quickly, all is kind of innovation that's going in to try to solve those problems.
00:13:50.246 - 00:13:56.530, Speaker D: And I think those teams will continue to solve those problems going forward. I mean, it's just top of mind, it's really their core focus.
00:13:56.702 - 00:14:35.788, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think the point you raised there is so interesting because most people, when they use different Dapps on different blockchains, they kind of assume that, well, the layer one is just there, it's shipped and it's basically a static piece of software and then people just build products on top of it. But what most people fail to understand is there's constant innovation happening at the base layer as well. It requires kind of constant new innovations, things like state pruning, as you mentioned, which came out with the apricot release. So that I think is a nuance that many people don't understand. And I want to pivot a little bit away from the more technical side to focus on the user experience side as well. Because when I first started trying out the Dapps on avalanche, I think the first one I tried out was Trader Joe, which is this amm exchange.
00:14:35.788 - 00:14:49.450, Speaker B: And I was surprised by the fact that there is this c chain, there's this x chain, there's this s chain. So for new users, can you explain why does there seem to be three different chains and what are they and how do they work?
00:14:49.572 - 00:15:30.184, Speaker D: Sure, I can definitely jump into this. So the C chain is our EVM compatible chain. It's a smart contract chain. It's really designed to support anything that is going to be smart, contract based, has functioning business logic or some kind of state management in it. And so most of what our users are going to, I would say 90% of what our users are going to interact with is, is the C chain. And that's certainly where the highlight is right now. And that's where all the Dapps will function and grow the P chain, which is the second one, that's the chain that handles all the coordination, validation, delegation.
00:15:30.184 - 00:15:57.166, Speaker D: So that chain is core to the staking and validation function and making sure that the network stays very live. And so it really is an operational chain that's supporting the other chains. Then the X chain is really a fast chain. It's a dag. It's really meant for less smart contract style of work and more like very fast transaction based work, like payments or routing functions.
00:15:57.350 - 00:16:05.878, Speaker B: That's really interesting that it's split into three functions like that. Would you say that that's a first that you've seen in crypto, or is that based on some sort of precedent before?
00:16:06.046 - 00:17:00.932, Speaker D: Yeah, so the initial architecture is an interesting question, and Jay might have a little bit more information on it, but I think that the numbers that they were able to get out of the consensus algorithm using the X chain and the dag kind of blew everybody away. And so we decided, hey, let's move forward with this. We can't just put this aside, even though it doesn't have as much smart contract capabilities. And so that really kicked that off. And there's so many use cases for that that I think are going to come to the forefront in the next year or so. The P chain just made a lot of sense to extract a lot of the underlying management of the network into its own chain to really make sure that it's not being impacted by everything else. And then just applying that algorithm to the EVM also just gave great smart contract capabilities.
00:17:00.932 - 00:17:09.084, Speaker D: So I think they figured that they just wanted some separation between the responsibility of all these chins, and it made a lot of sense not to try to mash them all into one.
00:17:09.244 - 00:18:02.512, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that that's actually spot on. I remember the early conversations where you had a chain that was super, super fast and you had another that had to be totally ordered because of contracts. And so it's kind of hard to really model out what people are going to use. So it was kind of this idea of like, well, both have equally useful cases, I guess. And some people might want to use the x chain for something else, and other people who want to interact with the smart contract enable apps might want to use that just exclusively. And that's kind of what started it. So I think in the coming years, as avalanche continues to grow, and hopefully with rush as well coming through very soon, then this is where it's going to be really clear, like, whether the hypotheses were correct or maybe we just need a little bit more time to see if the respective chains can kind of grow out its own ecosystems.
00:18:02.708 - 00:18:30.486, Speaker B: Yeah. And so far, it does seem like the hypothesis is, at least for now, correct, because there's a lot of value going into avalanche right now. And I'm curious as well, because at the same time that avalanche is taking off their other kind of layer ones or EVM compatible layer ones or L2 s that are also taking off. So with so many of these low cost and fast chains out there, why should developers build on avalanche over, say, you know, a phantom or a polygon, both of which are also EVM compatible today?
00:18:30.680 - 00:19:16.774, Speaker C: Yeah. So that's with EVM. And maybe it's not a statement of over, but I think every ll one in the space has valid strengths and also weaknesses, for what it's worth. And I think each team or each community might communicate the value props in a different way. So I think, again, it's a little bit early to really highlight the key differences, but from our perspective, within the EVM context, it's the same kind of idea of speed in terms of transaction finality, cost, and then also balancing the decentralization. You're not going to see that balance and the competitiveness like avalanche has in any other chain right now. And I think that's kind of it.
00:19:16.774 - 00:20:40.584, Speaker C: I think the main challenge, at least from the comms perspective, is really how do you communicate decentralization? I used to say, like in early podcasts, like, I think earlier this year, honestly, I would say no one cares about decentralization. And what that means is no one really knows what it means because what is it to Facebook? To Facebook, it means 100 nodes that are run by corporations and that seems to be decentralized enough for them. And then bitcoin, they have a lot of miners, but they have concentration of hash power in certain aspects of things that community feels like decentralization is another definition. So every single definition is different. But ultimately, what we can all come to agreement on is it means security also in a different way. And I think that's something that I've been kind of challenged with, and our team has been challenged with trying to figure out how best to highlight that to new users because the crypto initiated people will have more or less a good idea of what decentralization means, but still is tough, is a tough challenge. I think the other side, in addition to just balancing those value propositions that I highlighted earlier, is I really do think, especially now, the intention that we've gained because of that core value prop, those core value propositions have really started to permeate across the board, across crypto, Twitter, across kind of the larger institutions.
00:20:40.584 - 00:21:24.022, Speaker C: It's kind of crazy. It is, of course, anecdotal from where I'm saying, but the fact that people are like, oh, you guys are really, really hot right now, or you guys are really gearing up for some crazy activity in the coming months and quarters, that, to me at least, is some sort of validation that people are with this kind of sea of choices. They are preferring to go with avalanche. And that could either be the avalabs team, that could be the community, that could be the ecosystem projects that are native to avalanche. I think it's probably a mix of everything. And so I think all of these pieces that we come together and everyone's aligned with that one core value prop, you can then really compound those effects. And that's where I think it's kind of like the FOMO effect.
00:21:24.022 - 00:21:38.154, Speaker C: You're going to have projects who are like, wait, if I'm going to launch my application, I probably should just have avalanche in the kind of strategy for integrations, just so I don't actually miss out on the potential opportunities.
00:21:39.294 - 00:21:52.486, Speaker B: Do you think that when founders or projects, when they think about where to deploy their projects, is it mutually exclusive between different EVM chains? Or have you observed that these guys are deploying on avalanche and polygon and phantom, all these other EVM chains as well?
00:21:52.630 - 00:23:07.464, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, it's a good question. I think some of it has to do with relationships, kind of where the community you're working in is right now, and that can certainly sway you as to where you might want to deploy. I think a lot of projects are now looking at the multi chain world and saying, hey, let's launch on a few of them and see how it goes. I think that projects that existed on Ethereum at first that have come over to avalanche have been very strongly in favor of the fast finality and how easy it was to integrate and how supportive the team and the community is of those projects migrating over I think some people are very swayed by the greenness of it, and others have talked about, oh, well, the bridge really sold me because once I used the bridge and saw how fast the transaction worked, once it got on the avalanche side, then it made sense to me, and I could see how you were procuring these core properties like wallets and bridges or to make sure that users have a good experience. And I just think it's a snowball effect. The more users that start to use it, the more users that continue to use it. And that's really kind of the signal and the metrics that we're using to figure out if we're doing the right thing and if the community is working in the right way.
00:23:07.464 - 00:23:32.334, Speaker D: So it's hard to say with the other projects, like Jay said, they all have their merits and I can't really speak to them directly. I think they're all doing really good work and trying to solve hard problems. I think Avalanche just has a very clear vision that starts with goon and works its way down through the entire organization and has been just very successful on executing on that vision and then supporting the projects that want to come in.
00:23:32.454 - 00:24:21.524, Speaker B: Yeah, and this is quite interesting because from what I'm hearing, at least, this is my assumption and let me know if I'm incorrect on this. But I always feel that beyond a certain transaction throughput or under a certain transaction cost, the users probably won't care as much about which chain they're using. So the products aren't really, most founders probably aren't thinking about which chain should I go to for the absolute fastest transactions or the absolute lowest fees. So a lot of the incentive for people to build on different chains is actually not so much on the technical specs of the chain, but more on the kind of soft skills, the integration and the community part, which most people don't have insights into. So, first of all, I don't know if you agree with that statement and if you do, what are some things that you guys are doing on the community side to make it easier for founders to deploy onto avalanche as well?
00:24:21.644 - 00:25:29.298, Speaker C: So I do agree the soft skills is a huge part of it, and it's not quite clear in terms of a quantifiable element, which part? But I think the way we've proceeded with engaging projects, making sure that any of the points of friction from an information technical, anything under the sun perspective is addressed, we do take that very seriously, and a lot of us come from deep crypto backgrounds. Also, a good amount comes from just deep experience in the professional world, as consultants, as leaders, things like that. And at the end of the day, in a business function, relationships are a huge part of what we do, just every day, day to day. And so I think, again, to your point, I do think you were right in that commentary with community. That's where it gets a little interesting, because community in the crypto context is so vastly different from anything else that exists out there, even the social media companies, even the tech companies. I think prior to crypto, you never had kind of like the telegram chats, where you just have endless feeds of conversation. You didn't really have discord either, which, of course, gaming is taking on.
00:25:29.298 - 00:26:31.074, Speaker C: So I think more industries are taking on this challenge. But now you have, on day one, you have, especially if you have a token, if you're part of an organization, you're treated like a publicly traded company that's at the caliber that people expect you to push things out, expect you to communicate things at that level, but also then make sure that you're aligning all of the incentives properly, which is kind of a problem or challenge, rather, that every single function at Avalabs has to deal with and with community. At least on the marketing side, we're very much focused on education. I think that's a key part. I think that's something that most crypto projects are taking on education externally and internally. Internally, meaning in the context of avalanche in that ecosystem, because we're building very new things and new things within a new sector. So we want to make sure that everyone understands why we're here, what problems we're solving, what's coming next, things like that.
00:26:31.074 - 00:27:06.688, Speaker C: And so the last thing I'll say with community is we've separated into probably two key segments. One is more of the technical and developer side, and that exists on the discord. So the discord for anyone listening in that wants to access it, it's at chat abax.net work, ABX being the token ticker for Avalanche. And that's where we have about 26,000 users just talking about anything technically related. There are some side chats, but mostly technically focused. Then you have a global capability on the other side, which is non technical.
00:27:06.688 - 00:27:57.748, Speaker C: And that's where you have basically hub and spoke system, where the hub is, quote unquote, headquarters of the kind of the core avalabs team based in New York, where Brooklyn, where our offices are. But then you have these spokes where each community manager or general manager is basically our eyes and ears on the ground for the markets that are out in the world. So we pretty much have a presence in all the major crypto markets. That's where they are both making sure that the messaging from the core function is translated and localized properly in the context that matters. And then also they wear the other hat of business development, making sure that then they could source those leads. Because of the nature of our industry, there's projects everywhere, truly everywhere. So it's up to them to really say, okay, this might make sense for avalanche, or this might make sense for Ava labs to help out on.
00:27:57.748 - 00:28:21.564, Speaker C: And that's kind of how we're structured. And I don't actually have the count on the top of my head, but just for the podcast yesterday, we hit 300,000 Twitter followers. So that's kind of one measure of community strength. And to put into context, a year ago we were at 17,000. So that growth is quite incredible, if you really think about it.
00:28:21.684 - 00:29:15.914, Speaker B: Yeah. And this is why I love talking to operators in crypto as well, because most people from the outside, they think you code up something, you launch it, and the users will come, but they don't realize how strategic it is to actually grow these organic communities. Like you mentioned, that whole hub and spokesperson strategy with the local global communities, that makes a lot of sense. And that's not something that a lot of people might realize about growing these communities. And speaking of community, one of the big news recently also is that some of the blue chip defi projects on Ethereum, like Aave and curve, are also deploying onto avalanche. So this might be a bit controversial, but I'm curious what you guys think happens in the next 510 years, right? Well, Avalanche ended up being almost like a vampire attack on Ethereum, where a lot of these Ethereum based defi apps just completely move over to avalanche, and most of the usage happens there. Or do you see a world where you can have aave on both Ethereum and avalanche? And if so, why would that happen?
00:29:16.334 - 00:29:58.742, Speaker C: Yeah, with Aave and curve coming over, I think that's kind of the start of a lot of these solidified projects saying, hey, we also believe in that multi chain world, which is how we kicked off this conversation. It doesn't necessarily mean anything definitively again, but I think it's a good kind of admission that's saying, hey, we can't just be maximalist for any chain. It just doesn't work like that. The world doesn't work like that either, at least in my view. And with kind of the five to ten year roadmap, I don't know, I don't want anything held against me here, but I think interoperability will become much more seamless. The bridge is incredible. Huge prop to Nick's team for that.
00:29:58.742 - 00:30:19.910, Speaker C: The good bridging. You see the memes everywhere. It's really taking crypto, Twitter by storm. But I think interoperability will be much more seamless. And so I don't think the users will really have to choose. It's kind of like how the comparison I give is if you pick email protocols, you have pop three and IMap are kind of the biggest ones. I think there might be other ones, I guess PGP.
00:30:19.910 - 00:31:07.994, Speaker C: I don't know how the email works there, but there's a PGP function too. But anyways, with pop three and IMAP, I remember first discovering that, and again, I don't have a technical background. I was like, what do these protocols do? And why do I have this advanced setting? And it's just a way you want to receive mail. One allows the mail server to communicate both ways and then the other one just is a read function, I believe to me that was such a cool thing to discover and then bring back into this crypto conversation because you as a email user, never are prompted to set the pop through your ImAp. It's kind of just a decision made for you. Now, if you didn't like the user experience and you're like, hey, maybe I should look under the advanced settings. And if you're that technical and you can change those parameters, then you could kind of look into it like I did.
00:31:07.994 - 00:31:51.164, Speaker C: And then I made sure that all of my outlook or email clients were pointed to the one that could go both ways. I can't remember which one it was, but point is, I think that's where we're going to get to. It's not going to be like it is right now, where it seems like crypto really wanted to bring all of the protocol work up to the forefront, which just confuses everybody, I think. Because now you have to think of like hundreds or thousands of brands and then maneuver yourself on how those brands, which not all of them are at the same layer. There might be an application layer, there might be an l two layer, there also might be an l one layer and a bunch of other stuff in between. And so you're basically giving the customer all of the power to have to have to choose which. It shouldn't be that way.
00:31:51.164 - 00:32:07.492, Speaker C: So actually, I think this is a really good segue to kind of hand off to Nick on some of the dashboard, the OS stuff that you guys are working on Nick on your side from, I guess like a minimized cognitive load perspective.
00:32:07.668 - 00:32:45.250, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, as Jay said too, we really want to abstract all this protocol level detail way. It doesn't make sense to hammer the user with all these confusing decisions. We definitely are a multi chain universe supporters. We don't think everything's going to be on avalanche. We don't want everything to be on avalanche. We want for the user to have the best experience within crypto and then we hope to support that as much as possible. That being said, that goes into you started off the conversation like, what's the difference between the CEX and the P chains? That's something we're starting to abstract away as well.
00:32:45.250 - 00:33:28.664, Speaker D: The user doesn't have to think about what is using. It's just will be routed to the best use case for whatever that is. And then as you go further up the stack, we just recently started with an ecosystem page. And that ecosystem page, when you get across the bridge and you land somewhere, it's just what can I do on avalanche? So we can take that concept and then just keep building forward on it. Like, not only what can I do, but if you want to connect your wallet, it can give you, and you're really into NFT, collectibles or gaming, well, then it can start to give you promotions or things that are like what you've already experienced in your wallet to some extent. Now, there's a fine balance there that we're constantly dealing with on tracking the user. And so right now, avalanche tracks nothing.
00:33:28.664 - 00:33:56.590, Speaker D: There's no cookies. Everything is completely without analytics. And I think that's an ethos we want to continue with. So we're having to solve these tougher problems around. How do we gather this information without being intrusive anyway? But that'll trickle its way up into the wallet experience. So right now we have the web wallet, there'll be a mobile wallet, there'll be an integrated browser experience coming soon. And then, you know, the explorer is always a key piece of it as well.
00:33:56.590 - 00:34:16.112, Speaker D: So as we go through, we're really just trying to create this nice, immersive, cohesive experience that feels like it's all part of one thing that has security built in so that the user is just doing what the user wants to do, not having to think about the technology on. That's. That's kind of the longer term goal.
00:34:16.288 - 00:34:57.031, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think I mentioned this on Twitter a few weeks ago when I was testing around all the layer one bridges that started popping up and my experience. My favorite experience by far was the avalanche experience because of a few smart design choices. So number one is after you bridge your assets from one chain to Avalanche, as Nick, you mentioned, you're led to that front page where you're given all these options about what you can do immediately. And the other small decision that I'm surprised no one else has done is airdropping me Avax tokens so I don't have to go on binance and buy this token, send to an address and then figure out how to pay gas. And you guys basically subsidize the gas right away. So it's kind of small decisions like that, that abstract away the complexity that makes a lot of sense.
00:34:57.031 - 00:35:19.744, Speaker B: And I really like that analogy that you brought up Jay as well, because as you mentioned, emails are powered by SMTP. There's pop, there's iMap. But no sane user really cares about these protocols unless you're a developer. And that should probably be the case for DeFi as well. When I use DeFi, it should just be DeFi. It shouldn't be avalanche Defi or Solana Defi or Ethereum deFi. The settlement should just happen in the background.
00:35:19.744 - 00:35:41.064, Speaker B: And I do think that will happen. And kind of zooming in a little bit now. Now that we've kind of looked at the ten year view or 510 year view recently, there was also this rush incentive program that was really exciting. So can you guys talk a little bit about what this rush program is? And how do you make sure that these short term incentives translate to sustainable growth?
00:35:41.564 - 00:36:32.682, Speaker C: Yeah, so there's like you recap, but just kind of reiterating here, 10 million tokens are part of the original incentive program. It was announced mid August, I want to say, or end of August. And as from the moment of announcement all the way up to today, while we're recording and through today, to be honest, the team, especially the BD and product teams and engineering teams, have been very focused on making sure that we can get these applications deployed if they're not native or already deployed. And then the second component is to really make sure that the incentives are properly placed in the pools that we think will maximize TVL and user growth on avalanche. And so at this moment in time, it's roughly around, I think it's like 700 million or something. Us. That's where we're at.
00:36:32.682 - 00:37:16.302, Speaker C: And so it's again, hard to goalpost with the pricing just because the token fluctuates. But to your point of how do you ensure that you have stickiness beyond the incentive program. That's actually something I heard a lot during Masari Mainnet with personal conversations. Also just something that I see on Twitter all the time. And to maybe do what I do best with older comparisons here, I tend to compare it with with the Lyft and Uber and rideshare strategies that happened 510 years ago when they were deploying, all of them had a ton of venture capital money and they were giving away money like it was nothing. I remember you could take an Uber ride and if you referred one friend, you get $30. Same thing with Lyft, same thing with get.
00:37:16.302 - 00:38:02.892, Speaker C: Same thing with all these other ride sharing companies. Of course, those incentives naturally simmered down. They're not totally gone, but they simmered down. I think you can't really get as much money from them anymore, but those apps are still used and actually there's more demand today than there is the supply of drivers. So it goes to show that also very, very active in its usage. What you have is basically product stickiness, or just the experience stickiness. So once the incentives are done in some future, at least in the avalanche context, our team holistically firmly believes that the value propositions that we've highlighted earlier with the speed feed security and scale and transaction fees, those things are what make the experience delightful.
00:38:02.892 - 00:39:21.254, Speaker C: Also, the other things that we've talked about with Nick's efforts on the product Os, some of the other abstractions that kind of exist across the ecosystem, honestly, and then I guess evangelizing that and making sure that anyone that's deploying also can buy into that vision of, hey, let's make it really easy for everybody to use all of that and more, honestly, hopefully will make the ecosystem sticky. So when the incentives are no longer there, you just simply want to stay. And I think the early, early indication of that is if you look at the bridge metrics I use uniwales the dashboard pretty often just to see what the bridge inflows is and outflows look like. And I think for the most part, it's been more or less on an average time horizon for the last month or so, two to one. And so you're basically having users come from Ethereum and say, hey, I actually want to stay and only want to go back out for at least half of the half of the check size, I guess is kind of a non technical way to describe that. And again, that behavior exists without any of these massive defi blue chips that we have scheduled come to deploy yet. So that's pre launch, effectively early stage launch.
00:39:21.414 - 00:39:49.704, Speaker D: Yeah, I'll just jump in there, too. I mean, I think it's so important that we, on the question of vampiring, and we don't want to be a vampire chain at all. And I don't think the technology and the vision supports that. We do want to build real value natively. And again, the fast finality and all the advantages of, you know, what exists today is there. I do think that these kinds of incentives, when you do it, especially with these blue chip projects, they give you time to build value. Right.
00:39:49.704 - 00:40:42.730, Speaker D: And so I think that's what you're seeing in kind of these primitives that are popping up around the bridges and the wallets. They also give the users a chance to experience, as Jay was saying, if you look at the metrics on users bridging over and the value they're bridging over versus bridging back, it's very compelling that the platform itself does have a natural competitive advantage. And then we're also doing a huge push to support the native builders, and that's really the ones that we're focused on. So there's grants programs, we partner with them. A lot of the rush projects that have been incentivized are projects that built natively initially, and we're just keeping to add them in and also to really work with new builders to make sure that they're considering avalanche as one of the options when they do start to build and release new projects, especially ones that are being very innovative.
00:40:42.882 - 00:41:35.458, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for the insight there. And I got to admit, initially, I was really skeptical of using massive incentives to mobilize active users until I started realizing that there's actually a lot of friction for users to try out new things. And they require quite a bit of incentive to kind of activate them and then progressively or marginally less effort to kind of retain them over time. And this kind of reminds me of a lot of the streaming services out there today, right? There's like Netflix, there's HBO, there's Disney plus. And a lot of these services, they offer hundreds of shows upfront just to get the people to sign up and then to retain them, they trickle maybe like one or two new shows every other month. So that cut it. And then when I realized that there's actually a lot of parallels from the web two world that has proven to be successful, then I realized the long term potential of incentive funds as well, and to kind of dive deeper into the technical side of things.
00:41:35.458 - 00:41:53.050, Speaker B: If I'm correct, I think roughly $50 million or so of the $700 million pool has been allocated. I think there was roughly maybe $20 million allocated to Avi as well. So for the rest of this massive fund, over what horizon and in what major areas do you think it will be deployed?
00:41:53.162 - 00:42:41.346, Speaker C: Yeah, the Dapps that are going to get incentives, we're actually currently as we're updating the cards, but it should be updated sometime this week and we'll have all of the Dapps that have announced some of it's probably equally split, actually, half of them are native and the other half are from other chains, mostly ethereum. And so I think for the Defi blue chips from the Ethereum space, they'll have a fair amount of the incentives. And most of these protocols are matching the incentives that the avalanche foundation is putting up. And then for like one unique case actually is yield yak. Yield yak is a auto compounder native to avalanche. They have taken a different approach and said, hey, we actually care about developers right now. That's our key focus.
00:42:41.346 - 00:43:26.860, Speaker C: It's actually not users so much. I'm not saying it's not users, but it's secondary to devs. And so they wanted to put up incentives for. To get more developers to help out with their protocol and whatever else they're building. And so I think one large sector is going to be defi applications. And then you might have maybe, I don't know, like 20, 30% of it might be kind of just offshoots of different, different priorities that each protocol has. And if you go to the Avalanche blog or even ecosystem Avox network, which is that ecosystem page that we're talking about, you'll see the current deployments or the ones that will be deployed, but you'll also have a form that you can submit.
00:43:26.860 - 00:43:54.172, Speaker C: So if you're a project that's listening into this podcast that's interested in participating in avalanche rush, feel free to submit those forms. And maybe there's an idea there that we haven't spoken about even that might be compelling for us to jointly collaborate on. And Luigi Demeo, he's on our team. He's kind of one of the large stakeholders in this program. He'll be kind of the point person to figure out how best that works, if it is able to work.
00:43:54.308 - 00:44:43.710, Speaker B: Yeah. And on this topic of grant making, I think one thing that Vitalik Buderin mentioned recently in one of his interviews is this idea of retroactive grants, where you give out grants to teams who've already built a product, or I guess that's already de facto way that most teams in crypto, I guess, make money or sustain themselves over time is they build a product, they launch a token afterwards, token captures some of the value. So we see this in the case of Uniswap where they have a product for a few years and then a token and then DYDX product for a few years and then the token. So from your perspective, do you think that putting out grants upfront for developers to build products makes more sense? Or should the grants maybe go to the users first? Or should it be some sort of a retroactive grant, like what is the right strategy to give out these grants to incentivize maximum development?
00:44:43.902 - 00:45:40.894, Speaker C: Yeah, I don't know if, at least from my end, I don't know if there's necessarily right way, but I think the most important part is giving whoever, whether that's the developers, projects, project team that may not have a huge developer presence or individuals to give them as many resources as they need as quickly as possible. We all know that crypto is hyper, hyper competitive. One of the things that I think I keep hearing from people in these conferences is someone was like you either in crypto, you either pick knowing how to stay on top of the next biggest thing or sleep. That seems to be the trade off. And so I think we're all very familiar with that trade off and we probably take being ahead of the crypto curve more often than not. So with that being said, the time is limited and everyone else is playing that game. So I personally don't really have a preference on the order.
00:45:40.894 - 00:45:56.070, Speaker C: I think the incentives have to be aligned. So I know there are. That's also kind of a key important thing, making sure that both parties have their best interests, at least on the table. Otherwise, then it's going to be a lopsided deal and I don't think it's going to work too well long term.
00:45:56.222 - 00:46:18.144, Speaker B: Absolutely. And Nick, just now you mentioned this idea about subnets as well. And I do recall that there was an idea to build permission chains on top of avalanche as well, with maybe banks or institutions using this concept of subnets which allow people to define a preset number of validators for this specific separate chain. So is that still in the pipeline and what is the status on that currently?
00:46:18.484 - 00:46:58.986, Speaker D: Sure. Yeah. So definitely in the pipeline. Permission chains, permissionless chains, ones where you can establish the number of validators. We're actually starting to play with this, this concept of Kyv, which is know your validator for very specific use cases where you need to know who's validating behind it, you know, we see value and some demand for that. Then you, you get into, you know, I think the kind of the more institutional, which is somewhat of where my background comes from, those use cases are very clear where you need KYC AML for certain types of applications. So you want, you know, the main network to operate as it is.
00:46:58.986 - 00:48:02.974, Speaker D: But if you did need a very specific subnet, then you start to get into understanding who's using or you know, what the capabilities of that wallet are and what the, what the kind of provenance of that wallet has been. So that then you can guarantee it can take certain actions. And this starts to get into the concepts of decentralized ids and, you know, the form of, of group ids. So like, you know, what, what country are you a citizen of? And that can often determine, you know, what exchanges you can operate with or what, you know, what actions you can actually take, what's security, what's not security. So as you get into subnetting, it really allows you to create your custom blockchain that where you can start to establish some of these pre rules. And then these pre rules can then allow you to operate in an area that, that has the functionality you need as a business. Now it's very abstract and we want it to be that way because we don't want to build just permission subnets and we want to support, we will support permissionless subnets for sure, but it just gives you an idea of some of the use cases.
00:48:02.974 - 00:48:10.550, Speaker D: So yeah, it's definitely a core focus of ours going into next year and there's already teams developing on it right now.
00:48:10.662 - 00:48:46.758, Speaker B: Got it. And interesting story is I actually did have a conversation with John, director of the Avalabs, I think almost a year ago now. And I think a lot of our conversation revolved around bridging decentralized finance with centralized finance. And I think that was a time when DeFi was kind of just taking off. And it seems like from the outside at least, there has been a little bit of a strategic pivot where you guys are doubling down on the defi native side first and then prioritizing that c five defi integration for maybe later on. Would you say that is accurate and what can influence that decision? Sure.
00:48:46.806 - 00:49:35.544, Speaker D: I mean, so I would say that's accurate. You know, we see the power of the D five movement and it's mostly as a retail movement right now. And we think that, you know, and that has its own value and we certainly want to support that and don't want to take anything away from matter a fact if anything, you can say, we certainly did prioritize it because that's where the most momentum and that's where people are building and that's where kind of the most innovation is happening right now. And then we do see, you know, it's always a slower progression for any kind of CFI. So it's much, it's much more of a long play. I think we have the vision on what it's going to take and also have the technical capabilities to build towards it. But we want to support what the users and what the user base is asking for now.
00:49:35.544 - 00:50:12.458, Speaker D: And then we'll be working on a longer term strategy in the background to really prove out, you have to prove out a lot of things there, too. There's so many landmines when you start to get into the regulatory space and it changes based on what country or regions you're trying to work within. So it is a much broader stroked effort. And I think that we were very cognizant that we didn't want to complete. We didn't want it to detract from the user base we had and the momentum and the innovations that we were already pushing through. So we basically separated them out and they're two very different focal points.
00:50:12.626 - 00:50:27.814, Speaker B: Yeah. And that shift in strategy obviously worked out immensely given the immense growth that avalanche has seen. So as a close to this discussion, I'd love to kind of get both of your thoughts on what are people most underestimating when it comes to avalanche.
00:50:28.594 - 00:51:23.634, Speaker C: I'll start. Yeah, go for it. Well, this, I don't know if this is an answer, but Nick and I know at least on this call, but I think the most underestimated things are the ones that aren't out in public yet. And I, I know, I know that's kind of a half answer, but, and this is kind of tying into your, your recent question about the shift. And I think maybe it's not so much a shift, maybe it's a shift externally, but actually hasn't shift shifted so much internally in terms of terms of our focus of the institutions and kind of the c five defi mix and the rest of the things that we've been talking about. It's more so the time to market and how long that takes for each stakeholder or each target customer, I guess. So if you pick defi, kind of referencing that saying I was saying before about sleep versus not defi is just down to deploy within the hour.
00:51:23.634 - 00:52:01.776, Speaker C: They're like, hey, when can we do this? Tomorrow? Yeah, sure. Let's do it tomorrow. I think that the fact that there aren't the traditional structures of, I guess, traditional finance and traditional institutions is somewhat advantageous. There's also definitely downsides to a two, again with the sleep comment, but that's where it moves very quickly. On the flip side, with the enterprises and such, they need a lot more lead generation activities from like maybe product communications and marketing and NBD. I think everyone actually has a play in that. It's like we're comfortable with the word blockchain, but are we comfortable with going on a permissionless network? Probably not.
00:52:01.776 - 00:52:38.750, Speaker C: We might be interested in something a little bit less intense from their perspective. So something like a permission network. Now, does that work in the context of this blockchain or this blockchain? And so you kind of have all these questions that get asked and we're consistently pushing hard on the enterprise side, and that's something that we've seen over and over and over. And also once the deal is done, then it's not actually over. It's not like, again, we can deploy tomorrow or we can talk about tomorrow. There's so many different processes. Also, because cryptocurrencies are involved and blockchain is a very nascent space, there's also concern from usually the legal team and also probably the executive team as well.
00:52:38.750 - 00:53:11.738, Speaker C: So you're going to need to do some stakeholder buy in activities on that end, too. So this kind of like huge effort where it does take a lot of time. And so that's kind of tying it into the kind of soon trademarked or TM statement of I really do think then the remainder of the year is going to be incredible for avalanche. There's also going to be plenty more to come, and it might not necessarily be in what you've seen before, which is kind of like the big Defi focus that we've done externally, but more so on the stuff that we haven't been talking about as actively.
00:53:11.906 - 00:53:16.400, Speaker B: What are your thoughts there, Nick? What's your take on what's being underestimated the most?
00:53:16.562 - 00:54:13.624, Speaker D: Yeah, I definitely agree with what Jay said. You know, I think to abstract it out a little bit, it is a very unique team, and it has been a unique team since I started. I think I was somewhere in like the early thirties as far as team members that were on it, and that has grown tremendously. But they are just the ability to really hire and retain just very talented people who work very well together and in the delivery of clear ideas and the execution of those ideas to the marketplace has been something that has just really impressed me. So, I mean, for me, the team from obviously marketing, our engineering team is unbelievable, the BD team. So community managers, it's really just been, as we've scaled, I've kind of expected this slowdown or, but that's not been the case at all. It's just really hit a stride.
00:54:13.624 - 00:54:49.760, Speaker D: And so I think that's all going to propel all of these offerings that you're seeing. And then the second thing is just you have an executive team that's really not afraid to innovate. So you can take ideas that aren't out in the marketplace and you can pitch them in. And there's a lot of cases where they're like, hey, that's a really interesting concept. Let's carve out a few people to try to prove that out in a concept and see if we have something there that can really push the whole industry forward. And so I think the willingness to do that kind of R and D also separates out avalanche as a whole.
00:54:49.872 - 00:55:05.550, Speaker B: Yeah, I really appreciate how you guys kept the answers somewhat nondescript as well to keep the mystery alive. So people have to pay very close attention to what's going on on Twitter for sure. And on that note, if people do want to find out what's next on the pipeline, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:55:05.672 - 00:55:42.930, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's a maybe the website avax.net work that's a really good resource. Twitter is always kind of the source of truth Telegram if you're up for the Wild west experience, not necessarily recommending it, but people do like the kind of constant flow of communications. And then I think some of the things we've been ramping up a lot are some of the team specific updates. So Patrick O'Grady has definitely started to take that on and really give engineering updates, for example. And Nick does thought leadership here and there as it relates to the product releases. So expect to see more of that.
00:55:42.930 - 00:55:47.834, Speaker C: I think that's what is really going to keep everybody engaged and asking the right questions.
00:55:47.994 - 00:56:14.970, Speaker D: I'll just chime in there, too. I'm just about to release a medium article that just talks about how we're changing our road mapping and so that people can kind of see into the future a little bit better. We're also putting out some tools that is going to allow the community to vote to some level of governance to try to help determine where we're focusing our efforts. So all that will be coming out in the next month.
00:56:15.122 - 00:56:29.210, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, on that note, I'll for sure put these on the show notes below. So if you guys are interested listeners in checking out some of these resources, just scroll down to the show notes and you'll see the links there. Well, once again, Jay, Nick, thank you so much for taking the time for this discussion, and it's been really fun. Great.
00:56:29.242 - 00:56:29.946, Speaker D: Thank you, Jason.
00:56:30.050 - 00:56:30.934, Speaker C: Thanks, Jason.
00:56:32.114 - 00:56:32.474, Speaker B: Thank you.
