00:00:00.440 - 00:00:21.566, Speaker A: This episode of Empire is brought to you by Quicknode. Quicknode is an end to end blockchain development platform that makes building web3 apps super easy. No matter what you want to build, you can effortlessly develop any application by leveraging their elastic APIs. Go to quicknode.com comma use code Empire. You'll get a free month on their feature backed build plan. That's right, go to quicknode.com.
00:00:21.566 - 00:00:25.794, Speaker A: You'll get a free month to start playing around. You'll hear more about Quicknode later in the show.
00:00:28.704 - 00:00:43.764, Speaker B: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Empire. Super lucky to be joined by Santiago Andrew, who is the head of digital asset markets at Morgan Stanley, and Amy Oldenburg, the head of emerging markets at Morgan Stanley. So, Amy and Andrew, welcome to Empire.
00:00:45.024 - 00:00:46.084, Speaker C: Thanks so much.
00:00:46.384 - 00:01:12.934, Speaker B: Yeah, excited to have you guys. Let's not start with crypto. Let's start with banking. We are seeing kind of these bit of a banking crisis right now. Like, the Deutsche CDSs are blown out, life insurers are getting stressed. It seems like this banking crisis did not end when the Fed came in and backstopped some of the banks, like First Republic and Silicon Valley bank. Would just be curious to get both of your takes on, like, this unfolding banking crisis.
00:01:14.834 - 00:02:05.452, Speaker C: Yeah, I can start it off. I was in San Francisco the week SVB fell apart, so I feel like I had a bit of a front row seat. Got many phone calls from both fund managers that I know across the board and founders really trying to understand what's going on. It's a bit concerning for me, especially because we're so close to the crypto space. So, of course, many individuals saying this is the agency is really trying to impact crypto, but it feels broader than that from so many different founders, regardless of their crypto or just tech startups or even traditional funds. I mean, this is having a pretty major impact, and I'm just a little bit nervous of the trust aspect. I think spending 23 years of my career primarily in the emerging market space.
00:02:05.452 - 00:02:51.400, Speaker C: There's starting to be parallels that just, it's not what you would expect from, say, developed market per se. You're really trying to find the trust in the system, and there's some of that that, like, keeps coming out, but, but the markets is not feeling that trust, right. I mean, I think you're seeing that even with how the markets have been playing out on some of these banks, even this week, where we haven't been able to really find stability here, and that's a little bit, you know, concerning for me, I hope that there's more of it, uh, more stability here than. Than were seeing in the market right now. And Andrew, maybe you. I'm sure you have other thoughts on it, too.
00:02:51.592 - 00:03:43.976, Speaker D: Yeah, it's kind of ironic, right? Being in the crypto market with 24/7 action news spreading instantaneously on Twitter and telegram and, you know, exchanges or defi projects like liquidity just evaporating, like, overnight. It's pretty ironic. And you see some things that look not too dissimilar just happening in traditional banking world. And it seems to have happened at times over the weekends. On a Friday, again, there's other banks currently impressed. Like last Friday obviously was big story around Credit Suisse's stability and the available liquidity. So it feels like some of the activity we saw happening throughout crypto world in the past couple of years is, in a way, some of the same behaviors at least are playing out in the traditional finance.
00:03:44.160 - 00:04:08.694, Speaker B: Yeah. What is your work? So we're recording this at almost 11:00 a.m. On Friday, March 24. I just want to almost timestamp it because this stuff moves so quickly. And right now, Deutsche bank shares, I think Deutsche bank is talking the town today. Amy, you mentioned this word concerned. What is your working expectation of how almost, like, far this banking crisis will go?
00:04:13.114 - 00:05:18.722, Speaker C: I think the one thing that we do have to keep in mind, and I think it's really hard for people in the industry, is you can really, to even Andrew's point, because of social media, you can really get sucked into this vortex. And I do think we have to keep resetting ourself to, like, where is it a proper baseline? And what is our baseline that we're working with? Because I will say even Friday during SVB and signature and Silvergate, when we're living in that, you were just in the center of this vortex, and it was hard to see where kind of the bigger mainstream state was. And I do feel that there's a bit of trying to continue to remove ourselves from the echo chamber. I think that's getting harder and harder. Someone had mentioned to me when Enron happened, it was months of chatter before things really broke. Global financial crisis. You had weeks of rumors heading before things started to evolve.
00:05:18.722 - 00:06:21.854, Speaker C: And even in this situation, it was 24 to 48 hours, and it really gets exacerbated. So I think we had called, our team had called for increased volatility in markets generally. That was even before this happened. We had been expecting higher volatility than we had seen in the past decade to really play out. And now we just have to make sure that we're keeping a baseline in terms of what's creating that. And I think that's one of the hardest parts that we're seeing because every day we keep jumping around, it can be very difficult to navigate. So, you know, I don't think we're not in any sort of extreme situation, but I think we do as investors across the board have to try to keep resetting ourselves and find like a managed, calm baseline to be operating off of so we can make rational decisions and not fall into that irrational behavior, some of which I think we're seeing in the market on certain days.
00:06:22.544 - 00:07:11.114, Speaker E: How much of this is transparency issue? I mean, there was some fund manager, there were some, I guess, short sellers that had identified the issue of Silicon Valley bank even as November of last year. But its interesting that it just sort of has percolated and its really come under stress over the last couple of weeks, kind of like a Wall street bet kind of phenomenon. Where else do you see kind of fragility in the system broadly? Obviously, the focus is now Europe and then its commercial real estate and then its something else. And im just kind of curious when you talk about its not as extreme, perhaps youre referencing 2008. There are analogies and theres people that are referencing that. Im sort of curious to get both of your perspective on that point because youve been around for such a long time. Im just curious how we should think about the current situation versus 2008.
00:07:14.054 - 00:07:15.954, Speaker C: Andrew, you want to start on that one?
00:07:16.734 - 00:07:50.730, Speaker D: Yeah. So it was pretty early in my career in the 2008 crisis. But I mean, I would say the whole infrastructure in terms of like the support for the banking system and the instruments which have been made available like since then have just evolved massively. The whole Basel frameworks, etcetera. You saw with the, with the merger, or let's say takeover of UBS being announced. UBS taking over Credit Suisse announced last weekend. They wrote down $17 billion of 81 debts, which is like conditional convertible bond structure.
00:07:50.730 - 00:08:58.072, Speaker D: Like those instruments didn't exist in 2008. And those instruments were specifically designed over the years following 2008 for situations that we've been seeing recently when you need additional liquidity or additional capital injected into the corporate structure. So I think there's been obviously a lot of learning since that crisis. The whole concept of too big to fail is obviously since, since Lehman and some of the other significant impacts on the market. So we've seen, I think this time around in the last 15 years, what's changed is there's maybe a larger connection between regulations and states to the financial infrastructure and to the financial system. And there's probably a far more caution than letting a specific player that's globally systematic fail because we've seen what level of impact it had when Lehman went down. I remember spending weeks literally unwinding trades that we had at the time versus Lehman and finding new homes because we were facing clients on Lehman positions.
00:08:58.072 - 00:09:12.264, Speaker D: It was complete chaos across the whole trading floor at that time. And I think we've learned a lot since that. So there's multiple different methods and techniques that the regulators have found to divert that sort of crisis from happening again.
00:09:12.764 - 00:10:04.194, Speaker C: Yeah. And even if I think back to, so I actually started my career in San Francisco in 99 and 2000, and I thought I was going to stay in the tech world for the rest of my career. I actually didn't expect to go into finance even though I studied finance in school and living through the summer, sorry, living through the spring of 2000 and coming out of the y two k kind of tech bubble then it became quite grim. After that point, San Francisco was pretty dark. Everybody had been living on their equity, which had no value to it. I think a little bit different than even what we're seeing in this environment because at least some of the founders, and even in the digital asset space you have cash on hand. Everyone was broke back then, with exception of a very few number of people.
00:10:04.194 - 00:11:05.934, Speaker C: But even in the depths of that crisis, it really grounds through especially I had joined Morgan Stanley in the spring of 2001. And as soon as I'm thinking I have some stability in my life, 911 happened that fall. So we really kind of struggled for a couple of years. But even in that while the US was feeling pretty bad, the emerging markets started a very strong run in 2003, and that lasted through 2007. And I think that's one thing to keep in mind too, is to constantly be opportunistic in terms of where we can find areas to invest in or where there will be opportunity. Those that don't have legacy infrastructure in terms of financial services and might be able to move on this innovation more actively than even what we're seeing in the US. So the US has had a very strong run.
00:11:05.934 - 00:11:44.148, Speaker C: The last decade has been the best decade we've seen for the US. And from our research, we have never seen the leader of one decade continue to be the leader of the next. And I think one thing we have to be accepting of is we may live in the US, things around us may be changing. It might not feel bad, it might not feel where the opportunity is, but there's somewhere else in the world where there will be opportunity. And we have to be able to navigate and take advantage of that. So I do still try to stay quite optimistic and look for that opportunity even as we're seeing these major regime shifts take place.
00:11:44.316 - 00:12:32.532, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a good pivot almost into crypto, but I want to ask one or two more questions on banks and then we can do the pivot into crypto. There's just one thing that Andrew, like, one little line that you said, andrew is like, too big to fail. Kind of became this almost norm in 2008. And I just listened to a couple of doom and gloom episodes of Balaji talking about his million dollar hyperinflation bitcoin bet. And it wasn't actually the bitcoin bet that I think stood out. It was this concept of at some point in the future, Balaji thinks 90 days. I think that's a kind of wonky thought, but I agree with him that things usually happen faster and people's brains aren't built for exponential unfoldings like that.
00:12:32.532 - 00:13:13.662, Speaker B: But I think the interesting thing that he brought up is that at some point in the future, it could be 90 days, it could be nine years, it could be three years. The US is going to have to decide between supporting the banking system and keeping the banking system up and supporting the US dollar. And ten times out of ten, they're probably going to choose the US banking system that then creates this dark world where the global reserve currency is the US dollar, but the global reserve currency starts running away from us. Im curious how much you like is that tinfoil hat Baloshi is crazy. Thats one end of the spectrum. Other end of the spectrum is, look, hed make some really good points. I dont agree with the 90 days, but I really agree with him on some of these other aspects.
00:13:13.662 - 00:13:14.914, Speaker B: Where do you two fall?
00:13:16.934 - 00:13:18.554, Speaker D: Its tough to comment on that.
00:13:19.074 - 00:13:19.410, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:13:19.442 - 00:14:02.864, Speaker D: Tinfoil hat angul at this stage. I mean, I think 90 days agree with you there. It would have to be parabolic. And I don't quite understand why you, if you have that view, why wouldn't you just buy just a bunch of bitcoin rather than put a bet on that? It's going to be a million dollars in 90 days. Interesting. Nonetheless, I would say we are starting to see at least other trades being settled in non dollar currencies. More recently China, together with Mister Putin talking about settlement in yuan and other nations obviously looking for alternative assets to use instead of the dollar as reserve.
00:14:02.864 - 00:14:28.136, Speaker D: Even if you think about El Salvador's experiment with bitcoin, there are signs that other nations are starting to move away from the dollar. So I don't think it's completely unreasonable to think that there might be a scenario where the dollar is no longer the global reserve currency. It's just tricky to predict in that kind of doomsday scenario unfolding, especially at that pace you suggested. I don't know if Amy's got more views on that, given your broader.
00:14:28.280 - 00:14:57.128, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it definitely. We're seeing some shifts there. I do think these dynamics typically take longer to play out than 90 days. You can see an evolution in this. I mean, there's a lot of things that have to change. There's a lot of things like even countries that have baskets of currencies or pegs to us dollars. So it's not just, say, a us phenomenon.
00:14:57.128 - 00:15:34.174, Speaker C: There's other impacts, broader impacts across the board. And I think that takes a little bit of time to play out. Even if you went down that path. I think that the challenge that we're facing is like people's psyche right now. Like things to your point have, have changed so quickly, right? I mean, even just think about COVID in the US. No, the population never dealt with something like COVID where basically overnight you're shut down, you're not going to work, everyone's fighting over toilet paper, everyone's trying to get food. I mean, that was quite chaotic and it's coming from like the emerging market side.
00:15:34.174 - 00:16:12.944, Speaker C: It was easy to stay calm and kind of just watch the chaos around you ensue. It was almost concerning to see that level of chaos. But I do think, I'm hoping we continue to create some, find some trust in the system because I think there's that erosion of trust that continues to happen. And I really hope that doesn't start to slide further than we are now. You know, I think that's also where we can even weave in regulation. We need regulation to work for us. We need it to help us.
00:16:12.944 - 00:16:36.944, Speaker C: You can't be putting s one s out where you're getting approved by certain agencies, but then further down the road having enforcement actions, that's not going to put a lot of trust in people's minds. And I do think we're working really hard here to try to build trust again because that's going to be a big theme going forward here.
00:16:38.164 - 00:17:06.952, Speaker E: Amy, I think your experience in emerging markets is interesting. If you think about what happened, Silicon Valley bank and perhaps other banks that are holding these effectively bought a lot of treasuries that are at zero. And then there's been a huge. Over the last year, there's been a big shift in interest rates, and that has big implications when you have this duration mismatch. The same could be true for some central banks that are holding a lot of treasuries and they have obligations. The same with their bank has. They have pensions, they have other stuff.
00:17:06.952 - 00:17:34.764, Speaker E: So it's interesting, like, bitcoin's up 25% over the last, I guess, since this banking crisis kind of started. And so I'm curious to get your thoughts, perhaps both of your thoughts, and what do you read into that? Does this make bitcoin perhaps more compelling for a central bank? Um, you know, to to then hold, um, and. And kind of dump treasuries? Like, I'm just sort of curious what your thoughts are on that.
00:17:35.544 - 00:18:11.094, Speaker C: They were already researching it, right. There was a number of central banks that were out there researching it. Uh, there's many central banks out there that are also very actively investigating, uh, central bank digital currencies. Like, they're doing their work. And, and I, and I do give credit to. To select emerging markets that even in this current interest rate environment, they started really putting more orthodox policy in place ahead of even the US. So again, I might be biased because clearly I live in, even though I live in the US, my entire world is around the emerging markets business.
00:18:11.094 - 00:18:32.744, Speaker C: But they've been taking some active approaches to try to manage things. So I do think. I do think many of them are looking at this very carefully, and some also see it as an opportunity for them. So I think it's something we just have to watch. I don't think there's any really clear themes that have emerged yet, but you see the action out there, and it's something to pay attention to.
00:18:34.444 - 00:19:49.284, Speaker D: Raoul? Yeah, and if I would just add to that, I think certainly, obviously, bitcoin was born out of the previous financial crisis. And the whole reason of creation thing, if you look at the message in the Genesis block, was regarding bailouts of banks. Chancellor on the brink of second bailout for banks, and 15 years later, we were in that what seems like very similar, maybe not exactly the same, but certainly has echoes of that time. It's frankly encouraging to see bitcoin performing in this environment, and it's clearly a decoupling from the previous regime. I think, if anything, is a trader, you always think about, is there a regime change? And obviously, bitcoin's had multiple narratives over the years it's been flagged as an inflation hedge which potentially didn't play out. We've had the likes of Paul Tudor Jones jump on the monetary supply to calling it the fastest horse in a kind of expansionary monetary environment, which I think maintains credibility to a large extent. But of course, like last year and throughout the end of, frankly the end of 21, it was highly correlated with tech growth, equity and just almost intraday, mirroring the Nasdaq in terms of the price performance.
00:19:49.284 - 00:20:34.710, Speaker D: Now Parmi thinks like is that the fault of tradfi or institutional players, if you will, like larger macro funds, the quantitative funds coming into the market and flagging it as one of these assets and putting it into their model, especially given how much it was correlated intraday. But these narratives have changed over time. And as mentioned, the regime change is what's very interesting. And I feel like the current market environment with signs of 2008 bitcoin outperforming, it's doing what it frankly should be doing in this environment. And it's one of the most important rallies I think we've seen since 2021. Yeah, that's not a house view, by the way. Our house view is very different and this is personal view.
00:20:34.710 - 00:21:32.734, Speaker D: Our house view is certainly much around correlation to the n two money supply. So we do have in house research which called it pretty early, I would say in terms of expansionary monetary policy being supportive for bitcoin. I feel like what we've seen recently is also fiscal or let's say monetary instability or concern around the monetary supply also impacting bitcoin pretty positively. And frankly it's interesting because personally being in crypto for some time, talking to colleagues and other traders about it back in the early, like ten years ago, it's rather more like everything was crypto native, like crypto specific, idiosyncratic about protocols, new launches, tokens. Now it feels like you've got to be into macro and thinking about money supply and thinking about indices as a crypto guy. So its interesting to see the two worlds merge and impact each other.
00:21:33.474 - 00:22:09.524, Speaker B: Preston Andrew, can you take us inside Morgan Stanleys current views on crypto and bitcoin and ETH, but also just, I mean youve been pushing for bitcoin even since when you were a derivatives trader in 2013, all the way up to joining Morgan Stanley in 2018, really pushing for it. And I think there have been these like ebbs and flows from our conversations over the last five years of Morgan Stanley being very pro crypto, then pulling back, being pro, pulling back so can you just give us the evolution of Morgan Stanleys crypto strategy and ending with where were at today?
00:22:10.864 - 00:22:45.416, Speaker D: Okay, sure. I mean, I can talk about everything in terms of what weve publicly been involved with. I would say were obviously a client focused firm. We want to be present to service client needs and initially thinking through the launch of the futures in 2018. So CME and CBoe at the time thinking which clients are interested in trading these. And there certainly was a list of clients which were interested in trading those products. But typically what we do for any other future in the market is to put a wrap around it and have total return swap.
00:22:45.416 - 00:23:41.778, Speaker D: And that gives us some flexibility to offer potentially different, like contract sizes, for example, or other liquidity around the asset class. And those types of swaps are also on top of like individual equities, but also on top of like commodities, futures, agriculture, other types of topics, other types of underlyings. And I personally had been spend time as a commodities derivatives trader in the past with positions on corn and wheat and coffee. And those things are way more volatile than bitcoin. And frankly, physical settlement is far more difficult than bitcoin. But bitcoin always comes with this because its a bit of a new asset. Its certainly a new asset class, even though its been around for obviously now, 1514 years, still theres this level of concern around it due to some of the initial press in the, in the first place, and of course the regulatory environment.
00:23:41.778 - 00:24:58.652, Speaker D: So I think at the time, with the total return swaps, thinking about non deliverable forwards, there's some element of FCA in the UK looking to ban the sale of derivatives to retail investors, for example. Now, as a highly regulated institution, the last thing we want to do is find a way to circumvent, or let's say facilitate a market which the major regulator is looking to put into some level of control. So those types of products were on hold at the time. I mean, in the meantime, given the conversation has evolved recently in terms of tokenization, I think we always had the view that this is something to monitor and look at, as I mentioned, like client coverage. Certainly a lot of clients have been interested over the last few years around tokenization or like exchange initiatives. So ive spent time looking at those types of initiatives in a big crypto bear market 2019, for example. And then when Crypto 2020, when you start to see the likes of Paul Tudor Jones piece macro, and I mentioned that earlier, but some more macro focus, institutional focus, these topics then make clients interested.
00:24:58.652 - 00:26:08.314, Speaker D: And these pieces are quite influential. And if clients are calling and looking to get more knowledge about this space, then we can start to think about, okay, well, how can we potentially serve those clients? So we've spun up full time research department. Sheena Shah has published a number of pieces now around bitcoin and crypto. Like Amy and I have both spent multiple hours speaking to some of our larger clients, just in terms of education, but also thinking through how can we work together? We've spent time thinking through alternative offerings, but in addition to the way this market is extremely cyclical, I would say significant larger client interest, which is what we would need to move the needle in terms of a new business opportunity, is also massively cyclical. And other initiatives which we have been working on, which we haven't necessarily been publicly announced with, have been put on hold. We did spend, we were the first platform in wealth management to offer bitcoin funds. So we offer two funds on the wealth management platform, long only kind of structures just to get the clients to get exposure to bitcoin.
00:26:08.314 - 00:26:12.034, Speaker D: Anything else to add there, Amy?
00:26:12.774 - 00:27:15.114, Speaker C: Yeah, only thing to add is there's continue, there's continued activity. You know, I think even at permissionless last year, when I was on a panel there, I mean, at that point, we were dealing with the terra Luna collapse, and I had made a comment saying, like, it's not going to stop anything in terms of traditional players or institutional interests. It slows, but it evolves. And as we've seen, cycles just get shorter and faster. I feel like we get a month or two to catch our breath and then we're off to the next opportunity. I mean, by October of last year, even though we're dealing with FTX on one side, to Andrew's point, asset tokenization has really taken off with pretty significant level of activity. Many of our different competitors across the space, launching or announcing different products, the activities continued.
00:27:15.114 - 00:27:56.276, Speaker C: And it's one of the reasons that even Andrew, Andrew has been sitting in sales and trading since he joined Morgan Stanley. And official, as of just recently, has come over to the investment management side to really help us look at the opportunities. Because to Andrew's point on helping clients, it's very complicated. Even for all of us that have been in the space, we know how difficult it is to navigate all the different areas, the complexities, how quickly it changes. And you really do need experts that are helping you navigate this space. I think it's very helpful and the clients see that. So we'll continue to take advantage of some of those opportunities.
00:27:56.276 - 00:29:01.414, Speaker C: Education, a big one right upfront. And it's not only education for clients, as Andrew highlighted, but we need to upskill a lot of workers also on our side, lawyers, fund administrators, product development operations, different investors. And that's especially as you see. I mean, I see it across the board, even within our different portfolios, we have numerous companies that, although it's small, are being impacted by everything from chip manufacturers and how that trend is impacting bitcoin mining or other trends that you're seeing play out. Similar to some of our consumer brand companies, we've seen Nike, Adidas, luxury brands all roll out NFT initiatives. We need to really get people up to speed so they're generally aware of what this is, what the impact is to business models and so forth. So, you know, I would say there's a lot, a lot that continues to go on in the background.
00:29:03.314 - 00:29:34.746, Speaker A: All right, quick break from the show. There is this kind of overused cliche saying in crypto, but it's true. Bear markets are building and everyone tells you that and everyone knows it. What people don't know is that if you're building apps in crypto and building apps in web3 without using quick node, you are building on hard mode. So quick note is this amazing blockchain development platform. It reduces costs, streamlines the time to market for your app, and it offers consistent performance at scale. For folks that have built apps, you will know that there are a couple key points here.
00:29:34.746 - 00:30:22.794, Speaker A: One Quicknode offers unlimited endpoints across 18 different chains and 35 different networks. They have response times that are two and a half times faster than any of their competitors, 99.99% uptime and a dedicated 24/7 customer support team. If you've been listening to Empire for a while, you might know that I am no gigabrain developer, but I do know a lot of devs and a lot of great product teams at other places. So when I see Coinbase and Twitter and Adobe and OpenSea and doing analytics, all leveraging and trusting quick node to power their business, that's when we get excited and that's when we want to partner with them. They're the best solution for any leading crypto and web3 company that is seeking an end to end blockchain development platform right out of the box. So my message to you, get off hard mode.
00:30:22.794 - 00:30:41.436, Speaker A: Let quick node handle the blockchain infrastructure. Let quicknode handle the security. Let quicknode handle the performance. While you focus on building beautiful products for your users, visit quicknode.com. Super easy. You can use code Empire. You'll get a free month on their build plan, so don't forget to use code Empire.
00:30:41.436 - 00:30:47.864, Speaker A: Santi and I got to get credit for this one so they know that we sent you and you will get a first month free. Hope you guys enjoy it.
00:30:49.844 - 00:31:08.766, Speaker E: So I want to transition a bit into kind of the regulatory clampdown. There's always been regulatory worries that we've had over the last. Since the existence of crypto. This time feels much more coordinated and really all out attack. In the US. We've had signature, basically. It's really hard now.
00:31:08.766 - 00:31:39.064, Speaker E: There's a major choke point at the on ramps. You no longer have the SCN network of Silvergate, Silvergate's no longer in existence. And signature. This crypto business kind of was shut down pretty quickly. Other banks are kind of refusing or shutting down their crypto practices. I'm curious if you could just comment on that and how you guys think internally about servicing the crypto industry and the opportunities there in the face of all this kind of regulatory action.
00:31:40.964 - 00:32:34.098, Speaker C: So I was in DC this week. I went to the DC blockchain summit, and it's really a tough space right now. I think it's a priority of ours to really dig into this policy side much more than we ever had before. I think historically, my 20 plus years in financial services, I can't say that I was going down to DC on a regular basis to try to understand what the heck is going on. There was a lot of other things for us to focus on, focus on macro initiatives, but, you know, you're really trying to get a handle on, like what? Like, what is the reason for some of this? Who has is moving in the right direction. And there was some positive elements that came out of the blockchain summit. Like, you felt that there was some working groups and, and different activities happening.
00:32:34.098 - 00:33:08.488, Speaker C: I. I just. It's hard to see the discussion and the working groups and where the execution is. So I guess the question is, where is the execution on it? If it's clamping down on crypto, but, okay, for good, just say crypto or defi. Let's just take the idea that they really are doing that. But what about just digitization and innovation in general? We have to move in terms of the future infrastructure of finance. Like, everyone's digitized.
00:33:08.488 - 00:33:50.944, Speaker C: We shop online 24/7 we make plans with our friends 24/7 we text our friends 24/7 we can't get access to our money 24/7 like there's something there that has to change, or even wires, like the number of people that sat with wires with, like, spinning to see if it would get delivered or not. There's tons of wire fraud. There has to be, you know, more advanced ways of putting this infrastructure in place. And I think even if you just like, set crypto aside for whatever it's worth, we need to keep moving on the future of financial infrastructure here. Andrew, I don't know if you have anything else to add.
00:33:51.804 - 00:34:53.183, Speaker D: I can't comment specifically on this concept of choke point and regulate or clamp down on the various on and off ramps. Just not having first hand experience of it. It's just probably can say the same as everyone's seen in the public press. I would say it's a big shame to think that such a relatively innovative offering such as send network or the SIG network is no longer available because that was pretty critical to, obviously, crypto traders and the whole liquidity of crypto. And if you look at the market depth since that has been switched off, we're down to 50% market depth. It only takes 5000 BTC or $140 million to move the spot price by 2%. That's half the amount of liquidity, or half the amount of volume that was needed prior to the FTX collapse, for example, and even just prior to this clamp down recently on dollar on and off ramps.
00:34:53.183 - 00:35:31.934, Speaker D: So it's clearly got a significant impact on the market structure for crypto. I'm based in Switzerland, in Zurich, and would say it's certainly been a topic here for new banks, new digital banks to get licenses and to get approval. And if anything, there's been some level of growth in the local banks that have got Finma regulated and Finma licenses to offer banking services. There's quite a number of banks here that do offer liquidity for crypto players and are prepared to onboard crypto players. And I think, yeah, it's harder to comment on the US scenario.
00:35:32.094 - 00:35:53.510, Speaker E: Yeah. Well, I'm curious. One of you is based in Switzerland, in the US. There's a lot of talk about you can't really stop this industry. I mean, China's basically tried to shut it down since forever. India and some other countries, you know, of course, if the US were, it feels like it's much more impactful for the industry. But still, a lot of these entrepreneurs are going elsewhere.
00:35:53.510 - 00:36:31.126, Speaker E: I mean, zug or like they're going to Switzerland, they're going to London, they're going to other places. Like a gold ETF got approved in London, while us regulators are really against it. And then once it got approved in London, then the US regulators were on board. Like, is that going to happen in crypto as well, where, like, from your perspective, the interest from clients and corporations are going to. Doesn't feel like it stopped on different verticals, of course, like nfts and whatnot. But what does that actually mean for the competitiveness of the US? Us banks, us companies versus others as they try to kind of take opportunities in the space?
00:36:31.310 - 00:37:03.940, Speaker D: Yeah, I think it's. I mean, it's one of the most mobile industries globally. I would say crypto. Everything online, young, like, motivated, flexible, you know, talent pool and workforce that's just able to relocate and motive and move themselves to other countries, be it Middle East Asia, Switzerland, London. I mean, it's pretty easy. And we've seen that multiple times. Even if you look at, like, the major exchanges, just going to areas where they're accommodative and that can be done overnight in some cases.
00:37:03.940 - 00:37:23.004, Speaker D: So I do think it's a. It's a very difficult industry to say, we're going to patch this hole and this is going away. It's not going away anywhere. This industry moves and is extremely mobile very quickly to go to other places where the environment's more accommodative. Amy, you've seen a lot in Middle East, I guess, recently.
00:37:23.704 - 00:38:02.490, Speaker C: Yeah, I think the same migration patterns we saw during COVID folks move from New York or San Francisco and places like Austin and South Florida just continuing to see more and more of the population move. But I think, you know, that's a trend more globally also. I mean, Hong Kong's been a very, very difficult place to get to the last three years. That's been a business hub historically. London dealing with its own challenges with Brexit, making it more complicated. Lots of protests going on there. You hear pain points of people, you know, hating to go through that.
00:38:02.490 - 00:38:47.790, Speaker C: Airport or rail strikes and everything else. And then you have places like Dubai who are taking advantage of the opportunity, or UAE more broadly, or Saudi Arabia saying, you know, we're open for business, we're focused on innovation, we have a clear plan. They've made it more lax in order to even get visas. And that's a big game changer. I mean, even for someone that runs a global business, it's been harder to get visas over the last number of years in the US for talent, and our talent is very global. We have teams that sit in six cities around the world, and we continue to just accept that we're operating like that. And it works very well and it allows us to really tap into talent all over the world.
00:38:47.790 - 00:38:55.354, Speaker C: So it's a broader trend and it very much is supportive of the digital assets.
00:38:56.154 - 00:39:03.254, Speaker B: Amy and Andrew, what is the, do you find that bitcoin or ETH resonates more with institutional clients right now?
00:39:05.474 - 00:39:06.894, Speaker C: That's a good question.
00:39:10.554 - 00:40:01.784, Speaker D: Odd to say, I think, I don't know. ETH is maybe of interest given the additional tech angle in terms of people thinking through all the on chain activity. So that and the fact that you can buy it and stake it and earn a yield adds another level of potential understanding or interest for players, which a number of our clients obviously are very sophisticated in terms of their technical abilities, some of the world's largest quant funds, etcetera. But I do feel like very different asset class. I think macro is probably more interested in the kind of bitcoin thesis and the play on what weve talked about with interest rates or monetary supply, whereas some of the maybe more technical players are thinking about on chain trading and on chain activity.
00:40:03.644 - 00:40:26.816, Speaker C: Yeah, I was just going to say, I would agree with that. I think it goes back and forth. There was a moment last year where it felt like the theme was beyond bitcoin. Okay, I got the bitcoin. Let me now explain everything else that's happening in this space. So it does tend to go back and forth. But I think we're back to bitcoin right now.
00:40:26.960 - 00:40:32.204, Speaker B: Yeah. Taking off your Morgan Stanley caps for a second. What do you two find more interesting?
00:40:34.984 - 00:41:32.454, Speaker D: I think it's fascinating. Now, with the ramp up of the l two solutions we just saw, the arbitrum airdrop, you've got optimism, ZK sync, stockware, all that kind of scalability, which is coming to the space like the ribs and on chain options trading, if the tech continues to advance at this kind of pace that we've seen in the last couple of years, the ability to absorb some traditional market activity on chain is just fascinating for me. Previously, thinking through the amount of systems I had to have reconciling with each other and like multiple different platforms for quoting trading, issuing, booking, reconciling. Like if you have everything on chain in an open kind of API format, issuance and trading and settlement, it's just massively constructive and efficient in many ways just to be able to operate a trading operation.
00:41:33.954 - 00:42:31.250, Speaker C: Yeah. And I would say on my side, you know, trying to continue to see trends to get a bit more pure. So we're not, we don't have these bridges kind of going back and forth between traditional finance and the digital asset space. You know, I love to see trends where you see different funds, where you're actually subscriptions are not coming in fiat or you know, through different on ramps, but wallet to the wallet of the fund, smart contracts executing on those subscriptions. So really getting or even in the tokenization side, we need digitally native investments that are going into tokenized funds. I'm not a big fan of merging the two together where you're taking a traditional fund and then say tokenizing it. I'd like to continue to see the evolution of a more purist approach from.
00:42:31.442 - 00:43:08.974, Speaker E: Front to back on this point of infrastructure. Where do you think we are in terms of the development of tools that large quant funds or institutional players that want to get involved in crypto, they come to space and say hey its really bare bones. Or do you think where are we in terms of that development process? Custody and exchange is bundled into one that feels like it needs to be separated. Theres a number of things that probably havent been built, but that could be an opportunity for someone like you guys to pick up the pieces of build another SSEN network or whatnot. So I'm curious, how easy is it for your institutional clients to get involved in crypto and how that's changed over time?
00:43:10.794 - 00:44:43.414, Speaker D: In terms of the broader development, we're super early looking at Defi summer and the various different bumps in DeFi in 2021, et cetera, and personally active in some of those areas for experimenting and for like liquidity provision. Like it's either the chain getting clogged or going down, or the browser extension having issues, or your hardware wallet given like less sophisticated infrastructure on personal side, not working with the browser extension or et cetera. It's super early. Obviously there's some of the larger market makers, be it the crypto native market makers or some of the Chicago prop shops which have got sophisticated tools to access some of that liquidity, of have got more robust infrastructure to engage than your standard user. But even so, the on chain activity getting clogged and some of the larger blockchains like Solana, potentially going down for hours or sometimes afternoons on end, that feels super early. But the pace of development, like the speed at which these things get patched and fixed, the speed at which assets migrate to new platforms or they find new opportunities is just in phenomenal. So 24/7 markets three times like your traditional market opening hours, I would say it's for like five to ten times, if not more like the speed of development which we're operating at now in the crypto industry.
00:44:45.314 - 00:45:24.322, Speaker C: I would just add, like, we continue to need just more service providers and that survive, right. I think a lot of times the discussion is like, who's the winner, who's the best? We need multiple service providers that are great at doing things. And that's when you get really a mature market because there's always conflicts. I mean, even if you look at our business, the number of counterparties, the number of brokers we deal with in various markets across the board, you really need more than one. One is not a mature market. One has a lot of risk. And I think we need to continue to build that out and be comfortable that there needs to be be numerous players.
00:45:24.322 - 00:45:46.654, Speaker C: I think the second thing is just in terms of scalability, when we get into our business, like the number of trades, the size that we're putting through can be quite considerable. And if we really want to move into more of a mainstream, we need to, I mean, to Andrew's point about things going down, we really need redundancy. We need that scalability to be much better than it is today.
00:45:47.314 - 00:46:08.924, Speaker E: Yeah, I want to transition a little bit into kind of the evolution of your perspective and also institutional clients perspective of the space and sentiment broadly. What is something that you've really changed your mind on as it relates to crypto that you were really against or you were really wooden headed about and then you're like, oh, wow, I've changed my perspective on that pretty radically.
00:46:10.264 - 00:46:54.294, Speaker C: For me, it's ETF's for sure. I think maybe coming from the EM space, living through Russia, Ukraine, uh, you know, I've always been pretty vocal like, you need to be able to hold your bitcoin. Uh, ETF is not going to provide you much service if, uh, you know, the traditional finance space goes down, that you'll have that value to, uh, deliver. Uh, but I think that we're living in environment now where the user experience is still so difficult. We do need, uh, to help clients, at least in this interim, be able to have access you, even if it's price access, price exposure to a certain extent as that evolves. So for me that's probably a big one. I've accepted that ETF's potentially are part of our future.
00:46:56.514 - 00:48:13.004, Speaker D: That's a good one because I think the industry's been so fixated on ETF's for as long as I can. Like even the Winklevoss application in 2015 or 2016 was like a major market topic for me personally. I think change the view in like how much DeFi will interact with the traditional financial system. I think it's fascinating to watch the likes of Makerdao being probably the largest out there in AUM. You guys probably know that definitely better than me, but starting to see them investing in bond portfolios via more crypto native banks, like one of our local banks here, Signum offers Makerdao the access to bond funds. So youre taking pool of capital which is prone to the most purely crypto native pools of capital, and its allocating like half a billion into bonds. So that bridge between Defi, which was previously in this kind of almost crypto echo chamber where they're just buying crypto assets to try and keep the peg if the die to $1, taking that and buying now traditional instruments through regulated institutions.
00:48:14.744 - 00:48:37.726, Speaker B: Andrew, do you think that is the end state though, or is the end state that the actual bonds originate on chain? Because it does feel like we're living in this in between state where on chain world is trying to connect to the off chain world, but then you kind of mismatch liquidity a little bit. I don't know. I'm curious to get your take on if you think that's the end state.
00:48:37.870 - 00:49:52.214, Speaker D: No, I definitely don't think it's the end state. I think you're right. We are bridging the two worlds just to at the moment because frankly, the old world's far less efficient than the new world. And there's some bridges there at the moment which probably go away like once regulations change, and maybe you've got some changes to infrastructure due to cbdcs, maybe some additional changes to regulation to allow the record of holder or like the actual transfer, legal transfer of value of a traditional security to be the blockchain transaction. Then you start to leverage far more like synergies with like bonds natively issued on chain and the transfer itself being legally binding. And that can open up a whole world of new financial innovation that prior to change in regulation and prior to change of like the old guard or the legacy institutions managing these types of assets, there has to be this kind of bridge between the two worlds. What do you guys think? I mean, the way that this kind of defi is now interfacing with traditional finance, like, what do you think? Where do you think we go from here in terms of that developing?
00:49:53.234 - 00:50:52.516, Speaker E: I think we see a permission defi environment and in the sense that the Coinbase base l two is pretty interesting because I think it's going to provide a handholding experience to enter this world. But you kyc the wallet, they're doing the KYC at the on ramp level. So it's a natural extension that they'll issue you an NFT that then represents a physical entity or person, and then, and then you know your counterparty. And then once you're provisioning liquidity and doing all these things on chain, it's all well and good because you know your counterparty. And then at that point, I think regulators like it. And then also it sort of fits into that mold, which feels to me like the biggest bottleneck, which was a question for you guys, which is, why haven't more funds or people really experimented with Defi? I mean, was a paraphy we were looking at, super fascinated DeFi before it was even a term. And then it felt like it was only crypto degens that really liked this stuff.
00:50:52.516 - 00:51:18.020, Speaker E: But a lot of institutions believed in like, hey, we love smart contracts. It could minimize counterparty risk. The predictability of the execution is really interesting. Oracles can be also interesting. And that infrastructure has come a long way, but DeFi has been so out of favor, and I wonder if purely it's because of regulation. Um, and so for that reason, I think that it's a permissioned defi environment. Like compound was experimenting with this, but it's gone nowhere.
00:51:18.020 - 00:51:27.984, Speaker E: Aave as well with Ark, but I just think now it's probably Coinbase is going to deliver on that promise. I don't know. Jason, what do you think?
00:51:30.764 - 00:52:09.694, Speaker B: I think that money will eventually flow where the liquidity is, but you can't have liquidity until the products are actually good enough. So I think Andrew brought up a really interesting point 30 minutes ago about, I mean, Andrew, you traded derivatives in an off chain world, and you can't really trade amazing derivatives on chain, but eventually you will be able to. And eventually there will be new products that can only exist in an on chain world. And I think that just takes a long time. But hopefully it gets sped up by an administration and regulators that are supportive of a fully of an open and transparent financial system instead of what's happening now.
00:52:10.034 - 00:53:06.134, Speaker C: I think one of the challenges with that, even if we get support from the regulatory side, one of the things I keep observing is how is that executed? Because even if we can, you go through and highlight a number of use cases, even for regulators or oversight, there are some opportunities where you can have more real time dashboards, where you can be able to see metrics and have different parties plug into that pretty easily than some of the just burdensome administration issues that we deal with now. But I guess you're almost in a state where you're trying to rebuild the New York subway system under New York City. How do you actually do that? And what sort of initiatives does it take, even from a regulatory front, to get that done? So I think that execution piece, even if we get clarity, is going to be super important.
00:53:06.594 - 00:53:47.614, Speaker E: Clay yeah, I guess the eye opening moment for me was curve, where there was no reason for you to trade a stable coin in any centralized exchange because it was far more efficient to do it in size and curve. And a lot of critics of Dexs were like, why would you ever use a Dex? Just use a centralized order book model. None of this is going to work. And then all of a sudden it did work. And I guess the challenge with thinking of how DeFi is going to work. And when you talk to people, the value proposition of DeFi, everyone is comparing it to traditional finance. And its like, well, theres composability, theres other elements.
00:53:47.614 - 00:54:15.822, Speaker E: Its not to say that were going to do one for one mirror. What's to your point around infrastructure? Maybe you're not building the same blueprint of that subway system. Maybe you're creating some other rail and might be different, just a different method of transportation. Now, this is not to say that people, people are still going to use a subway. I think you're not going to blow that up. But it's funny now, because a lot of the criticism of DeFi was capital efficiency. It's like you're over collateralized.
00:54:15.822 - 00:54:43.714, Speaker E: The world just doesn't work this way. It's super inefficient. Let's try to figure out how to do under collateral. And here we are in a state of the world where all these banks are facing what I think is just a transparency issue, because that's what builds confidence. I think if banks were to see that maybe in five years time, we're going to look it back and say, hey, it would be really nice to understand in real time the position of these banks. Maybe, or maybe not. Maybe the obfuscation is by design so that these bank runs don't happen.
00:54:43.714 - 00:54:45.630, Speaker E: I don't know.
00:54:45.742 - 00:56:01.134, Speaker C: I think it's also trying to understand what are the additional risks that we need or management we need to build out with that transparency. So now I can talk a little bit about this in the world we're living in with active ETF's. So one of the things that's continuing to pick up speed across the financial industry is the evolution from passive ETF's to active ETF's. But active ETF's have full transparency and it's a very different way that investors have to manage products because you're putting out your holdings every day in terms of what that is. And that creates opportunities for others to potentially trade around you to get in trickier situations with more liquid positions. And I do think that there's just an additional layer of risk management that we just have to understand, like what are the risks? And Santiago, to your point, so maybe it's a scooter system or a different mechanism to get around that city, but then it's, you know, what's the other implications of that? So it is, there's just some like second and third degree implications that we need to continue to think about and kind of get more people brainstorming and be visionaries around that.
00:56:01.674 - 00:56:02.434, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:56:02.594 - 00:57:29.136, Speaker D: And going back to your point, you know about curves antiago, right. That's to me super important because you solve there for the user experience, right? If something's far more efficient and easy to use, then that's where people activity will navigate. This whole concept of like, let's use blockchain for an initiative, or let's like use this technology for something we think is, is useful, not necessarily works. I think it's far more like solving for the user experience first and then choosing the right tech, or potentially the right implication of it, in my opinion. Some of these initiatives which we've seen over the years, and let's say we've heard headlines about tokenization of various different securities from multiple people over the years, most of which have gone live, but then the liquidity has not been there, or there's just been a headline about an issuance and then not necessarily any follow on activity. And I personally think like this is mainly because implementing a blockchain issuance alongside legacy infrastructure, where it's just another system that reconciles with a bunch of other systems, it doesn't make it any more efficient, doesn't necessarily immediately offer any commercial activity or any kind of additional functionality. It's really hard to see the value case at the moment.
00:57:29.136 - 00:58:05.114, Speaker D: Like, it costs something to build. It's another point of potential failure. It's expensive, it takes resources, new skills. Like, it's not an immediate, obvious commercial benefit. But then at the same time, like over time, let's say all of the parts of the system get upgraded, like front to back issuance trading settlement. Like we start to see funds, other assets, like trade, like stablecoins do currently, or like bitcoin and ETH do currently, and then you start to see some of that benefit. But it's really got to be the whole value chain which gets adjusted to leverage those efficiencies.
00:58:05.414 - 00:58:28.814, Speaker E: Is it fair to say that the tokenization, like the new issuance of instruments like bonds or whatever on chain brings a lot of liquidity and that's the most impactful thing towards this transition? Or is there something else in your mind that moves us closer to that kind of direction where everything kind of operates in this kind of. You revamp the general infrastructure of the financial system.
00:58:31.154 - 00:59:39.184, Speaker D: Like I said, I think it has to be like far more technical ability and development across the entire value system, like of all parties involved. So you got two institutions that trade frequently versus each other. One issues a bond, one trades the bond, one settles. And there's this loop, and there's a venue which supports the same standard for the token that the one issued in the one bought, and there's a settlement to be able to transfer value that's trusted, be it a CBDC or another private potential stablecoin which has been trusted and regulated, and of course the regulatory environment. So it's got to be ramped up across the whole value chain and there's got to be the ability to settle on chain, and then the whole process has got to be approved from regulators before. I feel like all of the efficiencies there are leveraged, like everything we've seen so far, is super interesting. Don't get me wrong, there's been some amazing experimentation across various different peers of ours and clients of ours and counterparties of ours at different exchanges.
00:59:39.184 - 00:59:51.304, Speaker D: But all of it's largely currently developing abilities to be able to get to a future state, which I don't think the path is necessarily super clear or immediately obvious.
00:59:52.764 - 01:00:33.094, Speaker C: And on my end, I think financial inclusion continues to be a major focus of mine. I think part of this asset tokenization is to continue to have access to products that weren't always accessible to a broader set of the population. But we really need to see that play out. Even some of the opportunities that have come to market so far, they're doing it still pretty specific in a qualified purchaser level. It's not really getting down to those that don't have access to the market at this point. And I think even some of the projects that have allowed that to happen. It really needs a more vibrant secondary market and a proper distribution initiative.
01:00:33.094 - 01:00:48.918, Speaker C: We don't really have that to date. I think some of the projects that have come out, there's just no liquidity in it. So you really need a more vibrant distribution and secondary market to evolve I.
01:00:48.926 - 01:01:33.044, Speaker B: Want to try to tie this conversation back to the conversation at the very beginning of the podcast. As we start to think about wrapping this up, do you think that it's more likely that crypto gets quotes around this like mass adoption or whatever word we want to put around this by the products being better? That would almost be like the Ethereum route. Defi gets built. Defi ends up being better than the traditional capital market system. Does mass adoption happen that way, or does mass adoption happen by almost like forced adoption, which I might call the bitcoin route, which is banking crisis, emerging markets, blowing up, inflation around the world, something like that, and people are forced to move into a safer asset, which in this case might be bitcoin. What's the more likely scenario here?
01:01:34.364 - 01:02:11.822, Speaker C: I think there's potential for both. So even if you take the evolution of ETF's so in early two thousands, there was only a handful of them, they weren't very popular, many people were against them, that they'd even be successful. And the real j curve for ETF adoption happened around the global financial crisis. If you go and look at some of the data, I think that's a combination, both of having better products, but then also having a catalyst that helped drive individuals into those better products. So I do think there's a combination of both of those things that need to happen. Andrew, I don't know if you have any other thoughts on that.
01:02:11.998 - 01:03:28.964, Speaker D: No, I think I totally agree. And there's different levels of interest, obviously macro topic around bitcoin as mentioned earlier, very important rally happening, raising the awareness of bitcoin in times of financial market uncertainty. And certainly that attention is not going away in my view. And typically we see when bitcoin does its thing and starts to go on a run, and we have one of those massive face melting rallies in BTC, like the amount of people clamoring after it and talking about it chasing the price, can be highly impactful on its broader adoption. And then at the same time, I do think solving for inefficiencies in the existing system, be it providing on chain daos or other pools of liquidity, access to tradfi in more efficient ways, or trading firms and prop shops that are highly technical, building infrastructure to be able to trade on chain and settle on chain, and providing products which are only possible when youve got a shared ledger. Also super interesting. I think you start to see both evolving.
01:03:28.964 - 01:03:53.892, Speaker D: I think the tech angle for me personally is more likely. Its nearly every major exchange globally, nearly every major custodian globally, nearly every major asset manager and trading house has got some level of involvement in this space, developing proof of concepts or activity to leverage whats happening in the digital asset ecosystem.
01:03:54.028 - 01:04:15.964, Speaker B: Yeah. Do you think we could see a world where either one of the major exchanges, like a Kraken or a Coinbase acquires, lets call it a top 20 bank or vice versa, where someone like a Morgan Stanley or JP or wells or B of a or something like that acquires or tries to acquire a coinbase or a kraken or something like that?
01:04:18.544 - 01:05:06.284, Speaker C: I'm not sure. I mean, if you know, this is going back quite a while that, you know, when Clubhouse had just started, I know Jesse from Kraken was on one of the rooms and someone had asked him, you have enough cash on hand to buy Wells Fargo, would you do it? And he made the point that the cultures don't fit. And I would agree with that. I think it would be a really hard acquisition. I've lived through many acquisitions, even of traditional finance, to traditional finance or fintech firms. It's hard. And I do think that that acquisition would be a pretty difficult one, especially if you have such an established culture like a coinbase or a kraken, to pair with a traditional finance house.
01:05:10.154 - 01:05:20.054, Speaker B: Awesome. Amy and Amy and Andrew, this has been great. Any other big things that you guys are thinking about? Anything else that you guys want to discuss here?
01:05:24.714 - 01:05:38.894, Speaker D: Yeah, we just remain close to this space and thinking what's the future? And staying close to understand how we can be relevant in the space. Really enjoyed the conversation and would love to discuss some of those topics again with you guys.
01:05:39.194 - 01:05:39.834, Speaker B: Cool.
01:05:39.954 - 01:06:08.344, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think continued opportunity here, even in the early era of carrying around a palm pilot, at one point, none of us could see that the iPhone was five years ahead. And I think we're living through an environment like that again. Like some of the products that we get excited about now potentially will die for a more advanced, more complex opportunity down the road. And I think that's super exciting to think about what that might be.
01:06:08.684 - 01:06:30.962, Speaker E: That's such a great point. I had a palm pilot, I was super excited about it. Then I thought it was the best thing ever. Then smartphone came along. So if you're excited about how basic these things are, I think the core principles of composability, permissionless immutability are really cool. So it's really encouraging to get your perspective. In fact, everything is going on and see how guys, how excited you guys are and putting the resources behind it.
01:06:30.962 - 01:06:37.694, Speaker E: So thanks so much for coming on and we'd love to have you on again later down the road as things evolve, which I'm sure they will pretty quickly.
01:06:39.354 - 01:06:39.978, Speaker C: Thanks, guys.
01:06:40.026 - 01:06:40.354, Speaker B: Thanks, Andrew.
