00:00:09.370 - 00:01:17.474, Speaker A: Okay, so thanks everyone for attending the talk and I'm going to try to switch things a little bit. That is like Ben talked a lot about the vision of the stage channel and also other layers to construct OVM and generalized roll ups. And I'm going to more focus on the production development stuff that we're trying to do and the real real world experience that we gain from running and operating the state channel. And also some applications on top and some of them are kind of very hilarious stories and sometimes they are very horrifying stories and let's make it a very kind of interactive chat. So what do we launch? So first of all, we are currently a generalized estate channel solution but we're kind of okay on the channel side and we are hunting for new stuff to build and some stuff that we chat bots with. So what did we launch? We launched the first version of the generalized estate channel recently with the Arfa Minute launch. We're going to kind of wrap this up with a broader launch so people can actually run different nodes and connecting together with different routing algorithms pretty soon.
00:01:17.474 - 00:02:36.090, Speaker A: But what we launched is not only the underlaying platform but also two additional things. First is the esport gaming platform where people can just download this mobile app. There are a bunch of HTML Five games that you can play and they can compete with each other either in generalized channel or just simple games to submit score and they can kind of pay each other conditionally and win prices on top. And then we also rolled out this therax gaming SDK which is targeting non blockchain developers but just normal gaming developers to make a blockchain an additional monetization path for them in addition to advertisement flows and in app purchases. So these are the things that we're doing aside from the underlaying platform which is a long existing set of web SDK which we're going to upgrade to also with a lightline that is written purely in JavaScript soon hopefully we'll conform and kind of convert to a common standard in the interface on that. So what is just know you play game with a friend and we actually have four games that submitted by third party developers today. This is like an Asian gongko game.
00:02:36.090 - 00:03:21.782, Speaker A: This entire game itself is running inside of a state channel and you can see that the interaction between two players are very instant, there's no delay. And this fish jump game though is a kind of an HTML Five game and in the end of the game you submit score and server will compare the score and it effectively acts as a conditional dependency oracle for the off chain conditional payment. Like basically in the serial network. Very important construct you can do is something called off chain conditional payment conditional depending on any stuff. So what we have right now is we launched this for about a month and a half. And to date we process about $1.4 million transactions to give out users.
00:03:21.782 - 00:04:06.470, Speaker A: The reward user are competing against each other around the globe. About 11,000 users are competing over about 300,000 matches. So roughly quite a few users. I'll show you some of the product majors later. So this is the Sarah Axe gaming SDK and we also open source the smart contract, the entire smart contract constructor alongside with the HTML Five constructor for the Google game that we released. Okay, so that part of the slide I just want to kind of quickly go through because I want to get through the kind of experience of the running system. So I'm going to split this section into three parts.
00:04:06.470 - 00:05:00.006, Speaker A: The good, bad and the ugly, of course. So what are the good? I think the most encouraging thing here is that layer two is definitely working. And what we have been seeing this is just like kind of a screenshot I just did in our big panel tracking the status of the application. You can see our kind of current daily active users are north of 2500 around that number and we haven't done a lot of marketing around that per day. But the key thing to note is that look at the day one retention here. The day one retention is sometimes beyond 57% or 50%. That is like almost three times higher than the industry standard for kind of normal mobile game users.
00:05:00.006 - 00:05:54.010, Speaker A: And for this graph I'm only just showing the real money. But we are not congesting Ethereum at all. If you think about it, at the peak time, crypto KV have the same level of magnitude of users as we have right now. But the entire Ethereum gets congested already. But we are not congesting it. And also users are keep coming back into the application and that's what we think is most important, that is user is retaining in the app and therefore we can actually have a kind of a viable product or have the product that market fit in the market basically. And another thing that is kind of a good experience when we operate this product and also the platform is about user acquisition.
00:05:54.010 - 00:07:00.914, Speaker A: So we always had a small myth saying that, okay, there is this massive segment of user that is blockchain world. And therefore because we are a blockchain app, we have to market ourselves towards these blockchain users either through Coin Market Cap or Ether Scan or these kinds of for those who haven't marketed an application before, those sites are insanely expensive. I wouldn't name the exact term, but they're insanely expensive. So we changed things around and tried to do some systematic user acquisition. So systematic user acquisition has been a long missing piece in the blockchain industry because everyone just assumes this app doesn't work. So everyone just assumed that whoever uses the application must have been a developer of software. But we actually tried Google, Facebook, we're just publishing advertisements, doing optimizations on application store listings and these kind of application promotion scenarios that we just like promoting just another single app.
00:07:00.914 - 00:07:51.566, Speaker A: So it turns out this has been on our side, that is that we're seeing about one dollars. CPI here means like a cost per install just using Google's Advertisement Admon user acquisition channel and we use a lot of different user acquisition channels and these users are actually retaining like as long as we're marketing towards the right market for whoever is building a product out there, these channels does work. It works ten times better than the blockchain business channel. And of course there are some exceptions in everything. We actually launched a small user acquisition campaign on Binance as well. I think Binance does have high quality users. We tried this with some other exchanges as well.
00:07:51.566 - 00:08:51.506, Speaker A: But Binance definitely have a high quality user base and our paying user jumped right up from the hundred to the thousand basically during that week and they have been retaining pretty rapidly. Well, so another thing I want to share is about developer adoption. So on the developer adoption side, we are currently having about 150 developers that uploaded the app. Either it's a small game or it's like a medium sized game. But the model makes the sense for the app developers because it is indeed an additional monetization task for them. So the Monetization model we have is that if you're playing these games and winning money and kind of competing with each other, what's going to happen is that let's say you are putting one dollars into the game and then the opponent is putting one dollars into the game. In the end, the winner is only going to get $1.6.
00:08:51.506 - 00:09:36.978, Speaker A: And the $0.40 goes to the developer. So it makes a huge sense for these minigame developers because we hit on the sweet spot of the minigame developers today that even some developers, even they have hundreds, thousands of users or even close to 1 million users. Their monetization path is only advertising and by using blockchain we open a global money flow for them. And this global money flow happens to be very well suitable for our underlying technology as well. Payment channels and back and forth payment channels. It's not only one directional, it's like very, very balanced network of payment channels and flowing against each other and many of the revenues are flowing to our game developers as well.
00:09:36.978 - 00:10:26.740, Speaker A: So we have seen game developers popping up and we have about like ten games in our pipeline that is ready to be released. We're just trying to pick the right time to do that. And I think this is something that is very encouraging for us. That is we think we finally starting to find some business model for existing developers that can provide them additional value because they use blockchain. It's not like we try to use blockchain to make something but leverage this possibility of blockchain and also layer two to provide value for traditional developers and that is kind of our approach. And also on the user side, same thing that is we're kind of targeting no more users who have no experience on their blockchain experiences and we're integrating with a lot of gaps on wrap on that. I will talk about that later as well.
00:10:26.740 - 00:11:32.694, Speaker A: So, so far we took a very meticulous approach in designing the protocol. We minimized the underlying protocol message exchanged across different kind of nodes in the payment network, the amount of message. We actually mathematically proved that the amount of option message exchange using ceremonial protocol is actually the minimal amount of message you need. And we did a lot of things on the deployment of the system and therefore it is actually holding water. We learned this in a hard way when we launched the first beta testnet in March this year, which turned almost to a disaster because there were just a huge amount of users flowing into the network and the infrastructure cannot hold the water basically. But now everything seems to be running pretty well. Okay, so I'm not only here to talk about the good stuff that I learned but also share with you some of the best stuff and hopefully they can save you guys some future time.
00:11:32.694 - 00:12:15.574, Speaker A: Basically. First infrastructure. Infrastructure has been extremely hard. It's not running and building our own node or on infrastructure, but the relying infrastructure or the surrounding infrastructure. Basically ethereum node, Webster node, our node also relies on Webster and we didn't want to build our own Webster cluster to query blocks, to query events, to monitor events. So we were looking for different kind of solutions. So we were trying to use inferra which unfortunately doesn't actually work and we were also trying to kind of spin up our own which consumes a lot of time.
00:12:15.574 - 00:12:54.674, Speaker A: Therefore finally we kind of started to rely on a new upcoming infrastructure running company called Alchemy. So far the experience has been pretty good. So this is definitely not an advertisement. We were actually really using them. But even with that and even though Ethereum we actually look at different blockchains as well because we want to kind of try to be a generic kind of layer two. I would say the biggest roadblocking part for any other blockchain is the infrastructure. It's just not there and 99% of uptime is definitely, definitely not enough.
00:12:54.674 - 00:13:33.230, Speaker A: And I will just go back to the previous slide here. You may see that on September 6, which is I think yesterday we had a huge drop of active users. Why? Because the infrastructure we relied on had an issue in event current. Like we couldn't see the deposit event. Therefore all the users who were trying to deposit and withdraw yesterday couldn't just finish the flow. And our support email box just overflowed with customer complaints and people are swearing at us on Twitter and all that stuff. So this is like the importance of infrastructure.
00:13:33.230 - 00:14:11.770, Speaker A: And another thing about this is on Dispute, like in layer two you always have this kind of mechanism to run dispute and start and resolve this field. It's not very widely tested. How often does this kind of disfill happen? Right? So we test it. So whenever real money is online, player 100% definitely cheat. And there are two ways that they cheat. The first way is to just kind of rage quit the game. Typically in the middle of the game they don't finish the generalization of game, they quit.
00:14:11.770 - 00:15:08.570, Speaker A: How many of them? I think that's kind of an interesting statistics that we want to see. So there are a small amount of the people trying to cheat by going offline. That is roughly about 7% of the total players that we have seen. If you really think about it's, not really that small amount but it's also a little bit hard to tell because we're kind of trying to make a kind of a malicious assumption about everyone that's disconnected. We're just kind of trying to assume that whoever disconnected is trying to be malicious. So the entire disconnection ratio is about 7% in all the games running on general SD channel. Now among the 7%, how many percent of the game actually gets into Dispute stage which is basically say that the other guy says oh, this guy left, I'm going to just start to dispute against this kind of risk creators.
00:15:08.570 - 00:16:11.870, Speaker A: That is not a large number. About 10% of the people actually start to dispute. So these numbers are interesting. We are basically trying to understand why there aren't a lot more people trying to dispute real trader and maybe just because the amount of money on the line is not that big or maybe it's just like the trouble that goes through too much basically. And we also had this case where there were bounty hunters basically. So we started to launch this by using phone verification and then verify the phone number and also deposit one side in the channel will give us another side to that. And you would imagine that this kind of concept of layer two, this kind of concept of kind of blockchain is relatively new to the worldwide bondhounders.
00:16:11.870 - 00:17:16.102, Speaker A: Not actually. So we launched the campaign on day one and after about two days we start to see bond hunters picking up and at the peakest of time we see about 6000 bonus hunters online at the same time trying to deposit die into the state channel and get the free die and withdraw the two die cuts. It did happen and of course there's no kind of bias on the country and region. The IPS that we're seeing are all coming from Indonesia and Vietnam, two countries basically is what we are seeing like the bonifonders coming from and very sophisticated mechanism. I'm sure there is some VPN trying to tunnel the tool towards that. So we counteracted that by immediately blocking all IPS from that 200. And after just 2 hours all over the world there are IP popping up.
00:17:16.102 - 00:17:53.954, Speaker A: Start to do this, think about this. We actually do phone number verification. We use a pretty good phone number verification service to exclude all these kind of big phone numbers, google voice numbers and stuff like that. But it still happens, it happens a lot. And this is like real stuff that we need to be careful about when we actually launch crypto products. And also we have been noticing there are computer bots start to play the Gongko game. And because Gongo game is not exactly kind of a fair game because if you get the first hand, you always have an advantage to win.
00:17:53.954 - 00:18:57.400, Speaker A: You almost always win. So we changed the Gong code a little bit to make it more even. But even that we see there are insanely good players with extremely low reaction time and we believe that they are kind of the top layers. So this is part sometimes building blockchain project or building blockchain products actually need to go beyond those blockchain issues to kind of even the real world issues. So we built some matching engine to learn the profile or to learn the distribution of the winning rate for each of the users, our users. And we single out these kind of outliers in the users and we match those together. So in the end, our platform bots are fighting with bots and because the business model we have that is basically cutting transaction fees quickly, this raising mechanism makes the boss die away because they couldn't make money and they're just kind of just generating frictions and losing transaction fees in the process.
00:18:57.400 - 00:19:59.510, Speaker A: And there are a lot of layer two frictions involved in this process. First, withdrawal deposit is really hard. The actual download number is much much higher than 2000. But only that amount of people actually learn how to deposit and how to kind of deposit from layer one to layer two. This is something that we have been constantly trying to address in our product and see if there are better ways to do this. And we have one interesting thing is that even though we're doing kind of totally non cost body and totally kind of a blockchain style payment system and a kind of a gaming system, it's always good to kind of familiarize the users with the familiar concepts. So we introduced this thing called setter pay and in the iQO and any kind of questions we answer, we just say think about this as your checking account and think about the blockchain asset as your saving account.
00:19:59.510 - 00:20:55.610, Speaker A: So that actually clicks by introducing that kind of a small explanation. In the app. The deposit ratio basically times the fourth over like one week. So these are the small things that kind of smooth out the friction even though they doesn't kind of adhere to the pure blockchain spirits. It's almost like we're pretending we're not blockchain and underlaying we are a blockchain company. So this is like, I think, a general approach that we found out that are extremely useful for groups and we are also implementing some controversial features that I'm going to chat about that we are implementing something called trust with a code postgrad. That is when users are actually starting to buy die the first time we're not letting them to buy into a contract at all.
00:20:55.610 - 00:21:58.880, Speaker A: Or should I put it, we're basically creating a contract or creating a channel that is a counterfactual and basically the user are not creating a channel, but we are creating a channel for the user and in fact, the channel itself is also not instantiated. It's almost like a virtual channel. So to a certain amount. Let's say the user is buying like five dime. We allow user to instantiate this kind of channel so we don't need to consume gas and the user also don't need to consume gas and whenever user wants to additional they deposit more or trying to withdraw the money that's when we try to kind of ask them to have actual onchain. And we ran a user study on this and the early results showed that it actually significantly reduced the cost or reduced the friction of the company. And also like interesting things that is customer support.
00:21:58.880 - 00:23:26.954, Speaker A: Before this we never thought about customer support is a thing and then we launched the user facing product and the customer comes and we receive a lot of complaint every day and I would say we did a dedicated calculation that how many of these leads are actually because of the software doesn't work or there's a bus. Well we are early software so about 15% of them are actually because of a bus but about 85% of them are just educational questions and I think that is partly because we are kind of buying or we're basically doing systematic user acquisition towards the map without actually specifically targeting blockchain users. But I think that part I'm not sure how to kind of make up and we're still kind of trying to refine the segment we're marketing tool and hopefully we can either find a scalable customer support solution because if you go out there and ask all these customers support Allson companies, can you support my app? My app is a blockchain app. They will say no. So we got that no like maybe ten times already that basically said okay, how about we find someone who can just answer the call and tell customer this is the stuff we need to do. And they just said okay no, we don't do blockchain stuff. This stuff is too complicated, we cannot understand this stuff.
00:23:26.954 - 00:24:19.900, Speaker A: So it is different from very different from travel for example and now I kind of completely understand or can synthesize coinbase early days when they literally had no customer support. So probably the same stuff they were running into. Okay, another interesting thing is Apple. So this is a mobile app and we're still on, you know, the interaction experience with know, summarized in a movie is Agile Tomorrow. Have any of you guys seen Agile Tomorrow? Like Tom Cruise and get shot? Okay, so that's exactly that. So you basically got shot in the hat again. And because of some regulation changes and you wake up the other day submit your app, you go through the exact same process again.
00:24:19.900 - 00:25:00.010, Speaker A: Every step we move just one step further. If you think about our app, it is a high risk app. It contains all the sensitive materials in there. It contains cryptocurrency, it contains whether this real money gaming is legal or not. It contains the application inside of the application. Are you guys running decentralized apps? If you look at Coinbase, what is their decentralized app section is gone today. You cannot access any of so it has been an educational process to work with Apple to educate their reviewers and kind of trying to push through this process.
00:25:00.010 - 00:26:04.606, Speaker A: And we have made a lot of progress there. And hopefully the app will be listed on App Store very soon, in the next week or so. Basically many of the things that if you are launching a mobile app will get asked is that, is this ETH? Stock some game token that if this is a game token, you need to buy this withINAP purchase. So we fight with them on this inappropriate problem for about a month to let them understand that we are not selling ETH, we're not creating ETH is something that is a cryptocurrency that is generated by the decentralized network and that took very long time price, and yeah, that's our experience. But they're reasonable. I would say, like, if you kind of keep working with them, they're reasonable. As long as you can find all the proper kind of guidelines in the Apple Store to your best advantage, I would leave the line.
00:26:04.606 - 00:26:40.540, Speaker A: So if you're ever considering launching a mobile app on Apple Store with cryptocurrency, let me know. Okay? Fiat on ramp. Fiat onram is basically the ugliest part of using Blockchain, I guess. Like not necessarily limited to State channel in general, but definitely Fiat on ramp on state channel. Just like kills user conversion, basically. And for all the bad stuff, I think I have good solutions for that. But for the ugly stuff, I think the entire industry just needs to touch on this.
00:26:40.540 - 00:27:06.434, Speaker A: Yeah, and with that, if you want to kind of try out the gaming app, you can try out at Ceterax App and follow us at Setter Network. Any questions? Does this mean that you are not.
00:27:06.472 - 00:27:07.922, Speaker B: Going to be able to allow people.
00:27:07.976 - 00:28:08.242, Speaker A: To have custom games in the channel on that? Yeah, so that's a great question. So the apps in app problem is there are actually two problems. The first problem is dynamically loaded HTML file and most of the DF routers are killed by this because they are extremely sensitive in terms of dynamically loaded application into the app. And we're okay because even though the game itself is implemented as HTML Five, we try to explain to them for the Apple release, we don't need to dynamically load that they can be prebundled into the binary. So that's kind of how we explain that problem. And then the second problem is that are you trying to compete with them as an app store? And that is also a problem that got hit by a lot of blockchain developers. We are not, we're just focusing on games.
00:28:08.242 - 00:28:21.500, Speaker A: We're just focusing on esport games. We're not providing access to, let's say decentralized exchanges. We're not doing any of that. So they were also okay with that. So this is how we kind of navigated around that.
00:28:23.310 - 00:28:56.040, Speaker B: Question. So when you say you're going to Apple Store, so I assume as a app in Apple Store there will be competitors of other games. So you think that will be also raising a threat for those people who play the game blockchain just shift and play animals which reads the other concerning for other people which is not there as well. I think that could be how that could be solved as a problem.
00:28:56.810 - 00:29:45.614, Speaker A: That's a great point and I think our angle here is that we're okay if people say federal act sucks as a gaming app, but our goal here is to not let them even know this is a blockchain app. That's our goal. Basically we're trying to hide as much detail as possible about blockchain away from the general audience. So we're actually thinking about even changing the name of size into something else to make people easier to understand that this is just like something that packs a two one to one two US dollar size. Just like too hard name to change. We definitely need something like USD, but these are the directions we're going. And we're trying to kind of mitigate.
00:29:45.662 - 00:30:12.786, Speaker B: This incarceration sorry, it's just for my language, because that is something that we've been dealing with, that we had a game, which is blockchain games, and when we post them on trying to post them on the Google Play and there's a writer talking to us, what you think? Are you better than other one? When you're in Google Play, when you're in Apple's group, you treat your competitor in other games.
00:30:12.918 - 00:31:09.594, Speaker A: Great point. Yeah, this goes back to the business model that we enabled. The business model we enabled and also the player value we offer is that you can actually play and get instant payout and for the playout long ramp part get all connected up. First of all, this kind of esports competition game, real based, real money competition game itself is extremely fast growing. The market size in the US alone grow about 50 times in the last years on this particular market. And the way we are enabling this is that we're enabling global audience and global people to compete with each other, which is something that no other app can provide first and also extremely fast cash out. So for the players of this kind of skill based cash game, the cash out process is extremely painful.
00:31:09.594 - 00:31:56.170, Speaker A: It takes about three months for them to actually cash out. So if you have a way that you can really compete with a larger audience and user acquisition is actually easier for us because it's blockchain, it's flat. So we don't actually need to go through each of the payment service providers, credit card providers, as long as there is a fiat gateway in that particular country and in the US. I think things are getting much, much better over time and hopefully even much better in the next few months. So, for the players, it is not just a game. It's game that you can compete and win money. And it's not just a game you can compete with win money, but a game you can compete with win money with global audience, and with extremely low transaction and processing fees.
00:31:56.170 - 00:32:05.020, Speaker A: So that's kind of like the value, the inherent value for the game audience. Okay, cool.
