00:00:00.240 - 00:00:42.372, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the daily grade refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and Sono, and today, 22 May 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today's episode was a blog post that Vitalik put out today coined don't overload Ethereum's consensus. So this blog post, I mean, there are a few different ways to interpret it, but the TLDR or the way I've interpreted it, is basically Vitalik is putting a call to action out there, or basically a warning out there to anyone building services that take advantage of Ethereum's consensus or Ethereum's validator set. So obviously the large amount of crypto economic security that Ethereum has comes from its validator sets.
00:00:42.372 - 00:01:36.482, Speaker A: And obviously the apps that will take advantage of these things would be something like restaking, right? Like Eigen layer and other such things like that. So Vitalik is basically saying in this post, if you do reuse Ethereum security for your own applications, don't rely on the Ethereum social layout or the Ethereum I guess, like network to bail you out if something goes wrong. Now, obviously there has been a, you know, a similar thing or something like this that's happened in the past, back in 2016 with the Dow, and Vitalik mentions that in this post, I believe. But that was kind of a one off thing, right? That hasn't happened since then, as I explained, I think it was last week. We haven't had something like that happen again. Now let's just put some, I guess, like more context around this. So essentially what could happen in the future is that something like Eigen layer or a restaking service gets like 20% of the Ethereum network or the Ethereum validators to stake with them.
00:01:36.482 - 00:02:31.986, Speaker A: Now, what happens if that there's, there's a mass slashing event where a lot of the, I guess, capital that was at, that was staking with an Eigen layer. Service is slashed by Eigen layer, not by the Ethereum network. And then all those validators have to obviously exit the beacon chain in order for Eigen layer to collect its dues for slashing those validators on the Eigen layer side of things, not on the Ethereum side. It will take quite a while for that to happen. Obviously, going through the exit queue is not a fast process. But on top of that, I think given the, that, you know, it's like 20% of all Ethereum validators that would potentially be affected by this in this hypothetical scenario, there would be calls for rollback or an irregular state change, or some kind of bailout from the Ethereum consensus or Ethereum layer one for these kind of restaking services. Now, I agree with Vitalik that we shouldn't even entertain this idea.
00:02:31.986 - 00:03:26.628, Speaker A: The only time that we would ever entertain the idea of a socially coordinated hard fork would be if there's an actual attack on the network itself, whether that be something like a 51% attack or a mass censorship attack, where essentially, I mean, we've seen censorship happen on the network, but I'm talking at a, at a really mass scale and a prolonged mass scale. If we're seeing censorship at that attestation level, we've only seen it at the transaction inclusion level. So we should save like that thing. It's basically our nuclear option, right? It's the, it's the thing of last resort to do a socially coordinated hard fork, and bailouts are not something that we should be doing ever again, really, especially if we want to preserve ethereum's core properties like credible neutrality. So that's the main thing I took away from Vitalik's post trailer, but other people had other interpretations of it. I think a lot of people had the interpretation that Vitalik said that Eigen layer is a bad idea and that we shouldn't pursue restaking. I don't think that's what he said at all, to be honest.
00:03:26.628 - 00:04:33.620, Speaker A: I think what he's trying to do is make sure that people understand the risks that are associated with these things. Now, of course, I've talked about this on the refu before now, and I've talked about how I think that the risks are generally overblown. I think because what people tend to do, which is totally fair, to do this, I do this a lot of the time, too. But what people tend to do is they take like, the worst case scenarios, and then they start reasoning from the worst case, when really the worst case scenario is by very definition the worst case, right? You shouldn't be reason, you shouldn't be using that as justification for something being good or bad, because you can make the worst case scenario for anything, really. You can, you can give a worst case situation or a worst case outcome for literally anything that anyone ever does in life, but it's all about what the percent chance of that happening is. You know, I get, when it comes to restaking, when it comes to things with economic incentives, you, you can actually map it out and get a percentage from that. So, for example, if there is a large economic incentive to do restaking because you're going to get a huge amount more, I guess, yield on top of what you're already getting from ethereum staking or from eats that from just vanilla eat staking.
00:04:33.620 - 00:05:10.066, Speaker A: Then of course, the economic incentive is to go and do that. But even with economic incentives, there's a limit. We've seen time and time again about how even if the rational economic thing or the economically rational thing to do is one thing, people will still do the other thing because to them, they're not thinking the way you are. Even if you are thinking like completely logically and completely rationally. Humans aren't rational all the time, right? We have, we do irrational things all the time for various different reasons. There are emotions at play. You know, there are a lot of people who go on about the most rational thing to do with your money to maximize the amount of like yield you can get and maximize the amount of money you can make.
00:05:10.066 - 00:05:50.250, Speaker A: But for a lot of people, they don't care about that. They don't care about min maxing everything and getting the perfect yield and getting this, that all they care about is earning. You know, if they're looking at something like yield, they want to earn a decent return with relatively low risk, right? And they want to make, they want to be sure that they don't have to think about it too much, that there's not too much overhead. But if you're trying to maximize the amount of yield you get, there is a lot of overhead in that because, one, you're taking on more risk because you're probably playing around with riskier protocols because they're offering higher yields. You have to babysit it yourself. Even if you're using third party services, you'd still to babysit yourself to make sure that these third party services are doing what they're advertising that they're doing right. And what they would usually advertise is that they're getting you the best yield.
00:05:50.250 - 00:06:20.868, Speaker A: It's just more mental overhead for you. So more stress. So most people don't want that, right? I mean, I'm one of those people. I could be making more money staking all of my ETH with Rockapool instead of doing solo staking, for example, because I would get the RPL rewards. But I don't want to do that because then I'd be worried that something maybe goes wrong with the rocker pool smart contracts. And as I said before, I mean, I do have a lot of mini pools, have eleven mini pools right now, but I'm well aware of that risk but the reason why I haven't put everything in there is because I'm aware of that risk. I don't want to have to think about it.
00:06:20.868 - 00:06:47.792, Speaker A: I don't want that extra mental burden there. And I also don't care about absolutely maxing out the amount of yield that I can get from things. It's just for me personally, it's just not something that I want to worry about too much. So that's just one example of where thinking about things in a strictly rational sense is not the right way to go about it a lot of the time. Because humans are by their very nature, you know, by our very nature, I should say. I'm human as well, irrational a lot of the time. Right? And we do things based on emotions.
00:06:47.792 - 00:07:41.090, Speaker A: So that, I think, is an aside, but still relevant to Vitalik's overall point in this post, which, again, which I forgot to say, I recommend reading it as well so you get extra context around here. But I didn't take it as him saying that restaking was a bad idea or that that reusing Ethereum's economic security is a bad idea. I think he's just setting the tone that if you're going to do these sorts of things, you're going to build products and services using Ethereum security. Do not ever rely on the Ethereum ecosystem and community to, and the consensus side of Ethereum to bail you out just because your thing bugged out, or there is a massive kind of amount of ETH that got locked up because your thing bugged out or any such thing like that. Right? And I think the same is true for really anything in Ethereum. It doesn't have to do with just restaking, it doesn't have to do with things with just touch, Ethereum's consensus. I think that what Vitalik is trying to do is separate Ethereum's consensus layer from its app layer.
00:07:41.090 - 00:08:24.730, Speaker A: So essentially the consensus layer is the Ethereum. I guess like the beating heart of Ethereum, it is validators on there securing the network with a bond of 32, Ethan being rewarded for it, and they get obviously newly issued ETH as a reward there. But for the most part, their duties are, you know, I guess like their, their only real duties, unless you want to add more to it through restaking, is to validate Ethereum's consensus. And there's various different ways to do that, right? Doing attestation, validate, sorry, testing to blocks, proposing blocks, doing sync committees, all that sorts of stuff. Right? So there's that, but then there's the app layer, which inherently is a lot riskier. Right. It is the smart contracts that run on top of Ethereum, they're riskier, they're doing a lot more things.
00:08:24.730 - 00:09:03.113, Speaker A: They hold, you know, a lot of Ethan, then they hold a lot of funds in them. So to me it's the same thing, whether it's restaking, which are a bunch of smart contracts as well, or it's an app like a defi app. So let's just say there's a Defi app that has $10 billion locked and then that gets drained. I wouldn't, and I don't think most people, pretty much everyone, they wouldn't expect the Ethereum consensus layer to do anything to alter that, to alter that, that hack to bail it out. And we shouldn't expect the same thing. Or I guess like people building restaking services and other such things shouldn't expect the same thing if something was to go wrong there. And same with l two s as well.
00:09:03.113 - 00:09:42.064, Speaker A: So that's, that is my interpretation of italics post here. You can obviously give it a read for yourself to see the things that you to say, what your interpretation of it is. And I think the most important thing is also how this all feeds back into Ethereum's credible neutrality. Because Ethereum has had to work really, really hard, I think, since 2016 to get back that kind of credible neutrality and to get back that trust. But I think that there's a lot of people who never came back to Ethereum because of that. You know, there's the whole people who went to Ethereum classic. There are a lot of bitcoiners who are originally interested in Ethereum, and then the dow kind of thing happened and they lost interest in Ethereum because of that.
00:09:42.064 - 00:10:19.738, Speaker A: But if Ethereum, for example, is a hypothetical scenario, again, if the ethereum ecosystem was to do another bailout here for an app, let's just say that defi example, if, let's just say it was exploited for 10 billion, and the ethereum community got together and said, okay, well, this is really bad. We feel bad for these people. Let's reverse this. Let's do an irregular state change that would, in my mind, permanently and irreparably, uh, destroy a theorems credible neutrality. And I don't think Ethereum would ever be able to get it back. I personally, if there was something like that happening, I personally would very, very high chance that I'd probably leave a theory and go somewhere else. Not that there's anywhere else for me to go.
00:10:19.738 - 00:11:14.016, Speaker A: I don't believe any the other l one, networks out there actually live up to what I want to see from an l one. But I couldn't consciously stay within the Ethereum ecosystem if that was to happen, because that goes against the very fundamental property of Ethereum. It's credible neutrality, it's decentralization, it's settlement assurances. And if that breaks, especially now at this point where Ethereum is so big, then I couldn't consciously stay here and keep supporting a network that did that. Thankfully, I don't think that's ever going to happen. I think the only time that we would see a socially coordinated hard fork is if there was an actual security risk to the Ethereum protocol itself, not just some kind of hack of a, of a smart contract, whether it be an altura defi contract or whatever else on, on the base layer. But if there was something like attestation level censorship happening where we had to basically do a fork, where it, we wouldn't actually be doing in a regular state change, or we wouldn't actually be doing a rollback or anything like that, we would just be socially slashing the offending validators.
00:11:14.016 - 00:11:47.736, Speaker A: But to do a regular state change or rollback, that would require. That is like more than the nuclear option. That is like the, that is like the Death Star option. There's the planet destroyer, that's for sure. That is something that we shouldn't ever use. Unless it's like, if we don't use this now, Ethereum is going to die sort of thing. Right? But then even if we were to use it, what are the consequences from that? Well, you know, what happens to Ethereum's credible neutrality? There'll surely be some people who believe that Ethereum's credible neutrality has been compromised by doing that, and they'll leave the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:11:47.736 - 00:12:29.058, Speaker A: So that's why, you know, the nuclear option, there's fallout, right? The, the death, the Death Star option, there's fallout. There's, there's lots of fallout from that. But we, there are times, or there may be times, you know, it's obviously very low chance, but, and I'm talking worst case scenarios here again, but there may be times where that is, is kind of something that, that needs to be done, but in saying all of that, we don't need to use that, and we shouldn't ever use that for things like the bug on a restaking service or an l two wallet contract bridge, I should say, gets drained, or another contract gets drained. We shouldn't use it for that. That's for sure. There. But enough of my rambling here, you can go give this blog post a read to see what your interpretation of this is.
00:12:29.058 - 00:13:00.982, Speaker A: But that was generally my interpretation of the post itself. All right, so speaking of, I guess like a theorem as a network, Remy Roy here from Eats taker had a great tweet that I replied to. So his tweet was the main purpose for an ethereum validator is to, is to secure the Ethereum protocol. People have to be careful here. Making money is only a secondary result. Validators are serving the Ethereum community, not the other way around. And then I replied by saying, the entitlement that some people have around ethaking has always disgusted me.
00:13:00.982 - 00:13:46.688, Speaker A: Now, maybe disgusted is a strong word here, and maybe I should have used a different word, but that's how I feel. And then I continued by saying the Ethereum protocol will be designed for what is best for the network, not for what is best for stakers. Bottom line now, what I mean by this, and what Remy means by this as well, is that Ethereum staking doesn't exist to make you lots of money. It doesn't exist to make you lots of yield, doesn't exist to pay you out, a fixed term yield or whatever, anything like that. The whole purpose of ETH staking or Ethereum's proof of stake incentives mechanism is to secure the network. And so first and foremost, the security of the network, the health of the network, the resiliency of the network is the thing that the community and the Ethereum ecosystem should care the most about. Now, of course, if the APR gets too low, there's going to be a lot of people who don't want want to stake.
00:13:46.688 - 00:14:27.782, Speaker A: The reason, I think a big reason why we're seeing so much eat staked right now is because the APR is relatively high, right? Especially when you account for execution layer rewards. You know, it can be like six to 8% or something like that over the last month because the fees have been high, right? And that is an amazing yield on your ETH, don't get me wrong. But if the yield was like 2%, then obviously there'd be a lot less people interested in staking their ETH. But the thing about the yield is that the less people who stake, the more yield everyone else gets for staking their eat. So it does reach an equilibrium there. It is a balancing act there. Now, ideally we want as much eats staked as possible to secure the network, but there is diminishing returns of that as well, because it depends where that eat is being staked.
00:14:27.782 - 00:15:29.130, Speaker A: If it's being staked in a centralized service, then that is less valuable than someone staking their ETH as a home stake or as a rocker, pool, mini pool operator or something like that. Right? So there are various different things at play here, but there is a certain entitlement, I believe, among a certain group of stakers who think that they should be able to get paid this, you know, a high number, higher APR at all times. And that anything that would compromise that or anything that would reduce that APR is something to be shunned or something to be rejected. And there are, there is one big thing here around MeV, which is the MEV burn proposal. And I've already seen people complain about and say that, oh, you know, Mev Burn would mean that we'd lose the MEV lottery that stakers currently get to enjoy. I'm like, okay, yes, but the thing is, is that most MEV is actually toxic and leads to toxic externalities on the network, such as the censorship that we saw with the relayers, such as sandwich attacks and such as compromising Ethereum's decentralization. Those sorts of things stem from MEV.
00:15:29.130 - 00:16:22.738, Speaker A: So really, if we don't handle MEV, if we don't fix the issue with MEV and eliminate as much of it as possible, the logical conclusion is that the Ethereum network just eats itself alive anyway. And then who cares if you're getting AP 8% APR, if the ethereum network is just, is just not dead, but like, he's just losing relevance, losing dominance, and people are just migrating away from it. So you have to think about the long term effects of all these sorts of stuff here. And I just don't think people do sometimes. And also on the MeV lottery front as well, if you're a solo staker, right, and you have, let's just say you have one validator and you want to get one of those 100 ethanol blocks that you see proposed. Sometimes it really is a lottery, because the chances of you proposing that block as a single validator, even if you have like ten or 20 validators, the chances of you proposing that block are so small that you would probably be better off playing the lottery, to be honest. Right? Because think about it.
00:16:22.738 - 00:16:58.506, Speaker A: Even if that, if there was one of those blocks every week, right? And that, and that doesn't happen, it doesn't happen every week. Let's say for argument's sake, there was one of those blocks every week, right? So you have to propose that block, 100 ETH block, and you'd have to be chosen to propose that block out of the, I think, is over 50,000 blocks that get proposed each week. Right. And if you've only got one validator, I think your chances of proposing that block would be 0.005% per week. And as I said, it doesn't happen every week. So if you do it every month, you can divide that by four.
00:16:58.506 - 00:17:35.727, Speaker A: If I'm doing my math correctly here, your chances would probably be 0.0015% or something like that. So is it really worth it to compromise Ethereum's long term health security resiliency because you want to play the MEV lottery? No, I don't think it is. And I think that the MEV burn is a better way to accrue value to you anyway. Because logically, the dwindling eat supply and a supply that is more deflationary gets burned more and more means that ETH becomes more valuable. So it's actually better because you hold ETH as a staker, so you're accruing value from that rather than trying to win a lottery. So that's, that's the way I view it anyway.
00:17:35.727 - 00:18:08.102, Speaker A: But yeah, I just think there's a certain entitlement around the APR, which they, which there really shouldn't be, because as Rami says, yeah, validators are serving the Ethereum community, the ethereum network, not the other way around. You know, Ethereum does eight. Staking does not exist to give you the maximum apron. If you want to do that, there are plenty of other ways to do that within the crypto ecosystem. Obviously, various risks associated with it. But definitely don't write like, don't count on over 5% APR, to be honest, being the norm on e staking for very long. I really don't think that's going to last very long.
00:18:08.102 - 00:18:55.242, Speaker A: I think there's going to be way more ETH staked. I think that eventually mev burn or some kind of similar mechanism is going to be, is going to be implemented in the network and yields will probably fall two to two to 3% or something like that. And if that, if you're not happy with that, right, as a vanilla staking ETH yield, you can get your ethan, go somewhere else. But the thing is, is that lsds and restaking actually change this calculus a lot. Because if you're staking your ETH, right, and you have an LSD, whether it's reth or, or whatever else, you can then use that somewhere else to earn even more yield. So maybe you're only earning two to 3% from the Ethereum protocol, but maybe you're earning three and 4% on top of that somewhere else. Maybe you're lending out your lsts, or maybe you're using them as collateral and borrowing against it to do leverage staking.
00:18:55.242 - 00:19:35.510, Speaker A: Yes, there's more risk, but that's what you want. What you get. If you want more APR, you have to take on more risk. So yeah, that's a little, little bit of a rant, I guess, about staking generally. And I just want to set that expectation that ETH staking does not exist to give you maximum APR, it exists to secure the network and it always will exist in that, in that kind of frame. All right, so Ben Edgington has announced that he has put together his definitive account of deposits and withdrawals on in his upgrading Ethereum book. So you can kind of give this a read to see how deposits and withdrawals of ETH stake works, basically.
00:19:35.510 - 00:20:24.074, Speaker A: And there are different sections here. On the left hand side you can see making a deposit, the deposit contract, deposit processing, withdrawal. So if you were ever interested in learning a lot more about how deposits and withdrawals work on the beacon chain, you should definitely check out this section of Ben Edgington's upgrading Ethereum book, which, mind you, is, I guess, like I've mentioned this book before, but it is going to be, it currently is, but he keeps adding chapters over time. But once it's complete, I believe it's going to be the absolute definitive guide to the Ethereum beacon chain and everything that makes it tick and makes it work and how everything plays in with each other. So I'm very much looking forward to this being completed because I hope Ben is planning to do a physical version of this book because I would buy the shit out of that. And I definitely think he deserves to be rewarded for all the work that he's doing here. So I would love to support him that way as well.
00:20:24.074 - 00:21:10.788, Speaker A: But anyway, go check out this part of the book. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so over the weekend we saw a governance attack on tornado cash. So apparently an attacker was able to get themselves a lot of votes to take over to NATO cash governance. And I think that they redeployed the governance contract or some kind of contract to Ethereum that allowed them to or will allow them because it's a seven day time lock, I believe, to steal a bunch of funds. Now from my understanding, they are not able to steal funds that exist in the, in the tornado cash pools or at least most of the pools, it's just in the governance pool itself. And I think that it comes as probably no surprise that these attacks happen when there's obviously economic value on the line.
00:21:10.788 - 00:22:09.770, Speaker A: And as I said before, this is why I'm very bearish on just vanilla on chain governance voting because you can just acquire the tokens whether you buy them or borrow them or whatever, and you can overtake these protocols quite easily and it depends on how the protocol is set up. Now thankfully, tornado cash, the actual mixing pools and things like that, actual mixer is immutable, can't be changed, and is not controlled by governance. But other parts of the toneticash protocol are. And that's exactly what the, what was, what happened here. Now I believe Samsung actually has a another longer thread that I don't have up right now that I can, that I can bring up that goes, goes through exactly what happened here, which you can find on his Twitter profile. But yeah, that essentially that's the TL doctor, is that the Tornado cash protocol itself is, I believe, fine, the mixing part of it, but the governance is, seems pretty balked right now, which is obviously unfortunate to see, but a consequence of having on chain voting. Now, in saying that, I want to talk a little bit about on chain voting.
00:22:09.770 - 00:22:46.170, Speaker A: So I'm not like totally bearish on just all on chain token holder voting. I am just very bearish on the vanilla token holder voting where essentially what I mean by that is where you have the tokens. You either vote using the tokens or you have to stake to vote using those tokens, but that's all you have to do. There's no reputation attached to it. There's no kind of like NFT based, I guess, verification of who you are attached to it. There's, there's nothing, right, there's just the tokens and that's it. Which I think is just a very bad way of doing on chain governance because it can lead to these attacks.
00:22:46.170 - 00:23:28.152, Speaker A: It means that anyone can have the same voice as someone else who is really, or even more of a voice as someone else who's really active. So for example, let's say that you're super active in a DAO's governance, but you don't have many of the tokens. Well, unfortunately, if it's just using token holder voting, just vanilla token holder voting, then your voice doesn't really mean much. And obviously there's, there's delegation as well where people can delegate to you if you are actually a good steward of the protocol. But again, someone else can't just come in with a lot of tokens, they can either buy it or borrow it and end up having more voting power than you just because of that. So that shouldn't be the case at all. What should happen is that there should be on chain reputation systems that are based on, on chain attestations.
00:23:28.152 - 00:24:15.284, Speaker A: And this is what the attestation, the Ethereum attestation service or EAS is trying to do. And they're partnered with optimism to do this as well. And optimism is actually one of the leaders here in doing not just token holder voting and governance, but doing more than that, like with their badge holders and doing stuff with attestations. But that's the kind of stuff that you need to do. Because in that world, the person who comes along with the tokens that they bought them or borrowed them, they don't really have much power. But the person who may have less tokens delegated to them, but have like a really good reputation because they've been involved with the governance process for a long time, they've been involved with the project and community for a very long time and they've gotten that power based on merits. Well, their voice is worth a lot more and they can, and they can override someone trying to attack the protocol, even if that someone has a lot of tokens or a lot of votes delegated to them.
00:24:15.284 - 00:24:48.248, Speaker A: So I want to see more of that, unless of these just shitty vanilla kind of token holder voting, because I'm just very bearish on that and I don't think that it's something that can work long term. But anyway, you can check out Samsung's profile, he'll have a tweet thread about this. We can dive deeper into exactly what happened here. All right, so bedrock is around the corner. The major upgrade that it's been coming to, the optimism network for quite a while now. I believe June 6 is the main net date for it, if I remember correctly here. And they put out a blog post around their multi proof design in the op stack.
00:24:48.248 - 00:25:45.619, Speaker A: So I've talked about this before and about how the op stack is, has been built with bedrock to be multi proof, which means that it's not just limited to fraud proofs or the proofs that are used in optimistic roll ups, but it can also be expanded to things like validity proofs which are used within ZK rollups. Now, I remember telling you guys about this a very long time ago. It probably goes back to as early as 2021, where I said that optimistic roll ups or any roll ups really are not limited to just using fraud proofs. They can also use validity proofs and really any other proof schema out there that proves to be, proves to be better than, I guess, like fraud proofs, because fraud proofs, they're cool, but they're not the best. I think the best right now that we have are validity proofs, but we can probably do better eventually. Maybe there's some other thing that comes along. Well, that's what op stack is being built to do, and that's exactly what arbitrum has done as well with nitrogen.
00:25:45.619 - 00:26:31.584, Speaker A: That's what a lot of these other platforms are trying to do as well. There's a lot of these other roll ups is that they're trying to be modular in their, in their approach to proofs so that they're not just locked down to using fraud proofs or using validity proofs in case something better comes along. They want to be expressive. They want to be able to use anything. And that's why I've said before that optimistic roll ups, like optimism and arbitrum are going to have a really easy time changing over to becoming, you know, ZK roll ups by just using validity proofs, because they are being built that way. And as I said, I have been saying this since 2021, where people back then were telling me, hey, isn't it really bearish that optimistic roll ups are going live now, but they're going to be obsoleted by ZK roll ups? And at the time, I said two key things. I said, I don't think so because the ZK roll ups are still pretty far away.
00:26:31.584 - 00:27:22.990, Speaker A: And I think that arbitrary and optimism are going to be able to grow pretty good network effects and a pretty good ecosystem in that timeframe, which they both have, especially arbitram, of course. And then two was that fact that the optimistic roll ups aren't tied down to using fraud proofs. They can also use validity proofs and anything else because they can be built that way. So great to see that this has played out, and great to see this blog post from Op Labs, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so just dispelling some FUD here. So I saw, I guess, a bunch of people talking about some terms of service that were, that you have to agree to when you use metamask, which, as you all know, is a consensus product. So in the terms of service, it basically said that Metamask reserves the right to withhold funds due to tax obligations.
00:27:22.990 - 00:28:09.066, Speaker A: Now, this had nothing to do with metamask itself. Metamask does not collect taxes on crypto transactions, as consensus says here, and they've not made any changes to their terms to do so. And the reason why they can't do this is because Metamask is a non custodial wallet. It does not ever get any custody of your funds, even when you use inbuilt metamask features like Metamask swap. Now, the reason why those terms were in their terms of service, were for other products that consensus offers, such as, as they say here, the tax section in our terms of service falls under the fees and Payments section, and it exclusively pertains to products and paid plans offered by consensys. For example, Infuria has credit card developer subscriptions, which includes sales tax. So again, has nothing to do with Metamask, had to do with consensus as other products.
00:28:09.066 - 00:28:40.970, Speaker A: Please, for the love of God. Whenever you see people talking about this sorts of stuff and spreading this stuff, check your sources. Don't just go off what some random person yelling on Twitter is saying. You need to check your sources. And the same goes for, really, anything in this ecosystem. I mean, I spoke about the ledger stuff last week and how I believe that was pretty, pretty overblown. But also there was a lot of clickbait happening, a lot of engagement farming happening, and people who just wanted to get those sweet, sweet, you know, likes on Twitter, and that sweet, sweet engagement on Twitter when the reality of the situation was a lot more benign than I think people made it out to be.
00:28:40.970 - 00:29:22.472, Speaker A: Not saying that Ledger didn't screw up their communication was absolutely shocking. And the fact that many people believed that the private key couldn't be exfilled was unfortunately completely wrong. That is all, you know, totally fine to get angry about that, but I think where it got stupid was that people were saying that ledger rugged everyone and everyone's hardware wallet was now unsafe, and all that other stuff went in reality, it really wasn't right. We're not at that point. Maybe we, maybe at some point it gets to that point because the firmware is closed source, we can't see what's going on. As I said last week, maybe it can eventually get to that, that point, but so could it with pretty much, like, everything. And I think that the grand irony is that a lot of people who are complaining about ledger stuff, I can.
00:29:22.472 - 00:30:16.876, Speaker A: I mean, I don't have any definitive proof of this, but I can bet that a lot of those people hold their funds on centralized exchanges anyway, right? And maybe they hold someone, a hardware wallet. But I feel like a lot of people would hold their funds on centralized exchanges for various different purposes. I bet a lot of them held their funds on FTX, right? So the outrage that I see about just these things generally on social media, I think nine times out of ten most people are just doing it for for engagement farming, for those sweet, kind of like endorphin fueling social media points. But really at the end of the day, just always check your sources because their source and the reality of the situation is often a lot more boring than the talking heads on social media would have you believe. But anyway, you can check out consensus's full thread about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, finally here, just a quick shout out to the new extension from ETH.
00:30:16.876 - 00:31:00.740, Speaker A: So ETH XYZ has put out a chrome extension here that allows you to view various different things about Ethereum. So there are network stats so you can see things like the price, the total supply of ethanol, gas, fees obviously staking and withdrawal. So you can see the current deposit queue, total validators or things like that. There's links to various Ethereum dashboards, there's an address book and I think a few other features on here. Now, I have this installed right now, but I don't know if this is going to show up. No, it doesn't show up when I click it here, but I've been using this the past couple of days and it's been really cool just to have quick access to a lot of different things that I usually have access to that I usually check in the normal way and I'm just reading it right now. As I said, you can't see it on my screen, but I'm just reading the staking and withdrawals page right now.
00:31:00.740 - 00:31:24.198, Speaker A: Guys, there is 65,000 validators in the entry queue and only 15 in the exit queue. This is crazy. Absolutely crazy. I still can't get over this. I actually put out a tweet that I don't have up over. I put it out over the weekend where I said I knew people were going to be wrong about Ethereum withdrawals being bearish for estaking, but I didn't expect them to be this wrong. And the Ethereum ecosystem just continues to surprise me.
00:31:24.198 - 00:31:38.702, Speaker A: And to me that's bullish. But I mean, I'm always bullish, so take that with a grain of salt. But anyway, you can go check out this extension. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:31:38.702 - 00:31:44.134, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
