00:00:00.570 - 00:00:20.874, Speaker A: Good morning. It is Thursday, which is unusual because normally do first look on a Wednesday. If you don't know what first look is, it's our unboxing series. Today we're taking a look at Tracer's perpetual pools, not to be confused with perpetual swaps. What is that all about? Why could you possibly use it? We'll get into all of that after these messages from our sponsors.
00:00:21.002 - 00:00:53.350, Speaker B: Don't their high gas costs keep you out of Ethereum? A balance has a gas optimized vault architecture lecture makes trading cheaper than anywhere else. Liquidity providers can optimize their fee earnings using the dynamic fee system that automatically adjusts to market conditions. You can also use asset managers to lend out idle assets, dramatically increasing your capital efficiency. And because balancer is an open platform for flexible automated markets, you can choose from stable pools or weighted pools. And in the future more designs will be created that they don't even know about yet. Check it out at balancer Phi Ava. Or is it Ava?
00:00:53.430 - 00:00:54.490, Speaker A: I think it's Ava.
00:00:54.570 - 00:01:22.200, Speaker B: Fun fact, that name is taken from the finnish word for ghost. But there's nothing mysterious and weird about Ava. It is in fact a decentralized, open source and non custodial liquidity protocol on Ethereum. Depositors earn interest by providing liquidity to lending pools, while borrowers can obtain loans by tapping into these pools with variable and stable interest rate options, deposit in Arva protocol and receive a tokens which accrue interest every second right in your wallet. Seriously, you can watch your balance just going.
00:01:23.930 - 00:01:24.822, Speaker A: Every second.
00:01:24.956 - 00:01:40.022, Speaker B: Swap any of your deposited assets at any time to get the best yields on the market and for the devs out there, ava features access to defi building blocks like flashstones and credit delegation. Ava protocol liquidity pools are now available on Ethereum and the sidechain polygon.
00:01:40.166 - 00:02:32.382, Speaker A: So here we go, we're taking a look at Tracer's perpetual pools. And to start with, we should look at what Tracer actually is. Well, Tracer is a dao, and it's a dao whose main purpose is to create financial products, particularly derivatives products that leverage blockchain technology to provide censorship resistant market connectivity, powering the next generation of finance. So it's an ecosystem of different financial products. You've got MMs, you've got futures, you've got perpetual swaps, you've got prediction markets. And there's just a bunch of people connected to that who are experts in one particular part of it could be designing smart contracts, it could be working with oracle feeds, it could be just defi traders who are very advanced at what they do, they can all plug into the tracer Dao, contribute to contracts and to products that the DAO is putting out. And once the contract has been deployed, it's completely permissionless, unless it's been designed not to be.
00:02:32.382 - 00:03:15.302, Speaker A: But fundamentally you can't change it and anyone can interact with it. That's kind of profound. That's what tracer is all about. So one of the fun things that I discovered with tracer is their perpetual swaps contract was audited by Sigma prime. Now that may not mean anything to you, but Sigma is probably the most noteworthy auditor anywhere in the blockchain space. If you get your contracts audited by Sigma prime, not only does it take a very, very long time, and not only is it very, very expensive, but they're the best. That doesn't mean that they're bulletproof by any means.
00:03:15.302 - 00:03:49.442, Speaker A: But if you see Sigma prime, it's a pretty good sign that whoever's behind the project knows what they're doing and is prepared to pay for the best people in the business to audit their contracts. One of the fun things about the contract as well is that they executed the service agreement with a digital signature that was encoded into an ethereum hash. I believe that's the first time that's ever been done. So the perpetual pool is just a way of going long or short on an underlying asset. So it could be bitcoin, it could be ethereum, and you can use leverage as well. Here's the thing. You can't be liquidated.
00:03:49.442 - 00:04:18.094, Speaker A: And how is that possible? But we'll get into that in a bit. It is somewhat complicated. It's also fully collateralized. So whatever's behind the contract is fully collateralized. So it's USDC in this case. So the USDC is in the pool, it's there, it's fully fungible. So you can create tokens, long or short tokens, and then you can take those and interchange them one for another, and you can also stake them and swap them on uniswap and trade them on the secondary market.
00:04:18.094 - 00:04:41.498, Speaker A: And it's perpetual. So this contract never expires. It just continues for as long as you want it to continue, which is up to you. So here's how it works. You have essentially a financial contract between those who want to go long and those who want to go short. And that financial contract determines the transfer of value between the longs and the shorts. And this is based on an underlying price fee.
00:04:41.498 - 00:05:10.590, Speaker A: We'll get into where that price feed comes from later on. So you have a long side, which is represented by an l token. You have a short side, which is represented by an S token. And the value of these particular tokens is determined not by a price feed, no, but by the proportion of the collateral held in each side of the pool. So you can imagine the market right now is bullish. So people are going to want to go long. So there'll be more collateral in the long side.
00:05:10.590 - 00:05:46.940, Speaker A: That means there's less collateral in the short side. That is what determines the price of these tokens. So if there's more collateral in the long side, the price of the token goes up, and if there's less collateral on the short side, the price of the token goes down. Now, periodically, the value is rebalanced between the two sides of the pool, and that's usually, I think at the moment, it's every 60 minutes. And that basically mimics leveraged exposure. And that transfer is determined by something they call power leverage, or p. So that's how that works.
00:05:46.940 - 00:06:15.510, Speaker A: So let's say, for instance, you have the BTC USDC pool. So if the BTC price goes up, the short side then has to pay out their collateral to the long side to represent that price increase. And so that token price appreciation acts basically like traditional leverage. So that's how that works. Then the power leverage itself. This is the really clever part. The amount of side gets from the other side is known as the value transfer.
00:06:15.510 - 00:07:02.114, Speaker A: And power leverage is how they calculate that value transfer. So power leverage basically amplifies a pool's value transfer relative to the price change. And this is different from traditional leverage, where it's linear. So when the value transfer is a multiple of the price change, and it's linear. Here, let me get this right. The transfer is one minus the inverse of the price change to the power of a set leverage, which means that a side can never lose 100% or more of its collateral. So if you imagine in a traditional perpetual swap, you can be completely liquidated if the leverage exceeds how much you've actually got in the contract itself.
00:07:02.114 - 00:07:37.946, Speaker A: That can't happen here. And how does that work exactly? Well, it all comes down to the rebalancing rate. So you might be familiar with funding rate on Bitmex. If the BTC contract is trading above the spot price, then it's determined as positive and longs pay shorts. And the inverse is true if the price is trading below the spot price, and that's designed to bring the price back in line, and it creates profits for one side or another. And it's designed to gamify the system and make it all work. So here's how it works in tracer.
00:07:37.946 - 00:08:38.226, Speaker A: In the case where long and short collateral is at parity, so you've got an equal amount of longs and an equal amount of shorts, an X percent transfer from one side will equate to an x percent gain for the other side. So that's when everything is completely perfectly balanced, which never happens. So in the case where that isn't the case where long and short collateral is not equal, an X percent transfer from one side will not result in an X percent gain for the other side. So it's not a zero sum game. This is really important. So, for instance, if the pools are imbalanced and price goes up by x, the short side, let's say that the long side goes up, the short side doesn't automatically pay instantly into the long side, there is a rebalancing rate. And this is essentially saying, for instance, if the short side of the pool has less collateral than the long side, then they get a favorable rebalancing rate, which means that they're not penalized as heavily for being under collateralized as they would be under normal market conditions under a linear market.
00:08:38.226 - 00:09:41.870, Speaker A: So you can see in the graph here what happens in a linear market. This green dotted line would be where the price goes up, and where you would expect, if you have long exposure, to see those gains go up. But what happens is that the rebalancing rate pushes the curve on that profit line down and pays it off to the short side. See where I'm going with this? So it means that as the line goes up and as it goes steeper and steeper, the price deviates from where you went in. Then this will actually flatten off to a point where it no longer goes up as the rebalancing rate goes up to compensate, which means that the short side can never be liquidated, it can never be fully taken out of the game. So that's a fairly profound. I mean, you can still lose a lot, but you're not going to get completely alihilated, which is one of the worst things about trading leverage on bitmakes, having your whole stake just liquidated.
00:09:41.870 - 00:10:18.962, Speaker A: So what is the difference with perpetual swaps, which you might be familiar with from BitMex? Well, those are instruments that aim to track exactly the price feed at all times, forever. And the mechanism that ensures the instrument is tracking the price feed is the funding rate. So the funding rates penalize the side, which has the highest demand. So as demand goes up on one side, that funding rate then incentivizes the other side of the market. See where it's going. But in contrast, perpetual pools are instruments that magnify exposure to an asset based on the change in its price feed. So they don't aim to track the price.
00:10:18.962 - 00:10:59.514, Speaker A: Instead they have this power, leverage returns. So you get this instance like this, where as the market deviates further and further from where you went in, it heavily incentivizes the other side of the market to come in and play, so everything balances out and the whole system doesn't collapse under its own weight. Price feeds, well, that's Chainlink. By now, I think everyone should be fairly comfortable with Chainlink. What they do, who they are and how trustworthy they are. It's probably the most used price feed and price oracle anywhere in crypto. And then the rebalancing process, well, at the end of 60 minutes, the pool has to be rebalanced.
00:10:59.514 - 00:11:33.194, Speaker A: And this means that if the price of bitcoin has gone up, then longs need to be paid for that. And that's done via keepers. So they have to actually interact with the contract to trigger the rebalancing. And this is done by keeper bots. If you're familiar with bots from liquidations in maker, same kind of thing. They just look at the price feeds and determine whether it's worth creating a keeper event, a rebalancing event, and then they jump in and obviously they get paid for it. So that's how that works.
00:11:33.194 - 00:12:00.930, Speaker A: So let's have a quick jump in and have a look at the perpetual pools themselves in operation. One thing to bear in mind is this is all running on arbitrum. So if you want to take a position in the perpetual pool, you're going to have to bridge assets over from Ethereum to arbitram. It's pretty straightforward. The documentation on tracer is actually pretty good. They have some nice blogs here that you can find, but let's just jump into the pools themselves. I actually loaded this up earlier.
00:12:00.930 - 00:12:40.942, Speaker A: There we go. So here's the mint and burn page. So if you have USDC, you can mint for instance, into the ETH USDC contract. So you get at the moment one degree of power leverage, or three degrees of power leverage, but there will be two, three, five and ten. And you can see here the token that you would be buying is one L, which means one power leverage long on the ETH USDC USD contract. And you can see here that there's a counter which is going down. And it says, if you buy this now, you will receive it in five minutes.
00:12:40.942 - 00:13:08.022, Speaker A: And literally the moment that happened, it jumped to 1 hour and four minutes. The rebalancing period is 60 minutes, but there's also a front running period. So five minutes before that rebalancing period starts, you are no longer able to buy a contract. And we literally saw it happen right there. So that's to avoid people piling in at the last minute and swamping everything and knocking everything out of balance. So we literally saw that happen right there. If we wanted to go short, we can also go short.
00:13:08.022 - 00:13:47.426, Speaker A: So you see the symbol changes to red and it becomes a one s, and that's minting a token. So you drop USDC in, you mint the token that you want and we can look at where the price is. For instance, you can also redeem those tokens for the underlying USDC. So you do that on the burn side of the market, that would take them off the market. And here a one S ETH USD token would cost you ninety seven cents, and that's what you would receive back. If we look at the browse side of things, hopefully that'll load up. We can see what's going on here, which will give us an idea of the balancing rate and where the market is currently sitting.
00:13:47.426 - 00:14:23.566, Speaker A: So if we look at the one L, so that's leverage of one on the BTC long, we can see that the rebalancing rate is zero and it's heavily favoring the short side, which means everybody is long. Total value locked up in it is $5.3 million. And you can mint or you can burn here you can also get an idea of the price of the individual tokens. So one long ETH is 1.1 cent, which means the ETH market is pretty well balanced. I think people are more bullish on bitcoin at the moment by the looks of it.
00:14:23.566 - 00:15:12.078, Speaker A: So you can see that the bitcoin price is zero point 85 on the short side. If everything was imbalanced, both of these tokens would cost a dollar. That's just the way it works. So you can see how that all works out. And one final thing is these tokens can be staked for rewards. I can't actually go ahead and show you how that works at the moment, but one strategy you could use, for instance, if you wanted just to take the staking rewards, is you could say, for instance, take $5,000 on the short side, $5,000 on the long side, take those tokens out, stake them, and then you would get the staking rewards. And because your long and short exposure is net zero, you're just taking out the staking rewards and off you go.
00:15:12.078 - 00:15:49.770, Speaker A: Otherwise you can hedge your exposure. You could also take advantage of arbitrage opportunities if you're sophisticated enough to set up some bots to do that. But one other thing up here which I didn't do, which I should have done, because as a DeFi power user, this is the first thing you must do. Dark mode. I mean, who doesn't like dark mode? So that's tracer perpetual pools. One other thing I noticed there's a position accounting spreadsheet that you can go ahead and discover. Just try out some positions on a spreadsheet and see how they would pay out for you.
00:15:49.770 - 00:16:14.890, Speaker A: I will leave a description a link to that in the description below, but that's basically it for today. That was first look at tracer perpetual pools. As always, don't forget to check out thedefian IO for more information of the written word sort, do check out the other tutorials. And coming up Friday, we've got pack part three and that's it for today. Any suggestions you have for things we should take a look at in first look drop them in the comments. I will see you on the next one. Peace.
