00:00:00.200 - 00:00:07.926, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Paraswap, the leading aggregator to find best prices across various Dexs. You'll hear more about them later in the show.
00:00:08.110 - 00:00:46.634, Speaker B: Bitcoin is this wild thing that has never existed and couldn't actually exist until we had the combination of these ideas with the technology, with the cloud, with the global Internet, with all these people that, for whatever reason, ended up looking at this, going, this is really exciting. And so now you have this network. Nothing like this has ever existed before. So the question is, what's the value of that? And I don't know. I have a good imagination. I don't know what the right value should be placed on the most secure network in the history of humanity. And I also know that bitcoin evolves, but slowly.
00:00:50.574 - 00:01:32.334, Speaker A: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Empire. I am joined, per usual, by my co host, Santiago, and a very special guest today, Eric Peters, the founder and CIO of Oneriver Asset Management, one of the leading institutional investment firms at the forefront of digital assets, founded in 2013, maybe 2014. Eric can correct me if I'm wrong. They are very well known for many things, for leading in the space. But one of the big things that got one river on a lot of people's radars, including my own, was their $600 million, uh, purchase of bitcoin, uh, back in, what was that? November of 2020. I want to say, Eric, right around the election, if I remember correctly. Okay.
00:01:32.374 - 00:01:34.934, Speaker B: Yeah, just. Just after. Right after the election.
00:01:35.014 - 00:01:40.238, Speaker A: Yeah, I think. I think that was the biggest bitcoin public bitcoin purchase of all time. Is that right?
00:01:40.406 - 00:01:41.742, Speaker B: Yeah, it was amazing.
00:01:41.798 - 00:01:43.750, Speaker A: So, Eric, welcome to the show, my friend.
00:01:43.942 - 00:01:47.846, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you. It's great to. Great to be here. I appreciate the opportunity.
00:01:47.910 - 00:02:17.124, Speaker A: It's great to have you. So we are going to dive really deep into just your current framework around bitcoin ETH, all things digital assets, how you're seeing things. But actually, I'd love to start with the macro. There's a recent interview that Stanley Druckenmiller did with one of the Collison brothers, and Druckenmiller said that this is one of the hardest periods in time that he's ever gone through as a macro investor. I'd love to just get your framework for how you're seeing the macro right now.
00:02:17.424 - 00:02:46.214, Speaker B: Sure. Yes. Look, Stan's. He is one of the greats, and I agree. It's a challenging time, and I think a statement like that, I don't know how Stan is doing in markets or specifically what he's up to at the moment, but it's hard because it looks so different right now. But that doesn't mean that there are no corollary periods to this. So I've been a student of market history throughout my career.
00:02:46.214 - 00:03:47.174, Speaker B: I started in 89 as a pit trader, which is kind of an unlikely start given that my time horizon now is much longer. But I would say that throughout the entirety of my career, we've been in a market and trading and economic and policy and geopolitical paradigm that has, largely speaking, been really consistent. And that effectively came to an end with the pandemic. And it was not so much that the pandemic flipped it. It's that we had a number of very powerful mega macro trends that were driving us to kind of a point of, in a sense, high pressure or congestion, and it kind of couldn't go any further, really. And so there was going to be some catalyst that was going to catapult us into a new policy direction. And it just so happened that the pandemic was that catalyst.
00:03:47.174 - 00:04:37.144, Speaker B: And it's just interesting. It's kind of almost like the way. I don't know, I think I'm a pretty karmic person. It's almost the way kind of life and the universe lined up to give us such, after such a long period of time, to give us a catalyst that was so powerful to kind of propel us in a new direction. And what I mean by that is so, and I'm guessing that Stan is kind of thinking about this as well, is that we had decades where basically, every time we had decades of disinflation that were driven by a number of things, not to go too deep into it, but one of them was just demographic trends globally. One of them was globalization. As we opened up the world and we deepened supply chains all over the place, it just brought all these low cost workers into the global workforce.
00:04:37.144 - 00:05:40.830, Speaker B: And combination of aging in certain societies, particularly Japan at first, but then it kind of trickled over to Europe and then China. And us is actually in better shape demographically in terms of aging. But nevertheless, all these things kind of pushed inflation lower or drew inflation lower. And that allowed the central banks every time there was an economic disruption to ease aggressively because it didn't really produce significant runaway inflation, which had been the experience the 1970s. And so a lot of these trends drove us to a place where, when we came to the pandemic, interest rates were really low, inflation was really low, unemployment was really low, volatility was really low. These new policies like Kiwe acted to suppress volatility, to suppress interest rates, to do all kind of distort markets, to squeeze the last bit of stimulus out of that policy framework, and it didn't really work anymore. So you kind of knew, or we knew.
00:05:40.830 - 00:06:35.744, Speaker B: And I think it was obvious, I'm sure Stan knew that whenever the next big recession hit, there was going to need to be a big fiscal impulse. And that that fiscal impulse was going to come at a time where some of these geopolitics around, around supply chain deepening globally were already kind of starting to reverse and tensions between the US and China. So all these things were going to hit and that would, that would propel us into a dynamic where we had very aggressive monetary policy and fiscal policy in a world where globalization had crested already. And that was, it was almost assuredly going to create a new inflationary paradigm. But then COVID hit, and that amplified all these forces. It just amplified them. So now we're in this wild new world that just doesn't look like anything that, that virtually anyone has traded through.
00:06:35.744 - 00:07:03.624, Speaker B: You have to be a student of trading and economic history to recall what something like this looks like. And even then, it doesn't look exactly like the seventies. It just kind of rhymes with the seventies. So that's. So for anyone who's trading now, you're kind of like, oh, my God, this is a really unfamiliar terrain. How do I, you know, how do I navigate? And I think there are some really good ways to navigate, by the way, and thankfully, we really have for our investors and clients. But it's tricky, and it's tricky to do it, particularly at scale.
00:07:03.624 - 00:07:06.764, Speaker B: So really big investors have an even harder time than smaller ones.
00:07:07.344 - 00:07:23.368, Speaker C: That's a good segue. My question, which is how have you navigated this environment? I think now people do a post mortem and it becomes so obviously it's hindsight, it's 2020. But I'm curious how you've been navigating this environment. How did you manage risk? Because I think it's one of the hardest things to do in crypto.
00:07:23.496 - 00:07:59.744, Speaker B: Yeah. So I guess for starters, we weren't managing crypto risk before I traded personally, but we weren't managing it as a firm prior to November 2020. And I'll talk about that. But our positioning going into the pandemic was we expected a few things. We expected whenever that economic and market cycle shifted. And remember, pre pandemic, we were in the longest bull market in us history and the longest economic expansion in us history. We were in kind of rarefied territory or we were in thin air.
00:07:59.744 - 00:09:00.824, Speaker B: And yet, you know, when these things happen, and most people are not positioned that way, because if you're in the longest expansion and the longest bull market in economic history, there probably aren't that many people leaning against it because they're probably bankrupt by the time that happens. So it's inevitable that you end up with all sorts of things going on in markets and bad behaviors and levered carry and volume selling and all these kind of things that people convince themselves will continue for at least the next quarter or something, but they'll be smart enough to get out. Our positioning was pretty different. So we have products and we're positioned to be long volatility. We've got a great alpha fund that's market neutral. And truly, we really are market neutral and also make sure that we own tails. We had competitors who literally lost 100% of their money in their quote unquote market neutral strategies, and we were flat in queue.
00:09:00.824 - 00:10:04.000, Speaker B: Q. One of 2020, for instance, I was disappointed we didn't make some money, but it is what it is, and we also have. I'm a big believer that in the environment that we have entered, that systematic trend following will be one of the most successful strategies out there. And for those who don't know what systematic trend following is, we all know what price trends are. And systematic trend following is just a systematic way to position in the same direction as these medium to longer term trends. And then to the extent that you can do it across a wide universe of assets, you end up creating quite a robust strategy which can make money in bull markets and bear markets and is not constrained to any particular asset class. And so I think that one of the things that was really interesting was that the last decade was the worst decade of trend following from a Sharpe ratio perspective, for the last, say, 120 years.
00:10:04.000 - 00:10:59.404, Speaker B: The second worst decade was the 1960s, which is a period that we studied quite a bit, because some of the policy, I think errors that made in the sixties contributed to the volatility inflation of the seventies. And we thought the last decade had rhymed with the 1960s in certain ways. And so when that came to an end, it was likely we'd have a much more volatile period and disruptive period. And trend following can capture that. Because if you think about what trend is, why does a price move from point a to point b, or say from one x to three x or two x, or whatever the number is, it's because the future looks very different from today. And so if you have a period ahead where you think that there are going to be a lot of changes in the world that people don't yet really comprehend very well. And where guys like Stan Druckenmiller says, this is a really hard time to trade.
00:10:59.404 - 00:11:17.864, Speaker B: Right. Why is it a hard time to trade? In many respects, because there's probably a lot of volatility. Probably. There's a lot of uncertainty about what that future could look like. So if you have a systematic way of capturing change, that should be a really good strategy. So we came into the pandemic with that type of positioning and did very well.
00:11:19.354 - 00:11:56.770, Speaker A: Eric, I want to try to tie some of this together and turn it into a question, actually, just about the future, because I know you have a very long term view on things. Okay, so you're talking about COVID right. Western governments embarked on this new form of policy, stimulus issuing. And I think you've talked about this a lot, issuing these unprecedented quantities of bonds, and then what they would do is they would go buy that debt with money that their own central banks created. And it seems like you are studied history and your team studies economic history a lot. Anyone who has studied any sort of economic history knows that this will eventually debase the currency. So it feels like we're going into this big inflationary period.
00:11:56.770 - 00:12:30.714, Speaker A: But on the other side of that, you have these deflationary things. Long term investing is really just an identification of these large macro trends and the two biggest trends of the last couple of decades, tech advancements and deepening global trade, two probably very deflationary things. So I'm curious just how you think about, well, we're going into this very inflationary period, but there are these deflationary factors that are pushing down on that. So what are the major macro trends that you're looking at over the next 510 15 years?
00:12:31.454 - 00:13:07.032, Speaker B: Yeah, those things are true in the sense that I think, broadly speaking, deepening technology and expanding, uh, expanding global trade and deepening global trade tends to be deflationary. Um, it doesn't always have to be. So, for instance, it. It could be. Let's just to play the thought like a simple thought experiment. I just. The first thing comes to mind is, let's say Uber, right? You could say that there was a period of time where, um, Uber was deflationary because there was a lot of money that flowed into Uber.
00:13:07.032 - 00:13:52.988, Speaker B: They came up with a way to. To basically take technology, package it in a way that grabbed all these idle resources, these cars and drivers, and gave them a way to all of a sudden enter the labor force and kind of drive down the cost of public transport. By the way, I'm not an equity analyst. I don't know all the details from it, but just use that as a concept. I don't know about you, but when I take an Uber from the airport now, I don't know, I feel like I'm going to have to get student loans for my children to go to college. It's like, it's a great. I came up from LaGuardia the other day and it was almost $300.
00:13:52.988 - 00:13:56.252, Speaker B: And that's the joke, that all of.
00:13:56.268 - 00:14:12.482, Speaker A: These platforms, Airbnb is much more expensive than hotels now, right? It feels like we basically had our lives subsidized for the last decade by VC's, and now those subsidies have gone away and that the cost of these platforms that we've basically gotten locked into are actually more expensive than what they were placed.
00:14:12.658 - 00:14:52.128, Speaker B: Right. So I use that as just, I just use that to illustrate the point that some. And this is an important part of investing, and I try to do this all the time. I try to do it with my kids. I try to do it with my team. It's like, what are the things that we believe to be true that might not really be true? We should always be questioning that. It's about, you know, I love to follow what happens in quantum mechanics and super excited about the CERN particle accelerator coming back on because they're so cool, because you're looking at all these different things around the world, and we don't even know how the world really works and operates and exists.
00:14:52.128 - 00:15:24.576, Speaker B: But if you asked 100 people, is technology deflationary? They'd be like, yeah, it's deflationary. It's like, okay, I don't know, how much did your uber ride cost? Like, well, that's not really technology. It's like. But isn't it kind of. I mean, it's, you know, so the reason I. The reason I say this is, I think that. I think that there are in all things in the world and in life and everything that we see around us, there are cycles, and it could be the weather, it could be the seasons, it could be technology, it could be crypto, it could be monetary policy, it could be forms of government like it.
00:15:24.576 - 00:16:45.640, Speaker B: At least in my worldview, all of these things are part of natural systems, and natural systems go through cycles. So just because technology is often deflationary doesn't mean that it needs to always be deflationary at a certain part of the cycle. So I would observe, again, without being an equity analyst, that we appear to be in the part of the technology cycle where there have been really interesting innovations that have happened with technology and services and things like that, and they're probably sufficiently mature that the period of being deflationary may actually turn into duopolies or monopolies that create less deflation or disinflation and maybe even material inflation. And it could even be that some of these technologies were so disruptive in non economic sense because so much venture capital went in that. Again, I haven't studied the taxi market, but could it be that there are a bunch of taxi companies that just said, okay, we just give up, and so now you actually have less traditional supply? I don't know that that's true. All I know is that it costs a fortune for me to get an Uber from LaGuardia. Anyhow, big picture.
00:16:45.640 - 00:17:59.668, Speaker B: I would say that because we're not talking about this specifically big picture in terms of trends. I think that we're in a period where there is a policy choice to create inflation. And I think if there's one thing I stress that people really step back and consider, it's that inflation is not an accident, it is a policy choice. So we got to a point through this multi decade cycle where not only debts and a lot of them have been taken onto the government balance sheet, but huge debts have been accumulated, not just in the US, but globally, but also entitlements. So there has been an enormous amount of promises made to the baby boom generation who are the best advocates for themselves in the history of humanity. And they, they basically, they figured out how to make sure that they were going to have the most wonderful retirement relative to the amount of work that they put into creating that retirement that any generation has ever done. And so those bills are beginning to come due.
00:17:59.668 - 00:18:40.484, Speaker B: And so when governments globally look at their economic model, they go, okay, well, this is going to be pretty hard. We got a lot of people retiring, got a lot of people that want health care. We got a lot of people that want all these different things. And we have, relatively speaking, fewer people coming up through the workforce, by the way, all the old people own all the assets, really, which kind of makes sense because they've worked for the longest, but they own all the housing. And guess what? They put in the, you know, they've, they put in, they've advocated for themselves, so it's hard to build new housing, so their houses are way too expensive because it's hard to make supply. Like all these things happen. And now you have all these poor young kids with student debt.
00:18:40.484 - 00:19:15.322, Speaker B: How are they going to make enough money to give themselves a good life and also pay for all these old people? And it's, by the way, I think it's a complete and utter injustice generationally. But governments, by the way, now they sit there and they're like, okay, well, what do we do with that? And by the way, they're not that many things that you can do with that. So they can choose to just default on their obligations to all the old people. They're not going to do that. They could default on their own debt. We've seen the US government is not going to do that. And we saw what happened with Lehman.
00:19:15.322 - 00:20:02.330, Speaker B: No one has, at the policy and political level, no one has tolerance for defaults. So the only thing that you can do is maybe on the margin you can try to renegotiate some of your long term entitlements and then you can debase the debts that you currently have and hopefully some part of those future obligations by just creating greater nominal growth, which is an illusion. But, and it's not an, by the way, it's not an awesome solution. It's just the best of a number of difficult and poor choices. And it would be, by the way, I would suggest that as principled as probably both you guys are and as I am, if we were actually in the seats of power and we're like, okay, well, here are our choices. You probably go, let's create a little inflation. Now it could get out of control and it's not what anyone wants.
00:20:02.330 - 00:20:44.684, Speaker B: But you probably like, given those choices, they're tough choices. And so that is what's happening. So when you think about over the 510 15 year period, I think that we're going to see periods like we're in now where the fed goes, there's too much inflation. And the president, United States, who just wanted inflation, now he goes there's too much inflation and everyone in a sense pretends like they want to bring it back down. And by the way, because there are cycles, there are going to be some fast inflation cycles that it goes up a long way, then it comes down a long way and then it goes back up a lot. These things will happen. And it's all a little bit of a charade because the policy choice is clear, which is that, is that we are going to debase the currency.
00:20:44.684 - 00:21:33.850, Speaker B: Not in a while. We're not trying to create the Weimar Republic and society breaks down, but we need to rebalance the system and this is a way to do it. And it has been done through history. And what you pray, if you're the government, is that while you're doing this, that the younger people like you guys. I'm less young, but hopefully people like me, and certainly all the young people that are working their butts off at our firm are going to do things that are truly innovative, that create greater productivity in society. And so while governments are doing, governments are not innovators and productivity enhancers, but while they're debasing these existing debts and future obligations, the younger people are creating greater productivity. And by the way, that's an optimistic path.
00:21:33.850 - 00:21:41.506, Speaker B: I think that that will happen, but I think it's going to be bumpy. But that's what I see. Like looking 510, 1520 years, that's kind of what I see.
00:21:41.650 - 00:21:55.824, Speaker C: I want to go back to November of 2020 and just understand what was going through your head when you made the decision to make that purchase. I think it was 600 million, mostly BTC, some ethnic, but largely BTC.
00:21:57.284 - 00:22:37.736, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So this is, I would add in the public record is just as a general matter. We don't talk about what we do with clients, but all this is in the public domain at this stage. So we have, we work very closely with our clients. We always have as a firm. I mentioned to you how we position coming into the pandemic, and we had expected some form of debasement whenever this next cycle had. And then what we observed is like, wow, this is way bigger than we would have ever imagined in the sense that this policy response is, we're going to run a fifth at the time.
00:22:37.736 - 00:23:13.330, Speaker B: We're going to run a 15% budget deficit in the largest economy in the world, fully funded, more or less, by the Federal Reserve. So effectively creating new money in a computer and then using it to buy debt and then being spent throughout the economy, that's unbelievably powerful. That is debasement. And so the question is, what other opportunities are there? And so one of our largest clients shares the general worldview that we have. They're phenomenal firm. They're a british firm. They're led by a CIO who's one of the fellow by the name of Henry Max.
00:23:13.330 - 00:24:40.122, Speaker B: He's one of the greatest investment thinkers that I've ever met, and I've met all the greats, or most of the greats. And so that was something that we did together. And the thought was that these assets are, they're really poorly understood at this stage. So you have this brand new concept of digital scarcity, which sounds like an oxymoron really, and in many respects, it is an oxymoron, but for the fact that that the network effects around a particular protocol are such, and a particular asset is such that you actually can create scarcity of bitcoin. Even though you can create millions of different versions of bitcoin, you can create this concept of digital scarcity. There was also a recognition that a lot of things that made these assets seem difficult for institutions to touch were things that had to do with security, had to do with things like money laundering. But if when you looked at those a little bit more, you didn't have to look very closely, but if you dug into each one of those, what you discovered was it's a relatively new asset class, and just even in the last few years leading up to that, it solved a lot of these problems, like you'd solve the institutional custody issue.
00:24:40.122 - 00:26:35.864, Speaker B: So, like Coinbase, custody is just, was very safe, and all the money laundering concerns had just been. It's not that there were none, it's just that there were all sorts of things being developed that meant that that was a much, much, much smaller issue. And so when you looked at it, you're like, well, what's going to happen here, and what our strong view and our clients strong view is, what's going to happen here is that institutions are going to look around the world now that they've had to begin to adjust their mindset to this new market environment, and they're going to go, well, what do we do here? Because typically what investors had done and have done for the last 30 years is they've bought a 60 40 portfolio, which means 60% equity, 40% fixed income, or some leveraged version of that, and they dressed it up with private equity, which is just an even more leveraged version of that, or private credit, which is just all these things are really dressing up this very simple portfolio construct and adding layers and layers and layers of leverage to it. And in the new environment that we foresaw unfolding, or was at the time actually unfolding, bonds would not do a good job of protecting that portfolio against market volatility. And so all of a sudden, we thought, there is a serious shortage of very effective portfolio diversifiers in the marketplace and invest institutional investors, once they discover what those things are, they're going to clamor for them. Some of those things, incidentally, are long volatility strategies, which we happen to run trend following strategies, which, as I described, are good for that market environment. But then digital assets were this really unique expression of that gold could be something that would do well in that environment as well, by the way, and commodities.
00:26:35.864 - 00:27:23.314, Speaker B: And so these were all things that look like really interesting. The incredible thing about digital assets, by the way, was that not only should they theoretically do well in that environment, but they also have this unique optionality as this new technology platform that people don't really, most people don't really understand that well, truth be told, I didn't understand it nearly as well then as I do now. This is going to change the world. I know that now, and we're taking part in that now. But at the time it was like, and you get that for free. And so we made that investment, and by the way, we crystallized over a billion and a quarter of gains. We actually got out of all those trades and returned all of that capital over the next nine months because it just went so far so fast.
00:27:23.314 - 00:27:26.926, Speaker B: But that was our big initial entry.
00:27:26.990 - 00:28:04.294, Speaker C: Yeah, that's what I was going to go to next. I mean, I think obviously you timed it particularly well where you bought pretty much at like 13 or, you know, when bitcoin was, I believe at the time like 13,000, 15,000 entry point was, but as you said, you know, went to 60,000. And, you know, that's one of the things that I've struggled with in this space, which is coming from a venture mindset. You know, you're sort of expecting this to be a 510 20 year trajectory to truly kind of change a lot of things that are wrong systemically with, with the world. But the problem is crypto markets. What you think can happen in ten years happens in three months or six months. And managing risk is super difficult, especially when you're managing other people's money.
00:28:04.294 - 00:28:27.984, Speaker C: I'm curious, again, what was the decision to crystallize that trade? Because it sounds like you have a really long term view on the space. I guess perhaps a more precise question would be, at what point do you get back into the trade? Because it sounds like you believe in this. Your clients believe in this. You exited because you saw go up to 60,000. You say, perhaps it's prudent to take some risk off here. At what point do you get back in?
00:28:29.044 - 00:29:34.478, Speaker B: So, yeah, so what I would say is, what I've learned in markets is, and certainly, certainly our clients are extremely talented investors and have good market sense as well. What you observe in markets over time is that theres a certain cadence to them. So its not so much about levels of actual price, because, I dont know, we did, we were buying ETH around 400 ish and bitcoin at 15,000 or something like that. And so if you make double your money in a very short period of time, it seems like an awful lot of money. But if. And it is, but if the market cadence doesn't seem like it's. Like it's done its thing, you're not seeing signs of just crazy euphoria, then it could go much further.
00:29:34.478 - 00:30:30.884, Speaker B: I think what seemed to be happening at the highs is that there were signs, the types of signs of activities, like people borrowing money very visibly to then go and buy it and buy in very visible ways, to almost try to push prices higher. In a way, those are just. If you've been doing this for decades, it's rare that those types of behaviors end up being profitable. Maybe they can over ten years, but rarely over shorter time horizons. When you see really, really aggressive activities that are super public and making headlines, that tends to be a time that you want to reduce positions. And then we're in a period now where I don't think we're done with this correction. I'm not talking about bitcoin prices.
00:30:30.884 - 00:31:18.554, Speaker B: I'm just talking about cadence of correction. We're in a period where stuff's breaking. I mean, it's really breaking. Right. You had Luna. Luna was a disaster, really. And now you have these various lenders, and there's a lot of pain to come in the sense, I think the vast majority of the price declines have already happened, but now we have the slog of it's like, okay, how many? Like, how many people out there misrepresented what they were doing in a space of you guys, tell me, are there 20,000 assets out there? Some of them are really high quality and will be worth a lot more money someday.
00:31:18.554 - 00:32:24.606, Speaker B: And most of them will be worth zero. And of the ones that will be worth zero, how many people haven't really disclosed things the right way? How many lenders, not out of malice or even, it just could be just out of naivete. They just couldn't have envisioned a world where they couldn't honor their obligations. It does matter what people's intent is, but when a market crashes and the market has crashed, what is going to happen is the regulators, who have been skeptical of a lot of these things, now have to do the hard work of kind of grinding through this and seeing who are the bad actors and what were those actions that they took, and then how do we kind of cleanse that from ever happening again? And that's just a process that's not a trade. That's just a process of mourning and cleansing. That will happen, and I think that will set up this whole space for the next cycle. So I think this cycle is over like this.
00:32:24.606 - 00:32:57.796, Speaker B: The cycle that we just live through is over. What comes next will look very different, not entirely different. But, for instance, if you were an entrepreneur in this space, in my opinion, you should not be thinking about making a little tweak on something that made a lot of money in the last cycle. Well, we're going to make this teeny little improvement on it, and now it's going to be great. I think you're looking in the wrong place. It's going to be a whole new suite of things that we're gonna look. That will be great coming out of the cycle, but that's kind of how it works.
00:32:57.796 - 00:33:17.264, Speaker B: So these are the times where you need to be looking for things to buy at cheap levels and hanging back and accumulating. And really, if you're an entrepreneur, these are the times that you should be building, but build something different.
00:33:18.904 - 00:33:46.196, Speaker A: All right, everyone, really excited to share a special update from our friends at Paris swap. Paraswap has been pushing the boundaries of what is possible with Defi for years, and they just did it again. They just rolled out the first ever nFT peer to peer mobile trading app on iOS. That's right. They launched an iOS app for peer to peer NFT trading. You can buy and sell nFts with any token. They have a secure, non custodial wallet.
00:33:46.196 - 00:34:09.100, Speaker A: You've got a fiat on ramp with zero fees at all. That's all at Paraswap IO forward slash beta. Paraswap IO forward slash beta. It's a peer to peer NFT trading app on Apple. Pretty crazy thing in the iOS ecosystem. Imagine not using a platform that could literally save you thousands on gas. That's Paraswap.
00:34:09.100 - 00:34:24.112, Speaker A: Go check out the app. Go check out the native wallet to store all of your crypto assets in one place. Go get your gas refunded. Go check them out. Go download the new Paraswap NFT trading app. Paraswap IO forward slash beta. Paraswap IO beta.
00:34:24.112 - 00:34:26.128, Speaker A: Now let's get back to the show.
00:34:26.296 - 00:34:49.264, Speaker C: Related to that, I'm curious if your allocation from a ratio perspective would change between bitcoin and ETH if you were to do it today or at the time where you'd want to jump back in. Given your learning since 2020 and you've been observing it since before then, I am curious if that ratio would change or would you look at perhaps other things beyond bitcoin and ETH.
00:34:50.804 - 00:35:35.364, Speaker B: What we have done is we do have investments in this space, by the way, and our clients have investments in the space a lot smaller than it was, having returned that kind of capital. But we have investments in this space. We've developed an index, an institutional index. So we thought that that was lacking. What you find in traditional markets is indices. Well constructed institutional indices are great for a couple of reasons. Number one, for clients or investors who want kind of dispassionate exposure to the beta of an asset class, an index is a great option.
00:35:35.364 - 00:36:39.524, Speaker B: So that's why something like the S and P 500, for people who don't want to sit around picking equities or don't trust that other people are really good at that, they just invest in that. And so we wanted to create something like that for digital assets. And so that has 13 assets in it right now, it's dominated by bitcoin and ETH, although we have a size till index, which I think is the most interesting, which essentially kind of takes some of the market cap out of bitcoin, the sizing and the market cap out of bitcoin and ETH, and kind of pushes it to the other eleven assets in ways that I think will outperform just a market cap weighted index. And that index is dynamic, so it's not fixed. So based on the criteria that we've set, it'll change over time. And maybe someday it probably won't ever have 500 assets, but it will have more than 13. And some of the things that are in it right now won't be in it.
00:36:39.524 - 00:37:22.016, Speaker B: And some of the things that probably have yet to even be developed or even thought about will be in it in the future. And so that's a great way to get exposure to the space. That's a smart way of doing it. I obviously have exposure to that because it's one of our products. But yeah, I think that bitcoin and ETH, if you wanted to make a really kind of simple bet on this space, I think that there will be assets that will outperform both of those. But picking those is a very, very difficult thing, and avoiding mishaps is also a hard thing. I'd say that our institutional index avoided Luna, and that's a good thing.
00:37:22.016 - 00:38:23.330, Speaker B: We've avoided any of the real Defi types of problems as a firm. We have thought, and I have thought that DeFi, in its existing form, is not really going to exist in the major regulated jurisdictions, meaning DeFi protocols where there's no real AML KyC I don't think are long for the world. In all the major markets that matter, like the US and Europe, and you name any of the developed markets with sophisticated regulatory regimes, I think that those are not going to exist. But I think we can talk later. I think there's some amazing things that will come out of that. And I think that I have great admiration for the Defi founders and what they've developed. I think that version two, I know in crypto, people don't like talking about version two.
00:38:23.330 - 00:38:49.494, Speaker B: I think that the second act will be way bigger and way more exciting than the first act, let me put that. But I love disruptors, I love creative thinkers and entrepreneurs, and a lot of these guys are amazing from my perspective. I just think that they were right for a certain part of the cycle, and now we're in a new part of the cycle and something better will replace it.
00:38:49.534 - 00:39:18.668, Speaker C: It definitely feels like regulation is still necessary, and I think it's actually a positive catalyst, because how many institutions haven't really even touched bitcoin or ETH, because they perceive, you know, intolerable regulatory risk, you know, and I think as insofar as we get clarity, I think it will. You know, I think a lot of people have done the work over the last ten years, five years, and want to add this to their basket as an asset class. And so, you know, as soon as we get more clarity on the regulatory front, I think it's going to be super net positive for the space.
00:39:18.836 - 00:39:19.864, Speaker B: Totally agree.
00:39:20.364 - 00:39:51.102, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm curious on the defi piece, just because that's where I spent a lot of my time when I was a parafi, just investing in Defi. Is that something that you think is something that you would be investing behind? Have you invested in DeFi protocols or just using DeFi protocols for lending, borrowing purposes, or swapping purposes? Like do something uniswap? Or is that something that is part of your strategy or you see it down the road?
00:39:51.278 - 00:40:27.464, Speaker B: Yeah. So I spent a lot of time looking at all those, and just on a personal basis, very, very small transactions to understand how they work, just personally, not as a firm. And I think that they're all awesome. Really. Now, I think that their use case is super, super narrow. And I almost think some of these, I mean, not uniswap, but say, aave, I think some of these almost got created. Well, it's.
00:40:27.464 - 00:41:45.354, Speaker B: Yeah, I saw Stani speak. We were at a conference recently. You know, like, I think that they're trying to solve problems in this really dynamic world. And it's like, what do we do with these assets? And they're, how can we earn yield on it? I think they're like, I think some of these things just developed with really creative minds and people who could put that into action in ways that's just phenomenal. But the reason that as an institution, as an institutional asset manager, we haven't touched them is because I think that I and our investors always want to know who's on, not who specifically is on the other side of the trade, but that the person or the institution on the other side of the trade is not an illicit actor in any way. And you kind of can't really know that with those protocols. And so my view has been, I mean, like, we don't engage in any of these activities where you kind of go into some offshore unregulated exchange and you're, you know, you're, I don't know, we don't do anything in default for those reasons.
00:41:45.354 - 00:42:56.842, Speaker B: And they're, and they're the same reasons, incidentally, that I, that I think that now that this cycle has ended, the regulator is just not going to let those types of protocols operate. And in some cases, they can't shut them down. I'm not saying it won't operate in different jurisdictions in the world, and I'm not saying that there will be no Americans who do it, but they'll probably find that they're on the wrong side of regulation, potentially the wrong side of the law. And our clients would not, you know, we were very careful to make sure that we didn't do that for those reasons. And we protected our clients in the future because some of the things, I think one of the things that is going to happen is that there have been a lot of people that have done engaged in a lot of activities over the last few years, and regulators, they are, you know, they are not, they are not ahead of the market, but they, they continue to move. There is slow moving river and there are a lot of people that engage in things that they probably in the future will wish they hadn't engaged in. And we were very cognizant of what some of those things could be.
00:42:56.842 - 00:43:26.874, Speaker B: And so that's why we didn't operate. Also, they're just, there were security risks. Sure, you could get really high rewards, but by the way, you never get high rewards if you don't take any risk. Most people didn't really understand what all those risks are. Now, increasingly, you're starting to understand what some of those risks are people at Celsius are, for instance, but with different hacks. It was just not clear that the protocol risk was consistent with our risk tolerance or our clients tolerance. That's why we stayed away.
00:43:27.414 - 00:44:03.376, Speaker A: Eric, it sounds like you're quite long on Defi, just from a personal belief that finance will get digitized, but maybe short on the current iterations of what DeFi looks like. So maybe I'd just ask you to extend that out and say, what does DeFi look like if it's not the current iterations of AAVE compound uniswap maker? And you don't believe that maybe the current iterations of the JP Morgan's and the bad banking experiences with the bank of Americas and Wells Fargos. It sounds like it's somewhere in the middle. What does the future of? Maybe the question is just like finance look like to you?
00:44:03.560 - 00:44:55.992, Speaker B: So I think predicting the future is usually pretty hard. I think in this case, it's actually not that hard. I think that what we have discovered from the time that bitcoin appeared is that tokenized assets, and right now they're predominantly just native digital assets. But tokenized assets can be traded very quickly, very securely, with finality of settlement. That's virtually instantaneous. Obviously, it depends, and I know we're still in the early stages of some of this. You can argue about how fast is it really, and how much does it cost and what's the gas and what's this and what's that.
00:44:55.992 - 00:46:05.094, Speaker B: But basically, I think we now all know, and I say we, meaning you guys know. I know, but it's not just us. The regulators know, the people who run these banks know that we now have a new, let's call it, technology platform that allows for virtually instantaneous or instantaneous settlement. That's final. And that is, and as you imagine, what the future could look like extremely cheap, with the ability to do phenomenal reporting and track transactions in ways that that from an AML KYC, from an anti money laundering, and know your client and get bad actors out of the system standpoint, all these things come together. And as a regulator, you look at that and you go, okay, so, like, let's for a moment strip out the fact that almost everyone over the age of 50 right now spent most of their life hating bitcoin and thinking that they were all, you know, drug dealers and things like that who, who are involved. Like take.
00:46:05.094 - 00:47:41.506, Speaker B: Take bitcoin out of the equation, or take any of the unsaved reactors that may have been spokespeople. For anything like take that out, just go, okay. If I told you that we could have instantaneous final settlement with the ability to understand transactions all the way back in time, and we could have incredibly good reporting, and in a financial crisis, the regulators and counterparties could know who has what immediately. Would we or could we have a more robust financial system with less risk? What's the answer? And the answer is just unambiguously yes, we can. Okay, now, if we had a system like that that was interoperable across assets, meaning the settlement system for real estate assets and leveraged loans and equities and commodities and currencies and derivatives, imagine that all of that could operate on the same ultimate platform and system. Would the efficiencies gleaned throughout the financial system allow the financial system to operate not only faster but at a much lower cost than it does today? Is the answer to that yes or no? The answer is unambiguously yes. So now all of a sudden, if you just think of it through that lens, you now have the regulators who go, and incidentally, we're really close to them.
00:47:41.506 - 00:48:25.164, Speaker B: Jake, the former SEC chair, leads our advisory council. So everything I'm talking about is not our hypothetical. In the bubble, what does this look like? These are well informed statements that I'm making right now that are my own personal statements, but they're well informed. If you look at that and you go, okay, well, if the regulators were to look at this technology suite and go, this helps us do our job better, it creates greater financial stability, which is a huge issue because the marketplace broke down in March of 2020. The marketplace broke down in 2008. And if we're going to have the deepest, most efficient, most important financial markets in the world here in the US, things can't break. And so we now have.
00:48:25.164 - 00:49:28.854, Speaker B: So if the regulators go, that's going to help us understand where things are, it's going to prevent things from breaking in the future and more efficient, and then all the settlement across this multiple asset classes in an interoperable way is possible. Then you go to all the banking chiefs and you go, this is going to slash the costs of your operating business. You now you basically have, let me just add, the consumer looks at this and the consumer isn't going to care that his equity is a token or not a token or anything. All he's going to understand is that his ability to get well crafted financial products at a cheaper level, probably in a more customized way, because these efficiencies allow for all sorts of things to be combined in ways that are just impractical now. So the consumer has greater financial inclusion. You look at around, like everyone around the table wins. So that's why I say that is what the future will look like.
00:49:28.854 - 00:49:50.344, Speaker B: That's not hard to predict. The only thing that's hard to predict is how soon will that happen. We happen to be taking a very active role in making that happen as soon as possible. So I don't think it's going to. We're not talking about 20 years, by the way, so it's going to start happening relatively soon. And that's super exciting. So I think that's what things look like.
00:49:51.244 - 00:50:29.594, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a really good framework to look at it through. And it seems like you think that maybe there's going to be a regulatory unlock for DeFi, but it feels like that usually isn't actually how it works. When I think back to bitcoin, everyone's like, okay, the regulation needs to come around it, there needs to be an ETF. But really what it was, was Paul Tudor Jones. I feel like in July of 2020 or June of 2020, you remember he goes on CNBC or bitcoin is the fastest horse in the race. And what that did is it basically took away the career risk, meaning any portfolio manager in the world, at any hedge fund in the world can now say, PTJ is doing it. I'm doing it, too.
00:50:29.594 - 00:50:32.886, Speaker A: What does that moment look like for Defi?
00:50:33.030 - 00:51:09.192, Speaker B: I don't think it'll be the same in Defi. I think your point is a very good point, and I agree. Paul is a personal hero to me in a lot of ways, certainly is a trader, and I've always looked up to him. And so whenever he speaks, he's got great insights and great instincts. And I think you're exactly right. I think what that did, by the way, is it took out career risk for traders at hedge funds. It did not remove the career risk for portfolio managers and CIO's at large pension plans and things like that.
00:51:09.192 - 00:51:54.704, Speaker B: But it was an important step because the first, this is a unique asset that started with retail and then it went to hedge funds and then it'll eventually get to the end asset owners. And it usually doesn't go, it kind of usually goes in a different order there. But I think that the moment, I think that we won't have a similar kind of moment in DeFi that just breaks some crazy log jam. I think that it's going to happen, and the bet that we're making is going to happen. Working in conjunction with regulators. Because really what you're talking about with DeFi is you're talking about bringing buyers and sellers, lenders and borrowers together in an efficient way. And I think that the early protocols brought them together in a completely anonymous way.
00:51:54.704 - 00:52:32.916, Speaker B: And that just at its core, that's not going to work. It can't be anonymous. It can be. It can be private, and it will need to be private, because we can't have a world where if Blackrock's doing something, JPMorgan understands exactly what it is and they start front running. It won't be that, but I think that it will be by bringing the regulators on board and saying this is a more efficient way of doing it. And this is our approach. We're going to show you how and why this works in this particular market, get you comfortable there working only with institutions.
00:52:32.916 - 00:53:43.394, Speaker B: And then once, once they are comfortable and they see that you have more efficient transactions, you have instantaneous and final settlement. All the AML KYC works. There are a broad range of different partners that agree that this is in a sense a good meeting place. And they see that it works for this asset and like, okay, well, that works. And then it'll expand out to another asset and then, or another market. And then what you'll eventually see is once you get a little momentum behind that, it creates a forcing function, which is that it forces all the participants to make sure that they have the ability to settle these things, to custody these things, to risk manage these tokenized assets, whatever they may be, to report them, to deal with the tax issues, to deal with 24 7365 trading. But once a bank builds that out, think about how the way banks work.
00:53:43.394 - 00:54:42.566, Speaker B: And this is not to knock anyone who works in traditional operations group, but let's say you spent your career building out a traditional operations for one of the big banks, and you have God knows how many people working for you, and you built all these systems. It's like been your life's work in many respects. And then these other guys come along and say most of the people and most of stuff that you have is just unnecessary. You're going to look for the eight different reasons why this new technology may have weaknesses and may not be the right thing. But ultimately, once you have a guy who's running that at a bank and has had to do it because you have some, you have these defi protocol that are this newer version in this new stage of the cycle, then you actually have an advocate for both. And then the CEO gets to litigate who has the stronger voice. And if this guy has the better technology and the cheaper cost, it's going to change quickly.
00:54:42.566 - 00:55:00.286, Speaker B: And so I think the AhA moment will be when you get a few of those things happening and you get the first technology rails built out, because once that happens, then that's your Peter Thiel zero to one step. Once you get to one, it's going to go fast.
00:55:00.430 - 00:55:24.070, Speaker A: Yeah, I want to actually go back to bitcoin, which I think a lot of folks who have spent a lot of time in crypto maybe have moved away from bitcoin. They move on to ETH. From ETH, they push into defi. But I'm reading between the lines, and I still feel like you think that bitcoin is one of the most. Actually, I remember you said this. I think it was to Ted sides, maybe 2020. Bitcoin is the most interesting trade that you have seen in 30 years.
00:55:24.070 - 00:55:50.828, Speaker A: So I think maybe a two part question. A, I'm curious if, if you still feel like bitcoin, is that that quote, unquote, most interesting trade that you've seen in your career? And then, b, I'm curious about just your framework for how you're seeing bitcoin. Right. I think the narrative around bitcoin almost changes every couple of years. It started as like, money. Uh, so I'm curious if you see it as like an inflation hedge of digital gold, Internet, native money, non censorable money. I just would love to hear your framework around bitcoin.
00:55:50.996 - 00:56:31.064, Speaker B: Yeah, it was and remains the most interesting trade of my career. We obviously have been in and out of it in size. So I'd say that I think that the right way of looking at bitcoin in the most conservative way is it is a store of value. Obviously, it's a volatile one because it's still in its early stages. And so in its most conservative sense, I think that's what it is. Well, that is what it is. It's a store of value.
00:56:31.064 - 00:57:03.114, Speaker B: And I think that the whole world will become digitized. So I don't think, let's put it this way. I don't have a thousand year time horizon. I was going to say, like, in a thousand years, people are not going to be lugging gold around, you know, around the world or around the universe or whatever is if we're still around that, that's not happening. There will be digital stores of value. If, in fact, we even have a societal structure and system where people even, even need to store value. And we don't.
00:57:03.114 - 00:58:04.378, Speaker B: We just don't. It's just too far out to know. But at some point along that path, I think that people of your generation and your kids, someday, the notion that they're going to be digging up gold and it just to store value when they are, when they've grown up in a true digital world, and there is a network effect around a protocol or multiple protocols that represent sufficient scarcity that they can have confidence that if they, you know, if they put their value, I'm gonna save money. If they put their, if they exchange their work for, or they exchange other ownership of something for this particular thing, it should hold value. I think that, that's what I think bitcoin has. Has really won that. And so in that sense, it's the most conservative way of looking at it, is the store of value.
00:58:04.378 - 00:59:05.312, Speaker B: And I think it will be worth a lot more money over time, because everything I just described about how I think assets get tokenized and finance moves to this tokenized world, if you think about what that future looks like, it will mean that every financial institution will have built digital custody, digital trading rails, digital systems across the board for tokenized real estate, tokenized currencies, tokenized equities, tokenized everything. Right. And what they will. And then all of their customers will have digital wallets. And so right now, not that many people really have digital wallets. Not that many people even know how to exchange fiat for a tokenized asset or anything. We're probably not more than ten years away from virtually every person in the world having the infrastructure that allows them to buy bitcoin or ETH or anything else.
00:59:05.312 - 00:59:35.292, Speaker B: And so what's exciting to me about the value of these assets is, in that world, do you really think bitcoins we worth less than it is today? We've just had a historic leverage wipeout. I dont think so. I think the probability of that is close to zero, that its going to be worth less than it is now. I think itll be worth way more. Thats a trade. Id say thats a longer term trade. Thats how I see it.
00:59:35.292 - 01:00:48.308, Speaker B: Now, what I would also suggest, and this is why I think no one should ever really be short this asset is. I think that bitcoin is already the most secure network in the history of humanity. And some people might scoff at that because they go, well, the US dollar is because the US dollar, for instance, is backed by one of the greatest nuclear arsenals in this naval fleet and rule of law and economy. I agree the dollar is a great asset, but it's still controlled by the US government. And I am not anti government in any way. But my point is that it actually is controlled by a group or a system or an entity that could choose to devalue it in some way. Bitcoin is this wild thing that has never existed and couldn't actually exist until we had the combination of these ideas with the technology, with the cloud, with the global Internet, with all these people that for whatever reason, ended up looking at this, going, this is really exciting.
01:00:48.308 - 01:01:19.278, Speaker B: And so now you have this network. Nothing like this has ever existed before. So the question is, what's the value of that? And I don't know. I have a good imagination. I don't know what the right value should be placed on the most secure network in the history of humanity. And I also know that bitcoin evolves, but slowly. And so if you take a long view on it, could it be that over the next 20, 30, 50 years, I don't know, bitcoin, maybe less time.
01:01:19.278 - 01:02:06.850, Speaker B: Bitcoin. Bitcoin becomes this not only a store of value, but a network that is used in all sorts of ways that we can't even yet imagine as this security, as this highly secure network that other things plug into. Kind of like people look at Ethereum right now. Like, could it be that bitcoin ends up actually being the ultimate winner there? It's possible. And so if you're kind of short that I think that you really are short, human creativity, imagination, you're short all the things that you, historically, the people who've shorted those are bankrupt and you never hear about them. Like, they don't make the history books. So I think that's why you should never be short.
01:02:06.850 - 01:02:31.424, Speaker B: Like, maybe if you're short, you make some money on a trade, but you should never be short that kind of thing. With Ethereum, you might be, like, Ethereum might be one of the great winners. I would bet that it would, but it might not be. And it's going to be proof of stake, and there will only be r1 proof of work network, I believe, because it's so energy intensive, and it'll be bitcoin, and then we just don't know what it'll be worth. Um, so that's how I look at it.
01:02:31.924 - 01:03:06.944, Speaker C: So the ultimate question, look, I hate when people ask me for price predictions, but going back to a question that I asked earlier, is, at what point do you jump? But, but I'm about to, because I get to ask the questions while I'm on the podcast. And so I am curious, like, at what point do you put back risk and what do you think? What do you need to see, you know, from the fed, from the macro, from just pain in the markets to really jump back in, in size and put risk back on? Because to me, everyone that I talk to is, everyone's just sort of like, look, I'm going to enjoy the summer and not do anything and just observe because I don't feel like I'm getting paid enough to take on risk at this point. So I'm curious to get your thoughts.
01:03:07.324 - 01:04:17.266, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't like to make price predictions either, so I'll point a few things out and just tell you my framework for thinking about it. So I told you earlier that when people are borrowing a lot of money and making a lot of noise about how they're, they're buying stuff you should be selling, and when stuff doing is breaking and fed is doing quantitative easing or quantitative tightening, and, you know, markets are under a lot of stress. Those are the area, those are the times, just cadence wise to take price out of it. Like those are if you just, if you never even saw price and all you saw, all you got to see if you, you know, if you were denied price and all you got to see was cadence in terms of that type of news flow and chatter, you're in the zone where you should be accumulating. And the period that I described was one where you should be selling. And that will hold into as long as there are, or that that framework will hold as long as there are markets that human beings interact with. So we're in that zone.
01:04:17.266 - 01:05:23.812, Speaker B: I would say the things that, the things that concern me still about the market, and I don't know how to weight these, is that there, I think that lower prices could still push some people to have to sell. And that's usually markets get to a point where that's not the case. They never get to the point where there literally is not one person left in the world that a lower price wouldn't force to sell. But broadly speaking, markets usually get to that point. So if you look at, say, what the bitcoin miners are doing, these guys have been having to blow out their bitcoin holdings because they cannot get funding. I'm exaggerating it. It's becoming extremely expensive for miners or in some cases impossible to get the money that they need.
01:05:23.812 - 01:06:19.230, Speaker B: And so they are having to sell bitcoin. So we're still in a dynamic where I think the macro is actually starting to improve for bitcoin, but we still have residual businesses and traders who got themselves over levered, or we're too optimistic or have weak business models and they have to sell their collateral and or things need to get liquidated. So we're in kind of this, I think around this 20,000 level. We're in this kind of balancing area here. So I expect there to be chop and volatility. I think that it is unlikely that the Fed is going to hike rates, return to a normal, normal, there's no such thing as normal in finance. Return to the economic environment that we were in for the last 30 years.
01:06:19.230 - 01:07:15.110, Speaker B: That is, in my opinion, not happening. The Fed is hiking rates right now. They're way behind the curve. I think that the economy will weaken, inflation will come off hard, everyone's going to panic again, they're going to transition to a, an easing cycle or they're going to stop hiking. And I think that bitcoin, all else equal, will bottom before that actually happens. So if you think about what bitcoin did, it anticipated this period of monetary debasement exceedingly well, and it got way ahead of itself into the highs and then it rolled over before the Fed started quantitative tightening or even tightening or even really talking about tightening. And so it will start working its way higher before the Fed exits this policy.
01:07:15.110 - 01:08:16.074, Speaker B: And that process could be happening somewhere. Now if you look at what the futures prices are predicting, the markets saying the feds going to be using some rates next year, I think bitcoin will bottom before that. But it also then has to exhaust all of, all of the them kind of crappy positions that people still have on because of their business models and things I just described. So we're in that process probably sloppy, but as your investment advisor, and I'm not your investment advisor, but if I were advising my own self on how to trade, I would say, yeah, you should have been selling back then, and yeah, you should be accumulating in here. And yeah, you should be willing, you should to, you should size it so that you could take plenty of downside in case like one of these guys needs to get blown out on a day below 7000 or 10,000 or like anything can happen in markets. There is no buyer or lender of last resort in this market. I love these markets.
01:08:16.074 - 01:08:35.630, Speaker B: They're fiercely real and unregulated. I don't mean in the bad sense, I just mean like these are real free markets. This is probably like what trading equities was like in the late 18 hundreds. And it's pretty awesome and it's ruthless.
01:08:35.702 - 01:08:36.354, Speaker A: Yeah.
01:08:37.974 - 01:09:02.715, Speaker B: So, you know, be prepared for anything. But, like, you know, would I really care if we had. If we had a crazy spike down there and you blew people out and be like, oh, my God, that is an awesome signal because now I actually am. I'm gonna deploy a lot of capital if I see something like that. But we've seen stress, but we haven't seen that insane stress. We might not. By the way, you don't always have it.
01:09:02.715 - 01:09:06.783, Speaker B: If I see it, I'll be like, okay, we're clean, and we're off to the races again.
01:09:07.803 - 01:09:43.793, Speaker A: Eric, I want to start to wrap it up, actually, just with a thought experiment for you. I know you think on more of a five to ten year horizon, but I want to maybe take it into a two year horizon, thinking about actually the elections. So here's a potential future for you. Things look pretty crappy right now, right? We've got a war in Ukraine. We've got gas prices at $5. We've got the Fed just raise interest rates higher than they have in, like, 28 years. A potential future looks like the Fed is basically fighting inflation until November of 2022, and they are.
01:09:43.793 - 01:10:35.486, Speaker A: That it's all hands on deck for inflation. The Dems looks like they might not do too well in the elections, which kind of sets up this lame duck two year stint for Biden, in which case all hands on deck for the Dems to basically fight for the 2024 presidential elections, in which case they basically start supporting any policy that helps put money back into Americans pockets. The easiest thing to do there would be basically turn the money printer back on, which would potentially continue inflation. And basically that seems like it could wrap out this massive 80 year debt cycle. And that is like the end period of the last sentence of the book of the 80 year debt cycle. Agree? Disagree. Like that future.
01:10:35.486 - 01:10:38.754, Speaker A: Don't like that future. What do you think about that take?
01:10:41.024 - 01:11:14.322, Speaker B: I think that this period is not going to be compressed into the next couple of years. I think it's going to be stretched out over the next decade. So when you look at these periods, and I'll say that there's a tendency, and I had the stronger tendency when I was probably your age. I don't know exactly how old you are. You're at least a few years old. Younger than I am, 14. I think.
01:11:14.338 - 01:11:17.770, Speaker A: I know where you're going with this tendency to want to make predictions and.
01:11:17.842 - 01:12:03.934, Speaker B: Try to no, no to a degree. Number one, it's fun. Number two, it's important when you think about trading investing to contemplate a whole range of possible futures and then assign probabilities to them. And so that's the smart approach to. So what I'm saying is, particularly when I was younger, so I'm 55, so when I was younger, I tended to think about things as happening a lot faster than they tend to happen. And I think it's just because you care about this. So, like, you care a lot about bitcoin or digital assets, and so you spend all this mental energy honing in on something, and sometimes you see things.
01:12:03.934 - 01:12:46.868, Speaker B: You'll see things that seem obvious. And so therefore, your brain tends to compress the time that that will happen. But the reality is the world is this big, that has these big gears that grind over time. Some change happens really fast, like the pandemic, and it's incredibly disruptive for people. And people struggle to process rapid change. It's throughout, like, in any, in kind of, I wrote a piece a few weeks ago just about survival, and there's a great book on survival that I'd recommend. It's called deep survival.
01:12:46.868 - 01:13:42.024, Speaker B: And it just shows, like, how vulnerable people are to rapid change. You get lost in the woods. A lot of people just die in the first few days because they just can't, literally, their brain can't handle the fact that they just, that they got lost and they're just disoriented. So there's this. You have to be careful about kind of your time horizons when you think about things. What if you, if you kind of dispassionately step back and say, okay, I think that a political decision has been made to debase the currency, and it's a pretty, it's a pretty good choice relative to the other ones, then it allows you to step back, take a deep breath and go, okay, if that choice has been made, have there been other periods in history where choices like that have been made? And the answer is yes, how long do they tend to take to play out? They can take 20 years, by the way. They don't tend to happen in two years.
01:13:42.024 - 01:14:25.408, Speaker B: I think what we need to be prepared for is if you do the work and you put things in proper perspective and you go, do I think that this decision has been made? Because it's the least bad of all the potential decisions? If the answer is yes, which, you know, that that is my, my strong belief, then you go, this is going to happen over a long period of time. So, you know, you could be right in terms of that political dynamic. You could be wrong. But if, you know, if you're trying to trade the political cycle. That's a pretty tough thing to trade. If you get, if you get republicans in, then not a whole lot's going to happen. But if Republicans don't win, then Dems could throw a lot of money.
01:14:25.408 - 01:15:21.192, Speaker B: There are a lot of things that could happen here, but I would caution in thinking it's going to happen really quickly. The big inflations that have happened historically tend to happen in a short period of time, but they also correlate to economic systems that are deeply broken. Our system right now is stressed. Supply chains are stressed, but the economic system has not collapsed. So it is highly improbable that we have some type of wild short term inflation, but we could have a period of chronic inflation between, say, at the lows on a spike down 3%, at the highs 12%, let's just say, and evolve over a period of the next decade. And when you look back in a decade, you go, wow, my dollar is worth a lot less now than what was, than it was back then. I think it's likely that that's what this period looks like.
01:15:21.288 - 01:15:46.796, Speaker A: Yeah. I think no one knows what it's going to look like, but one thing is for certain, it feels like we're going through some massive paradigm shifts right now. Eric, this has been a pleasure. It's been really helpful, I think, for me, and just, I think hopefully the listeners, and I'm sure Santiago as well, just hearing your thoughts on everything that's going on, both in the markets today, but the bigger 510 20 year framework. Appreciate you coming on. I'm curious if there's anything else you want to share, or if not, we can wrap it up.
01:15:46.940 - 01:15:59.972, Speaker B: No, that's great. I really appreciate the opportunity, and it's great to chat with you guys. Fun discussion, and let's revisit it. I don't know. Let's get back together in 20 years, and we'll replay this and just see how embarrassing. I mean, I guess, like, if you're.
01:15:59.988 - 01:16:07.704, Speaker C: Not embarrassed, what you said, like, 1015, it's like looking at an old picture of yours and saying, my God, what was I thinking back then? And so that, that just shows that you've made progress.
01:16:08.964 - 01:16:10.540, Speaker A: Santiago, you don't want to see what I was like?
01:16:10.572 - 01:16:38.984, Speaker C: I mean, you're still wearing. Anyways, Eric, I guess, like a last question, just out of curiosity. You have years of experience ahead of us. What would you tell if you were to go back like your young trader self? I mean, if you were to go back and say, gosh, I wish I knew that much earlier in my career as an investor. What would that be? I think you mentioned a bit of that slowing down. Understand how the world works, but maybe something else that you can offer us.
01:16:39.804 - 01:17:28.344, Speaker B: So that's a, I, no one's asked that question, but I really like that question because it gets to the, it gets, gets to the heart of trading and investing, I would say, because you're asking me as a 55 year old and I started in 89, so I don't even know how old I was. You know, I'm right out of college. So I would say that. And this is reflected in kind of book recommendations I make for people. So when young, when young traders come and say, so, okay, so what should I read? And they're expecting to read, I don't know, market wizards or this or that. And I'll give them survival books. Really, I'll give them, you know, you should read about Shackleton.
01:17:28.344 - 01:17:29.976, Speaker B: Uh, endurance.
01:17:30.040 - 01:17:31.080, Speaker C: Endurance is surprising.
01:17:31.232 - 01:17:32.648, Speaker A: I was going to recommend that book.
01:17:32.696 - 01:18:18.796, Speaker B: Yeah, okay, right, yeah, yeah. You mentioned deep survival, but yeah, yeah, deep survival. You should read into the land of white death. You should read Moby Dick. I tell people and, and like, and why, and it's because what I've seen over the course of my career is that most people really fail in this pursuit. And what often happens is people survive for people rather thrive for a period of time. And then something changes either in their own psyche or they start managing too much money relative to their ability or the cycle changes or something, and then they don't succeed or they lose a ton of money or they become so enamored with their own success.
01:18:18.796 - 01:18:57.340, Speaker B: And a lot of that tends to be cycle driven. They just caught the right part of a cycle and they did a levered, carry type strategy. That's a lot of what you just seen in defi blow up. And certainly these business models, and I just look at them at this stage, just like I was talking about market cadence and like the people who engage in those activities, they're definitely going to blow up someday. I don't know if it'll be the next month or something, but they'll definitely blow up. Just like the people who are buying in this kind of environment, they're going to be the ones who actually do well if they have the discipline to be selling in another environment. And I think that this is, investing in trading is such a painful pursuit.
01:18:57.340 - 01:19:16.470, Speaker B: And my business philosophy, and it applies to our business itself. I talked to our team about this a lot, but also our investments. So just not only our firm but investments is. If you're dead, nothing good can happen to you. Nothing. You have to remember that. If you're dead, you're dead.
01:19:16.470 - 01:19:54.484, Speaker B: If you're alive, you at least can get lucky. Even if you're not good, you can get lucky. But if you are good and you're disciplined and you manage to survive and protect capital, even if you haven't been the best performer, if you have that discipline, you will have wonderful opportunities in the future, and they just keep coming. People always think, oh, my God, I have to make all my money right now. It is not true. I mean, look at, look at us. We had never invested institutionally in digital assets, and we made a billion and a quarter inside of a year on a $600 million trade.
01:19:54.484 - 01:20:59.690, Speaker B: There are new things that come along and opportunities, but you have to survive to be able to get there, and you have to run a tight ship, and it starts with the internal. And so when you read about Moby Dick and you read about the obsession that Captain Ahab had, it's like, you see that you could point out a few captain ahabs. I won't name them in the crypto markets over the last two years. And if I name them and you name them, they probably have pretty good overlap because it's that personality type and it's that lack of restraint and discipline. And so I think the earlier you can kind of, you can kind of read those things and try to internalize them, not just as these stories, but what they reflect in terms of human nature, the better off you'll be. And then you can kind of keep your eyes open and stay humble and you'll get there. It's a long race, it's not a sprint.
01:20:59.882 - 01:21:01.014, Speaker A: Stay in the game.
01:21:01.394 - 01:21:02.010, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:21:02.122 - 01:21:17.850, Speaker C: Well, we'll certainly love to host you, and let's all survive, and everyone listening just survive. And we'll have to reach in this excellent pod, maybe in a year or, you know, six, nine months, but it's been a true pleasure. Erica, I really appreciate your thoughts, and I'm sure listeners will, too. Thanks for coming on.
01:21:17.962 - 01:21:23.290, Speaker B: Awesome. You guys do great work, and I really appreciate being invited to joining here. So thank you.
01:21:23.322 - 01:21:23.858, Speaker A: Thanks, Eric.
01:21:23.946 - 01:21:24.514, Speaker B: All right, see ya.
