00:00:01.160 - 00:00:26.462, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here, and welcome to the state of DeFi and NFTs report for January 2023. Link to the premium discord in the description below. So 2023 has been a pretty good year for crypto. It's actually been basically up only right, at least for the majors. Bitcoin up almost 25%. Same with ether and the liquid staking derivative tokens that I've talked about in last month's video. They're all up two x, which definitely caught me by surprise.
00:00:26.462 - 00:00:49.550, Speaker A: So I'll talk about, I guess, the dangers of these, you know, really hot narratives when we get to that section. But this is the agenda. Timestamps are in the description below in case you want to skip through some sections. Of course, none of this is financial advice. I am a bag holder, right? I no longer feel pain when I lose money, and these are my thoughts as of January 19. And I still hold these tokens. And yeah, I'm a longer term holder for these tokens.
00:00:49.550 - 00:01:35.646, Speaker A: So let's talk about the majors real quick. I don't really do ta or I don't really participate in short term trading. But I guess back in June of 2022, post three ac, I thought that was the bottom. Of course, I was wrong for bitcoin because post FTX, bitcoin put in a lower low. But, you know, ether is holding its June 2022 lows. So I guess, you know, maybe I'm like, you know, 50% right or something like, my view on the majors is that, you know, post three ac, I just think that, you know, 20k bitcoin, like $1,000 ether, like, how are they not attractive holds at this point? So I know. I mean, at least for my portfolio, like, roughly 40% of my crypto portfolio is in these LP tokens that contain bitcoin in ether, namely Tricare and GOP, which I'll talk about later.
00:01:35.646 - 00:02:14.656, Speaker A: Just because if you look at this overall longer longer term trend, whenever bitcoin and ether hit these RSI levels of 30, these oversold conditions, sure, there was like, short term volatility, right? I mean, in 2015, we saw a lower low later in 2015. But, you know, we, anyone that bought back then, right, were able to reap the benefits. Same for 2018, 2019. Of course, we had, like, the crazy pump in 2019 followed by the COVID crash. But, you know, we saw, like, the bull market right after. And, you know, even in this case, right, you bought, if you. If you bought bitcoin in June, you saw lower lows in November, but were basically back to those levels, if not higher.
00:02:14.656 - 00:03:02.560, Speaker A: And, you know, goes for ether. Of course there's like less data points because it's a younger asset. But, you know, whenever we get to these levels, it's like, generally a good place to buy, don't you think? And for me, I personally like to hold these LP tokens because, you know, post FTX, it's really hard to, you know, not want to buy, right? And I like, generally like, my prediction, right, post FTX was that GLP and truck crypto can be thought as. Can be thought of as like a crypto savings account. And I think, you know, these tokens will outperform cash in 2023 as well, right? Even with the most recent pump, of course, you know, there are these LP tokens at risk, right? Truck crypto, it pays like 14%. And I guess there's like, you know, smart contract risk. And GLP also has smart contract risk on top of, I guess, a trader p and l risk.
00:03:02.560 - 00:04:01.390, Speaker A: But I think it's like, generally a good way to gain blue chip exposure. And maybe some people, you know, ask questions like, hey, like, if you're super bullish on either, then, like, why, like, why don't you put like your entire portfolio into either? But, you know, if you think about like psychology, right? Just hypothetically, right, there's like talking about extremes. Would you feel more comfortable putting 100% of your portfolio into ether? Or would you rather feel more comfortable putting 100% of your crypto portfolio into truck crypto? Right? An LP token that pays yield and swap fees. So, you know, generally, like my strategy, right, is to make these LP tokens my core positions and use the yield that I accumulate from these fees to slowly accumulate things that I'm more interested in. And of course I still hold cash and whatnot, which I can use to play narratives or buy tokens I like on dips. But that's generally been my strategy, of course. Tricrypto on mainnet convex pays 14% if you go to arbitram, right? If you click this button, last time I checked, it pays like 18%.
00:04:01.390 - 00:04:34.628, Speaker A: No, tricrypto really isn't like a sexy or cool position, right? Like no one's gonna, you know, applaud you for like buying tricrypto, right? Like no one's gonna be like, oh my God, like, you're the best trader ever. But, you know, I still think it's like a pretty decent position. And generally I think it's better than like just like holding cash, you know, for most people, and these are my or these were the yields for GLP last week. 56%. Sorry, 56% on avalanche, which I'm very happy about, and 35% on arbitrum. Very good. This week it's 35% on Avax, 31% arbitrum.
00:04:34.628 - 00:05:03.136, Speaker A: But. But, you know, even this were to be cut in half, it would still be pretty attractive. And, you know, investing my GMX, earning the yield, and, you know, with the avalanche, I'm earning, right. Avalanche recently went up like almost two x, right. So what did I do? I dumped it, right? I dumped it to accumulate more tokens that I'm interested in. The benefits of these LP tokens is that it provides you volatility, muted exposure to the majors, right? Notably bitcoin and ether. The yields may or may not be attractive for some of you, and it also allows me to hedge against a bitcoin dong and so on.
00:05:03.136 - 00:05:56.230, Speaker A: As much as I'm bullish, like super bullish on the macro, right? For the e to BTC ratio, I expect ether that from bitcoin, let's say, the next twelve to 24 months. No one should be surprised if bitcoin dominance goes up to 50, 55%. And of course, sometimes I put myself in this echo chamber because I usually only interact with people in DeFi, but I got into crypto because of bitcoin. I still love bitcoin and I still want to hold exposure, even though I'm more bullish either. And it also allows me to hedge against my stupidity. If I hold these lp tokens as my core positions, then it means that I can't take these funds and throw it away and burn money trading nfts or altcoins. At least if I make my core positions, I can expect to grow over time and I can use the yield to do whatever I want.
00:05:56.230 - 00:07:19.814, Speaker A: Of course, it depends on your personality, kind of depends your outlook on altcoins, bitcoin, ether, and how much money you have in crypto relative to other asset classes. But this is generally my thought, and I think most people, they're better off, like, holding Tricrypto than trying to flip lsd tokens and whatnot. And generally, I think, twelve months from now, right? If you think about what would people in 2024 be saying about the year 2023, I think those people, right, a year from now will be viewing 2033 as generally an accumulation year where it's going to have lots of volatility, it's going to go up, it's going to go down, a bunch of people are going to get wrecked trying to trade these things and that's also like the benefit of these LLP tokens, right. With Tricrypto, you clip the transaction fees, right? In GOP, you collect Trader P and L. So, you know, on any given day, any given week, any given month, something can pump a lot because of like whatever hot narrative or something can dump a lot because of Fud, right. But if you ignore the short term noise, have a longer term time horizon, I think generally people will be fine and just have a strategy that you're comfortable with and just be patient with it, just stick with it. The worst thing you can do is to sell your high competition bags, to chase pumps and hot narratives and lose out on money that way.
00:07:19.814 - 00:07:44.642, Speaker A: I think a lot of people are better off not trading, especially on chain activity. Gas is starting to pick up. There's Mev. You have to pay like 0.3% swap fees to these dexes. You have to pay slippage. You know, like, I think, yeah, I think most people are better off, like, just accumulating things and like sticking to it and taking profits along the way in terms of like, lagging indicators.
00:07:44.642 - 00:08:09.350, Speaker A: Right. Maybe some people think that we haven't seen capitulation, but, you know, I think post three ac and like, you know, all the lenders blowing up, you know, FTX. Right. Rugging people. I think, you know, there has been capitulation both like, financially and also emotionally. Of course. I can't really prove it, I guess, like, on the financially financial side, because there are, there could be like more big players that are going to be for sellers of assets.
00:08:09.350 - 00:08:33.342, Speaker A: But I think, like the majority of them have come and gone. Well. I mean, I can't really speak for other YouTube channels. Right. And my channel is primarily focused on Defi. So I think, you know, the subscriber count gives a pretty good, I guess, sentiment check on how people think about Defi. And if you think about it, ever since May, which is like the lunar crash, I've just been losing subscribers every single day.
00:08:33.342 - 00:09:12.736, Speaker A: And this just means that people see, or like, my former subscribers see my video on the timeline. They're like, I hate crypto, I hate Defi. It's all scam. I'm going to unsubscribe from this scammer, grifter, whatever, however you want to justify it. And I don't really expect this to turn around until bitcoin and ether prices are like thirty k and two k, because I don't really expect new people to tune back in until prices are much higher. But maybe once this turns back, that can be some signal that retail is more interested, and maybe that can be the beginning of a lag or the beginning of the next bull cycle. Or if you're more cynical, maybe that's the low top.
00:09:12.736 - 00:09:56.710, Speaker A: So that's kind of interesting. And this isn't updated for the last ten days, but generally stable coins are leaving the ecosystem. I'm not sure if you read this, but you know, these are for the major stablecoins, right? Centralized stablecoins, USDC, USDT, and BUSD. And almost every single day, every single week, stablecoins are leaving the ecosystem. And if money is leaving the ecosystem, that just means that there is less money to be extracted in terms of capital gains. So it's a really PvP environment. Of course, these are lagging indicators, right? By the time stablecoin inflows are picking up, by the time subscribers are really picking up, then chances are prices are much higher, right? But maybe you're risk averse and you don't mind buying higher until you see like stablecoin inflows or something.
00:09:56.710 - 00:10:33.084, Speaker A: I think it's more important to look at leading indicators, because looking at lagging indicators, it doesn't really give you a good view on what's actually happening on chain. So leading indicators will be things like on chain activity. So Ethereum main net gas fees. I think that's really interesting. Older projects pumping on catalysts. So what I mean by this is that I don't think it's enough for new projects to launch and pumped. I think in order for you to see a more sustained bull market, you need to see like these older projects, such as Uniswap, Aave FXS, Lido, all of them, like trying to, I guess, outperform ether altogether, because generally that means that sentiment in DeFi is improved.
00:10:33.084 - 00:11:14.466, Speaker A: And if we're in that environment when like Uniswap is outperforming ether, then chances are, right on chain is better. There are stablecoin inflows, and there's more demand to use Defi, and people are looking to buy certain governance tokens. I know governance tokens has a really, really poor narrative, right? For good reason. But I do think that there will be a point sometime in the future that they become attractive buys most of bitcoin into dominance. I don't think these dominance rating or these indicators have that much value given how mature the crypto asset class is. I mean, maybe it's not as mature as I think, but I don't think bitcoin, bitcoin dominance, like, matters too much. But you know, there are a bunch of people that still look at it.
00:11:14.466 - 00:11:50.110, Speaker A: So, you know, if bitcoin dominance goes to 50, 55%, then I think, you know, generally the market is going to feel more comfortable allocating to altcoins because typically in, like, in the. In the past, bitcoin has led us out of the bear market. I think, you know, this time around, given the emergence of Defi and NFTs, I think ether can actually lead us out of the bear market. And maybe ether dominance can outperform bitcoin dominance. And that can actually be a sign that, you know, confidence is returning to the markets. So, you know, what kind of things can actually lead to a resurgence in defi? I think something as simple as Ondo finance. So they're trying to bring risk free yields on chain.
00:11:50.110 - 00:12:08.682, Speaker A: I talked about this in my last video, but, you know, you can't. You know, if you can go to fidelity and clip 4.5% or like, 5% risk free yields, then there's less reasons for people to bridge stable coins on chain to, you know, lend it out on a. To earn, like, 2%. Right? It makes no sense. So, you know, if stable coin. So sorry.
00:12:08.682 - 00:13:24.640, Speaker A: If these risk free yields can be brought on chain, that can definitely lead to, you know, more stablecoin demand, therefore more stablecoin inflows. And I think the beauty of this product, right, that Ondo is bringing is that it can actually allow permissionless exposure to, you know, short, risk free us yields. So how this works is whoever wants to open these vaults, it has to be KYC, aml. But anyone can lend out stable coins to these larger players that's going to be deploying these stable coins into us treasuries. So I guess the beauty of Defi that we all kind of dream about is financial access, like financial freedom, being able to have control over your money and think about people in other countries that don't have, I guess, the dollar as the reserve currency. And if their currency is depreciating value against the dollar, then maybe there's going to be more demand for people to convert their native currencies into USDC, bring it on chain, put it into these short term us government bond funds, and, I guess, have better control of their wealth that way. So this isn't really exciting, right? Like, no one's going to make YouTube videos about, like, ondo finance, 5% risk free yield.
00:13:24.640 - 00:14:37.816, Speaker A: I mean, I guess I am, right, but it's not like a dedicated video to this. But I think these products is ultimately what is going to lead to like, the next defi bull run, where it's not just like, you know, us people that use deFi, but it's going to be, you know, people around the world using Ethereum as a whole and, you know, leading to some like, financial revolution or like, whatever, right? Some evangelized version of the next defi bull market. In terms of like, on chain gas fees, I believe this is like January 1. So ever since the calendar turned, I guess people are rebalancing or something and nfts have also popped off. But there seems to be, I mean, you can't really do ta, but maybe some level of higher highs and higher lows in terms of ethereum gas fees and the fact that Ethereum is already deflationary when there's not many things to do on chain, I think that's something to be optimistic about because if on chain activity does come back, then that's going to create some reflexive cycle around eat the asset, right. The narrative eth, ultrasound money and like, you know, ether having like some monetary premium flipping bitcoin, etcetera. And, you know, I also don't think it's like, you know, I'm not sure if you can like us ta on, like, stablecoin dominance, right.
00:14:37.816 - 00:15:22.066, Speaker A: But, you know, despite all the fud we've seen the stable coin market cap and like, relative to the entire market cap, it really couldn't surpass that of summer 22, summer 2022 lows. And that just means, I know, like, most people hold a healthy amount of stable coins and maybe that's healthy, right. You kind of want to see that, you know, people to, I guess, risk management, whatnot. But, you know, it generally means that, you know, people are still scared and if the markets do turn around, you know, there has to be some incremental buyers that come into the market and especially. Yeah, and, you know, like, sentiment can really change on a dime. This is from cryptokalio's Twitter account. But, you know, I remember back in July of 2021, sentiment was really, really bad, right? Like everyone was saying, it's over.
00:15:22.066 - 00:15:59.656, Speaker A: And I guess, you know, we did, we did end up putting lower lows in 2022, but it really didn't stop us from putting in, you know, this crazy run in ether. Right. I guess like this double top cycle and nfts. I'll talk about nfts later, but I actually think that there's a pretty good case to be made of for people to be bullish nfts. But I'll save that a section for later. The point is I think we've all been conditioned in the past twelve months, 1213 months, to just fade all rallies because every time you get excited about prices going up, we just get disappointed over and over again and fade the rally. Fade the rally short, whatever.
00:15:59.656 - 00:16:30.650, Speaker A: But at some point that strategy is not going to work. At some point there will be a trend shift. And I think the recent strength in the price of BTC deter allows me to become more optimistic about the future of markets. And, you know, I think ultimately, right, like, if you're. If you go on social media, right, there's like, people like, you know, trading actively, you know, trying to call tops and call bottoms and whatnot. But ultimately, you know, these short term traders, like, they don't really drive the markets, right? People that drive the markets are longer term accumulators that have much higher profit targets. I try to.
00:16:30.650 - 00:17:16.972, Speaker A: I mean, I try to think that I'm one of those people. For example, right? Like, if I'm like, buying tricrypto and GLP post FTX and, you know, even before FTX, I'm not like. Like, my profit target isn't like 25k bitcoin, right, or two k either, right? Like, my profit targets for the majors are much higher. I have a much longer timeline on this stuff, and maybe that's, like, not the best strategy for 2023, right? Maybe it's better if you're like, more nimble, you like, you know, long, you short, whatever. But, you know, I'm trying to be humble and, like, I don't pretend like I'm a good trader, so I stick to these yield bearing strategies where I can use the yield to accumulate things. So enough about that, right? Let's talk about the LSD error. I'm sure that more people want me to talk about this stuff, and it's pretty crazy.
00:17:16.972 - 00:17:36.176, Speaker A: Yeah. Like I said earlier, everything is up two x, which really, really caught me by surprise. And I guess, you know, it's a sign. It kind of shows you that narratives can start at any given time a lot earlier than you expect. Like legit. Right? Like, I recorded that video last month, and I was like, yeah. Like, I'm gonna.
00:17:36.176 - 00:18:25.430, Speaker A: I mean, in my mind I was like, okay, I'm gonna buy Lido and stakewise throughout January, right? I'm gonna just DCA into it and establish a position. But, you know, after everything is up two x, right? Like, what do I do? And, you know, I just want to briefly talk about narratives. I'm not gonna talk too much about, like, the prices. I just, like, want to help you think more about how these narratives form and, like, the dangers of these narratives. And, you know, really, how much upside is there left in this type of narrative? Because if you think about narratives, it's a story, right? And in such a speculative asset class as crypto, people buy things when the story is good and they can justify to themselves that, hey, wow, like, that's a really good story. I'm gonna buy that token, right? I'm gonna buy x because y is going to happen. And, oh, my God, if y happens, there's so much upside.
00:18:25.430 - 00:19:07.990, Speaker A: I'm gonna buy that token, and then I'm gonna tell everyone else to buy my token, right? That's kind of generally how it works. Of course, some narratives are sustainable, some are not. And if you're, like, more longer term aligned, it's best to try to separate or try to bucket some things. It's not bad to play these narratives, but just understand that, you know, these are narratives. And if these narratives are not backed by the fundamentals, it really doesn't have any staying power. Of course, going back to last month's video, there are fundamental catalysts that drive these narratives. However, let's talk about, I guess, the concerns I have for this narrative because the story is definitely a good one, right? This eat staking rate is, like, roughly 14%.
00:19:07.990 - 00:19:33.046, Speaker A: And I think it's reasonable to expect it to get to 60% to 80% by the end of 2024. I said in my last video by the end of 2033, but I think I'm wrong on that. I think it's gonna take a lot longer for it to get there. But I guess, you know, the narrative was correct. Right? But, you know, the speed and magnitude caught me by surprise. And like I mentioned, I only hold FXS, which I bought, I believe, June or July of last year. And I don't hold any lido or stakewise.
00:19:33.046 - 00:20:06.540, Speaker A: So let's talk about the concerns I have about the risk reward of DLSD narrative, right? And maybe you can make a better decision if you hold these tokens or if you don't hold these tokens. One of the concerns I have is that nothing has really changed in the fundamentals of Lido rocket pool stakewise from December 31 to now. Because if you think about. I'll talk about the Lido chart later. But Lido started pumping January 1. And maybe it's because people watch my video and people follow Deegen Spartan and I guess people caught on. I mean, I have no idea, but it's not like Lido.
00:20:06.540 - 00:21:01.766, Speaker A: The price doubled. But it's not like the amount of staking of the e stake in Lido has doubled since then, right? It's just that everyone just all of a sudden agreed that this is a good token and then everyone bought the token. And the most dangerous types of narrative, right, that you will see on social media is when the price leads the narrative. It's like you don't want to buy into something that's already consensus, like after price has already went up, right? It's like, because what I see, like online on Twitter is like everything goes up two x and then everyone is like, okay, like, this is the upcoming LSD narrative that's gonna make you a lot of money, right? You know, these. Check out these ten tokens that I own, right, to make money on this upcoming bull run. I feel like that's generally like the sentiment that I've been reading online. And of course, I'm talking, I guess, like my bags, right? But I think FXS can be bucketed differently because when I bought FXS, it.
00:21:01.766 - 00:21:38.346, Speaker A: Not really because I bought it for liquid staking derivative. I bet it. I bet on FXS because it's a bet on Sam, right? Sam Kazemi and the team executing on the roadmap. And obviously fraxie supply has gone vertical. And, you know, the beauty of, I guess the flywheel is that, you know, as curve and as CVX and FXS price goes up, it makes staking with fracs a lot more attractive because you can earn, you know, eleven ish percent staking your eth, right. Providing liquidity on curve. And as more and more people provide liquidity, it's going to boost the staking rate for staked frac seed.
00:21:38.346 - 00:22:07.856, Speaker A: Because not all. I mean, if you don't know how it works, then watch my last video and I'm sure that you can like look up fracs like on Twitter or something. But, you know, it's a pretty good flywheel effect. Sorry, I don't know why I included this. Let's skip that section. But generally, my bet on FXS is my mental model is I expect DeFi to grow in terms of TVL, like 1020 x 30 x over the next couple of years. I don't really have a timeline.
00:22:07.856 - 00:22:33.072, Speaker A: It's really hard to predict these things. But I expect DeFi to have part market fit and attract more capital later down the line. And if we live in a world where DeFi TvL goes up, let's say like 25 x, then I would bet that fracs and FXS gonna be a big part of that. So, you know, I don't, like. I didn't really buy FXS at, like, $5 to sell at $10. Right. Like, I have much higher ambitions for it.
00:22:33.072 - 00:23:21.860, Speaker A: And, you know, generally, when it comes to narratives, I'd rather align myself with holder bases that are much longer term aligned, because then I'm not really trying to play these PvP games. Of course, these short term traders, you know, are gonna be like, what drives prices up on any given day? But, you know, I think it's best to. To be a fundamentalist and not try to chase these narratives. Edk, he says that betting on FXS is a bet on fracs to just be a leader in stable coins and really bring real world assets and have the entire team execute on their roadmap. I think the one thing I like about the frac steam is that they're really nimble and they're able to pivot to whatever market conditions that exist. Post Luna, the algo stablecoin narrative has really weakened. Therefore, FXs went down, like, 95% or something, or, like 90%.
00:23:21.860 - 00:24:04.822, Speaker A: But now they created frac seed, and, you know, that's, like, the growth narrative. So I'm really impressed by that. And, you know, I still like CVX, but I think it's gonna be some while until brides come back sustainably. So, you know, right now I'm farming, right? Curve CVX fxs. I'm dumping crV, right? I'm farming and dumping crv, but I'm, like, accumulating CVX in fxs. As a result, it's a fly bill, right? As these tokens go up, the yields on the frac seed, eth, LP on curve, and convex becomes more attractive, boosting demand for frac seed. And if more eth gets staked at fracs or if more eth gets converted to frac seed, and if Rac goes into the LP pool, then the staking rate for staked frac heat goes up.
00:24:04.822 - 00:24:41.868, Speaker A: I know that's kind of confusing if you haven't followed fracs, but, you know, it's a good flywheel, right. It kind of drives these growth narratives. So, let's talk about Lido, right? Sorry for, like, showing my bags, but, you know, I've held this thing for, like, six months and seven months, so, you know, when it goes up, I'm allowed to be happy. So this is my conspiracy theory when it comes to Lido. And, like, I'm not really fully convinced on this, but I think there's pretty good reasons to think that this may be what's happening and it's around positioning. Okay. Because what really interests me with Lido is that it just started pumping January 1.
00:24:41.868 - 00:25:12.182, Speaker A: And, you know, I don't really care about dates, but I think January 1 is a pretty significant date just because, you know, 2022 has been such a bad year that I think there was a lot of tax loss harvest selling for like, you know, generally, like no individual investors, you know, hedge funds, like, you know, just VC's in general. And, you know, my conspiracy that I have is what if. Right, this is Lido chart, right. It's up like ever since January 1, it's up roughly. Basically up two x. Right. And my conspiracy theory.
00:25:12.182 - 00:25:32.132, Speaker A: Right. And maybe this is like just cope, right, because I don't hold Lido. But what if. Right, following like the merge pump, right. From forty five cents to almost $3. What if VC's just distributed all their lido tokens because, you know, why not, right. Just book those profits.
00:25:32.132 - 00:26:12.450, Speaker A: And starting January 1, they basically rebought all their tokens that they've sold in the past six months, right, in like, you know, the Q three and Q four. And this led to Lido going up in terms of price and then like the next leg of Lido going up. And the short squeeze that followed was just driven by, you know, retail fomoing into the narrative and, you know, people getting short squeezed. What's the probability of this? I have no idea. Right. But, you know, I think it's kind of, I mean, it's not out of the possibility, right. It's definitely possible because, you know, like despite what you might see on Twitter, right.
00:26:12.450 - 00:26:39.950, Speaker A: It might make it seem like the Lido token has fully vested, right. For VC's and whatnot. But that's simply not true. Some of these VC's are on a different vesting schedule. For example, paradigm bought like, or paradigm led the round for Lido, like buying like 70 million tokens may of 2021. And they have a one year cliff schedule, right? So they have, their, their vesting schedule was following a one year cliff. Their tokens are vested linearly for one year.
00:26:39.950 - 00:27:26.030, Speaker A: So starting in May of 2022, their Lido tokens have started to unlock and, you know, they're going to fully unlock May of 2023, right? So these tokens are still vesting. And you can say the same for, you know, other VC's that participate in the round. And what's possible is that, you know, this pump was caused by this repositioning and then this FOMO was caused by this retail and now, like, you know, we've seen FXs go up two x, RPO go up two x, stakewise go up two x. And you know, if you think about it that way, right? Like the probability is not zero. And even if there's like a 20% chance that, you know, this is like, what happened, it just like makes the risk reward for these tokens a lot less attractive. So that's my conspiracy theory. I'm not sure if that makes sense, but I still think there's upside.
00:27:26.030 - 00:28:12.576, Speaker A: The things I've talked about in December, it hasn't really changed. It's just that if you asked me when I recorded last month's video my expectations for price of Lido, I probably would have said Lido would probably go from like $1 to like three to $4, right? And, you know, Lido is like at $2. So of course there's like upside. However, if you just think about the risk reward, right, just from like a risk reward perspective, I can frame it as, you know, I think over 50% of the move in the lido to eat ratio in Q one has already played out. So the LSD upside is still there. But I'm not sure if I can justify the risk reward buying this token right now. Because if you think about the level of retail and the amount of short term traders in this, there's a lot of fast money in this.
00:28:12.576 - 00:28:56.906, Speaker A: And what I mean by that is what percent of these token holders that has purchased this token in the past two weeks, what percent of them think that these view Lido as a token to buy now and sell sometime in March ahead of Shanghai? I think over 50% of the fast money just think that way. If the holder base is kind of. If the psychology of the holder base is like that, then it's just going to be PvP, naturally. And these people don't have strong hands to sustain even a strong uptrend, at least for FXS. The holder base is super strong. I mean, of course I'm biased, but like I mentioned earlier, my profit target for FXS is not $10. I'm going to hold this for the next.
00:28:56.906 - 00:29:31.490, Speaker A: I mean, I'm probably going to hold FXS at least until I hit long term capital gains, you know, because I bought very long term resin for this type of stuff. So I guess like, my lesson in the narrative is just don't just look at price going up and assume that it's going to continue going up. Right. A good narrative, it just can't be a good story. It also has to be backed by the fundamentals. And if the only fundamental for things going up is price going up, then that's not a good enough narrative for people to, like, buy into. If you want to buy into something that has, like, a sustainable run for at least three months, right.
00:29:31.490 - 00:30:06.090, Speaker A: You need to have, like, you kind of need to align yourself with a strongholder base that isn't just showing these tokens because prices went up recently. And maybe I'm wrong, right? Maybe Lido continues to outperform, and that's still my base case. But I just think that there are, like, much more interesting opportunities out there than just, like, buying Lido right now. Will I buy on a pullback? Maybe, but, you know, I think the majority of the hype has already played out over 50%. That doesn't mean that, you know, it's, like, 90%, right. I simply have no idea because these narratives can really go on forever. Or not forever, but, like, a long time.
00:30:06.090 - 00:30:37.792, Speaker A: But that's generally my view. And I guess, like, the lesson in narrative, right? Like I mentioned earlier, like, my plan was to, like, buy Lido and stakewise in January, but, you know, like, my plans were thwarted because. Went up a lot. So, you know, I guess the lesson here is that, like, don't assume that you can time these narratives perfectly, right? Because it's. It's pretty easy to, like, predict these narratives ahead of time, but it's pretty hard to execute, right. Because when it comes to investing in trading, there's, like, two levels to it. Part one is, like, the research, and part two is conviction in terms of, like, execution, right.
00:30:37.792 - 00:30:49.560, Speaker A: Like, you know, buying, selling, whatever. And I'm generally good with, like, the research side, but I'm pretty bad with phase two. Part two. Right. The execution. So that's why I don't want people to copy traded me. Right.
00:30:49.560 - 00:31:21.610, Speaker A: And I just, like, want people to view me as, like, a research analyst, source, whatever. So, generally, like, in the year 2023, I don't really care about short term noise and the price fluctuations. I'm just like, no, I'm, like, thinking about, okay, like, what does the space look like in, like, q three of 2023 and how do I want to be positioned? And I'm just gonna slowly stack the tokens. I, like, try to position myself ahead of the narrative, and if it comes, then cool, right. I can no take profits into the pump. Just be humble, stack good shit, and let the narratives come to you. Don't chase the narrative.
00:31:21.610 - 00:31:39.504, Speaker A: Yeah. So those are my advice. And, you know, what am I accumulating. I'm accumulating GMX under $50. I mean, you know, there's like, no, there's like no special, like, sophisticated reason why it's like $50. But, like, that's like what I think, right? I'm like, farming and dumping. And if GMX is low 50, then sure, I'll add into it.
00:31:39.504 - 00:32:04.656, Speaker A: You know, I want to accumulate ETh and try crypto GOP. I still want to accumulate Exmon and NFTs. And I'll talk about that later in the video. So let's talk about GMX. And, you know, this is like, I mean, this is a thought experiment, right? GMX evaluation, thought experiment. I don't really have, like, super strong conviction in this, but I just, like, wanted to help you think about how to value these crypto tokens. And I'll be talking about PE ratios, so.
00:32:04.656 - 00:32:57.220, Speaker A: Of course, right? Like, I mean, I know this better than anyone, right? Like, I used to be a narrative trader, I guess, or swing trader in 2021. And, you know, I never used p ratios. It makes no sense. So, you know, historically, right? P ratios, it makes no sense, right? Like, we had these tradfi funds pivot to crypto funds and they bought, like, sushiswap because of the P E ratio. And it doesn't even make sense, right? And, like, they got wrecked. But I think over time, as the DeFi ecosystem matures and as the space matures and as certain assets actually start to pay actual yield and dividends, I think at some point, the goal of DeFi is for these governance tokens to act like securities where it actually pays a yield and you can actually participate in the growth of the protocol. And with the risk free yield being so high, I think people are going to have a much higher standard on what they are willing to spend their money in.
00:32:57.220 - 00:33:38.130, Speaker A: So there's going to be a flight of to quality where people will only buy things if it generates cash flow or if it has underlying growth metrics. And people are willing to buy into the token because they think it's undervalued. And, you know, maybe in a year or two they're going to start paying dividends and, you know, it can have much higher valuations back then. And I think that, you know, PE models are going to start to work, right, in crypto, especially in Defi 2023 and beyond. But I'll talk about, like, the benefits and I guess, like, the flaws of the PE ratio in crypto. If you go to gmxstats.com, this is like the market cap and like, I guess like the PE ratio for GMX.
00:33:38.130 - 00:34:17.914, Speaker A: So, in the past month, right, in a bear market, the 30 day annualized PE ratio is ten for GMX, which is still pretty good because the average fee ratio in the SMP is 25. Right now it's roughly 20. But of course, you can't really use the average FE ratio for crypto because crypto is a high growth sector. If defi TvL growth 100 x, then some of these companies or some of these projects deserve a PE ratio of infinite or even 1000. But it's like certain companies, certain projects, they deserve a low p because they don't really have exponential growth rates. They just generate steady cash flow. For example, utility companies or PG and E.
00:34:17.914 - 00:34:42.114, Speaker A: Sorry, Procter and Gamble, right. They have a low PE because they generate, you know, sustainable cash flow. But, you know, they don't really. Their growth rate is, like, relatively muted. Whereas for high growth tech stocks, their PE can be 100 or 200 or even infinite if they don't. If they don't pay dividends. But people are willing to pay a high multiple for these companies, for these securities, because they expect the project to grow sometime later down the line.
00:34:42.114 - 00:35:16.082, Speaker A: And if you think about the. The price of a stock or just project in general, and you actually apply the PE ratio, prices go up for two reasons. Either the company grows their earnings. So if the p is 15, so, for example, if the p is ten for GMx, but the revenue, or, sorry, the earnings of GMx goes up by a factor of two x, then the price of GMX must get to $90, because p is ten. Right. Or another reason prices can go up is if the multiple goes up. Right.
00:35:16.082 - 00:35:43.310, Speaker A: If the p e ratio goes up. So, you know, if investors are willing to pay more for future earnings, of course, in crypto, right? Like, p e ratios are kind of a meme, but I just think that it's going to become less of a meme. Right. That's kind of like how I'm thinking about it. And, you know, this is important because if you. If you were to buy an altcoin, you have to think about, like, why would people buy this later down the line, right? Like, there has to be some just for other investors to, like, buy these tokens. And, you know, maybe then you can think about, like, what's undervalued? What's overvalued.
00:35:43.310 - 00:36:26.404, Speaker A: Of course, in crypto, right, it's mostly narrative, but I think narratives matter less in a bear market, and I think the fundamentals and the earnings will matter more. Of course, there's like monetary premium, right. I mean, this mostly applies to, like, bitcoin and ether. You can't really use PE ratios for bitcoin ether because, you know, you have to think of them as crypto money. But, you know, when it comes to projects growing earnings and PE ratio goes up. So, of course, using PE in, you know, crypto is kind of dumb because how do you forecast earnings growth for a crypto project? And also, right, it's like these companies, for example, GMX, they denominate their earnings in ether and the avalanche, right? Like these, like altcoins. Right, like whatever.
00:36:26.404 - 00:36:59.280, Speaker A: And these are volatile, so you can't really us PE ratios in that way. But I just think it's like a good model to have in terms of what can actually lead to crypto prices going up. And the point I'm trying to make here is that, of course, I hold GMX because I think it's going to go to much higher prices. And ultimately, of course, I want their earnings to grow over time. But in a bear market, I think it's kind of difficult to expect their earnings to double or even triple. I just think that's kind of difficult. So if GMX were to surpass the $60 sell wall, right.
00:36:59.280 - 00:37:49.462, Speaker A: I feel like every time GMX goes to $60, it just gets immediately sold into. So for GMX to eventually put in all time highs, what has to happen is, of course, you want the earnings to go up, but I think the PE ratio, the multiple has to just get rerated. People just has to be willing to pay more for GMX's earnings. And if GMX can increase their PE ratio from ten to, let's say, 50, that can just lead GMX to, you know, four or five x. So I'm kind of thinking about, okay, like, what could allow the market to pay a higher multiple or GMX. And I think what could happen, right, is, you know, recently GMX has stopped emitting escrow, GMX to GLP, right. So, you know, if you buy GOPD, you earn transaction fees, and you also received escrow JMX.
00:37:49.462 - 00:38:25.470, Speaker A: But that ended in 2023. And this is the ultimate test, I think, for GMX because I think, you know, DeFi has gone bad rap because most of these DeFi projects, they are not sustainable businesses. And, you know, their costs are much higher than the revenues that they make. And therefore, you know, they're not actually generating any cash. And what I'm trying to argue here is that if GMx can stop emitting escrow, GMX and their TVL for GLP can maintain. I think that's actually bullish. Right? I don't even think that TVO has to grow.
00:38:25.470 - 00:39:10.166, Speaker A: I think if TVO can sustain and there are, like, no GMX being emitted, then I think GMX can actually be rerated, because it's proof that GMX is a sustainable model. And, you know, a sustainable model doesn't really exist in crypto. Right? Like, it. I mean, like, yeah, there's, like, you know, 1% of projects in crypto are actually sustainable. And if that's the case, I think GMX can actually be rerated and have, like, a PE ratio of, like, 30. I'm not sure, because I think, you know, narratives in 2023 is going to be around sustainable business models. And, you know, if the market views GMX as a sustainable model that generates cash and they don't have to emit tokens, then I think people will be willing to pay a higher multiple.
00:39:10.166 - 00:39:30.414, Speaker A: I think the narrative around GMX is going to get much stronger. And that's kind of like the bull case I have for GMX because it's really hard to imagine, like, you know, like, volume and fees, like tripling. Right. Sometime in 2023. I mean, it definitely can, but I don't think that's that likely. At least not yet. I think it definitely can.
00:39:30.414 - 00:40:08.792, Speaker A: Right. If prices go higher and whatnot. But, you know, if you think about why people buy, right, and what price are people willing to pay for certain tokens, I think, you know, over time, if protocols like GMX, and this applies to, like, other protocols, too, if they can prove Lindy without having to emit tokens and make a bunch of money, then I think, you know, the market is going to like that. And then assign a higher multiple. Yeah. You know, GMX, right, makes, like, half a million a day, which is, like, pretty interesting, right? Pretty cool. And, you know, GMX ETH ratio has been up only basically since inception.
00:40:08.792 - 00:40:49.340, Speaker A: GMX was, like, up two x in 2022, which was kind of crazy, right? It basically outperformed, like, all of risk assets, and I wish I owned more. And if GMX two X'ed in the most brutal market that we've seen so far, I mean, then why can't it be up, you know, more than two x in 2023, right? I think it can actually, you know, put in, like, much higher valuations and, you know, ultimately hit, like, a multibillion dollar market cap someday. So while we're on this topic, I just want to talk about gains, because I don't. I don't want to be like the super biased GMX Maxi, because I'm not. Right. I hold other stuff and, you know, I also look at things like GNS. I talked about gains, I believe, like two, three months ago, right.
00:40:49.340 - 00:41:12.832, Speaker A: About the fundamentals. And they recently launched on arbitrary. And so far, right. On January 18, they actually put in like almost $330 million worth of volume for crypto and forex, whereas on GMX yesterday, we. They put in volume of like, roughly. Sorry, this is. Let's go to last month.
00:41:12.832 - 00:41:35.034, Speaker A: So you can get like more granular data. Not sure why it's not loading. There you go. Yeah. So January 18, right? GMX didn't even put in like that much volume. And I guess, like, you know, some of these data points are, you know, like the cutoff. The cutoff of these dates.
00:41:35.034 - 00:41:57.020, Speaker A: Dates are sometimes like kind of off. But, you know, January 17, like, you know, GMX is like roughly almost $300 million in volume, whereas GNS put in like $330 million. Right. So this is pretty interesting. And this is primarily driven by arbitrum. Right? So they were primarily like a polygon project, but they expanded arbitram. And now roughly, you know, 50% of the volume comes from arbitrum.
00:41:57.020 - 00:42:33.560, Speaker A: Actually more than that, which I think is pretty impressive. And I think that's going to be pretty interesting. And I guess, like, the benefit of GNS is that, you know, it allows you to trade forex, right? Like the british pound, I bitcoin, ether, euro, the japanese yen. And of course, GNS is risky because they use Chainlink oracles and it introduces tail risks, et cetera. But, you know, obviously the arbitram launch is bullish and this could be a ghost driver. Right? And if you think about all these random arbitram projects launching, like, delta neutral vaults using GLP, I'm not really a fan of those things. I don't really think it makes sense.
00:42:33.560 - 00:43:09.828, Speaker A: But, you know, if people create products on top of the. If people create products on top of the gains vault, right, the dive vault, maybe it can attract more TvL on arbitrage and then thus creating some reflexive valuation loop, right? Because I think the GMx to GNS ratio for the market cap is like three to one. I wouldn't be surprised if it gets like two to one. I still think GMX is a higher quality. I don't think GNS can ever flip GMX at least like the way it is now, but it's definitely something to look at, right. So I don't want to be like a GNS Max Gmx doxy. I want to look at all sides.
00:43:09.828 - 00:43:36.716, Speaker A: So 43 minutes. And hopefully, you know, you're not tired of my voice, but let's pivot to the NFT bull case. And I also want to talk about, like the, you know, because, you know, I feel like we're all in crypto because, you know, the bull markets are super fun. And I'm kind of thinking about, like, what could catalyze the next on chain bull market. And I have a thesis that it could be NFT. So let's talk about that. Right? But let's talk about, like, the NFT as an asset class as a whole.
00:43:36.716 - 00:44:18.686, Speaker A: And I understand that, you know, people subscribe to my channel because of DeFi, but I think it's inevitable that nfts in DeFi will intersect, right. And the financialization of nfts are inevitable. So I do think it makes sense to view nfts as an asset class that DeFi will touch in 2033 and 2024. And I think it's kind of dumb to overlook because if you're like an ETH bull, right, and you expect ether to flip bitcoin, do you think it's gonna happen purely because of Defi being big? I mean, sure. But I think it's more likely that ether flips bitcoin. If Defi and nfts are growing exponentially and nfts are such a small asset class, I think the market cap is of nfts, like ten to 15 billion. Right.
00:44:18.686 - 00:44:49.314, Speaker A: Which is like, tiny, tiny. So, you know, I think we're going to see a higher growth rate in the nfts this year than for Defi. So if you can find, I guess, like, NFT financialization products, I think, you know, there's going to be upside, you know, but this is like a 2023 story, right? It's not like a January or February story, right? It's going to be. It's going to take time. It's going to take time. So let's talk about, like, how I think about nfts. I'm like, you know, I come from, like, a poker background, and, you know, I'm.
00:44:49.314 - 00:46:07.164, Speaker A: My school of thought tends to be, like, on the more rational side. And it's really hard to rationalize, you know, some of these nfts being worth so much. But, you know, I think one of the narratives that can actually catalyze nfts is around this question. And, you know, this is an open question. Like, what is the one thing that retail investors like you and I hate about crypto, right? Hate about crypto, right? Like what? Like, what do we hate to, what do we hate? And the answer is getting dumped on by VC's and those seed investors, right? Like, I hate buying tokens and then getting dumped by Alameda, right? I hate getting dumped on by seed investors that like, just shield these random tokens, right? It's like, damn it, like, what am I putting myself into? Of course, I think, you know, now that we're in a barrier, I think, you know, people are much wiser about, like, you know, not buying these tokens. But, you know, this is a sentiment that people use, right? This is like the argument people used to be super bearish, like ERC 20s in general, right? Just tokens in general, right? It's like avalanche Solana, like l one tokens, right? It's like, why would I want to buy those tokens when VC's are unlocking their tokens that they bought at $0.01 or something, right? It's like, why would I want to buy a VC's 50 x? Why would I, why would I want to buy that, you know, influencers 100 x, right? It's like, which I think is totally reasonable.
00:46:07.164 - 00:46:54.732, Speaker A: Even bitcoin in ether has this narrative. In the case of bitcoin, right? You know, like what's going to happen to, like the Mount Gox coins? What's going to happen to GBTC? You know, bitcoin miners are dumping bitcoin every single day. Ether, right, is deflationary. But, you know, like in March, right, post Shanghai, there's going to be ether withdrawals, right? More ether is going to hit supply. You know, like are going to get dumped on by ether holders. So I think ERC 20 tokens has this problem of like just being inflationary, right? And it's really hard to buy into things that are inflationary because you always have this idea that, you know, someone, someone wealthier than you is going to dump on your. Dump on your head, which is always like a hard psychological thing to have, right? You talk about the Solana ecosystem startup act, right? Where, you know CMS Holdings, I know global capital, alumni research.
00:46:54.732 - 00:47:58.818, Speaker A: Like, they invest everything and then they just dump into FTx liquidity. It's kind of funny because this was a meme in 2021 and then I guess it kind of came in the fruition, right? It's like, oh my God, like CRM is a scam. But the thing with nfts is if you just purely view them from like a supply demand dynamic, it's kind of interesting if you kind of think about it this way. So if you think about the collections that's been around for over a year. So this only applies to like, you know, collection that's been around. You know, most of them have like free mints or, you know, like low cost mints and, you know, the supply is capped and they're reasonably distributed, right? Because if a project has a 10,000 NFT supply and they've been around for, let's say, a year, chances are, right, the, the NFT has switched hands like multiple times. And if they're still holding on to this NFT, and if the valuation right for some of these nfts are at all time highs, then you should expect that the holder base has pretty strong hands, right? Like their hands must be full of calluses or something.
00:47:58.818 - 00:48:29.928, Speaker A: It must be really, really strong. Of course, there are issues of, you know, these NFT projects like air dropping new nfts and that kind of dilutes the value of nfts. Of course there's that element to it. But I think the dilution element for nfts is much lower than the dilution element in the ERC twenty s. I think, you know, that's pretty hard to argue against. So, for example, right, I own pudgy penguin. I mean, I talked about my pudgy penguins purchase and they've been around since July of 2021, so they've been around for like a year and a half.
00:48:29.928 - 00:49:47.410, Speaker A: And the fact that their ether valuation is basically at its all time highs, of course we've seen a correction. If you just think about like, the relative supply supply demand dynamic that we've seen in pudgy penguins, like, I'm not sure if, like, a rational person can look at this and be bearish nfts, of course, right? It's like, how do I justify paying like $6,000 on like, a penguin jPeg? But, you know, you have, you kind of have to find the right project. I actually bought this because I bought my pudgy NFT and I was like, wow, like, you know, it's like, I love my penguin, right? It's like, this is my penguin and my penguin is me. So, you know, for myself, right? It's like, I like the penguins and like, you know, I literally spent, I literally bought the art, like for the art, right? So I'm not going to sell my NFT, right? So, like, if the distribution for some of these NFT collections are, you know, going into stronger, stronger hands and if confidence in the NFT markets can return somehow, I think you can make a case for NFts to. To outperform some altcoins, right? And even bitcoin and ether, you know, just think about it. Rational. So nftstatistics eth, right? Punk 9059.
00:49:47.410 - 00:50:25.228, Speaker A: He's a great follow on Twitter. And, you know, he crafted this mid cap PFP, right, profile picture, NFT index. And it includes things like pudgy penguin, sappy seals, crypto dickbuts, mfers, et cetera. And, you know, ever since. And this is looking at their ether valuation. So, you know, we've seen, like, a crazy bull market in this mid cap index since no post FTX, basically. And, you know, you kind of see this in, like, the pudgy penguins, right? And of course, recently, right, pudgy penguins went from like seven ether to like five ether.
00:50:25.228 - 00:50:58.890, Speaker A: And this is like a pretty harsh pullback. But if you denominate this in, in us dollar terms, right, this index, it's basically in this pretty steady uptrend. And, you know, something I'm learning is like, you know, if ether goes up, then, you know, people denominate their NFTs and, like, USD value. So people are, you know, and if they also want to catch, like, the ether pump, then they're gonna sell their nfts into ether so they can play the ether pump. There's like a bunch of, like, different. There's like, so many factors that play into nfts. So, like, you know, and also, like, the fees are so high, like, with these marketplaces and, like, creative royalties.
00:50:58.890 - 00:51:49.996, Speaker A: So I usually just tend to, like, just buy and hold, right? Instead of, like, trying to flip these things. Of course, I, like, provide liquidity on pseudoswap for certain collections. But generally, like, you know, I think it's better to, like, collect than, like, trade. But, you know, going back to my original point, if you ignore the fact that these are, like, just jpegs and think about them as tokens with supply and demand, you can make a bookcase for, like, why these things are in bull trends, right? Like, why not? And, you know, yeah, so this is a image from Kaleo. But I feel like there's sentiment that, you know, nfts can't go up where, when ether is going up. But if you look at the Q three to Q four bull market in 2021, right? Like, that's when we saw, like, the crazy NFT volume. So, you know, nfts can go up in tandem with ether.
00:51:49.996 - 00:52:15.266, Speaker A: And I think it's a sector that we should look at. And this also goes into, like, my next thesis that I have. And also, right? Nfts takes into account like roughly 22% of gas fees right now. So, you know, there's definitely some NFT activity. And by the way, like, I, like, you should not be listening to me for NFT device. I'm just simply sharing my observation and research. And like I mentioned, NFT market cap is like 1015.
00:52:15.266 - 00:52:59.000, Speaker A: I mean, you know, this is like not the best way to calculate it, right? Because you can't like look at the floor because there's like different rarities. But basically it's a small asset class. And if like 5% of Defi people like, you know, allocated capital to NFTs and the NFT holder base is super strong, then chances are the floor prices will go up, right? Just supply demand. So this goes into my, the last topic of the day. This is a working thesis. It's a fun thesis, right? We always have to think about what could happen because right now it's really difficult to imagine any type of bull market given the macro conditions, given genesis, like whatever, right? But at some point the trend will shift. And I think it's important to think about what could create a trend shift.
00:52:59.000 - 00:54:14.480, Speaker A: And this goes into my liquidity mining bubbles thesis, which is kind of what I specialize in, right? If you think about like my channel but low conviction, something to ponder working thesis, like I said, like, these are my thoughts as of January, January 19, maybe in like two weeks, I'm like, yeah, this is super dumb, right? I'm an idiot. But something to ponder about. Because even if there's like a 5% probability that this happens, you know, like, if you're prepared for it, then chances are you can capitalize on it. And the thesis goes like this. So ever since the creation of defi and NFTs, so, you know, the post Covid era, right? When, you know, people actually use a chain to like, you know, use defi, every on chain bull market has been driven by some form of a liquidity mining catalyst, right? Something has to happen for on chain to pick up. Right now, on chain is picking up because, you know, people are speculating on nfts and people are like buying like lido and stuff, right? But that's not enough to catalyze a bull market, right? Something has to happen to incentivize thousands of people, hundreds of people to use the chain, pay 50 gas, right? Pay $50 to use the chain. And that is ultimately what causes, like, the next bull run.
00:54:14.480 - 00:54:54.450, Speaker A: How sustainable is it? Like, I'm not really making a prediction on like, you know, this creating like a three year bull market, but maybe like a three month bull market, right? I think it's definitely possible. And this is like following a drawdown. So, you know, of course, like, if we're in this uptrend, then, you know, like, everyone's using a chain, but following a drawdown, sentiment is bad. Something has to happen for people to want to use a chain again. And the thesis is around the fact that excitement on chain when it comes to crypto prices, I think, you know, when prices go up, something has to be happening, right? Like, bitcoin can't. Oh, sorry. Ether just can't go up for no reason, right? Like, if gas is like five, like, ether is not gonna go up.
00:54:54.450 - 00:55:57.924, Speaker A: And following a drawdown, like, there has to be some form of liquidity injection, because if people aren't getting some, like, incentive, no one's gonna use a chain. And the liquidity mining bubbles thesis centers on the fact that if there is liquidity mining for a token where there is no valuation model, right? So if there are no evaluation models for the token that's being incentivized for market participants, then, you know, people can justify any price for these tokens. The price can go up, therefore boosting the yield, and therefore bubbles can form because people become irrational. So let's talk about a few examples, and hopefully this can kind of tie in with the blur airdrop that could happen. So, June of 2020, like, no one was using. Using a chain, but compound launched the comp token and introduce liquidity mining, and therefore led deFi summer to happen. Of course, now, right? In 2023, we know that comp is, I don't know, like, how do we value comp, right? It's like a governance token, right? No one gets excited about the compound token.
00:55:57.924 - 00:56:38.638, Speaker A: However, two and a half years ago, nobody knew how to value the comp token, right? Like, people viewed Defi in 2020 as like a multi trillion dollar asset class. And people were like, oh, my God, like, the comp token is going to revolutionize how people value governance tokens. It's going to democratize access to fundraising, capital raises, liquidity mining tokens, or the future of finance, right? These were the things that people. I was. And people were saying, like, even I was saying this, right, because we literally had no ways to, like, think about the valuation models. So when the comp liquidity mining started, people were like, oh, my God, compkin connects from here time to farm it. Time use a chain.
00:56:38.638 - 00:57:32.170, Speaker A: And then this also led to people using other applications, right, for liquidity mining, it also led other teams to introduce tokens. And it was kind of like this reflexive loop where all it took was one project doing something new and novel which catalyzed this on chain bull market and even Aave, right? I mean, I'm looking at the old coin, right, eth lend before they got converted into Abe. But, you know, in June, it was like six cents, and then it went like $0.82. Right? So of course, right now we view Aave as a governance token, right? And no one gets that excited about it, but at the time, no one knew how to value it. So, you know, you can justify any valuation. So if we are in the scenario where people can justify any valuation for any token and those tokens are being minted and being handed out to market participants, it's going to bring back on chain activity. It's going to incentivize liquidity, it's going to incentivize people to allocate capital to the crypto markets.
00:57:32.170 - 00:57:56.652, Speaker A: And that can actually create a reflexive loop where, you know, bubbles form and ultimately. Right, that's why we are in crypto, because bubbles can form. Because crypto goes up a lot. Of course, you know, we had Defi summer. It deflated starting like roughly October, November ish, and it got wrecked in December. But, you know, once bitcoin hit all time highs, you know, like aave just like 100. I mean, it did 100 x, but, you know, it like, went up a lot.
00:57:56.652 - 00:58:19.998, Speaker A: Right? Like, it was kind of crazy. You know, when people don't know how to, how to value these tokens, bubbles can form. Part two of this example is, of course, the matic, right, the bubble that happened. I think a lot of people joined my channel because of the matic liquidity mining programs. But, you know, basically, right, ethereum gas fees are super high. Like, I don't want to use the chain. I'm priced out.
00:58:19.998 - 00:59:10.444, Speaker A: So what do I do? I go to matic where gas fees are like 0.01 cents. And, you know, they're doing liquidity mining and, you know, I'm being paid to use the chain. Okay? And, you know, like, some of these videos got like crazy amounts of views, right? And this worked because at the time, no one knew how to value these alt l one tokens. In fact, if you think about like, what people were saying back then, it's like, you know, people were pumping Solana. Because, you know, if ether is, has the market cap of x dollars and Solana has this many users, then why can't Solana be 20% of the market cap of ether, right? And, you know, if ether goes up, then Solana goes up, like, by a factor of five or something, right? Of course, now we know that, okay, like, maybe no ether is king. And, like, you know, like, what's the future of all tail ones? And people generally know how to value these things, but at the time, people didn't know how to value them, so the valuations went off the limits.
00:59:10.444 - 01:00:01.554, Speaker A: And if people are being incentivized to use the chain with these tokens that, you know, the teams are minting at a thin air, then it creates this, you know, irrational exuberance. This kick started degenerate farming season in Q one and Q two of 2021, when farmers entered Goose finance works. And Goose finance was, like, the dumbest thing ever, right? It's like, for those that are not aware, it's like it started on BSE. Wherever I, for example, you can deposit, let's say, no, $10,000 into goose finance, and there's a 4% deposit fee, right? And 2% of the deposit fee goes to the team, and 2% of the deposit fee goes to buy back. Buy back and burn the goose token. And if you stick your USDC on this application, you get goose tokens in return, right? It has zero utility, zero value. But it was basically like this money printer.
01:00:01.554 - 01:00:33.140, Speaker A: And it was absolutely ridiculous. Of course. We look back on these tokens and we're like, yeah, like, this deserves to be zero. But when you're living in these moments where, like, no one knows, like, what the hell is happening, like, the valuations can really go off the charts. And, you know, in the polygon days, we had all these ponsonomic things that made zero sense, but it worked. And, like, the majority of the people made money, which is kind of insane. And of course, right, like, we had the dinosaur upgrades and, you know, please take me back to those times, right? Dinosaur was, like, the most pve thing I've ever done on my channel.
01:00:33.140 - 01:01:26.850, Speaker A: I mean, I guess it kind of depends, like, how, like, when you got in, but, you know, dinosaur was amazing and, you know, so, you know, liquidity money in a bull market, I guess. But, you know, we had, like, the dump in May of 2021 with, like, you know, the chinese miner fud Elon fud whatever, and everything nuked. Like, I woke up and, like, my net worth was like, God has had gone wrecked. And, you know, post the may crash, Sentinel was really, really bad, right? People were saying, it's over, right? Like, you know, we have to go down 90%, yada yada yada. But all it took was bitcoin to put in like three weeks worth of God candles. And then Eva labs, they were like, oh, yeah, this is our time. Let's introduce our version of liquidity mining, right? And that catalyzed avalanche rush season, Solana season, phantom season, everything season.
01:01:26.850 - 01:02:31.912, Speaker A: And it only worked because the market still didn't know how to value these l one tokens, right? So these bubbles can only form if the market doesn't know how to value these tokens. That's something that I've learned in hindsight. And looking back, it's kind of dumb, right? It's like, why was I so excited about some of these tokens? But if you think about it, right, it's like we got excited because there were no valuation models and the sky was the limit, okay? That's why people get excited about things and finance rush. Of course, right now we know roughly how to value these defi governance tokens and l one tokens. So if some new l one launched tomorrow and they introduced liquidity mining, it's not going to work, right? Because everyone knows how the game is played and everyone knows that, you know, it doesn't really work. But, you know, what's something that the market doesn't know how to value? And I think that's going to be with NFT marketplace tokens and also tokens that's going to be launched by NFT teams. Of course, we had Yuga drop the ape token, and now the SEC is like, you know, probing Yuga.
01:02:31.912 - 01:03:35.244, Speaker A: So, like, I don't even know, like, what the situation is there, right, in terms of regulation. But I don't think Yuga is that scared because, like, even after the SEC probe, they introduced ape staking, right? So, like, they're probably like, not even scared of like, the SAC, right? And, you know, recently the Department of Justice announced to the world, like, we're going to enforce serious actions, like international enforcement actions on the cryptocurrency industry. And everyone was like, oh, my God, like, is it binance? Is it tether? But it turned out to be like blitzlaw or something, right? I kind of forgot what the russian exchange was called. So, I mean, I'm not like, maybe this is a controversial opinion, but, you know, if the DOJ is like, celebrating, like, like enforcing actions on some russian exchange no one has heard of in 2023, what are the odds that they're gonna clamp down on Defi hard in 2023? I think they're really behind the curve. And I think some crazy things can still happen in the crypto markets, even though it feels like it can't happen at this point. And the point I'm making here is with the blur airdrop. So this just got posted.
01:03:35.244 - 01:04:11.464, Speaker A: They're gonna launch February 14. I think blur is a pretty good platform. I use it, right? I use, you know, I was, like, farming their airdrop. And, you know, it's a pretty good platform. And I guess the question is, I think even after the blur token drops, right, maybe that can catalyze some walt effect where, you know, some people make, like, a couple thousand dollars and they reinvest those profits back into nfts, right. And maybe, you know, that can create a wealth effect. But, you know, I don't think the blur team is dumb, right? It's backed by paradigm and, like, it's like, you know, they're pretty good with, like, you know, how they're designing this thing.
01:04:11.464 - 01:04:45.680, Speaker A: And I still think that there are going to be liquidity mining incentives even after blur drops. So the question is, how do you. How do you value blur, right. You can't really value it like. Like a Dex token, because, like, what is, like, the total addressable market of nfts? Like, what is the growth potential of nfts, right. It can be, like, much higher than, like, what we can imagine. And at the top of last cycle, right, I think Opensea raised, like, nine figures at a $32 billion valuation.
01:04:45.680 - 01:05:46.622, Speaker A: So if people are going to benchmark blur's evaluation off of Opensea's valuation, and people are like, why can't blur get to 20% of Opensea's peak valuation, right. Then people can justify an FDV of blur at $6 billion, and that can create some crazy bubbles along the way. Chances are, like, I don't really know how blur makes money because they don't really charge fees. So I'm not really sure what the, like, what the point of the token is. But, you know, if you think about my past examples of liquidity mining bubbles, we really don't have way to, like, rationally value blur. So if the token launches at an aggressive valuation, I think it probably deserves a valuation above looks rare, right? And looks rare is trading at $100 million market cap with a $200 million fdv. So if you go off of this mental model, maybe there aren't any theoretical limits to the fdv outside of, like, I don't know, like, 10 billion, right.
01:05:46.622 - 01:06:26.766, Speaker A: But, you know, if blur gets 10 billion ftv, then, you know, everyone's gonna be singing Kumbaya. Hallelujah. You know, like posting TikTok videos. So the point is like, if the token is liquid and starts trading aggressively like bullishly, I think that can actually create a bubble in the space. Because if blur does liquidity money incentivizing marketplace activity where, you know, people get paid trading nfts, buying nfts, setting bids, you know, sending orders, then, you know, it's gonna allow people to make money, right? Get like some form of rebate, right, compensation for using the chain. And if people are getting paid to like buy and sell nfts, then chances are on chain activity flows back. Ether does well.
01:06:26.766 - 01:07:05.674, Speaker A: And if ether does well because of nfts and maybe nfts do well and it kind of creates like this reflex of loop that can actually bring back onto an activity that's kind of like the mental model that I have. And of course there's like the blur. Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah, whatever. Same can be said for NFT projects that launch tokens. So obviously, like Yuga dropped the ape token. But like, what's stopping other NFT projects from dropping their own token as like a fundraising mechanism? Like, like, for example, if putty penguins dropped a token sometime this year, like, how do you value that, right? Like chances are, like there's gonna be like no good model, right? Like chances are it's not gonna be worth that much.
01:07:05.674 - 01:07:51.668, Speaker A: But you know, in the short term, right? Like if there are buyers there, it's gonna go up. Like most of them are gonna be cash grabs. People are gonna get wrecked. But if it can even sustain like a month, like two months, three month bull market, I think that's something to be aware of. And, you know, even if this is like super dumb and, you know, six months from now, we look back on this video and, um, you know, it's like techy stupid, you know, like we have to consider these things, right? We have to think about what could happen because if you don't, then you're not going to be prepared. And if I've learned anything in crypto over the past couple of years, it's that bubbles can only form and people don't know how to value these things. And once people start understanding how to value these things, then things come back to earth.
01:07:51.668 - 01:08:28.100, Speaker A: And I think, you know, the next bubble that can form is going to either be in these NFT marketplace tokens or like these NFT tokens potentially because, yeah, and also like, you know, for like people like Defi and like crypto and stuff, it's like, it's, if you want to like, you know, bet on the growth of the NFT market. Like, what do you do? Right. It's like, do you buy either? Because that's like a bet on NFts. I mean, I guess you could, but it's not like a direct beta. Do you buy Coinbase for their Coinbase NFT marketplace? Not really. Right. Because no one uses it.
01:08:28.100 - 01:09:06.110, Speaker A: You can't really trade equity for the opensea. I mean, if Opensea had a token, right, like, that should be worth like multi billion dollars, right? Like, totally. But chances are they're not going to have a token. Like they might even ipo at some point in the future. So, you know, if we're in that scenario, then maybe things like Blur can actually, you know, create like some irrational exuberance, enter a bubble, and then that trickles down into the NFT segment. So that's my journal thesis. And I guess I don't really know how important it's gonna be, but, you know, digitized by Taigaku, they're gonna run like a Super bowl ad that's gonna allow people to mint nfts for free.
01:09:06.110 - 01:09:49.778, Speaker A: And, you know, they raised $200 million. And if they're gonna do this, then, like, maybe they have a plan, right? Maybe that's gonna bring retail activity back. Because as much as I love Defi, right, it's like the average retail, like, normal person, like, they're not going to buy FXS, right? It's like understanding FXS takes too long. But, you know, if bitcoin is going up and ether is going up and then, you know, nfts are starting to go up, then I think, you know, the friction to buy nfts is like, much lower than buying things like FXS and CBX and GMX. Right, of course. And that can also create like some crazy multiple in terms of narrative, right? And we talked about why people buy tokens, right. It's like, of course, like, there's like, you know, use.
01:09:49.778 - 01:10:28.686, Speaker A: You can use some form of a p ratio, but it's, you know, crypto is driven on narrative and speculation. And if the narrative is strong enough, then we can, you know, sing hallelujah and kumbaya. So, yeah, that's about it for the end of the video. It's a pretty long video, all at timestamps, so it's gonna be less of a chore. But hopefully, hopefully this was an interesting video. Let me know what your thoughts are. You know, since we're still in a bear market, I want to spend, like, less time, like hyping tokens up, right? Because that doesn't really benefit anyone.
01:10:28.686 - 01:10:52.926, Speaker A: I think I'd rather talk about like concepts that people can apply for like future narratives and like how people invest, I guess, in the future. But who knows, like maybe this helps. Yeah, hopefully this was helpful. So thank you guys watching. Link to the premium discord is in the description below. See you guys later. And yeah, see you next month for the next update for Defi and NFTs.
01:10:52.926 - 01:10:53.342, Speaker A: Bye.
