00:00:18.560 - 00:00:55.318, Speaker A: Well, hello, everyone. And I want to recognize first the bravery of the people in the audience that are probably still recovering from the great events and parties last night. So we are proud of you guys. And hello to everyone watching the live stream right now and also what will be recorded. It's my honor to host this panel today. I'm Mark Zither. I work with Aave, the liquidity protocol based on Ethereum on Polygon avalanche, and since yesterday, you guys know that we are coming in the fast track to Solana as well.
00:00:55.318 - 00:01:25.584, Speaker A: We embrace this multi blockchain world, and because it doesn't make sense in 2021 to have this limitation and maximalist vision, that it's a winner take all situation. This is not a zero sum game. This is not DeFi against c five. This is not the cypher punk against the institution. It's all about the synergies. And we have a great panel today, and we will start with a round of introduction. You go first, Josh.
00:01:25.884 - 00:01:52.754, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. My name is Joshua Lim. I head the derivatives business at Genesis global trading. We are a sell side trading and lending desk. We work with a lot of institutional partners who are trying to get access to crypto, potentially for the first time, and kind of help guide them through that process. We're part of digital currency group, which also owns other firms like Grayscale and Foundry and Luno and Coindesk.
00:01:56.414 - 00:02:35.294, Speaker C: Hi, everyone. I'm Nathan McCauley. Work with Anchorage Digital. Anchorage Digital is the first crypto assets bank. So we have a federal bank charter in America, and we build platform and infrastructure for others to build crypto businesses. So custody services, trading services, lending services, all that is available in the platform and then available as APIs for traditional financial institutions who want to come in and dip their toe into the crypto ecosystem. We provide the infrastructure layer for them.
00:02:36.554 - 00:02:56.266, Speaker D: I'm Matt from Solrise. I run the product side of things for Solrise. We have a. A ton of products. Like, we ship a lot. So we built solflare mobile, we built solflare itself. We most recently have been working heavily on Solarize finance, which is a decentralized asset management protocol, the first of its kind on Solana.
00:02:56.266 - 00:03:14.634, Speaker D: It allows for human managed investment funds that are completely trustless, transparent, and on chain. We also have Solrise pulse, which is our ecosystem of permission protocols. So we've. By working alongside civic, we've got the first KYC Dex on Solana at the moment. So, yeah, a lot of different things.
00:03:15.814 - 00:03:30.914, Speaker E: Hey, Ni Rashwan. I'm one of the co founders of Amoon and 21 shares under the 21 shares brand, we're the world's largest issuer of crypto, ETF's and etps, and we're working on bringing some of the same kinds of products in token form under our Amoon brand.
00:03:32.254 - 00:04:33.574, Speaker A: Perfect. I think we can start up the conversation by addressing the elephant in the room. DeFi grew to from like 18 months ago, a 600 million dollar market to 250 billion plus industry. And obviously, can you build that only on retails? Because all these panels like CFAT DeFi or finance fuel DeFi, it's when institution will come. But 250 billion institutions already here, and they are using like, services and tools because you probably cannot expect and probably that's not going to be the best idea if you have like $50 million or even more than that under management to give just a ledger to an intern to manage that. So you have dedicated tool. Do you want to talk about that, Natan, and how you work with institutions and how you onboard them in the decentralized finance ecosystem?
00:04:33.954 - 00:05:41.924, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah. I think that any kind of traditional institution's journey absolutely ends up starting with the custody question. How are they going to hold the assets? How are they going to manage the security of the assets? And that's really been kind of the bread and butter at Anchorage Digital. We have focused exclusively on that for many, many years. How do you provide safe, reliable infrastructure that allows holding of the assets and then flexible usage of those assets deploying into DeFi, participating in staking, whatever the case may be there? And so on top of that, the other aspect of secure custody is being regulated custody. As traditional players want to come in, they want to know that they're interacting with regulated infrastructure, which is why we went after the federal bank charter within the US to be able to give that custody clarity for many of those traditional players. What ends up being very interesting is once you have the custody layer established, that's really what kind of unlocks the ability to participate in all the other assets.
00:05:41.924 - 00:06:36.174, Speaker C: So we're in conversations with dozens of Wall street banks at this point, looking at how do they start to develop crypto offerings. And what's very interesting is they're not just looking at kind of long spot positions, say, like hold Solana, hold Ethereum, hold, those kinds of things. But also looking at is, how do you start to participate in the Defi ecosystem? How do you start to lend and borrow on decentralized finance? And how do you pick a custodian that will allow you to do all of that? And so we're seeing that as one of the mega trends that expect to be happening over the next several years. And it's pretty exciting because it's going to be one of those things where as much as Defi has grown in the last 18 months, if a large set of capital is able to come in, we could be looking at another kind of growth trajectory within the DeFi markets if more traditional capital is able to come into the space.
00:06:37.474 - 00:07:33.034, Speaker A: And what we are observing in the ecosystem is that more and more DeFi services are launching their compliant comfort zone products are regulation friendly permission pools. So, for example, Aave Arc is upcoming a protocol some people knows called compound is launching Treasury. I don't know very much about that one, but yeah. And do you think this kind of permissioned product is an evolution of DeFi is something that will exist with the permissionless defi? And I really want just your opinion on that. Don't you think that institution that can play on both parts would just arbitrage the opportunity on both parts, like the rates and things like that? What do you think the coexistence of this permissioned product and permissionless product will become in DeFi in the next few weeks and months?
00:07:33.734 - 00:09:08.468, Speaker B: Yes, great question. Genesis is obviously one of the largest centralized lending desks globally. And I think we work very closely, hand in hand with a lot of our trading partners to source assets that eventually end up in the DeFi world in some capacity, whether they're going into liquidity pools or lending protocols and things like that. We view it, the whole ecosystem is going to grow kind of in tandem, whether it's sort of banks that are able to source very cheap dollars because of the Fed, and where interest rates are outside of crypto, and deploying that into juicier opportunities in the crypto world. And there still needs, there is a role for institutions like Genesis, like Anchorage and others, to sort of intermediate some of those flows, because I think the biggest thing to kind of realize is, while Defi has created a lot of new modes of interacting with financial services, a lot of that is not very granular. So executing on an Amm that is a constant product market is maybe not the right type of execution for a specific institutional trader that wants to follow some sort of benchmark or look for some sort of algorithmic execution that's more efficient. Similarly with lending, maybe a specific sort of interest rate curve isn't the right, isn't going to match someone's need for a specific funding cost.
00:09:08.468 - 00:09:30.804, Speaker B: And then lastly, I'll say there's always going to be a role for institutions to sort of, and dealing desks like genesis to price credit risk, and that really is not something you can put in a trustless format. It has to be some format where you know who your counterparty is, you've done some KYC, you understand their balance sheet and their cash flows.
00:09:32.504 - 00:10:48.434, Speaker A: I think to me, the most interesting thing is that the opportunities of this kind of new project, like the per product, because DeFi should not exist in a vacuum. And I think the whole point we were talking about that, like before the panet, Matt, is that decentralized finance is about decentralization, but it's also about the synergy, the composable finance, the idea that you can find synergy between protocols, because, for example, AAVE Arc is a liquidity protocol, where institution can deposit assets, take asset liquidity, and pay directly to the protocol interest rates. But if you borrow some USDC, because you deposit some bitcoin and you just have USDC, and you send that back to the fiat world through conveyor pro or whatever, to me, it's not really that interesting. It sucks a bit, but if you start to be able to that USDC, to swap it in a permissioned exchange, to go and basically find some products that are compatible still in the compliance comfort zone, but that allows this synergy to happen directly on chain, this becomes interesting. And I think you're working on that.
00:10:49.454 - 00:11:54.900, Speaker D: Yeah. So working on the pulse side of things, because what we have is an on chain identity mechanism, as it were, it's possible to have one identity being shared across multiple composable integrated deFi services. And this is something that really, I think you're only seeing the very early stages of this at the moment on Solana or elsewhere. But the potential when you have, and I mean, I think for the near future, custodians are going to have most of the market by far, but if they're on that kind of on chain identity, like our pulse, built with civics, civics identity pass exists, institutions can then start directly interacting with composable DeFi protocols. And that it just adds another layer to the money legos, because they'll start to write their own protocols, they'll start to write their own bots, they'll start to write other services that integrate with things. I mean, protocols like AaVE or yearn on Ethereum, if your average bank had free access to those, in terms of the yields they can generate and what they can do for their customers, it just makes sense, that kind of composability. I mean, at its core, composability unlocks innovation, especially in finance, more innovation than we've seen at any point in the last 40 years.
00:11:54.900 - 00:12:27.982, Speaker D: Even factoring in the trends and derivatives, when you make these things composable, when you give institutions direct access, what starts to happen is you unlock totally new types of products. I mean, if you take a flash loan, for example, a flash loan is something that I think if they fully understood them, a lot of institutions would get a lot of usage out of. It allows for arbitrage opportunities. It allows for various situations that simply can't be done in tradfi. It's essentially, it's an impossible product to build in a standard tradfi environment. Or on the other side, you have, say, no lost lotteries. I think that's one I find really interesting, because.
00:12:27.982 - 00:13:00.474, Speaker D: Because no lost lotteries, if they were integrated and backed by government, could they be used to drive people to build up savings accounts while also playing the lottery? Like, the appeal of that would be incredibly strong. So it's institutions, but it's also banks, other institutions that deal directly with retail. It's offering the completely advanced, new, cutting edge things we can do with DeFi to institutions. There's several different angles, and I think it's barely been explored. I think the next five years, we're going to start to see the natural evolution of what we can do there. And I think that will possibly change the face of finance completely.
00:13:02.734 - 00:13:54.064, Speaker A: And I want now to move the topic to not only what permission DeFi will be compared to what DeFi is, but how unique permission DeFi product can be. What can we create that cannot maybe exist as efficiently on the current permission less defi, that will be a value proposition on its own. Like, for example, we are at the Solara conference. Most of the cornerstone of the liquidity protocol. They come from the history of Ethereum. So the first protocol that were released, like Mecadao, Compa, and then aave, they started in the market that was small, that was fairly liquid, like uniswap. Liquidity was not as efficient as now.
00:13:54.064 - 00:14:55.554, Speaker A: We didn't have curve for swapping stable coins and all these things. So we end up with pretty conservative ltvs, pretty high liquidation bonus, because the blockchain, the Ethereum blockchain, has its own technical limitation. So you really need over collateralization and to make sure that if things go south, someone will pay debt on behalf of the borrowers, and it got an incentive to do that, and it's got time to do that on Solana, you can have almost instant liquidation, you can have very efficient liquidity, the ease that will lead to brand new projects that will have a value proposition on this zone. For example, overcolor terror lending. It's important when you don't know who is the taker of liquidity, but if you know everybody, because you are in a permissioned environment, you can do off chain litigation. If there so is there is permission in DeFi will be the only grade. And the gateway to under collateral is known, for example.
00:14:58.574 - 00:15:40.890, Speaker D: So asking specifically about under collateralized loans, if you add permission to that, will institutions start to offer those to retail users outside of defi services? Will they start to use it as a pool of liquidity they can use to offer to others? That kind of thing. Obviously, if you have some kind of KYC or identity mechanism in place, it changes the way you offered loans. Perhaps over time we'll get what to some DeFi people would be the worst nightmare, and people will essentially have an on chain credit score. I hate that I've said that, but there's, I think, just several completely unexplored angles there, like the things we see when we start to look into it. I don't know. Because pulse is something that others can compose with and build with. I'm hoping that founders on the Solana ecosystem in particular will show up and just do something nobody's expected at all.
00:15:40.890 - 00:15:50.054, Speaker D: I think there's going to be multiple products of that kind. It's totally blue sky, I guess. So. It's going to be very interesting to see over 2022, what starts to happen in that space.
00:15:51.554 - 00:17:00.934, Speaker B: Yeah, I think for us, our view is that it's inevitable that there will be defi wrappers for the types of under, of collateralized lending that we do. And we actually announced a pilot program with maple finance just a couple days ago where we, you know, it's. There's a pool of sort of whitelisted counterparties that can. That we've already kyC'd and they've kyc'd us, and we can face them through these on chain sort of settlement mechanisms. I think that'll be how things evolve over time, is we'll just wrap around these sort of defi permissionless protocols, some sort of mechanism for identifying our counterparty. And then the other sort of cool thing is there's other sort of primitives that it's very easy to overlay more complex structured products on top of. So another good example would be friction, which is a sort of structured product yield generation type of product on Solana, that is using PSi options and other sort of derivative protocols as the primitive to generate some sort of yield.
00:17:00.934 - 00:17:33.034, Speaker B: And I think that allowing us to identify who our counterparty is when we face them in the structured product pool, who is supplying the capital into these pools, will allow us to create much more innovative products that don't exist today, that maybe do exist in traditional finance, because it's easy to document them in a certain way in a sort of using ISDA documentation or some sort of standard template that doesn't really exist in smart contract language.
00:17:34.334 - 00:17:38.518, Speaker A: What's your take on this, Annie? I agree.
00:17:38.646 - 00:18:43.174, Speaker E: I think one of the bigger concepts that we think about at the firm is the power of DeFi, not just from the consumer angle, because we're seeing a lot of very early infrastructural builds from all the protocols that we're seeing, and then we're now building the app layer, and we're thinking a lot about consumers, and we think internally at the firm, that a lot of the big impacts from DeFi are going to be felt at the infrastructural level as well. And so it's going to be invisible in the background, interoperable infrastructure, as may be the biggest impact of that. And so regardless of what mechanism or what users it's going to end up looking like, we think that DeFi is probably going to have a much bigger impact as this invisible infrastructure layer than anything we're seeing on the consumer side today, even though we're quite excited about, obviously, the potential and growth of the consumer side application layer as well.
00:18:44.954 - 00:19:36.688, Speaker A: I think it was Tani that said that like a few weeks ago, DeFi is the back end of c five, or CFI is the front end of DeFi. And I think that's a good vision, because for liquidity protocols such as AAvE, the main user of AAVE today, are not actual people. They are protocols already. When you deposit some liquidity to curve, there's a high probability that liquidity end up in tua. If you use your vaults or convex or things like that part of that liquidity, there's a high chance it end up in aave. And I think for the permission need finance, that's going to be the same thing. Because we cannot expect, as we said at the beginning of this panel, we cannot expect any having 50 million plus Aom to just give a ledger nano s to an intern.
00:19:36.688 - 00:19:51.764, Speaker A: And you cannot expect my grandmother to have a nos as well. And that's a gateway. It's all about the synergy. And I think you touch on this, and that's an opportunity.
00:19:52.904 - 00:20:55.860, Speaker E: We are obsessed with this concept at the firm of building bridges from traditional finance into the defi world. I completely agree with your earlier points. Cefi, Defi and Tradfi are all here to stay in various forms for various kinds of users. And I think it would behoove all of us to build the applications in an incredible way on every single format for whatever is right for the end user, and then think about how best to connect and stitch all of them. And so that could be infrastructural, where a lot of tradfi today is run on very inefficient systems, but has deaths of liquidity and a large number of users that we don't see today. There will be clear benefits and the other way as well. And so I think one of the key defi features is things like yield, which are on the tradfi, complete surprises, especially here in Europe, where there are negative interest rates, zero interest rates, etcetera.
00:20:55.860 - 00:21:44.954, Speaker E: And so I think it is going to be the connections between the two that will be the most powerful thing. And you can broadly think about this at every level of the stack, infrastructural app layer, and then the connections and interoperability between all. And for us, we think this is natural, which is why we're a pretty big ETF tratfi centralized business, and we're building a defi decentralized component as well of it. And over the next few months, you'll start to see actually, from an infrastructural point of view, because we also, we're a full stack issuer in that we own all of our infrastructure. We'll start stitching the two worlds together in ways with immense benefits to the end user that will be felt almost immediately.
00:21:45.374 - 00:22:52.674, Speaker A: And that's also one of what I really like about your project, is that this is the kind of product that you can use as collateral, that has a lot of value added on its own, and that you cannot really have as it is on permissionless finance. It's one of the things that will make this other version of Defi. You will have a lot of bridge, but each version will have their own opportunity, their own challenge as well, their own gateways as well. But it will be interesting on its own. We are going to make it. I guess one of the things that is important when you touch on that topic is the regulation. This is probably the most difficult part of the conversation on this panel, but what is your take on that? Anybody wants to take that, their vision, is it going to be more difficult do we going to have clarity that will allow the ecosystem to bloom? What's your take on that?
00:22:53.614 - 00:23:41.248, Speaker E: We love regulations from our point of view. I mean, our ETF business is regulated today, but probably at least half a dozen national regulators were working on becoming regulated by an additional dozen, maybe two dozen national regulators. We think that this is how the system scales up. But I go back to my earlier point, I think it will. Different users need different things in different formats, and that applies as well on the regulatory front. And so you'll have slightly different formats, but as long as the infrastructure is running so that regardless of what your needs are, what your jurisdictional needs are, what your regulatory needs are, it should be able to be easily accessed by you. But we don't see regulations as a threat broadly.
00:23:41.248 - 00:24:23.924, Speaker E: In fact, I mean, if you really think about the current infrastructure in DeFi, we're targeting millions of users, maybe tens of millions of users. Well, how do we bring hundreds of millions, a billion next users to the ecosystem? And it's going to involve a lot of connections to the tradfi world, a lot of connections to the CFI world, hopefully without giving up some of the benefits that we have in DeFi. But a lot of that will also need to be built on more regulated bridges, on more regulated infrastructure for, again, those users or those use cases that will require that. And that's not a threat. That's in an incredible opportunity to really scale up the user base.
00:24:25.104 - 00:25:38.214, Speaker B: Yeah, I would say I think it's a large missed opportunity by regulators to not embrace DeFi as a way of expanding their oversight into markets. So if you think about something like a DyDx or mango or any of these sort of per protocols that allow people to take leverage on chain, and the fact that you can sort of see, visualize the flows of funds, of collateral, of leverage, and you can monitor that in real time in a way that you maybe couldn't do in a more centralized system. Right. Like the futures market in the US even is pretty fragmented and there's many different users across many different platforms, many different sort of clearing houses and things like that. And if you could just imagine a regular that was more in tune, tune with what was happening in Defi and using that to their advantage to monitor markets. It's sort of a meme to say this, but a lot of CFTC regulators have noted if they had observed the markets going into the 2008 and 2009 crisis and seen how much leverage was embedded in the system, they might have been able to do something to stop it. And obviously that's something that Defi would enable.
00:25:39.324 - 00:26:43.324, Speaker A: That is a very important point about the auditability of Defi. Like everything can be seen, there's no mumble jumbo in the background anytime, but that also touch a subject of privacy. So the blockchain world is probably the only financial word where if I pay a coffee with bitcoin, the shop will know all my money, all my history and everything I bought on the blockchain forever. And to me, it's hard to believe that institution will be 100 end users from the mainstream audience will be comfortable with these kind of things. And I think one of the topic that is underrepresented, but sometimes clash with this permission need finance and things like that is privacy. Privacy is the right, is very important in the ecosystem, but you have to be compliant as well. So what do you think those two topics, what will be their challenge and their opportunities as well?
00:26:44.224 - 00:27:22.194, Speaker D: I mean, as Joshua said, in the long term, Defi comply, whatever you want to call it, can essentially be more compliant than existing tradfi because of that transparency. And I think this means over the next few years, as you say, the average business is going to be uncomfortable with the idea of every one of their transactions being on chain. We're going to see, probably at the same time as regulation starts to evolve, privacy mechanisms, new ways of potentially obscuring transactions on chain, new ways of creating wallets that you work with. I really don't know what shape that's going to take, but I think we're going to see the evolution of both at once. So privacy expectations within blockchain should evolve at the same time as regulation. That would be my view.
00:27:22.954 - 00:27:23.674, Speaker A: I agree.
00:27:23.794 - 00:28:24.038, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah. I think in tradfi, we see kind of this notion of privacy is there's the privacy of the counterparties in individuals transacting in the ecosystem, and then there's kind of a shared notion of privacy that is held by their financial institutions. And so what you see is kind of a two part system where the individuals don't disclose what they're doing, but then the counterparties that they're interacting with do actually have full visibility to this. A lot of the KYC Basa AML provisions kind of fundamentally build on this. And so getting us to the point where there's that level of privacy within the crypto ecosystem is going to end up being pretty interesting. And certainly custodians look at this. Custodians spend a lot of time looking at how do you make sure that there are enough wallets so that your clients don't get doxxed because of doing transactions while you're still able to look over their transactions and make sure they're kind of above board in everything that they're doing.
00:28:24.038 - 00:28:54.934, Speaker C: So it's a very big topic. There's a lot of pretty meaningful innovation going on in the privacy coin world. And I think one of the core things there is to not think of privacy coins as somehow inherently malicious, like you're saying, kind of inherently looking to solve a fundamental right, which is the right to privacy, particularly around financial transactions. So certainly something that I expect to see a lot more innovation on in the coming years.
00:28:57.154 - 00:29:49.664, Speaker A: I think we only have a minute left, unfortunately. But I will end up with this like in three years, the typical DeFi user will probably talk to an institution and that institution will be a customer of encourage for a custody and these kind of things through a very user friendly application like revolut and this kind of neobins. Like the future of DeFi is this c five front end for the average user, like the mainstream. But what is really important for me is that at any given point, that user can do his own work, have a ledger, and regain full custody and full control on this thing. It's all about the choice, not about the fact that everybody should be a cypher bank. Do you think that shot will remain in three years?
00:29:50.724 - 00:30:40.758, Speaker C: I think it's imperative on all of us as builders in the ecosystem to make sure that happens. The goal here, the animating force, I think, behind the blockchain movement, is not to recreate the whole existing system and just use proof of work and proof of stake in order to facilitate the transactions. There is a real freedom element of what we're doing here. And so I think it's incumbent on all of us to make sure that that entire ecosystem gets built up. That vision of the future that you're talking about, where people are able to hold in custodians and hold in financial institutions and have viable self custody options, will not happen by accident. It will only happen with people deciding to build that infrastructure and make sure that that infrastructure is available to everyone.
00:30:40.886 - 00:31:31.504, Speaker E: I think it will take a lot less in some cases than two years. I think internally at the firm, just in the next six to twelve months, we're working on things where holders of our ETF's will be directly integrated on Defi from an infrastructure layer, and may or may not realize that, but will get benefits from it. And then I think looking a little bit further out, two years, three years, one of the things that will start building and will become more and more possible is you'll be able to enter through our, you know, enter and buy one of our ETF's, but then exchange it for a Solana program version of it or an ERCT 20 version of it. And again, I think it's going to happen a lot faster than maybe a lot of people realize. We're building this with the first kinds of releases where some of this will really matter just within the next six months.
00:31:32.084 - 00:31:59.274, Speaker A: Thank you very much. That's all the time we have for today. Thank you for this conversation. And I think it's our responsibility as builder to keep working on this. I agree. It will be faster than everybody expect because if you ask people 18 months ago would defi be $250 billion, they would say you're crazy. The market was like 600 million with a few applications and yeah, let's build together.
00:31:59.274 - 00:32:00.214, Speaker A: Yep.
