00:00:04.040 - 00:00:44.104, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. I'm Tanya, co founder of Sleek. We are a web3 networking platform that powered a lot of people's connection in brick point. We actually started our mvp back at breakpoint last year with monkey Dao, having a lot of monkeys, having a car, tapping around, making new friends. But today it's about consumer apps. What does it mean? Actually, consumer app is such a broad category, right? You have different kind of verticals from payments, trading reward assets, many more. But today I want to talk about social.
00:00:44.104 - 00:01:18.646, Speaker A: I think social has the real potential to bring the mass to web3, maybe without them knowing. And why all of a sudden everyone is excited about social media. That's because recently, I think two, three months ago, fintech managed to reach a critical mass that everyone is. A lot of people are on it, right? They generate more fees than uniswap. That's crazy. Anyone here have tried fintech? Anyone issue their key? Not enough yet. So we still have a long way to go.
00:01:18.646 - 00:02:17.574, Speaker A: We're still early, but everyone is kind of wondering, would the next bull market be brought by social fi? And before going to that, let's talk about what does it mean? Socialfi means social media plus defi the way that you handle social media would be more decentralized. You own your data, you put interaction on chains so that you can truly own your content and your data. So what problem does it solve? Right? There are two side arguments. On the user side, we are spending time on social media app and we become the product. Social media app uses us, the users time and attention and data, and sell it to advertisers and monetize to us. But we don't get anything on the creator side. They spend a lot of effort building up content following.
00:02:17.574 - 00:02:57.764, Speaker A: But once the algorithm has changed or some regulations change, the account can get suspended and they don't get anything out of it. And that's where kind of decentralized social started. But recently, most people got excited about social fi, not because they can own their data, but it's because of the financial incentives they get from these web3. Social. You can sell your influence, you can make money out of it. And it was exciting. So a lot of builders actually kind of shy away from talking about speculation.
00:02:57.764 - 00:03:52.164, Speaker A: And why should we talk about it? Should we build something more long term, sustainable? But before that, let's think about how is this different this time? I think ownership is everything here because you put things on chain, be it interaction, be it your time, be it your keys. You finally could monetize them, you can trade them differently. Collecting stickers through dialect, it's because you own them. You go to drop house and kind of collect a lot of nfts and you can trade it freely. That's experience that web two social cannot give you. These experiences are possible because things are on chain. You have ownership of these assets.
00:03:52.164 - 00:05:15.554, Speaker A: So as builder, how should we think about this? Should we build speculation like around our product? Or should we go to a more safer route through the appeal more web3 ideology of decentralized social asset. First approach is meaning people come to your app because there's financial incentive, you give them assets and they can accrue value from it. Ideology first approach is like you appeal to web3 users needs of having decentralized social, owning the data, having social graph being port like, you can have it interrobable between apps. But what does it really mean? I think the important thing here is speculation plus utility could lead you to product market fit. Like if we think about all the social apps that actually gain traction, they actually have an asset first approach. People come to the platform for gains and maybe some fun and then they could convert them into doing something. So I think a lot of us build in the space are like, oh yeah, fintech is purely speculation.
00:05:15.554 - 00:06:31.524, Speaker A: But if we think about it, if speculation should be a feature, should be a growth feature, but not the product. And the important point here is really how do you embrace speculation combined with utility and actually convert users into doing what you want them to do? Every social app has different contexts. Some is about reading long form content, some is about finding interesting things, some is about finding community that is very niche and have a spectacular need. But the point here is speculation actually could help you bootstrap your first leg of growth and then you introduce utility that could lead them to a more sustainable long term business. A lot of apps actually put utility first and then they couldn't get to the critical mass that they need for the app to grow and continue to be viable. So I think the future, if social fi is going to take over the world, we all going to have to embrace speculation. Plus utility and psychological attachment is the one important thing that we should think about.
00:06:31.524 - 00:07:45.508, Speaker A: After the money is being earned, all the profit is being made, what is making users stay? We need to think about how to get them to be attached to the platform, be it serving us different needs, right? Be it a sense of belonging, or being part of the community, or getting satisfied by helping others. And as sleek, we think about this problem long and deep. We started with the sleek card at the bottom layer and the sleek card has a very different value prop from all other NFC cards because we have a telegram bot and the bot actually help users to network and without them knowing, it's forming a social graph. Proof of me. You meet people in real life and we actually can verify them on chain, and in the middle is a professional network where people can find each other, discover each other. And we think the financialization part could come together and help people to discover new people through the interest graph and through the in real life social graph. But we are super excited.
00:07:45.508 - 00:08:04.284, Speaker A: I think we are still at a very early stage of social fi. People are still experimenting many different things, but at sleek we really want to help users to connect to people in a different way with a very different experience. Blockchain enabled experience. Thank you.
