00:00:06.330 - 00:01:05.966, Speaker A: So today I'm going to be talking to you all about hypermevisation, or Information is the New Money, or why everything is mev and it always has been. Or why geography and privacy, these are the two memes I want you to walk away with run the world. Or why your project is now an mev project, which, if you've been developing in the space, you may have noticed in in the last year or so. So having heard my talk title shin on Twitter, got really excited and said, man, will we see a complete theory of why information is the new money tomorrow in Phil Diane's talk? And maybe that could have been the talk, but today it's not. Sadly, I didn't have time to quite polish all the ends on a complete theory. So instead, I'm going to try to zoom out, like, ten levels from our previous talk, which contained a lot of amazing data, and talk about some high level concepts around mev information theory, privacy, decentralization, and all of these things that we're trying to build together. You should see this talk as, like, some informed trolling, which I think should be super fun for you.
00:01:05.966 - 00:02:16.920, Speaker A: So take off your skeptic hat and put on your fun hat and let's get started. Okay, so what are we going to try to do in this talk? We're going to try to marry these two different areas of study, these two different areas of research and modalities we've seen in academia. And when I was putting together these slides, I realized I don't really vibe with the institution of traditional marriage, so I at least need to use a same sex marriage, at the very least to represent this, but even so, not fully on board with this meme. But anyway, on the left here, we have kind of information based fields of studies, or technical fields based of study, where you reason about entropy, bits of information, kind of computational algorithms on top of this, et cetera, things like information theory, cryptography, and privacy. And on the right, we have economics, which traditionally has been also a modeling based field, but in a kind of very different direction, attempting to model human interactions, attempting to organize human systems much more political, kind of bent. And here we have, like, the study of economics, cryptocurrency, and also mev options. So we're going to try to marry these two disparate fields today with a single unifying set of abstractions that'll make both able to talk to each other better, and hopefully we'll have good communication and a lifelong relationship.
00:02:16.920 - 00:03:26.958, Speaker A: So why do we think this is possible? Well, here I stole the Wikipedia descriptions of both information theory and money, which are two things that I want to draw some very high level connections today and apply to MEB. So information theory, according to Wikipedia, is the scientific study of the quantification, storage, and communication of information at the intersection of probability theory, statistics, computer science, statistical mechanics, information engineering and electrical engineering. Like we just said, all very kind of technical or logical pursuits whereas money is this kind of nebulous economic concept it's any item or verifiable record. Notice the or here. So that's a very interesting or that is generally accepted as payment for goods and services or repayment of debts. And generally people kind of flag these three properties as being interesting medium of exchange, unit of account and store of value. But you could argue that all of these three things medium of exchange, unit of account and store of value as well as payment are really just quantification, right? Quantification is unit of account, storage, store of value and communication AK medium of exchange of information which here is called payment.
00:03:26.958 - 00:04:28.194, Speaker A: So you really see some direct correlations between reasoning about information and reasoning about money that become particularly salient once you apply them to blockchains. So to unify these two things, it would be nice to have a clean mathematical transform where reasoning about money can be translated into information theoretic models, frameworks and results and vice versa. I'm not at all claiming this is original. Many people have been trying to do that for a long time and I'm going to talk about a little bit the history of these mathematical transforms and how we can apply these to mev and maybe get somewhere. So in this talk I'm going to argue and this is really the outline for the rest of the talk that the key to unifying these disparate concepts lies in both mev and specifically in privacy primitives useful in mev auctions. So in how specifically we define the mev auction that we're running on chain and in kind of the real world that is going to allow us to use both information theory as well as money to create the best systems for users. Let's talk about the history of these attempts and what's happened in the past.
00:04:28.194 - 00:05:39.750, Speaker A: So one kind of strong existing attempt at this so exchange attempts, sorry, existing attempts have kind of all been under the umbrella of this thing that we call mechanism design which is kind of a 1960s field that was started by this person called Leonard Herzwick when he was kind of thinking about policy. How should central planners reach decisions on policy when the quality of the decision kind of relies on these information silos right? And this kind of aggregation of information into a single output is what we call mechanism design. It studies the economic as well as the flows of incentives and information to make these kind of decisions for everybody. So some fun conclusions that underpin this whole field of mechanism design, et cetera. So, first one is this thing called the Gippert Satterwhite. I'm probably butchering this because it's been a while since I've taken a class on this theorem from 1973 and 1975. And this is two kind of philosophers as well as, sorry, one philosopher and one economist that were attempting to study the same problem of allocation and voting and making decisions based on voting systems.
00:05:39.750 - 00:06:19.726, Speaker A: And they basically, in their own model of voting systems, noticed that there was a tension between three properties where kind of all three properties seem undesirable to a voting system. So the first property is if the rule is dictatorial. So basically if we're all deferring to one distinguished voter, if there's one voter whose input completely determines the outcome of the vote, that seems super bad, right? There's this critical point you can imagine like the one swing voter in the US election that ultimately chooses the outcome. We're giving this node a lot of power and that surely seems undesirable specifically to decentralization, et cetera. So that's bad. Let's say that's bad. The second tension is between the rule limiting the possible outcome to only two alternatives.
00:06:19.726 - 00:07:00.994, Speaker A: So in their model you can get past number one and three if you only considered two alternatives. Obviously seems bad, right? We live in a very complex world and only kind of eliciting information or choices between binary alternatives is super limiting. And the last one, which kind of underpins and is the fundamental result of mechanism design, is if you kind of want something that's not dictatorial with more than two alternatives, you're always going to be subject to tactical voting. So in many cases a voter will not be incentivized to vote their sincere ballot. They'll be incentivized to strategically play based on their model of what other people are playing. Aka play the meta game as we call it crypto. And for voting systems this is super undesirable because you collapse into this world where everyone is reasoning about the meta game.
00:07:00.994 - 00:08:00.310, Speaker A: People are never truthful and it's very hard to think about what actual outcome the vote is eliciting if everyone's playing strategically rather than giving input that's correlated to themselves. So a fun result that actually underpins the fundamental mechanism design studies of like the if you just add one property here, you add utility functions to these individual agents and you allow the mechanism that you're designing to do transfers over this kind of shared set of integers. You can do things like model human rationality, you can build much more complex mechanisms using things like auctions and assumptions about how people will behave against these transfers that allow you to bypass many of the results of classic social choice theory. So basically what this says is that by adding transfers, by adding money, we can do much more than we can with pure voting. We can do much more than we can just with information elicitation if we don't have money. And that kind of kicked off the whole field of mechanism design. So money is a very powerful primitive.
00:08:00.310 - 00:08:50.966, Speaker A: That being said around the people actually started questioning this result and thinking can we actually take half a step back here and rather kind of than going pedal to the metal on money and adding rationality to our life. Maybe we can look at other models that allow these nuanced kind of transfers of information that let us achieve the same results as money does and bypass all these classical loading impossibilities but do so in a different model. So this is one paper that kind of looks at this. I think the kind of paper itself is mostly irrelevant but I thought the intro was like a very good phrasing of the problem. Specifically, this paper looks at continuous mechanisms which is one modification you can do to the model rather than looking at discrete utilities kind of allow continuous functions, et cetera. Same for transfers. Again, that's kind of a sidebar to what we're talking about.
00:08:50.966 - 00:10:10.720, Speaker A: But the core of what they were saying in this intro is like let's look at mechanisms without money and tweak them and see if we can still do things without at least classically what's considered money this transfer of like a shared unit of account in this exchange. Right. So what did they say? They basically said in many contexts these monetary transfers simply aren't available and we still want to solve mechanism design problems. So specifically they were looking at things like delegation within a single firm where you can't transfer really money within a single firm where incentives aren't as clean or more political, political science. So direct politics incentives were often monies viewed as corrosive or regulation where like money transfers may be prohibited in certain contexts, among others. And they actually found that basically if you tweak the model slightly where you basically have principles, commit to the principle of a mechanism, commit to a rule and then the agent report private information that executes on this rule commitment, you can basically achieve a lot of the same properties as you can with money. So they're saying even if you don't have money, as long as there's a commitment to a rule that determines the outcome and then there's information fed in that is kind of acting on this commitment by the agents, we can still get a lot of the same beautiful properties as if we have money.
00:10:10.720 - 00:11:24.834, Speaker A: So this is kind of what I'm going to be talking about for the rest of the talk. How does this reasoning about commitment and information relate to money as we view it in cryptocurrency? How does it relate to onchain tokens as we call them, money and how does that relate to kind of like the Bull monetary case for cryptocurrency itself, a fun other connection which is in the CS 700 UPenn lecture Dope class, highly recommend you check it out if you have some free cycles. It talks about how you can actually use differential privacy in mechanism design. So by tweaking the model to allow for differentially correct outputs and differentially private inputs into these commitments and into this information, you can also achieve like a whole class of different mechanisms that aren't possible without differential privacy. So basically what I'm saying is information theory is this framework that's tying together partially through mechanism design, which is one application of information, but also in all these connections with privacy and with economics and with money, trying to tie together reasoning about these different contexts and these same outcomes we want to achieve. So how does this make sense for crypto? Well, it actually gives us a roadmap for crypto. Like we need to marry information theory with money through commitments and privacy.
00:11:24.834 - 00:11:57.378, Speaker A: It's a clear roadmap of what's happened in the past, what's been successful in reasoning, and we need to port this over in a more clear formal way into the systems we're building in cryptocurrency. So this is a little bit of the trolling I'm doing here. I have a lot more slides that I'm not going to get through, so I'm going to go slow because I think this is actually one of the fun ones. This is presented without proof. So shout out to Rune, who's probably triggered by this without proof part. And also maybe you can help us prove all this. There's a few kind of intuitive results that seem obvious once you start thinking this way.
00:11:57.378 - 00:13:08.650, Speaker A: One is that if you have trusted private smart contracts so let's assume we have this magic privacy box that we all trust that gives you strictly more expressive power than public smart contracts. From a mechanism design framework, from a modeling framework of like, how powerful is our model, which is what we've been talking about with these various frameworks, you can prove this really easily. So look at just instantiating, like, let's say a VCG sealed bid, second price auction in crypto, if you don't have trusted privacy, it's impossible to do this securely with two untrusted parties. Let's say Ethan Solana and Avalanche want to run a sealed bid auction together with the output of the validator set being the bids. You could see how you could build this with private smart contracts, but it's very difficult to imagine building it securely without unless you have centralization, which is also private smart contracts, but in a much more ad hoc way. What does this mean? This means that once you have privacy, you can build many more auctions, so you can make auctions more secure and more powerful with privacy as a tool. Not only that, but there are many auction structures, for example, the one I just mentioned with VCG, not all auction structures, but many that require this privacy interface to be able to be trusted, be executed on a chain.
00:13:08.650 - 00:13:50.370, Speaker A: So private smart contracts are strictly more powerful, otherwise known as informationally, better money. They can give us more options to approximate more properties of more powerful money than we can without privacy, assuming the privacy comes with no downside. So this is the big asterisk here. If the privacy centralizes our whole stack and self defeats its own goals, this doesn't work. If privacy can't be built and comes with like a huge cost, this is much less clear. So we're assuming here we have this magical privacy primitive but assuming we have this, the world becomes amazing. And the last thing is that if we build systems that are interoperable and have global reach, we have more efficiency, right? This is the basic premise of decentralization.
00:13:50.370 - 00:14:30.478, Speaker A: The pie is bigger when more people participate. Even if a system becomes less efficient, the economic value of participation shines through and gets borne out. So thus the best efficiency feedback loop we can build is this loop of interoperability and trust and global reach. Proof sketch, this is trivial. So if people don't participate in mechanisms they don't trust, obviously a global mechanism is more valuable than a local. So we're not in such bad shape here because crypto actually already has transfers and transfers in crypto are fully trustless whereas privacy in crypto is not right now. So we're in kind of this gray zone where there's a few classes of mechanisms.
00:14:30.478 - 00:15:26.146, Speaker A: We can build anything that requires public transfers that can be satisfied by the blockchain but there are many things that we can't build, the ones that require privacy, the auctions that are really more efficient if you have privacy. And this is what's causing externalities in the economics of our systems today because many of our mechanisms require trust. So we're seeing this privacy because this privacy is economically useful, it lets us build more mechanisms but because the privacy is not trustless, we're resulting in trust and we're resulting in externalities. So how can we solve privacy? What is the abstraction boundary here? What does privacy actually mean and how the hell do we solve it? That's kind of the focus of the next part of my talk. So first giving you the bullcase, let's say we do solve privacy and we come up with this magic black box that I just showed and we have universal trusted privacy. Amazing. What will we gain if this happens? Well, first of all, powerful network effects for this better class of mechanisms I just talked about.
00:15:26.146 - 00:16:12.770, Speaker A: This is going to embarrass the crap out of TradFi. So TradFi doesn't have universal trusted privacy. That's why you see regulation, that's why you see broker dealer conflicts, that's why you see these auctions that nobody knows how they execute because you don't have this concept of universal trusted privacy. So we should make this look embarrassing. That's my opinion as a space, this is our mission. The other thing is we should embarrass classical mechanism design because a lot of the results, even regarding transfers, assume you have a trusted auctioneer to do these transfers and if you have privacy and blockchain with some asterisks that we can get into in a separate talk, you can kind of go beyond what's possible there. That would create a clear adoption case for crypto, right? Because many markets would just start working better than they do otherwise better for users with better commitments and better mechanisms and more efficient DApps.
00:16:12.770 - 00:16:56.686, Speaker A: And that's how crypto eats the world by building privacy that is actually better for users and universal. So where are we today? We have this kind of mev supply chain. We're going to talk about various components here, including mev share and mevboost. Both of these components rely on privacy. So the reason we can separate these roles and gain the efficiency of separation of duties and keep the decentralization of the validator set, of the builder set, of the searcher set, et cetera, is because we're able to have these abstraction boundaries mebshare and mev boost being two examples of money reasoning abstraction boundaries we have today. But the privacy here is not perfect. The privacy here is flashbots, just saying trust us and that makes it super suboptimal.
00:16:56.686 - 00:18:11.590, Speaker A: And you can see that if you look even at the not mev boost mev share flow here, which kind of shows you the transactions that a user makes which represent commitments and the selective data sharing which allows them to define privacy. This is how we build a more efficient mev mechanism that we believe is best to redistribute value back to users and this is what we believe is the economically best way. However, it relies on these two very centralized concepts to achieve this economic output we want. So from the information theoretic point of view it's super subpar and from the kind of decentralized system reasoning it's extremely centralizing, which makes it very suboptimal. Okay, so here I talk a little bit about how to use various techniques to go in depth and get out of this, including committees SGX and Tees, crypto economics, MPC, Fhe and the centralized systems that we're seeing today. Our belief is that you layer all these things together in a maximally decentralized way to truly achieve decentralization. So I'm going to skip this part of the slide which kind of talks about how to use Tes, how to use economics, how to combine them and get to this world where basically we're going beyond SGX and we're achieving decentralized privacy.
00:18:11.590 - 00:19:24.286, Speaker A: I will leave you with this to say that this is the goal of our Suave project. It's to achieve this defense in depth on this boundary between the ideal mechanism design for mev extraction and allowing users to have these abstractions to control their privacy that can then be implemented into cryptography, that can then be implemented into differential privacy, into information theoretic reasoning frameworks directly. So we see the Suave primitives, the very formal core of Suave, as being essentially the translation layer, where expressing your transactions through these primitives allows for a direct translation to and from mechanism, design and reasoning about the class. Of mechanisms we can build, the types of money we're building as a community, and where the basis of this money comes from and how that relates to mev and in the other direction, translating into information and privacy and asking the question of how do we implement this and how do we protect this information? Mev Share and Mevboost is kind of the solo cup to our Holy Grail. It's good enough for now, it does the job, but it's centralized, so it tastes a little bit like plastic, right? So it allows us to start experimenting with these translations, but it does need to be replaced eventually with the Holy Grail. And that's what we want your help with. That's what we want you to help us with at Flashbots.
00:19:24.286 - 00:19:57.082, Speaker A: And that's what we're doing. So this is real. We're already experimenting with introducing more decentralized techniques and more decentralized guarantees, including economics, including SGX, into our existing market. Come join the conversation. We believe this forms the bullcase for all of crypto, where Mev feeds into these suave primitives people start expressing and leveraging their privacy in negotiations. This fuels developments of SGX, Tees and encryption technologies like fully homomorphic encryption. Eventually Cryptography wins and beats Tees because it's better.
00:19:57.082 - 00:20:12.240, Speaker A: And I was criticized for putting the AGI bullet point last because I was told AGI feeds mev and not the other way around. But there's your bullcase for the economics of growth in the future. Join us@flashbots.net. And I'm overtime. So that is all the time I have today. Thank you very much.
00:20:19.090 - 00:20:53.698, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you very much. So we have a couple of minutes before Vital comes on. One question I wanted to ask you earlier on is what are kind of your initial intuitions on? You were describing how it's strictly better if we assume that we have this magical privacy thing that comes with no costs and it works perfectly and everything, but particularly based on where we are and where development looks like it's headed. What do you think is the kind of practical state of that? It's good enough but it has some cost associated with it that's outweighed?
00:20:53.874 - 00:21:35.862, Speaker A: I think it's an extremely nuanced question and I would love to give a talk on this. This is kind of the extreme version of the reasoning. But I think that what I would say today is the pressure for privacy, like the economic side is really powerful. People want to build types of systems that can only be built with privacy. That's why Mevboost exists, that's why Mev Share exists, that's why custom DAP layer, centralized order flow auctions are being deployed and that's why people are talking about things like builder features and using that for PBS and Bank Sharding and things like that. At its core is because privacy and commitments together enable new classes of mechanisms and people really want this. And so what we've seen today is the centralized stuff has kind of been good enough, quote unquote for now.
00:21:35.862 - 00:22:19.182, Speaker A: Like it hasn't collapsed, it's somewhat economically diversified, but it is a huge centralizing pressure on our systems and fundamentally I don't think that's good enough. Adding SGX, I think is a better step in that it kind of shackles these actors a little bit more and restricts what they can do and limits them. But it's also not a silver bullet because it's still centralized, it still relies on intel, et cetera. Adding committees or crypto. Economics similarly has its own downsides. So I think we need to do a combination of these things that just maximally decentralizes every single technique we can use and then put the max decentralization pressure on because the economics is not going away. So if we don't build the decentralized mechanism for that to express itself, we're going to end up in tratfi.
00:22:19.182 - 00:22:23.650, Speaker A: So that was like a very compressed rant but that's kind of the state of things today in my opinion.
00:22:25.590 - 00:22:56.720, Speaker B: One of the other slides you were skimming through because we felt we're tied on time. It's talking about kind of the post relay world and how we have to remove all the centralized components. Part of that starts to become kind of out of the hands of people like yourselves where let's say that Ethereum doesn't actually end up implementing, for example, in protocol PBS. How bad would that be, quote unquote in your mind? Were there just other ways that we would have to figure out how do we decentralize that role in a better way if it's not built into the protocol itself and we keep the protocol super?
00:22:57.970 - 00:23:53.582, Speaker A: I mean, I think in many futures it's not critical that Ethereum foundation pushes hard on this. Maybe the community is just aligned enough around making it decentralized enough and assuming we can decentralize things much more than they are today and predictably it will play out okay for the L one. Maybe it's okay for EF to take a step back and we're not totally screwed. So maybe we can do a lot of this without the EF in terms of removing the relay, building decentralized alternatives, building sharing primitives for users and things like that. That being said, I think if the EF in practice doesn't have that in its back pocket as like a nuclear option, things get really bad because the worst case would be some angle of centralization entrenches here and we're like in a textbook Molok. And so that's why I think PBS is super useful because many things the EF can do will reset that Moloch. And I do think they're a little it their obligation to stay on top of that just because otherwise their own objectives will be defeated.
00:23:53.582 - 00:24:04.580, Speaker A: I do agree with you, it's beyond my pay grade in this case. So I can say what I think is the right thing to do. But ultimately it's up to the community and we'll try to maximally decentralize whatever is left, basically.
00:24:06.710 - 00:24:12.000, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you very much. We will be moving on now. Thank.
