00:00:07.690 - 00:01:03.162, Speaker A: So, like, the traditional understanding of censorship, resistance and versions of this were some of your basic versions were like, valid transactions make it onto the chain and the blockchain guarantee, at least in the idealized world, without OPAC and without compliance departments and so on, is that valid transactions make it onto the chain eventually. Now, the question you might ask yourself is, is this enough? If we could guarantee this, is this enough? Can we just go home and be happy? And our claim, at least our sort of point of departure, is that for some valuable transactions, this is not enough. So the fact that something makes it on eventually is not enough for a whole bunch of transactions that rely on timing. So think of something like frequent Oracle updates. Might not be happy if it doesn't get on on time. Time sensitive financial transactions, ARGs liquidations. There's been a bunch of DeFi hacks that have relied around keeping those transactions off chain.
00:01:03.162 - 00:01:40.970, Speaker A: And more importantly, as we get around to the end, being able to guarantee timely inclusion might open up stuff that we're not seeing on chain in DeFi right now. So stuff like New Mechanisms on Chain Auctions, faster fraud, windows for L two S. When I got started in sort of thinking about crypto, people told me that anything you think about vitalik, thought about it, like, three years before you. And then after writing the paper, I started Googling, which is the way economists do it. We read later, shoot first, ask questions later. And then I found this paper, The Problem of Censorship, on his blog. The date was actually eight years ago.
00:01:40.970 - 00:02:19.370, Speaker A: So there you go. And just to walk you through sort of the thought experiment that motivates both our paper and his blog post and so on, and maybe a lot of you imagine you want to do options on chain. So I write you a European option that expires on blockx. So a European option is just an option that you can only exercise on the expiry date. And it's, for instance, a call option on the price of ETH. That means that I wrote it to you at a strike price of 100. You paid me $10 for that option.
00:02:19.370 - 00:02:54.642, Speaker A: That sunk. What's your PNL? Well, as the price of each rises above $100, you can exercise that option and pocket the difference between $100 and the prices right now. Here's a twist. This option, the way the contract is written is, to exercise it, you have to submit an exercise transaction in block X. So you have to put in a transaction saying, hey, Malaysia, it's time for you to pay up. The price of Keith is 110. You wrote an option at a strike price of 100.
00:02:54.642 - 00:03:35.502, Speaker A: So you owe me $10. And what happens when that block X comes around? Well, to exercise that option, you're willing to pay $10 to get that up to $10. To get that transaction on chain if you could pay $5 to get that transaction on chain, you'd take home $5. That's great. The trouble is, I'm willing to pay $10 to keep that transaction off chain. I'm willing to pay $10 because anything because I would owe you $10 if that transaction hits the chain. If we're both going to bid up, if me and you are going to bid up sort of the market for inclusion, you're willing to pay $10.
00:03:35.502 - 00:04:22.154, Speaker A: I'm willing to pay $10. In equilibrium, somebody is paying $10 either to get the transaction on chain or keep it off chain. And all our money, all that value from the transaction, is going to the proposal. If all the value of our interaction, this is just an abstract sort of option, but if all the value or a lot of the value of the stuff we're doing is going to the proposal, why do we defy at all? All this value we were hoping to make is just gone to the proposal. So this is sort of a side story. Is this is a problem on any abstract blockchain, but a side effect of PBS, which we all love and talked about for like 6 hours with 400 more people in this room somehow yesterday, is that it has one dark side. It sets up a market for censorship.
00:04:22.154 - 00:04:56.726, Speaker A: Most blocks are optioned off for the highest bidder, which means, in principle, a motivated sensor could offer a block without the underlying transaction with a higher bidder. And this isn't just a theoretical possibility. So we did a simple version of this at special mechanisms group, made a bit of a splash, got a bunch of haters and a bunch of twitter followers and all that, but we did this. We literally fired up a builder made a block. You can see the block on chain. This is the block. It contains nothing other than a link to our paper and the name of the first sensor of Rome.
00:04:56.726 - 00:05:31.078, Speaker A: Okay? The block graffiti is the first sensor of Rome. One transaction, $100 and 2 hours of debt time. Okay? Now, this is what you'd say. How long can you do this? You're just putting an empty block on chain. 12 seconds, blah, blah, blah. The thing is, we did this and we told everyone we did this. If we had just left one valid transaction on chain, you'd have had no freaking idea that we left one valid transaction in the mempool and just subsidized the block a little bit to get that block in.
00:05:31.078 - 00:06:19.394, Speaker A: So what should we do now? Okay, so we were on a twitter space about this, and sriram came up. And sriram is super eloquent and had wonderful things to say. Sriram said, if you can't measure it, you can't improve. And turns out that that goes further back. So as far back as lord Kelvin, the Kelvin scale, we wanted to come up with a measure of censorship resistance. And our measure of censorship resistance is going to be we're going to abstract away from the machinations of a blockchain layer. So all these complicated pictures that we've drawn about how stuff gets from the transaction all the way over to the blockchain, and we're just going to view the blockchain as like a public bulletin board, just sort of a public bulletin board with two operations.
00:06:19.394 - 00:06:51.630, Speaker A: One operation is read. Read always succeeds, reads everything on the blockchain and can do anything it wants to it do some computation, whatever. But the important transaction for the public bulletin board is the write. Write takes two arguments data, whatever it is that you want to write to the bulletin board and a text. And it either succeeds to write this data to the bulletin board or fails. So this is our primitive. This is our primitive, like really trivial abstraction of a blockchain.
00:06:51.630 - 00:08:20.090, Speaker A: And now we can give you a definition of censorship resistance. From our point of view, the censorship resistance of a bulletin board is a function fee that is phi of P is the amount it would cost a motivated sensor to cause the right operation to fail. So if you wanted to write data, p is the amount it would cost this party to it would cost this sort of motivated sensoring party to stop the transaction. Ideally, in some ideal world where we're not worried about spam, we're not worried about DDoS, we want PFT to be incinerated. We want anybody who's willing to tip anything or any tip above some marginal cost, whatever, we want the ability of a motivated sensor to keep it off the blockchain to be as large as possible. What is it actually in practice? Well, it depends on now, what do you mean by a bulletin board? What is the relevant measure of did rights succeed or not? So if you have a single designated block which is the relevant public bulletin board, think back to our option example, where there was just a single block that you had to get the transaction in or not. In this case, P of T is P, right? If it was worth $10 to you to get the transaction on chain, if you tipped some amount less than that amount, I would be willing to pay to keep it off chain.
00:08:20.090 - 00:09:00.790, Speaker A: One sort of simple observation is that, EIP. 1659, the sort of burn actually makes the censorship resistance worse. So if B is the base fee that is going to be burned, the amount the proposer is getting for a given tip, t is actually P minus B. And that means that the amount you have to pay to censor is actually less than the tip because the rest is being burnt anyway. A proposer would be willing to take that and censor the transaction, at least in principle. Now, you could go in other directions. You could say, suppose the bulletin board is K in consecutive slots with K independent producers, in this case, PST is KT.
00:09:00.790 - 00:09:48.818, Speaker A: Why? Because for the right operation to fail, it can't make it onto any of the K blocks. So a sensor would have to pay K successive proposals t each to ensure that they fail. For K large, this is going to give you excellent censorship resistance. The cost is that your effective sort of bulletin board writes, time is the length, time is the time it takes to make K blocks. So we made another Twitter slash wartiquat tweeted about us and said that we might bernie progressives. So our sort of Bernie sort of request to you is end the proposal monopoly. So here's sort of our solution.
00:09:48.818 - 00:11:02.314, Speaker A: So two parts to our solution and there's a bunch of stuff, I mean, there's a bunch of engineering work to think through this, but there's a little bit of incentives and economics that we think makes it interesting and worth thinking through. So suppose instead of having one block producer in any given slot, in some sense, a lot of source of the problem for me as an economist is that while we have many validators, we keep saying, oh, there are 10 million validator, 1 million validators or whatever on keys at any given point in time. There's one proposal and the fact that for that 12 seconds, they're the only proposal as a source of monopoly power, Believe it or not, economists, except when they're being paid by them, don't like monopolies. So one thing that could make this better is to have a bunch of concurrent block proposals. Each of these K concurrent block proposals produce blocks simultaneously and a right operation succeeds as long as it makes it onto one of them. Now, if you just do this with the same boring tip, then you achieve the same sort of KT censorship resistance, but without the time cost. Let's make this a little more interesting, to make this a little more interesting and add some incentives, you could allow for conditional dipping.
00:11:02.314 - 00:11:55.162, Speaker A: So suppose the tip associated with the transaction was two dimensional. That is to say, you submitted two tips. Little T and capital T. With the interpretation of the way the bulletin board is going to work is if multiple proposers include the same data, then each of them gets paid little P. If only one producer includes the data, then that proposer gets paid capital P, where capital P is some number that's much larger than Little P, you could have both of these be the choice of the person submitting the tip. Now, what's nice about this? What's nice about this is that conditional tipping sets up a prisoner's dilemma among the block producers. So if I'm a producer, one of these case and current block producers, choosing whether or not to include a given transaction, I have a choice.
00:11:55.162 - 00:12:30.026, Speaker A: I'm thinking should I include or not include. But my payoff depends not just on whether I include or don't include. It also depends on how much other people produce. So this is a standard two by two normal form game. First each there are two producers. Here a row player which chooses which row we're playing, whether they include or don't include the column player who chooses include or don't include and the two dimensional payoffs are the first number is the amount the row producer gets paid. The second amount is what the column producer gets paid.
00:12:30.026 - 00:12:59.014, Speaker A: If both of them choose not to include, then nobody gets anything. If the other person is choosing to not include, but you switch to choosing include. It's a capital T thing. Capital T is larger than zero. So you'd want to do that, you want to include but given that the other producer is including, remember, and you're not including, you're getting zero. If you switch to including, you get little T. So little C is still bigger than zero.
00:12:59.014 - 00:13:48.210, Speaker A: That is to say, including is a dominant strategy. Many of the many all whatever of the concurrent producers will propose it. Concurrent proposers will include it. Note that now you have this interesting thing which is to get a transaction on chain you have to just because everyone's including it, you have to pay little K times little P. But to keep it off the chain, the sensor has to pay every person not to include it. For any given sensor, their willingness to not include a tip is sort of how much would it be worth it for me not to include the tip if everyone else is not including it, which is capital T. So the censorship resistance of the transaction is much larger than the amount it costs to be included.
00:13:48.210 - 00:14:32.820, Speaker A: So that's sort of the high level point in the paper which I'm not going to bore you with. It's been a long day for everyone involved. We worked through the equilibrium revenues and based in a formal auction model of independent use with N honest bidders and one censoring bidder. And the main findings are sort of with low censorship resistance, this auction does not function as you desire, that is to say that the auction will produce low revenues, the censoring bidder makes off like a bandit and the proposer makes a lion's share of the surplus. With high censorship resistance you return to the classical happy grounds of economic theory and the auction functions as intended. That's sort of the high level paper. I'll have a link right at the end if you want to read it.
00:14:32.820 - 00:15:56.526, Speaker A: What we're trying to propose is a novel measure of censorship resistance that's sort of economically motivated and this and other measures of censorship I made this slide before I knew what the order of presentations was. Optimizing on this notion of censorship resistance will hopefully allow blockchains to reliably implement mechanisms that are run off chain. So a whole bunch of stuff that we might want to do on chain because we believe that we want to do everything on chain. We're currently moving it off chain because we don't know how to reliably do it on chain. And some of that is about compute and some of that is about logistics, but some of it, I would suggest, is about the concerns of can we reliably get all the inputs that we need to run our mechanisms onto the blockchain in time without censorship concerns? We're not trying to sell this as the only notion. We think this notion makes a lot of sense for DeFi, but especially for the rest of the Salon, I'd be super interested to hear what are other definitions of censorship that we should be interested in, and then, how can we optimize the mechanics of our blockchain to get that to mean it sort of stuck with me. I've heard it before, but when Sriram said it, it stuck with me.
00:15:56.526 - 00:16:32.502, Speaker A: If you can't measure it, you can't improve it. And we're currently not measuring it. We're not measuring it in many ways. Firstly, censorship resistance by itself is something very hard to measure because it's really hard to see what isn't making it on chain. It's only easy to see what's making it on chain. It's even harder to see if DeFi protocols are self censoring in some way. Like, are they choosing suboptimal mechanisms that are the only ones available to them because they're not sort of confident in what the blockchain is able to provide? That is to say that providing censorship resistance will not just provide censorship resistance.
00:16:32.502 - 00:17:04.300, Speaker A: It'll also allow protocols to choose mechanisms that have better, more efficient outcomes. For instance, you might be able to get away with a much faster fraud fraud proof for window. A fraud proof window for L two S because you're not concerned about the fraud proofs being able to make it on chain and be adjudicated. You might be able to pick more efficient D Five protocols. Auctions is one example, but you could think of so many others. The work is on that link. And feel free to read the paper and bear around today for the rest of the yeah, thank you.
