00:00:00.320 - 00:00:42.194, Speaker A: Okay, so first of all, we are going to explain to you the method used to evaluate the life the environmental impact of products and services. And then we are going to tell you more about the sustainability aspect of proof of work Ethereum proof of stake Ethereum the merge and Dunkin upgrade. And then we are going to close our presentation with some summarizing thoughts. Now let's try it again. I push the button? Yeah, it's not working. Okay, now it worked. I don't know why.
00:00:42.194 - 00:01:30.954, Speaker A: Thanks. So the lifecycle assessment is the standard method used to compute the environmental impacts associated with a product lifecycle. And as you can see, the steps of a product life product lifecycle are the following. It can be divided into the raw material extraction, that is followed by the manufacturing and processing. And then the product is transported to the retailers where then it's sold for the consumers. Then they use it and then they can dispose of the product or they can bring it to a recycling center. There are many different environmental impacts a product or service can cause during its life cycle.
00:01:30.954 - 00:02:09.964, Speaker A: These can be connected to the material and energy input or to the emissions, water or air, soil and so on. And a few important examples of environmental impacts are the energy consumption, the associated greenhouse gas emissions, the water usage and the waste generation. Okay, let's try it. Yeah. Great, thank you. And in connection with blockchains, there have already been a few attempts to conduct a lifecycle assessment, especially on bitcoin and ethereum. Since blockchain is digital product, its lifecycle assessment is based on the hardware and softwares used to operate them.
00:02:09.964 - 00:03:11.754, Speaker A: Currently, the most studied impact are the energy consumption and the greenhouse gas emissions, especially in the use phase of a blockchain. A few researchers also try to estimate energy consumption in the production phase, which is essentially the production of the mining device or other hardware used for operation. Due to the lack of public data on specialized mining hardware, it is extremely difficult to estimate the environmental impact of the production of every single part of mining hardware. And since usually there is no need for specialized hardware for validation and node operation, the range of hardware that can be used for a blockchain like ethereum is even wider. So it's even more difficult to estimate the environmental impact. And depending on the country in which the hardware used for the blockchain is produced or operated, the greenhouse gas potential of a blockchain will be different. Challenged by this calculation is that it is that that it is difficult to find trustworthy data on the location of every miner or node operator.
00:03:11.754 - 00:04:27.466, Speaker A: And to tackle this, many researchers use a global average average emission intensity, or make different assumptions on the location of the nodes and on the location of the users. So in most studies, only the use phase of blockchain are estimated, whereas the energy consumption and the greenhouse gas emission estimations of other lifecycle lifecycle phase, like the transportation, the usage and retail and the waste disposal are ignored, cannot be calculated correctly. And the least studied impact categories of blockchains are their water usage, the associated emissions, and the amount of waste generated and recycled. So the main reasons for the lack of research in these impact areas, as I said already, is the lack of data on hardware, geographical location and on the blockchain users and operators. And this lack of data is actually not only a potential issue with blockchains, but also with other products and services. But due to the decentralized nature of blockchain, it is especially significant and difficult to solve. So in this short introduction to lifecycle assessment, we mainly discussed one important aspect that contributes to blockchain's material and energy consumption.
00:04:27.466 - 00:05:18.128, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, this is this slide. And as you can see on the table below, there are other driving forces behind the energy consumption of a blockchain. The energy and material consumption is driven by the hardware and software, but also by the consensus mechanisms and the redundancy in the blockchain's architecture. And all of these aspects are intertwined with each other. So let's continue our journey with discussing the implications of the consensus mechanism. So ethereum was originally launched as a proof of work consensus mechanism, just as bitcoin. But how does this work and how do this affect the environmental impact of ethereum? In a proof of rock system, miners verify transactions and add new blocks to the blockchain by solving a complex mathematical puzzle.
00:05:18.128 - 00:06:00.404, Speaker A: And the mathematical puzzle is in a sense, the task of solving a hash function by a trial and error process of finding the right nonce, which is an arbitrary number. And the hash function, or hash algorithm, is a cryptographic function which in a sense translates an input into a unique and deterministic set of characters. And the output of this cryptographic translation is the so called hash. It is highly unlikely to get back to the original set of characters from this hash. So when the generated hash of the block and the nonce are combined, they are hashed again together. And if the result is less than the so called difficulty, the block has been mined and can be added to the blockchain. If it is more, the miner has to try again with a new nonce.
00:06:00.404 - 00:07:37.974, Speaker A: And the larger the computing hash rate of miners in the network, the more the difficulty increases to keep the block time constant, and after a miner solves the puzzle correctly, he communicates the block to the others, and after it is validated by others as well, it can be added to the blockchain and the network hash rate is measured in terahertz per second, and it is essentially the number of calculations, or hashes created per second on the whole network. Cumulatively, this measure gives us a clue about the electricity invested into mining. So the results of proof of work ethereum a common issue with proof of work blockchains is that as hardware become more and more efficient in terms of hashes created per second, the difficulty of solving the puzzle has to increase constantly to keep the block time. And as it can be seen on the figure on the right, this was also the case for proof of work ethereum. The network difficulty on the upper figure goes hand in hand with the annualized electricity consumption of ethereum and another source of electricity consumption in proof of work Ethereum, besides the mining are the execution of smart contracts, but relative to mining this is only a negligible amount. The table on the left compares the results from the studies from the University of Cambridge and from the cryptocurrency institute with the estimates about bitcoin. The analyzed electricity consumption shows the total yearly electricity consumption of the whole ethereum network and assumes continuous power at rate measured on the 14 September, which is right before the merge.
00:07:37.974 - 00:08:34.344, Speaker A: The analyzed carbon footprint corresponds to the total greenhouse gas emissions in the period of one year, assuming a constant emission rate. The estimations are from the University of Cambridge and from the cryptocurrency institute. So compared to bitcoin, both the analyzed electricity consumption and the carbon footprint of ethereum were around four times smaller. But the number of transactions on Ethereum were 23 times larger and due to the constant increase of energy consumption, Ethereum had to find a way to become more sustainable. And this way was the change from proof of work to proof of stake. So the main motivations behind the merge next to the sustainability aspects were the need to increase scalability and to increase transaction speed. And it started in December 2020 and lasted until the 15 September 2022.
00:08:34.344 - 00:09:39.008, Speaker A: Yes, and the merge is called such because the Ethereum mainnet was merged with a BsON chain where the proof of stake consensus mechanisms had already been tested previously. As the figure on the right shows, the merge had a huge impact on the environmental impact of Ethereum. According to the Cryptocurrency Institute and the University of Cambridge, it led to a 99.9% decrease in energy consumption and carbon footprint and all this was due to the change of consensus mechanism, which defines the hardware and software used on the network. So through the change of consensus mechanism from proof of work to proof of stake, essentially the way of providing security on the network changed from providing it through work, electricity consuming work. Instead of that, it is provided with stakes, financial stakes. And this led to the disappearance of the for created electricity consumption.
00:09:39.008 - 00:10:50.026, Speaker A: Obviously, specialized hardware is also not necessary anymore to secure the network. And the remaining electricity consumption is essentially caused by the execution of the smart contracts, the simple hardware, by the electricity consumption of the much simpler hardware that has to be used, and by the software's. So the client's electricity consumption. And the result is drastic decrease of environmental impact, as I've already mentioned, and sorry, and on the table on the left, you can see the environmental impact results estimated by the University of Cambridge and the Cryptocurrency Institute and the numbers of PayPal as a comparison from 2022. So let's first focus on the comparison of pre and post merge. The numbers pre merge are those are those estimated the day before the merge, whereas the numbers post merge are those estimated day after the merge. And depending on the study, the analyzed electricity consumption was reduced by a factor of eight to 10,000, whereas the carbon footprint was reduced by a factor of twelve to 13,000 after the merge.
00:10:50.026 - 00:11:55.096, Speaker A: And when we compare these results to PayPal's climate report from 2022, we can see something even more interesting. At first sight, before the merge, Ethereum's annualized electricity consumption was around 80 times larger than papos. And after the merge, Ethereum's electricity consumption became more than 100 times smaller than that of papos. So if you compare the carbon footprint of the two, we see an even greater difference. According to papers reported carbon footprint from scope one and scope two emissions, they emitted 517,600 tons of CO2 CO2 equivalents, and it is around 690 times larger than that of Ethereum's emission post merge. So it is also important to compare them in the dimension of transactions. So what is the utility essentially? And if you calculate the yield number of Ethereum and ERC 20 token transactions, with the help of gas fees, we get 1.7
00:11:55.096 - 00:12:39.504, Speaker A: billion transactions, ethereum transactions and 580 million ERC 20 transactions. And compared to this, PayPal achieved 22 billion of transactions. If you break these numbers down with the yearly electricity consumption and carbon footprint, we see that the paper transaction needs around ten times more electricity than an Ethereum transfer. And also in terms of carbon emissions, we see that with the paper transaction 23.2 grams of CO2 equivalents are emitted, which is equivalent to around 116 gouls or cheese. That's a fanfare. And it is more than 40 times larger than the half grams emitted through an Ethereum transaction.
00:12:39.504 - 00:13:00.404, Speaker A: So these numbers show clearly that the emerge actually, so that after the merge, Ethereum actually became a greener transaction network than PayPal. And now I would like to give it to Matias Hafner, who is going to tell you more about the Dankon upgrade and the summarizing thoughts.
00:13:03.664 - 00:13:42.460, Speaker B: Thank you very much for this very nice overview of the current state. So I'm going to talk a little bit about the next steps. So we have seen that the merge already reduced a lot of the environmental impact. And now the question is what other factors do drive basically the environmental impact of Ethereum. If we go to the next slide, I want to talk a little bit about the dancun upgrade. So what was the Dankoon upgrade? It consists of nine eips. Most importantly, was proto dank sharding.
00:13:42.460 - 00:14:36.604, Speaker B: I think you have already heard of it. Basically it introduced blobs. So these blobs is basically a more efficient way to store data, in particular transactions of layer twos, of this second layer of transactions. That makes it more efficient basically to conduct transactions. And why are these blobs more efficient to hold transaction? Well, one main reason is because they are stored only for a temporary time and not forever, which makes it cheaper to conduct transactions on layer two s. So this basically reduces l two fees. And overall, what we see before the merge was highly concerned about the consensus mechanism.
00:14:36.604 - 00:15:35.244, Speaker B: Proto sharding, Deng Sharding and l two s as a whole. Basically the evolvement of conducting transactions not only on the layer one, but also on the layer two, tackles basically the redundancy problem. So with redundancy we mean that in layer one, every transaction is basically recalculated on every node. So in a centralized system like PayPal, we only have a few redundant calculations to ensure the system. Basically the trust of the central entity ensures that it's correct. In blockchains, we have this redundancy by default, because many, many different nodes, basically all nodes, basically calculate or ensure that the transactions are correct, more or less. So this, obviously this requires more computation.
00:15:35.244 - 00:17:21.171, Speaker B: However, layer two is a possibility to reduce this redundancy in a way that not all transactions are calculated by all nodes. We have like a second system where some transactions are aggregated and stored in aggregated way. And if we look now at the implication, as I said, it allows l two and protodank sharding allows basically for a more efficient allocation of the resources, so to say, and reduces, I call it unnecessary, Nancy, because these effects, if we look particularly at optimistic roll ups, which are quite centralized in a sense of that the aggregation of the transactions is quite centralized, there are mechanisms to check for it afterwards, but the aggregation is quite centralized, so it's highly efficient. So the costs, the computation costs, they come basically for optimistic roll ups, for storing this data on the layer one. And therefore we can use the fees as an approximation for the computational consummation. And if we look at the prices of l two s, then we see that they are now roughly for optimistic roll ups, they're roughly for l one at that point in time, when you take it, these are linearly scaled, they were dollar two for optimistic rollers. At the same time that we captured this, there were two cent, and this ratio is in line over time.
00:17:21.171 - 00:18:22.430, Speaker B: So maybe it can fluctuate both, but because they're highly dependent on each other, is mainly about 100 times for other types of rollups. So set key roll ups, this ratio is lower. But so to say, when we look at l one and l two with optimistic roll ups, or l two in general, we can say that basically these l two make ethereum ten to 100 times more efficient for today. And if you look at the dancun upgrade specifically, it reduced the l two fees by 80% to 9%. So basically 80 90% of this reduction is due to the dancun upgrade. And obviously Dankoon upgrade was integrated 30 days ago, so that might change a little bit, these numbers. So basically coming to that, to the discussion, let's look at Ethereum strategy.
00:18:22.430 - 00:19:25.140, Speaker B: So the dancun upgrade basically is the start of the surgery of Ethereum and ethereum, the goal of Ethereum is basically to increase the scalability to 100,000 transactions per second. Ethereum strategies to increase this capability. And if we look now at the main sources identified over our journey, these are two. So once we have the consensus mechanism, that was tackled with the switch from energy to assets as a security, which reduced the environmental impact immensely by 99.9%, so making it already greener, or if we have at least at par with today's, today's transaction systems, payment systems. So the next step is redundancy, as we identified, and here that we see that these temporary data storage. So the prototype sharding and aggregated verification.
00:19:25.140 - 00:19:58.336, Speaker B: So layer twos reduced the impact again to roughly 90 to 90 90%, so making it even greener. So basically, if these transactions are conducted on layer two s. So this technology is greener than today's payment systems. So if we now compare, so this is good. What we basically see, if you compare now ethereum strategy, which goes beyond. So we haven't reached this 100,000 transactions per second. But if you compare that basically with the direction, then we see that it's aligned.
00:19:58.336 - 00:20:40.644, Speaker B: So basically the ethereum wants to make more transactions per second, so more efficient. So this helps also the environment, because that means that less computation are needed to store this transaction. So ethereum strategy is aligned with the environmental goals. What holds the future? I think there, as I said, there is more going on with tank sharding. So more evolvement of Ethereum. So to make it more efficient, then we have what else can be done is basically more separation of tasks. That also helps the efficiency.
00:20:40.644 - 00:21:17.074, Speaker B: So one is basically this proposal and build separation, which is discussed now. And obviously what we need to do. Our estimation for l two and for Deng sharding was very roughly using the fees estimates, especially with set key roll ups. There are also additional computations that come with it. So obviously we need to better understand the impact of various l two types to have a clear view, basically how green Ethereum will be in the future. Yes. So that's about it.
00:21:17.074 - 00:21:18.954, Speaker B: Thank you very much for your attention.
