00:00:06.650 - 00:01:01.246, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap the SEC's DFI Shadow Attack, a 200 page proposal published by the US. Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday could spell significant trouble for DFI. Despite not mentioning DFI once, the SEC's proposal would change the definition of a government securities dealer to include entities that provide more than $50 million in liquidity. While not written to explicitly mention digital assets, the proposal could bring DFI participants like automated market makers and liquidity providers under the jurisdiction of the SEC. According to Delphi Digital's Gabriel Shapiro, this is an all out shadow attack on decentralized finance by the SEC. Shapiro believes that the regulator's proposal would characterize AMM liquidity providers as unregistered dealers, a felony in the US.
00:01:01.246 - 00:01:56.110, Speaker A: SEC will argue that all AMM LPs are unregistered dealers. That would be like saying all Bitcoin miners are VASPs virtual asset service providers. If enforced, it would kill the tech. Many of us warned SEC could take this view, but never thought they'd secretly rewrite the rules to avoid having to prove it, Shapiro argued. The blockchain association's Jake Trevinsky had a similar take on Twitter. The SEC just proposed a rule that would expand the definition of regulated dealers to include people who employ passive market making strategies that have the effect of providing liquidity to others. In addition to this week's 200 page proposal, the DFI Education Fund, which was somewhat infamously spun out of Uniswap's Treasury, took to Twitter to warn against a 591 page proposal that includes danger signs for DFI.
00:01:56.110 - 00:03:09.782, Speaker A: In a nutshell, while Def is unsure what the final implications of the proposal would be if passed, the proposal has the potential to require any organization, association or group of persons that makes available a communication protocol system to comply with financial regulations designed for organizations like the New York Stock Exchange. If the CPS allows people to interact and agree to terms of a trade, Def pointed out. The language is so broad that even the proposal itself clarifies web chat providers like Facebook Messenger and utilities like cell phones, which could meet the novel definition of a CPS, would not be required to register as securities exchanges. The public has until April 18 to comment, which Def, along with other crypto lawyers, has been promoting quite hard on Twitter. Institutional sat stacks substantially increased this week as covered in this week's episode of Unchained with Doe Kwan. The Luna Foundation Guard is converting a $3 billion treasury into Bitcoin with the express purpose of building a forex reserve for terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST. This week CoinDesk was able to confirm Luna Foundation Guard's BTC wallet.
00:03:09.782 - 00:04:18.702, Speaker A: According to Blockchain data, the wallet currently holds over 30,000 BTC, worth well over $1 billion. Bit Info Charts data shows that LFG is now the 29th largest Bitcoin address. However, as noted on Unchained and elsewhere, LFG has plans to expand its Bitcoin holdings to $10 billion and wants to become the second largest holder of Bitcoin outside of Satoshi. Not to be outdone by Terra, software firm MicroStrategy announced that one of its subsidiaries, cheekily named MacroStrategy, closed on a $205,000,000 loan from Silvergate Bank to buy more Bitcoin, using its already purchased Bitcoin as collateral. MicroStrategy reported having 125,051 bitcoin on earn its balance sheet in February 2022, to which this $205,000,000 loan will add Openc to support Salana NFTs. Salana NFTs will be supported by Openc, the largest NFT marketplace, by volume this month. The news was revealed by Openc on Tuesday by Openc's Twitter account.
00:04:18.702 - 00:05:06.570, Speaker A: No specific date was given, only that support would go live in April. Salana's native Token Sol is up 25% on the week, with a chart showing a market push from one hundred and ten dollars to one hundred and twenty dollars in the day following the Openc announcement. The total market cap of Salana NFT projects also experienced a nice bump, jumping twelve point 38% on Wednesday to $1.7 billion. According to Hyperspace XYZ Crypto Worldwide Regulation Roundup. The European Union began another set of negotiations on its markets in crypto assets, or Mika regulatory package on Thursday. Mika aims to simplify the expansion of crypto businesses throughout the EU by standardizing rules for crypto issuers service providers and stablecoins.
00:05:06.570 - 00:06:04.306, Speaker A: Mika recently made headlines after a proof of work ban was inserted in Parliament before getting cut from the package at the last moment. In related European news, two committees in European Parliament voted on amendments that could potentially block EU based crypto exchanges and service providers from interacting with crypto addresses they cannot verify as of recording time. Patrick Hansen, head of strategy and biz dev at Unstoppable. DeFi reports that the committees will vote in favor of a crackdown on Unhosted wallets. Hansen says, however, that the final vote will take a few months to occur and that he is optimistic that we can still achieve changes. India passed a capital gains law that will see crypto gains taxed at a rate of 30% starting April 1. In addition, Indian citizens will pay a 1% tax deducted at source on every purchase or sale of crypto, as well as taxes on crypto gifts beginning July 1.
00:06:04.306 - 00:06:53.760, Speaker A: Furthermore, taxpayers will not be able to take deductions on losses. Nishal Shetty, the cofounder of India's largest exchange, Wazir X, told CoinDesk that this was a big mistake. This is not conducive for the government or the crypto ecosystem of India. It is poised to do more harm than good, said Shetty. This can result in cascading participation on Indian exchanges and lead to a rise in capital outflow to foreign exchanges. Coinbase Global will soon require customers in Canada, Japan and Singapore sending crypto to other exchanges to provide the name and address of the recipient. When asked for a response, here is what Coinbase had to say to CoinDesk While we will always advocate for what we think the laws should be, we must respect the laws that exist if we want to offer the suite of coinbase services to customers in that country.
00:06:53.760 - 00:07:37.070, Speaker A: I also want to make it clear that these changes, as outlined in our FAQ, only apply to Canada, Singapore and Japan, where the laws require us to collect additional information. We are not applying this globally to customers. The new rules will take effect in early April. USDC gets an old Custodian BNY Mellon, one of the oldest banks in the US, has agreed to be the primary custodian for USDC's reserve assets. Notably, BNY Mellon's cryptocurady unit is powered by crypto infrastructure firm Fireblocks. As of press time, there are over 50 billion USDC in circulation. A country dropped an NFT collection.
00:07:37.070 - 00:08:40.660, Speaker A: On Wednesday, the Ministry of Transformation of Ukraine launched an NFT collection of 2182 pieces of art via the Metahistory NFT museum. Each NFT was drawn by a Ukrainian artist and depicts an event from the war. While Ukraine had previously hinted that an NFT drop would take place, it was confirmed for the first time on March 25 by Ukraine's Mikhailo Federov. While Russia uses tanks to destroy Ukraine, we rely on revolutionary blockchain tech. At Metahistory, UA NFT museum is launched the place to keep the memory of war and the place to celebrate the Ukrainian identity and freedom, explained Federov on Twitter. According to Metahistory's website, 100% of proceeds were sent directly to the ETH address of Ukraine's Ministry of Finance at 00:15 ETH per mint, this means Ukraine raised an additional 327.2 ETH, worth approximately $1 million from, by all accounts, the first NFT drop spearheaded by a country.
00:08:40.660 - 00:09:35.940, Speaker A: Despite the unprecedented backstory and previous success of Ukraine in leveraging crypto to fundraise the NFTs, were slow to mint. As of Thursday morning, the collection has yet to sell out. Time for fun bits 2017 again. Ripple and Mount Gox make for funny headlines in 2022, mark Carpellis, the former CEO of Mount Gox, is dropping a collection of 1,066,097 NFTs on ethereum, with each NFT commemorating and readily able to claim buy a single account from Mount Gox once the individual has gone through a verification process. Mount Gox was famously hacked in 2014 for roughly 850,000 BTC, which are now worth $40 billion. Owning a Mount Gox NFT proves you're an OG. You were there in the early days of Bitcoin, and now you can prove it on the blockchain, explains the website.
00:09:35.940 - 00:10:19.834, Speaker A: In other weird OG news, ripple cofounder Chris Larson is launching a campaign against Bitcoin's proof of work consensus mechanism and has funded a $5 million campaign to convince bitcoiners to change the code, not the climate, or in other words, move to proof of stake. Bitcoiners, not surprisingly, did not take kindly to the intrusion, as exemplified by Bitcoin mining expert Zach Vol. Chris Larson of Ripple is funding a $5 million ad campaign advocating for Bitcoin switching to proof of stake. I guess the only thing I have left to say is fuck off, Chris. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Arjun, the Ronan hack and bridge security. Check out the show notes for this episode.
00:10:19.834 - 00:10:28.050, Speaker A: Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Mark Murdoch, Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening.
