00:00:00.320 - 00:00:31.536, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deadly GUI refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 17 May 2021. Right, everyone. What a weekend. We had a lot of, I guess, fud Elon tweets, price action that happened over the weekend, and I am definitely gonna talk a bit about it here. But first, I wanted to kind of go over a tweet I put out earlier today where I said bearish in quotes, news things that happened over the last week. We had binance being under.
00:00:31.536 - 00:01:13.896, Speaker A: Under investigation by the IR's and the DOJ. So both the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Justice in the US tether came out with a transparency report. And people were kind of saying that, okay, well, this shows that tether isn't fully backed by, you know, by dollars in a bank account or whatever, which is never the case anyway. Usually when you're backing something up with assets, you're doing it with like cash and cash equivalents and other kind of assets. But I won't go into that. Elon Musk has been tweeting radically again, both about doge and about bitcoin and about bitcoin's energy use and all that sort of stuff, and then us tax selling. So apparently there was like a deadline for taxes on May 17.
00:01:13.896 - 00:01:47.646, Speaker A: So today, some kind of extension deadline for people in the US China bans crypto fud again, that. That's that silly FX hedge account on Twitter spreading like lies again, and bitcoin closing below the 20 week moving average for the first time since September. And this is commonly referred to by technical traders. It's what, as what's called a bull market support line. So generally you don't want to see BTC closing below this line, but, uh, during a bull market. But I guess, like, you know, technical analysis, whether you buy into it or not, is a whole nother debate here. Um, so the reason.
00:01:47.646 - 00:02:54.704, Speaker A: And then I said, what else you got? So the reason, I kind of put this tweet together because I was like, everyone's trying to find reasons for the market going down, right? They're trying to find, like, the. The kind of signal within the chaos that is markets, and they're pointing to all these different things. So for me, I was like, well, if you're pointing to all these different things and trying to correlate something, then really, I mean, it's just random, right? And then I thought of a book from Nassim Taleb called fooled by randomness, which is basically a whole book on this topic where humans, you know, inherently want to find explanations for things, and you inherently, we will explain things that happen randomly and that have no correlation with each other to kind of, like, I guess, explain something that we may not understand. You know, this goes back to, you know, I mean, since humans have existed, right? You know, back in the more primitive days, we would make up things to explain, you know, things that we didn't understand. For instance, you know, there was greek gods for natural occurring phenomena like lightning, right? And thunder, like that. Those things couldn't be explained at the time by science because we just weren't at that level of, you know, human evolution. So they were explained by gods and by higher beings.
00:02:54.704 - 00:03:13.600, Speaker A: And that's actually how a lot of religions came to be. It's like it tries to find meaning within things that we don't have answers to. Like, we don't have answers to what happens after death and all that sort of stuff. Right? So without getting, you know, too, too off track here, that's what the book kind of goes through. I haven't read it yet, but I've. I've, you know, I've. I've seen summaries of it and everything I do plan to read it.
00:03:13.600 - 00:03:51.398, Speaker A: But. But he does take in the book, he takes a financial lens where he looks at markets, and he kind of, like, goes through, like, how humans will always try and look for a reason, right? You know, people are saying, oh, well, Elon caused the bitcoin dump, or Elon did this oil into that. Um, you know, if you look at the really short term, like, as soon as Elon tweets, there might be a little bit of a movement in the crypto prices that is just opportunistic traders basically having Elon's tweets on. On notification. And if they tweet something bullish or bearish about bitcoin, you know, that they might buy or sell. Right? But in terms of, like, bitcoin specifically and its weakness, it's been weak for. For a while.
00:03:51.398 - 00:04:11.574, Speaker A: Like, for a few weeks now, it has, uh, just been staying flat or trending down while ETH has been strong. And ETH BTC has been strong as well. But BTC was due for this anyway. Like, if you look back, you can kind of see it's been weak. You know, the inflows have stopped. You know, ETH has been stronger than it. Yes, ETH went down as well, but the ETH BTC ratio is still pretty, pretty high.
00:04:11.574 - 00:04:32.702, Speaker A: It's like you know, the high was 0.08 or something, and it's at like 0.7076 or something like that. So it's kind of noise in how it's moved there. So, you know, you can't even really point to Elon is the reason for this, right. And all these other things as well, like us tax telling. It's just another reason people come up with, you know, the binance, being under investigation, all this sort of stuff.
00:04:32.702 - 00:05:08.694, Speaker A: So as I explained in the second tweet that I put here, I said, markets are chaotic and humans are always looking for explanations for up and down movements. And that's what we always do. There will never be someone who's just like, oh, it's just the market doing what the market does. Right. I mean, some people are like that. Like, I definitely try to take that lens, but I still, in my head, well, I'll still go through and see, you know, okay, what happened? Like, is there any explanation here? And I'll rationalize it in my head. I won't actually chalk it up to just being kind of like random walks of the market, which it really is, because if you think about markets as in a holistic approach, there are millions of different inputs that happen with markets, millions of different variables.
00:05:08.694 - 00:05:27.670, Speaker A: It's, it's, it's literally trying to predict the future with, with markets. And you can't do it because there's just too much going on. There's too many variables. You know, billions of dollars of research and analysis goes into this every year to, to try and analyze and predict what's going to happen in the markets to make money from. That's what investment professionals do. Right. Um, and, you know, most people get it wrong.
00:05:27.670 - 00:05:52.870, Speaker A: Most people don't outperform an index. Most people don't really perform in the markets. Um, and the ones that do win big, and they, they have their own ways of finding, you know, what's called alpha in the markets. Like that, those nuggets of alpha that you try to find that you don't want to give up to anyone else. And really, you know, a lot of it is definitely, you know, uh, taking a long term view as well. For instance, you know, taking a long term view on ETH. I mean, you don't have to take that long, that much of a long term view.
00:05:52.870 - 00:06:37.596, Speaker A: You, like, you could have invested in ETH in 2015 at a dollar or less, right? And that was only six years ago. And now, you know, it's over $3,000. Is that 3500? You'd be up 3500 x on your money, you would basically be financially independent even if you only invested like $1,000 into it. You would have $3.5 million, for example. Right? And with, with yield farming in Defi, with just earning like a casual yield on that or, or even putting a million dollars into a, into an index earning 810 percent a year, you basically become financially independent in any first world country as long as you just live modestly, right? So if you just take a long term view like that on quality projects, then all of this stuff is just noise, right? It's all random walks of the market. There's no, unless you're a trader, there's no point even trying to look at it and rationalize it.
00:06:37.596 - 00:06:56.422, Speaker A: Like, who cares at the end of the day? But I get it. You know, inherently, as humans, we want to explain things. So that's just the way I kind of view it. And I think, you know, the, the book that fooled by randomness is being a highly recommended read to me. I just haven't had time to read it. I think I have it on my bookshelf here among all my manga. But, um, I do recommend reading it.
00:06:56.422 - 00:07:20.068, Speaker A: It's been, you know, as I said, it's been recommended to me many times. So, yeah, that's, I guess, what happened in the markets. I don't like personally. I mean, I always say this, I'm not bearish at all. Like, I just, I was saying to some friends today, I'm like, what? What's there to be bearish about when it comes to crypto? Like, okay, we went up really fast. I mean, that, but that's normal for crypto. You know, we can go up really fast and just go sideways for a bit and still be bullish or go down and then still be bullish.
00:07:20.068 - 00:07:43.908, Speaker A: Like, ethereum itself has so many catalysts coming up still. Like, it's funny because in the short term, people seem to forget things like ERP 1559, the merge, you know, L2, continued growth of defi. And I was actually saying to my friends today as well, people aren't going to fiat. And I've said this many times on the refuel. Like, you just got to remember that people, even when these crashes are happening, they're not going to fiat. They're going to stable coins. Some of them will yield fun with their stable coins.
00:07:43.908 - 00:08:28.436, Speaker A: Some of them will keep them on exchanges, buy the dip. Right? No one is really going to to their bank accounts with, when they sell, and if they do, it's only to pay taxes or to pay some bills in real life or something for expenses. Essentially, it's not to have some money sitting in a bank account. Like, why would you put money in a bank account right now? You're not earning anything on it. It's actually being devalued by inflation. So you're, you know, you're much better off keeping it within, within crypto. And then on top of that, by using the ethereum network in a post 1559 world, even in bear markets, um, you're still going to be contributing to the value of ETH, because every time we do a transaction, whether that's to get into a new yield farm or harvest the yield farm or kind of, um, you know, trade some assets or whatever, you're going to be contributing to ETH value by burning ETH.
00:08:28.436 - 00:09:02.734, Speaker A: So, I mean, there's just some of the things, there's many other things going on with Ethereum right now. I do think that institutional interest in Ethereum is just getting started, and I do think they're going to move to defi next. As I've said many times in the past, the jump from, from non crypto to BTC is huge. The jump from BTC to ETH is small, and the jump from east to Defi is even smaller. Like, as soon as you get into Ethereum and ETH, you are immediately exposed to Defi. And I just think that, you know, everyone, you know, is clamoring for like a DeFi season and stuff like that, and that's fine. And I do think that's going to play out eventually.
00:09:02.734 - 00:09:48.124, Speaker A: But I do think these, these more sophisticated institutional investors that are coming in are actually going to look at assets that have actual cash flows to them and things like that, rather than things that are just going up based on belief or narratives or marketing. And I mean, that's just a bit of an alpha league there for me. And that's what I'm focusing on right now. The assets that actually, you know, are generating cash flows to token holders and have a PE ratio and all that good stuff. And I guess that's a perfect segue, actually, into this report that came out today from James Wang, where he basically put out this report where he says Ethereum announces first quarter 2021 results. So this is like typical, a typical financial report that you'll see, you know, traditional companies do in like the stock market and things like that every quarter. They're called earnings reports.
00:09:48.124 - 00:10:10.078, Speaker A: But you don't traditionally see blockchains do this because obviously, like, these platforms are decentralized and obviously, this isn't like Ethereum announcing this. Like, it's not the Ethereum foundation. It's not, you know, any central party in Ethereum. This is just for impact, right? Ethereum announces this. And James Wang is a member of the Ethereum community. He's an avid refuel listener and watcher. So I'm sure he's, he's seeing this right now.
00:10:10.078 - 00:10:53.292, Speaker A: But the point of this report is to show the growth of Ethereum over kind of like, you know, certain timeframes. So he compares things like, you know, the total transaction fees, they've increased 200 x since Q 120 20. So just in a year it went from $8 million in Q 120, $20 to $1.7 billion in Q 120 20, which is a 200 x increase if you're a traditional investor and you're seeing this kind of growth in a year, right? No, I don't think any startup in the world besides crypto startups has this type of growth. I just, I simply don't think that exists. And I simply think that a lot of investors in the traditional space, or you can call them web two investors or SaaS investors, they're just sleeping on this. And this is what I think James is trying to do.
00:10:53.292 - 00:11:23.918, Speaker A: He's trying to basically wake them up and say, hey, you know, this is generating real value and real cash flows. Post 1559, most of these fees would have been burnt, which generates real cash flows for ETH, the token. So on top of that, the total transaction volume on Ethereum increased 20 x here from, from the same period. Deadly active addresses up 71%, which is, which is obviously very, which is huge here. And staked Ethereum during Q one went to 3.6 million. It's at 4.5
00:11:23.918 - 00:11:50.176, Speaker A: million now. Right. And then, yeah, he goes into, not just, I mean, this is on the Ethereum kind of protocol layer here. He goes into the ecosystem layer like Dex volumes increasing 76 times since, since q 120 20 from 2.3 billion in q one. So January 3, March, Q one covers three months and to 177 billion in Q 120 21. Defi tvl up 64 x.
00:11:50.176 - 00:12:23.312, Speaker A: Right. Even going into like raft bitcoin on Ethereum NFT sales and stuff like that. And he's got a few quotes here, one from me. I did help review this, this post, and I did give a quote here. Same for David Hoffman. And then, yeah, going into the ecosystem highlights, not just the growth, highlights about metamask and how they've got 5 million monthly active users and all that sort of stuff, and how public companies are buying Ethan and ETF's and things like that and a bunch of other things here, like balance sheets of the Ethereum foundation and stuff like that. But I'll leave most of this that you can go read and check out yourself.
00:12:23.312 - 00:12:57.154, Speaker A: But I think this is really cool. I think this is gonna get the attention of a lot of these traditional investors and they're going to see this insane growth and they're going to pay more attention to Ethereum. Because I still think that because people come in through bitcoin, a lot of the time they look at bitcoin and they say, okay, well really the, I mean, there's only a few key metrics in bitcoin that have really grown. I mean, the total fees paid on the network is up, but it's not up that much. It lags like incredibly behind Ethereum. Active addresses and things like that are up, but they're not up that much. And bitcoin doesn't have a defi ecosystem or anything like that.
00:12:57.154 - 00:13:19.626, Speaker A: And like obviously the price is up. So that's the main draw there. But I think these are, these traditional investors, they, you know, they look, they may not, they may look at bitcoin and they may see like all the things like, oh, it's digital gold, store of value, you know, inflation hedge. And they may say to themselves, well, I'm not interested in this. Right. I was, wasn't interested in gold. I didn't understand gold and I wasn't interested in why people would even bother holding it.
00:13:19.626 - 00:13:46.940, Speaker A: But I am interested in Ethereum. I am interested in something that I can relate back to software and tech that I'm, that I've been investing in before. And that's might maybe while that why they will take a deeper look in Ethereum here. So anyway, definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So Jeff Lau from ENS domains put out a really great thread today about Ethereum, Altoos versus plasma and side chains and scaling solutions in general. It's a long thread, it'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:13:46.940 - 00:14:32.868, Speaker A: You can go read it. But this thread comes in response to what I've been seeing over the weekend, which is a lot of debates about L2s versus side chains versus commit chains versus everything, blah, blah, blah, blah, right? Specifically focused around Polygon. Now I got to profess this by saying I'm an advisor to Polygon, right? I'm obviously biased here, but I think what a lot of these arguments are focused on is the marketing, right, of these sorts of things now and the definitions. So the way people define L2s, at least a lot of the people that I've seen, they define L2s as something that is directly secured by Ethereum's layer one. So an optimistic roll up or a zk roll up, something that lives on Ethereum. L1. And that if something happened to the l two, you would be fine, because l one is actually what's securing it.
00:14:32.868 - 00:15:02.902, Speaker A: Side chains are typically defined by something that has its own validator set that is completely separate to the ethereum network or to any other network. So, technically speaking, bitcoin is a side chain to Ethereum. But bitcoin has its own validator set, its own miners. It is not secured by Ethereum in any way. BSC is the same thing. You could say BSC is a sidechain, but it has its own validators. At those 21 validators, any of the other networks, you can say are a sidechain, but they are not secured by Ethereum.
00:15:02.902 - 00:15:30.234, Speaker A: So that's what the sidechain kind of arm definition comes from. And then there is the polygon pos chain, which is. Which is what is technically called a commit chain. But there are debates around whether a side chain and a commit chain are different, like how they're different, all this sort of stuff. But a commit chain, what that does is it commits itself to Ethereum. And I've explained this before, how, you know, all of the. All of the logic for staking and slashing and all that sort of stuff, for the Polygon pos chain lives on Ethereum.
00:15:30.234 - 00:16:04.590, Speaker A: It commits itself to Ethereum periodically and all that sort of stuff. But the argument centers around, does this actually provide extra security for the Polygon pos chain? And in a technical sense, it doesn't. Right. What provides security to polygon is the validator set, the 100 plus validators that the proof of stake, validators that are securing the network. But then you have to look at the bridges, right? There's a bridge that goes from Ethereum to Polygon, or two bridges. One of them is secured by the Pos chain, the other one is secured by plasma. The one that's secured by plasma has a seven day withdrawal delay.
00:16:04.590 - 00:16:31.784, Speaker A: So not many people use that. The one that's secured by the pos chain has a. It doesn't have a seven day withdrawal, but has some delay, has some delays in there. But that bridge is also controlled by a five of seven multisig that, you know, polygons team members and their associates have ownership over. So that multisig, so technically speaking, five out of seven of those multi SiG signers could collude to steal all the funds that are locked up in the bridge. In the bridge. Smart contract.
00:16:31.784 - 00:17:03.820, Speaker A: So when you kind of look at that holistically, you can see that, okay, objectively speaking, the polygon Pos chain is not as secure as Ethereum layer one. And if the l two is built right, like it is not as secure as Ethereum l two. Now, there is another point to this, which is basically what's ready today. As we all know, optimism got delayed to July for their public mainnet. Arbitrum is coming soon. They've got a developer, Mainnet, going live on May 28. But that's still, you know, scaling has been like a thing that's needed for the last few months.
00:17:03.820 - 00:17:41.519, Speaker A: So that's, that's still coming like pretty late to the game. Not to say that these teams could have worked faster, have done things faster. It's just the nature of this sort of stuff is that the people are demanding scaling now, and people aren't going to wait around for these solutions to go live because the fees on Ethereum got way too high and it priced out a lot of users, and we were bleeding users to things like BSC. But anyway, on that note as well, we have starkware coming out. They've come out with their standalone solutions like Dy, DX and stuff like that, but they're generalized EVM compatible. A kind of like L2 solution isn't due for a little while, I think another few months still. Same with ZK sync with their ZK portal release, I think August or something like that.
00:17:41.519 - 00:18:28.582, Speaker A: So my point is, is that people wanted to use something that was ready today. So for me I was like, okay, why not we just get users over to a socially and politically aligned platform like the Polygon Pos chain, rather than funneling them to something like BSC, which is completely centralized. It doesn't have a permissionless validator set, doesn't have 100 plus proof of stake validators. It has 21 authority nodes, essentially, that, that basically belong to binance. So, you know, it's very centralized. And also, you know, CZ and binance in general are hostile towards Ethereum and, and do not and want to flip Ethereum want to actually be more valuable than it, whereas the Polygon team and the polygon ecosystem is nothing like that. So that's why you've seen a lot of Ethereum first kind of projects like AaVE and Curve and M stable, all this sort of stuff.
00:18:28.582 - 00:19:02.712, Speaker A: They're fine. Moving to Polygon because they know that polygon, as an ecosystem is aligned with Ethereum socially and politically. Yes, it is not secure, as secure as Ethereum's l one. It is not secure as like, the true l two s, the proper altus that are built on top of Ethereum layer one. Yes, it has central points of points like the bridge and stuff like that. But it is still infinitely better than hostile ecosystems like BSC, like, I mean, even Solana, for example, like all these other ecosystems, they are not in it to be additive to Ethereum, no matter what their marketing says. They want Ethereum's market share.
00:19:02.712 - 00:19:36.320, Speaker A: They do not want to be additive because they would be very happy if everyone moved from Ethereum to their platform because that would mean their token goes up in price. They get more activity, blah, blah, blah, blah. Right? The rest is history there. So I hope that gives, like a bit of a summary of, like, the debates over the weekend and what people are kind of debating and what they're fighting about. As I said, I'm an advisor to Polygon, so obviously I am biased, but I've tried to be as truth and truthful and fair as possible here while not presenting anything in a, you know, in a, in a. In a. In a too, you know, good of a light or a bad of a light or whatever.
00:19:36.320 - 00:20:01.586, Speaker A: You just have to understand the trade offs of these solutions, but you also have to understand the, the nuance around it, which is the political and social aspect, which I believe is even more important than the technical aspect of these sorts of things. Because at the end of the day, this entire ecosystem is run on human by humans. The full nodes, the things that keep the network going, the miners, everything. It's all run by humans. The code is written by humans. All the apps, everything, humans, humans, humans. Right.
00:20:01.586 - 00:20:19.672, Speaker A: I know I said that word a lot just then, but basically that's what you have to remember. And I think that's the clearest way that I can put it. And that's the way you navigate through this ecosystem. So. Yeah, anyway, highly recommend going and reading this straight because it gives a technical breakdown of the different l two solutions. It's really great. There was some great discussions spawned off of this as well.
00:20:19.672 - 00:20:57.468, Speaker A: You can check in the quote tweets here. But yeah, I'll get in the YouTube description for you to go check out. So speaking of Altoos, actually, Uri from Starkware put out a great tweet here on something that I've been talking about a lot lately, where he says ethereum will become the ZKP or zero knowledge proof verification layer, that's the end game. Almost all other blockchain computations will be done on L2, and that will happen way faster than you realize. This is what I've been saying for a while, that most users are going to live on L2. They're not going to live on layer one because layer one is never going to scale to meet user demand for on ethereum, because we want to stay as decentralized as possible. We want to stay as secure as possible.
00:20:57.468 - 00:21:49.438, Speaker A: Those are the two kind of things that the ethereum ecosystem will never compromise on. And if they did, I put out a tweet the other day and I said I would be the first out the door if ethereum compromised on this because it would go against everything that I hold dear and believe in. So from that point of view, the l one ethereum will literally just become the chain that secures the proofs for L2s. And all the users will live at L2 and have very cheap or free transactions and have an extremely scalable ecosystem because of that. So yeah, just another note on the L2 debate here. I won't kind of spend too much here because I've spoken about a lot of this before, but yeah, and there's a bit, there's a few more discussions in the, in the thread here, so you can check that out as well. So Anish, from a polychain capital here, put out a great little thread that he said that he success successfully ran a 51% attack against George Hotz's cheap ETH.org
00:21:49.438 - 00:22:25.772, Speaker A: ethereum clone chain. Now for those of you don't know what cheap ETH is, it's essentially a, I mean, I would say it's just like an ethereum testnet. He, George forked ETH, you know, basically removed like all the limitations to scale it up. And it's basically just a centralized version of ETH. And you know, you can just treat it like a testnet, but because of that, it essentially has a very low hash rate and very low security. So Anish was able to rent, rent enough hashrate to control 72% of the network here and do a few fancy things. I'll leave this, this thread in the YouTube description.
00:22:25.772 - 00:22:56.080, Speaker A: If you go check out and read about it, he's also got a video here you can check out. But this is, this is really fun to see. I think that people often underestimate, like how easy it is to attack some of these minority chains. And this isn't just applying to cheap earth, it's applying to a lot of other chains out there. Proof of work chain, specifically, like a theorem classic, for example, has been 51% attacked, I think, two or three times. Verge as well. I think there's a few others out there, and that's because they just do not have much proof of work miners securing them because the value isn't very high.
00:22:56.080 - 00:23:55.044, Speaker A: So, yeah, definitely go check out this one. It was pretty, pretty cool to see the little experiment that he did here. So, Vitalik, I think this is the end of the dog coin saga for Vitalik here. But he burned most of his shib tokens today, which I think was almost $6 billion worth at current prices. And he included a message with the burn, and I won't read out the whole thing here, but he basically said that he decided to burn 90% of the tokens and send 10% of it to charity, because he basically, I think that he made a funny kind of comment here where he said he's been impressed by how the dog token communities kind of treated the recent donations, and, you know, he thinks the communities are genuine and he supports them in doing this, but he wants to make a statement here that anyone kind of making coins or anything to not send them to, to him, I think he's going to burn them all from now on. He doesn't want to be the locus of power for these kind of ecosystems. He doesn't want to be the king maker here.
00:23:55.044 - 00:24:23.704, Speaker A: And he says, better to just print the coins into the hands of charities and obviously talk to them first before you do that. So I think this might be an end to the dog coin saga with Vitalik, at least. Maybe they're going to pump again, because he really did just take out, like, a massive chunk of the supply by doing this. So maybe people view this as a bullish thing and maybe Shib's going to pump up again. I don't know. These markets are crazy. Who knows what's going to happen? You know, if the bull market continues, which I think we all believe it will, things are going to get crazier from here, that's for sure.
00:24:23.704 - 00:25:17.660, Speaker A: So Samuel from Rari capital here put out a great tweet about arbitrum. And I don't think this was kind of making fun of optimism here, but it was basically comparing the two, you know, leading optimistic roll up solutions and basically saying that arbitrary is really far ahead of optimism right now because they have better documentation, zero changes to code required to get onto arbitrary because it's fully EVM compatible. They have official infrastructure for bridges, message passing block explorers and all these. Infra is already ready on the testnet, and they also have things like better resource usage and they've built a whole new EVM without losing compatibility and things like that. Now, the reason why I bring this up is because this is the main reason, I think, why optimism was delayed, because they didn't have any of this ready. They didn't have their full documentation suite ready. They, the changes required to the code for projects was, you know, is a lot more than I think a lot of projects bargained for.
00:25:17.660 - 00:25:58.040, Speaker A: So they had to rewrite some of their code, get audits and all that sort of stuff. The official infrastructure and stuff I don't think was ready or anything like that. And I think just in general, it just was not ready to launch for all of these reasons. So again, not saying what's better or, you know, than the other, but I think arbitrary is going to beat optimism to mainnet here, because as I spoke about last week, they are going live with a developer main net on Ethereum, l one's main net of their L2 at on May 28. And then shortly after that, I think they're going to go live with the just a public main net that everyone can use. So they're definitely going to beat optimism to the punch here. And I haven't even heard anything about from optimism lately.
00:25:58.040 - 00:26:45.384, Speaker A: I really do hope that they come out with something because I like the optimism team. I've been rooting for them for quite a while, but their silence and, you know, it doesn't, doesn't bode well for them. I think, you know, these, these kind of things are all about instilling confidence in people and making sure that people are kept up to date. Arbitrum does a much better job of that than optimism, and I just hope to see optimism step up and kind of like, improve here. So Elias from bison trails has, I don't know if he built this dashboard, but he basically tweeted about this new dune analytics dashboard called ETH two liquid staking, which basically tracks the amount of ETH in liquid staking pools. Now, the pools that they're tracking are staker cream, shared steak, lido, steak wise, steak phi and steakhound here. Now, the leader right now is Lido.
00:26:45.384 - 00:27:23.678, Speaker A: I'm sure a lot of you are using lido. I do want to make a note here that none of these pools are decentralized. The only one that I know of that is trying to be decentralized is rocket pool, even though they're not live yet, but essentially most of these are just like, you know, custodial or have some sort of multi sig set up. I know Lido uses a mechanism where they'll take the ETH in, they'll issue you your steth, which is a derivative of that ETH, and then they'll send that ETH to one of the various staking pools that they've partnered with. I think there's a few of them, but yeah, just good to keep in mind there. But now we can see how much is actually in these pools. So about five, just over 500,000 ethanol is in these ETH two pools.
00:27:23.678 - 00:27:47.918, Speaker A: So as I said before, 4.5 million is locked in ETH, two right now total. So, and this. And then. So you can take out 500,000 that's locked in ETH two pools. Then you can take out how much is kind of locked through centralized exchanges, and you can get to the number of, you know, home stakers or at least people that are staking, not through an exchange or through a staking service provider. I would wager off the top of my head, it's probably half, half and half right now, which is good.
00:27:47.918 - 00:28:27.074, Speaker A: I actually think that's quite healthy. But we need to make sure to not give too much power to the centralized stake pools or even the delegated pools or anything like that, and especially not centralized exchanges. And I've spoken about this a lot in the past, so I won't go through it again, but I just think it's. This is a cool little dashboard and of course you'll be able to check this out in the YouTube description below. So maple finance announced that their DeFi lending protocol for corporate institutional capital is now deployed to the Ethereum main net. There's a lot of cool stuff happening here. They've got an official liquidity pool, sorry, liquidity mining program going live as well, and a pool that's capped at $15 million of liquidity.
00:28:27.074 - 00:28:57.050, Speaker A: So I think they're doing a kind of like structured launch here for security reasons, which I really, really appreciate. But this liquidity mining program will be going live on May 19. There's a couple of days away from now, which is really, really cool to see. And then on May 21, the LP funding will be opens to the broader Maple community and Defi ecosystem here. So yeah, here are all the key dates. If you're wondering about Maple protocol, you want to learn more about it. Of course you can check this out in the YouTube description, but this is really, really cool to see them finally go live here.
00:28:57.050 - 00:29:31.328, Speaker A: And a disclosure I am a seed investor in Maple. There are homegrown Aussie projects down here, so definitely want to support as many of those as I can. And something that I definitely think is going to be a big kind of thing. You know, essentially what Maple is is a decentralized corporate debt marketplace. If you don't know what that means, they have an introduction which they've linked here, but you can go read that for yourself, you know, after you're done watching the video. So Gitcoin has announced that it is now time for them to decentralize. So in this blog post, they go over their philosophy about why they want to decentralize Git coin as a platform and what they want to do with it.
00:29:31.328 - 00:30:00.608, Speaker A: They didn't mention anything about a token, but as we all know, when you want to decentralize something, you definitely have a token to do that, obviously, because daos and things can run off tokens and it's better for coordinating capital and humans as well. But I think this is cool. I mean, to me, Gitcoin is very special to me. It has funded me through ETH Hub and the Daily Gwei. I've had plenty of donations. I've used Gitcoin a lot in the past to fund projects. Their mission is, their core mission is very in line with Ethereum's core mission and values.
00:30:00.608 - 00:30:28.990, Speaker A: And there's a lot of cool experiments happening on, on Gitcoin, like quadratic matching, and they have ambitions for to do much more than that. This platform shouldn't be centralized in any way. It should be fully decentralized. And I say that as someone who's a multi sig, sorry, one of the multi sig signers of the git coin. Multi sig, I don't like that it's a multi sig. I would rather see this decentralized. I would like to see the community have like a much bigger say here, and I would like to see the community being much more involved in Gitcoin.
00:30:28.990 - 00:31:06.718, Speaker A: And the way you do that is you decentralize it. You create a dow, you slap a token on to incentivize people, incentivize human capital coordination, and there and away you go. But anyway, you can read this post for yourself, of course, but I'll move on to the next update. So framework Ventures, one of the top defi native funds in crypto, announced that they have raised $100 million for a new fund to invest in blockchain based fintech startups here. Now framework is famous for their Chainlink investment. They were very early on Chainlink, I believe they got in under a dollar, or at least one of the earl one of even at the ICO or something like that. But they were very, very early on Chainlink.
00:31:06.718 - 00:31:27.602, Speaker A: But they've made a bunch of other investments in the space. I can't remember exactly which ones, but they have a ton of investments here. If I go to their kind of like, website here and go to their portfolio, you know, look at it, these are all names that we all know and love. Aave, Chainlink, d hedge, dodo. And I won't go through them all, but there's a bunch here. Synthetix, right? All the one like Zappa yearn and stuff like that. They're defi native.
00:31:27.602 - 00:32:12.024, Speaker A: They deeply understand this space. So I'm really great to see that they've been able to raise an extra 100 million to deploy to all of these teams, teams building Defi, specifically on Ethereum. I think their main focus is really on Ethereum, which is really cool to see. So congrats to them for this race here. All right, last up here, we have a tweet thread from Tim Roughgarden, who was one of the people who did deep research, or at least I think he's the person who did the deepest research on EIP 1559. He was commissioned by the Ethereum foundation to do this. But anyway, this thread that he's kind of like, put together here is kind of going back against this kind of fud that Arthur Hayes put in his piece about 1559, where he basically says that if, if Ethereum burns too much ETH, it could become a problem for.
00:32:12.024 - 00:32:54.468, Speaker A: For Ethereum, because there wouldn't be enough ETH to, you know, power the ecosystem, essentially. Now, for those of you who are aware of how Ethereum Ethan tokens work, these things are divisible. So it was very weird to see Arthur kind of pen this, because you can divide ETH to, it's either 16 or 18 decimals. I always get tripped up here. But anyway, you can divide ETH down, like, a lot, right? So even if there was only one ETH that existed in, you know, because we burned all the other amount of ETH, which is pretty much not going to happen, but let's just say there's only one ETH left, you could still fund the entire ethereum economy and everything else on that one ETH. Now, what this means for staking, because staking has a hard 32 ETH limit. Uh, sorry, requirement.
00:32:54.468 - 00:33:32.340, Speaker A: I don't know, maybe we basically change it from the 32 ETH requirement to something else. But I honestly, I don't see us even getting anywhere close to having only one ETH left, right. These are just problems that I don't think are ever going to rear their head. Could you imagine if we get down to something even like a million ETH left, right in circulation? Do you, can you imagine what the price of ETH would be in that case? Like for, for context here, the current supply of ETH is 115 million, and the current price of ETH is 3500. The current market cap of ETH is about 450 billion or something like that. So if we got down to just 1 million ETH, which is, it is impossible. I don't even think we would get there.
00:33:32.340 - 00:34:16.062, Speaker A: But, you know, let's dream some bigger dreams here and say that we went down to a million ETH, right? And then we adjusted it for the same market cap, say eats market cap didn't move at all. Say we stayed at a $450 billion market cap, but we had a million, a million coins in circulation instead. I'm just quickly doing the head math here. I'm pretty sure the ETH price. So if we actually, we just times the current ETH price by 115, or let's just do it by 100. So that math's easier for me in my head here. If we times the current price by 100, right, the ETH price would be $350,000 if we only had a million ETH here, right? And then this is just assuming that the current market cap remains the same, right? This isn't kind of like going into, you know, when, if the market cap is going to go up, which it will, and all that and all that sort of stuff.
00:34:16.062 - 00:34:54.298, Speaker A: So when you kind of look at it like that, actually, I think the price would be $450,000 if you take the current supply tech current market cap and reduce the supply down to 1 million ETH. So from that perspective, like, that's just absolutely insane. And I don't think the price would hold there because think about how much ETH is permanently in cold storage or permanently in defi backing up Dai, because people want to use that for expenses or to trade or whatever. Permanently in ETH. Two now, just don't know. Like, just thinking about that as a thought experiment is funny. But anyway, the TLDR here, you can read this thread, is just explaining how the Ethereum gas market works and how it would still work even if there was just like one ETH in circulation.
00:34:54.298 - 00:35:29.694, Speaker A: Because you can divide ETH, you know, by, I think, 18, you know, to 18 decimals and things like that, and you could divide and that could be expanded, right? You could expand that to 100 decimals. There's no reason why it can't be done. And I think what's, what's important to emphasize here is that the Ethereum ecosystem and culture is basically that if something is critically wrong, if we need to change something, we will do it. We're not just going to sit in our hands and say, well, I mean, that's a problem for the future. If we foresee this becoming a realistic problem, we will work to rectify it as a community, as an ecosystem. So I think that's important to emphasize as well. But anyway, you can read this thread for yourself in the YouTube description.
00:35:29.694 - 00:35:41.874, Speaker A: I'm going to end it here. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching for today's episode. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
