00:00:00.200 - 00:00:49.328, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegway refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 29 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I'm super pumped today, and it's not just because of the ETH price going up, which is of course awesome to see, but I am extremely pumped because today I visited the pools dot Inviz dot cloud website that superfiz shared here on Twitter and you can see that the prism usage on the Beacon chain is actually down to 61.9%. It is lower than it was when I was kind of like talking to guys about him having, having the super majority of 66%. And this is a huge win, guys. Like, I'm pretty sure this website updates weekly and I think they're missing around 20 or 30,000 validators right now in their count, which is I guess like 10%.
00:00:49.328 - 00:01:19.888, Speaker A: But you know, I don't think that's going to make a, make much of a difference here to this prism usage percentage. Absolutely awesome to see. And I actually just eyeing it, it seems to be Coinbase's prism usage seems to be coming down. I believe that was over 90% last time I checked this website. Now it's at 85% and I think krakens have come down slightly as well. But yeah, I mean, guys, this is a huge win right here. The fact that prism is no longer the super majority on the network, there's no client that has a super majority on the beacon chain, and at this point in time is an absolute huge win for client diversity.
00:01:19.888 - 00:01:46.054, Speaker A: Now, as I've been saying to you guys, ideally we want to get this kind of like below 60% in the, in the best case, or at least in the kind of like most pragmatic case, below 50%. If we can do that before the merge happens. Ah man, I think superfus is gonna throw him, throw himself a party because he's been one of the big champions of this. But I think this is absolutely awesome. Like, I'm actually so happy about this. I saw this over the past. I think I saw it either late last night or today, and I was like, holy shit.
00:01:46.054 - 00:02:12.742, Speaker A: Like, this is awesome. Now, obviously, this is kind of like an estimation. It's not an exact science, but, you know, it's pretty good. It's. I believe it's using Michael Sprouse kind of script to do this. And Michael Sprout, it works at Sigma prime, who develops the lighthouse client and I've highlighted his threads before on the refuel. But, but yeah, I was just really giddy about this because I mean, I explained to you guys what happened on the killing testnet where Prism had a bug where they were producing invalid blocks.
00:02:12.742 - 00:02:48.814, Speaker A: And if that was to happen on main net and Prism was to stop super majority, it would basically result in a failed merge. Right. So this is why we have the test nets and all that sort of stuff there. But if this happens on Mainnet now, it won't lead to a kind of like failed merge because Prism doesn't have a super majority. Yes, they still account for a large part of the network and if this happened, it might lead to a large scale slashing event, which is just as bad. But essentially, you know, getting off the kind of like majority client seems to be a priority for a lot of people now, especially the exchanges. You know, I'm waiting for the day that no centralized exchange or service provider has more than 50% prism usage.
00:02:48.814 - 00:03:20.884, Speaker A: That is probably a long way away still. I mean, Coinbase is still at 85%, Kraken's at 93%, but the fact that it's trending down is really good. And, you know, at this point in time, for every new validator that Coinbase and Kraken spin up, they don't have to use the majority client anymore. As I've said you guys, before, the four, I mean, there's five production ready clients, but the four main ones, they're all pretty much as good as each other. There is no, from what I've seen, benefit to using the super majority over one of the others. And there's actually like a lot of negatives, as I've explained before to you guys. So this got me super giddy today.
00:03:20.884 - 00:03:52.460, Speaker A: And, you know, the fact that it's happened on a day when the 8th price is doing really well is just a bonus there. But I spoke about the market yesterday, so I'm not going to rehash that, that today. But yeah, I'm curious to see if this keeps coming down and like at what rate it comes down at. I think it will. Because as I said, I think at this point in time, the exchanges have heard about this sort of stuff now, and they're probably not going to be spinning up prism or at least the majority clients for the foreseeable future. They'll spin up another client whenever they get to the point where that they have to kind of spin out more clients. And I think a lot of individuals as well are using other clients.
00:03:52.460 - 00:04:17.584, Speaker A: But, but yeah, we're going to have to see how it plays out going forward. As usual, rocket pool is doing amazing work here. You know, under 10% prism usage, which is awesome. With 3000 validators, they're growing quite nicely. Lido is the other kind of like leading staking pool, I guess you could say. But they're not, you know, decentralized like rocket pool is, but they're doing quite well as well. Like, they still have 40% prism usage, but that's under the 50% threshold, which is.
00:04:17.584 - 00:04:58.002, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, in the most pragmatic kind of like sense. I think that one of the clients having 50% is probably going to persist for a while. Just, it's just the way it is, guys. Like, honestly, I think that it's never going to be like an even 25% split between the four clients or 20% split between the five clients. That's just not how these things work. So, as I said before, if we have 50% prism, you know, and then kind of like 30% lighthouse and 10% taekwondo and 10% nimbus, and maybe, you know, maybe there's a little bit of a couple percent of Lodestar, then that is just as good as having in my eyes, 2525-2525 because we're never going to get to that. Like, we have to think about what's practical rather than what's ideal.
00:04:58.002 - 00:05:26.396, Speaker A: And we can keep pushing, don't get me wrong, we can keep pushing for that. I mean, keep seeing how we can get to that. But I don't think that we're going to get to that kind of like ideal world. I think we can get to the pragmatic world where prism, or no one client accounts for more than 50%. And it's awesome so far that we're actually doing much better than the execution layer side, which still needs client diversity, mind you. But last time I checked, geth accounts for, I think, 80% or something like that of the. Let me have a look here of the, of the clients.
00:05:26.396 - 00:05:54.682, Speaker A: I'm just loading up ethernodes.org here on my other screen. So Geth is currently 83% of the network. So yeah, that's, that's obviously not ideal as well there, but it is less of a concern for the execution layer than it is for the consensus layer because there aren't any direct penalties. Uh, you know, there's no slashing, obviously, in mining. And on the execution layer side, I mean, post merge is going to be a different kind of like, uh, calculus there. So, you know, I would encourage a lot of people to run the non majority clients on either side.
00:05:54.682 - 00:06:12.830, Speaker A: If you're a solo staker, you're obviously going to be running both the execution, um, client and consensus client. Uh, so an ideal setup would be, you know, something like Lighthouse and Nethermind, for example. Right. Rather than prism and geth. Right, right. But yeah, totally up to you what one you want to go with. And you can mix and match and all those sorts of things.
00:06:12.830 - 00:06:52.270, Speaker A: As I said, like the clients are just as good as each other. There is no real benefit to going at the majority over the other things. There's actually a lot of negatives that come with it there. All right, actually, I've got something here I want to talk about a bit later because there's a couple of other Ethereum related things I want to talk about first. So I put out this tweet today where I said Ethereum, having a seven year long proof of work distribution phase before switching to proof of stake is something that not a lot of people think about, but it is critically important for Ethereum's future. I wrote today's newsletter about this, so if you want to kind of go read that for a little bit more detail, you can, but I'll give a kind of like TLDR on the refill. So Ethereum Genesis happened July 30, 2015.
00:06:52.270 - 00:07:11.230, Speaker A: It has been a proof of work network since then. It has been producing blocks every, you know, I guess like 15 or so seconds. Today it's like 13. And, and I guess like block times have varied over the years due to the difficulty bomb as well. And every time a block has been produced, there's been an ETH block reward attached to that as well. Started out at five ETH per block, then it was three ETH per block. Currently it's two ETH per block.
00:07:11.230 - 00:07:47.894, Speaker A: And after the merge, it's going to drop dramatically. I'm not sure exactly what it is on the per block basis right now, I should know this, but it's going to drop like, you know, the 80% to 90% triple harpening that we're talking about here. Now, because of this, and because Ethereum is currently a paperwork network, it's lead to a real, led to a really great distribution for ETH as an asset. So I'm going to give you an example of Ethereum and how this has worked with Ethereum and, and an example from a network that starts as proof of stake from day one and why I think ethereum's long proof of work distribution phase has been so beneficial. So miners, they have costs, right? They have plenty of costs. Have electricity. They have hardware, they have maintenance.
00:07:47.894 - 00:08:02.230, Speaker A: They have personnel. They have rent out space. They've got costs coming out of everywhere to cover those costs. They have to sell some of the ETH that they mine or BTC or whatever else they're mining. Right. They have to sell the asset that they're mining to cover those costs. Those are basically costs that are unavoidable.
00:08:02.230 - 00:08:34.884, Speaker A: Right. There is no way for them to basically say, no, I'm not going to pay my electricity bill because then they wouldn't keep getting electricity and they get cut off. Right. And then they lose out completely there. So in doing that, they're selling it into the open market. It's going to either long term investors or speculators, and it's going through the kind of like motions of a market cycle. And speaking of market cycles as well, that has also played a big part in each distribution over the years because, I mean, east price has gone nuts over the years, right? Like not, not just from when it, from ICO to today, but also their volatility.
00:08:34.884 - 00:08:59.484, Speaker A: So it started off from the ICO at $0.30, right? We all wish we could bought ETH at $0.30, but, you know, it was at $0.30 then I believe for a while there went to like $5 in when it launched in 2015 or something like that. And then in 2016 during the Dow went up to like $25. And then it came back down to, I think it was six or $7, something like that. Then obviously 2017, it went all the way up to, I guess, fourteen hundred dollars.
00:08:59.484 - 00:09:27.844, Speaker A: Fourteen twenty. Then it came to down to $80, then back up to 4400 and then down to 1700, then to 4900, then down to like, you know, the low two thousands and now back up to 3400. And this is encountering all the extreme wild volatility that has happened over those years. Now, during all of that, the ETH has been moving around. It's being distributed to different parties. It's going from short term speculators to long term investors. It's going from people kind of like capitulating to people who have stronger hands, all these sorts of things.
00:09:27.844 - 00:10:04.736, Speaker A: Right? So that's worked, uh, you know, to distribute ETH as well. But the proof of work phase has just kind of like compounded that because of the fact that the, the miners are just kind of like constantly selling ETH, right? They're not hoarding it, they're hoarding their profits. Don't get me wrong, especially as we, as we're approaching proof of stake. A lot of them are stakers, but they're not able to hoard at all because they have to pay to, to cover their costs. So I think that has been extremely beneficial. It has made Ethereum, you know, going into proof of stake a more equitable and distributed network. It's going to make it a more decentralized network and also it has bred a better social layer, in my opinion.
00:10:04.736 - 00:10:33.746, Speaker A: Now let's take the flip side. Let's look at a network that launches as proof of stake from day one. A lot of these layer one networks have very heavy insider distribution. Some of them are so bad that they have a very small public allocation now because they proof of stake from day one. What ends up happening is that these insiders are literally staking from day one, not even before their tokens unlocked, even before their tokens are vested there. It's in staking a lot of the time. So they're earning rewards and they're probably selling those rewards.
00:10:33.746 - 00:10:49.236, Speaker A: You know, they have to sell for tax purposes. Obviously. Obviously stakers don't have much of a cost. It depends on the network. I mean, not all proof of stake is created equal. Something like a solana proof of stake, which is like a delegated version where that has like beefy hardware. There's obviously a much more cost involved there.
00:10:49.236 - 00:11:13.504, Speaker A: But something like an ethereum proof of stake, it's very different because the hardware costs are very minimal. It's, you know, it's very cheap to run. So really the only time you're going to be selling ETH is to cover taxes at the end of the day. So those are kind of, those are kind of like little differences there. But you know, you have these insiders who don't distribute this at all. Like the early buyers are just going to perpetually stake. Why would they sell their stake? They're just going to, they can just sell the rewards.
00:11:13.504 - 00:11:41.952, Speaker A: It's all well and good. Maybe they sell some of it to return some money as part of their fund. Right, if they're a VC or a fund to their investors, things like that. But they usually have such a large chunk of the supply that they're earning a lot of rewards from these networks. And especially during bull markets where these networks kind of go up spectacularly in value, those rewards can become very, very lucrative from there. So there's no distribution phase, there's no proof of work distribution phase. The only distribution that happens is the selling of the rewards, really.
00:11:41.952 - 00:12:12.530, Speaker A: And, and the, I guess, I guess it, calling it a pre mine is accurate. The pre mine is never distributed, whereas, well, it's, I mean, not to say never distributed, but it's not distributed in the same way Ethereum's quote unquote pre mine was. Because when you think about it, the Ethereum ICO was a pre mine. Right. But I would be, you'd be hard pressed to find many people that are still holding their ETH tokens from the ICO. Like, and it's not even just about people, it's about kind of like the percent of ETH that hasn't actually changed hands since ICO. It's a very, very small percentage.
00:12:12.530 - 00:12:47.996, Speaker A: And there's actually on chain data that you can look for this. And last time I checked, you know, you would have to look at ETH that hasn't been, the only way you could really do it is looking at eat that hasn't been moved in a certain amount of time. And I think the amount of ETH that hasn't been moved in five years or more is maybe 5% or something like that. So it's a really small portion of the supply that hasn't moved. But that's not to say that all the supply that has moved has been sold. But really, I mean, anyone who's held ETH from thirty cents to now without selling any of it, you know, from ICO to now without selling any of it, was already rich to begin with. Those are the only people who wouldn't sell Ethan, my, at least a bit of it in my eyes, because that's life changing money for anyone.
00:12:47.996 - 00:13:22.556, Speaker A: Even if you put in a $1,000, that's, that's millions of dollars just from the ICO. So I think when you think about it like that, and you think about all the market cycles and volatility, and you think about the proof of work distribution on top of that, with the miners having to sell, Ethereum is going into the proof of stake merge very, very strongly. It's not going to be insider, kind of like dominated. There's not going to be massive VC's or funds staking kind of like their ETH and things like that. A lot of it is simply individuals. And yes, there's exchanges that have large ETH stakes, but those exchanges are not, it's not belonging to that exchange themselves. Like, it's not Coinbase.
00:13:22.556 - 00:14:14.362, Speaker A: It's not like Coinbase is staking, you know, all this ETH. It's their customers doing that. Yes, they control the validators, but it's still their customers ETH at the end of the day, those customers will either choose to sell that ETH when it goes up, sell the rewards, or unstake and just keep it in cold storage if they want to, or, you know, do whatever else with it. So I think not a lot of people talk about this, but as I said, it is critically important for Ethereum's future, because I'd be much less bullish on Ethereum if it started off as a proof of stake network because of the fact that it would be heavily insider dominated and it wouldn't be that great. And you know, even Vitalik, for example, he hasn't staked much of his ETH, I think because of the fact that he doesn't want to kind of like, you know, from his public address, he doesn't want people seeing that he's like a large chunk of the network or anything like that. But he has about 300,000 ETH. And even if you staked that, you know, you know, if he staked 300,000 ETH today, he would get about a thousand validators or something like that, right? That is not a large chunk of the network.
00:14:14.362 - 00:14:36.504, Speaker A: That's not even 1% of the network. I believe if I'm doing the math correctly, it would be around 0.3% of the network. And Vitalik, I don't believe, is the large, largest ETH holder. I think the largest single ETH holder would probably be Joe Lubin or one of the billion dollar funds. But the funds always are like trading in and out of it. So I'm not sure there, but I would say that Joe Lubin is probably still the biggest ETH holder out there.
00:14:36.504 - 00:15:03.416, Speaker A: And look, there could be worse ETH holders, right? He's not a vc, he's not a fund. He's actually building a company that's, um, that's trying to kind of grow aetherium. So I think there could be worse people than that. But I mean, Joe Lubin was also forced to sell a lot of his ETH to cover cost of consensus too. So he distributed his ETH out into the wild as well. And I don't think he has anywhere near the amount of ETH that he had from, from the ICO anymore. Um, but he did still be one of the largest holders, of course.
00:15:03.416 - 00:15:52.560, Speaker A: But yeah, as I said, like, the power distribution phase, coupled with, especially coupled with the market cycles, has really done wonders for each distribution, and it's going to make us going to the proof of stake merger a lot stronger there. All right, so speaking about the merge, Trent van EPs has another killer thread about it with, which is kind of like starting off by saying ongoing thread for Ethereum merge info. So you can see here some of the things like unburnt fees going to, I guess, block producers or stakers post merge. It links to the Eips for withdrawals post merge, you know, blocks being 12 seconds into 13 seconds, blah, blah. Not going to read it all out for you, but go check out this thread. It's got a bunch of more information about the merge, which is obviously the biggest thing happening in crypto right now. I mean, it's the biggest thing happening crypto this year.
00:15:52.560 - 00:16:29.888, Speaker A: I actually think in 2021, besides nfts, AIP 1559 was the biggest thing that happened in crypto in terms of kind of like the impact that it had across the board. I think the merge is, is that for 2022 coupled with the L2 stuff, you know, the L2 stuff is still trotting along. Guys. Like all the kind of metrics are going up for L2s right now and they still don't have tokens. Like, I'm kind of in two minds about them having tokens or not. Like, if they were to drop a token right now, it would actually be like pretty good for valuations and things like that. But how good it would be for distribution and kind of like getting people bought into the ecosystem, that's another question altogether.
00:16:29.888 - 00:16:55.736, Speaker A: But I think that the longer they go without dropping a token and the more natural growth that they have, the better it is. Especially because they're going to be able to airdrop these tokens to a wider set of people as well, because mobile use these things. I don't know. Like, I'm just, like, I'm very happy with where L2s are today, that's for sure. And on top of that, I'm obviously very happy on the progress being made with the merge, all the stuff going on there, which I've covered a million times on the refuel, I'm not going to. Not going to go through that all here. But yeah, definitely check out this thread.
00:16:55.736 - 00:17:23.700, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description for you. Because Trent, you know, puts together these things. He's very, very good at getting his point across, and I recommend giving it a read. All right. Something that's not directly ethereum related, but that Jake Shevinski shared today on Twitter. And he said on Twitter, the SEC just proposed a rule that would expand the different definition of regulated dealers to include people who employ passive market making strategies that have the effect of providing liquidity to others. It's 200 pages, but doesn't say defi even once.
00:17:23.700 - 00:17:46.868, Speaker A: Now, obviously, this is Defi, right? I mean, employee passive market making strategies to, to the effect of providing liquidity is literally what you do with uniswap and amms and things like that. So it does that and they don't have to say Defi. It obviously is targeting Defi here. And as is 200 pages. I'm not going to read this at all. Like, you guys know my opinion on the SEC. I don't respect them.
00:17:46.868 - 00:18:09.766, Speaker A: I don't think anyone respects them. I think it is a joke of a regulatory body, and I think that until they have a better chair at the head of them, because Gary Gensler is a complete joke, I don't think they're gonna get the respect that, that they want here. So this is obviously just a proposal. It hasn't gone through. I don't know if it's gonna even go through. These things kind of like come to the table all the time. But this is obviously not a great proposal.
00:18:09.766 - 00:18:45.288, Speaker A: It is. I mean, it's more of the same as we've seen from the SEC. They seem to be just kind of like, clamping down on whatever they can. Honestly, you know, the, the, kind of, like, what's the word I'm looking for? The cynicist within me thinks that, I don't know, I don't know if it's Gary Gensler or others within the SEC. They're just kind of, like, in the pockets of someone. Like, surely they can't look at all this stuff happening, all this innovation happening on their shores as well, and be thinking to themselves, oh, it's a really good idea to go after legitimate companies in crypto, such as uniswap Labs, instead of all the bloody scammers. Like, I've ranted on about this so many times, I'm not going to go on about it again.
00:18:45.288 - 00:19:00.750, Speaker A: But they are a joke of an organization, joke of a regulatory body. I don't respect them. I'm sure you guys don't respect them either. They haven't done anything to protect any investors. In my eyes. All they've really done is kind of like, find a couple of things and put out bullshit upon bullshit. It just really hasn't done any good for anyone.
00:19:00.750 - 00:19:36.454, Speaker A: Trying, not gonna rant. But, but yeah, you can check out this if you want this 200 page proposal, which I'm sure you're not going to check out, because it's just total crap and a lot of lawyers speak and all that sort of stuff. But, yeah, I just wanted to kind of like highlight this. I'll keep tabs on it. I'll let you guys know if this, if this move, it makes any movements anywhere, I highly doubt it will. Like, I actually don't think that there's going to be any kind of like, thing that comes out of this, but it's always good to keep tabs on this sort of stuff. All right, we have a fresh new thread from Bartech today, diving into what optimism's core data compression actually means and how it all works.
00:19:36.454 - 00:20:07.526, Speaker A: This is a technical deep dive. It's a thread. Go check it out. I actually learned a lot from, from this. I mean, it's not a long thread, but I actually learned a lot myself as well, which is really cool to see. See, I think the, the thing that Bartech wanted to highlight here is that right now you're basically trusting the centralized sequencer that optimism has to do this correctly and to basically post what they're, what they're saying they're posting to layer one, Ethereum correctly here. But you can use the script that they provide to decompress the data for yourself that gets posted to layer one in order to kind of like verify the information.
00:20:07.526 - 00:20:52.788, Speaker A: But until the new fraud system is in place, which is called canon, uh, you know, it's not going to be done in a very trust us or decentralized way. But you guys know that, we all know that, we all know the training wheels are still on. We all know these things are still early days. Um, and that's all well and good there, but definitely check out this thread from Bartech for a deeper technical dive on, on kind of like optimism. Call data compression, which I covered last week on the refuel. It's a really, really great little deep dive here. So speaking of deep dives, Argent posted a blog post today titled WTF is a crown account abstraction? Now, I think I've covered account obstruction before, but basically, I guess like the TLDR, is that it? What it does is there's two different types of accounts in Ethereum, as you can see here, stipulated in a blog post.
00:20:52.788 - 00:21:24.032, Speaker A: Externally owned accounts and contract accounts. Now, externally owned accounts is basically just a regular Ethereum address that you and I have. A contract account is as it's self explanatory, a smart contract account, basically. So for, for example, a smart contract wallet such as a multi seq would be a smart contract account. It would not be an externally owned account. Now, externally owned accounts control smart contract accounts. They interact with them and, you know, I mean, smart contract accounts may be a misnomer there, but smart contracts, basically on Ethereum is just a different account type.
00:21:24.032 - 00:22:08.810, Speaker A: Now this leads to a few different kind of things that, that are kind of like a little pain point, and that's why people have been wanting to do account abstraction, to do it on layer one, Ethereum, it's been wanting to be done for a while now, but I think it took a backseat to things like the merge. Not sure how feasible it is to do it or how desirable it is to do it on layer one, Ethereum. But on L2, it can be done very, very easily because as I said to you guys, L2 operators have much more control over their system than they would on layer one, obviously, because layer one is decentralized and L2 is still very centralized. But, but yeah, so this blog post gives you kind of like a full breakdown of what it is. I'm not going to try explaining it on the refill because I want you to read the post as it's, it's a, a better explainer that I could give you. But yeah, it's also, I don't think it's too technical. I think it's high level here.
00:22:08.810 - 00:22:28.140, Speaker A: But, but yeah, go give this post a read or link in the YouTube description below. All right, so Polygon is teasing something new today again about privacy. So they say here privacy takes center stage. And I think they're announcing this today. I believe they may have already announced it. No, they haven't announced it yet. So I believe they're announcing this today.
00:22:28.140 - 00:22:56.684, Speaker A: And I'm just recording the refuel too early. So I'll probably cover this in tomorrow's refuel. But yeah, keep an eye on polygons Twitter account and all their channels to see what they're kind of like doing with this. This is really cool. I mean, Polygon already has nightfall, which is kind of like a hybrid, I guess, like privacy roll up sort of thing going on there. They have a lot of the ZK stuff that they're doing. I'm very curious to see if this is going to be, it seems like it's going to be another solution that's kind of like separate to all of that, which is going to be cool.
00:22:56.684 - 00:23:18.684, Speaker A: So we'll see. We'll see what kind of like happens there. I'll keep you guys updated on this. I'm sure you're going to see it before I cover it on tomorrow's refuel. But yeah, just keep an eye on, on Polygons Twitter account there today. All right. So Nifty Chat has announced that they have raised a $1 million funding round led by archetype of venture VC fund here, with participation from a bunch of angels, myself included.
00:23:18.684 - 00:23:47.096, Speaker A: So disclosure there. So basically, what is nifty chat? It's a web3 chat platform, as I've been covering a lot of these recently. There was Orbis and then there was the etherscan chat, which wasn't exactly decentralized web3 chat. But you know, these things are making more and more waves within crypto, especially things like decentralized social media. And we now kind of like have better and better tools to build this sort of stuff. So you can go to nifty chat here. You can see I'm already logged in with sassle ETH on my screen here, and you can see there's different channels.
00:23:47.096 - 00:24:42.898, Speaker A: I mean, it looks very similar to discord, right? You can see basically the chat pane here with a bunch of channels on the left and you got different servers here. So I'm currently in the nifty chat server and the ENS server, and there's a bunch of useful information around here, such as how many people are in here, the gas price, things like who's online and stuff like that, and how many people have said GM. Now the reason why I think this is really cool and the reason why I backed it was because I'm really bullish on decentralized chat applications. Because at the end of the day, there is a lot of chat applications out there today, but none of them are decentralized from, from what I, from what I can tell, there are some that do end to end encrypted messaging like signal. For example, Telegram is very popular, but still they're not very decentralized. They're not web3 native, and that means they can't integrate with web3 native features. So for example, you have to use kind of like third party tools to do things like NFT gating of channels.
00:24:42.898 - 00:25:11.152, Speaker A: Whereas with, with nifty chat, you don't have to do that. It is a direct web free platform and it can just read your Ethereum address and basically the state of your Ethereum addresser account and basically say, okay, well, you have this NFT, you're allowed into this channel. Okay, you don't have this NFT anymore. Well, you're not allowed in this channel, all in a decentralized way, right guys? Because it's done on the Ethereum blockchain. So I just really love the idea behind this. I'm really thrilled to be a supporter of them. Really excited to see where they go with this and kind of like, you know, what the adoption cycle looks like for this.
00:25:11.152 - 00:25:49.138, Speaker A: I still think overall, some of this stuff may be too early, but at the same time, I think it's less early than what it was. I think the next few years, I definitely think as we scale more and as more of this infrastructure comes into play, we're going to see more of these decentralized social media platforms come into play. And I think having a chat app is at the forefront of that, because building a decentralized social media platform is much more complex from a. From a, you know, various different kind of, like, angles, then building a decentralized chat application. But in my mind, they're two distinctly separate things, and the chat application is just as important. So, very excited for this. Definitely log into this and check it out.
00:25:49.138 - 00:26:22.364, Speaker A: I mean, all you have to do to log in is sign in with Ethereum, you just sign in with metamask or one of the other wallet providers that they have. And you can get started straight away in all the channels like lounge whales, suggestions and support. I mean, the cool thing is you could have a channel here that says, okay, well, I mean, going off the whale theme, only show this channel to people who have a certain number of tokens, and those would be the whales of your protocol. They obviously have a lot of skin in the game, and they can have their own little private whale chat going on there, all in a decentralized way, by the way, guys like that, no one needs to manage this. It's all read by reading the state of the. Of the. Of the account.
00:26:22.364 - 00:26:40.690, Speaker A: So those native integrations, I think, are going to be very important going forward. So I'm very much looking forward to. To that. But definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, finally here, I just got a quick shout out that Zappa is currently hiring for a bunch of different people. So they're hiring for an Android developer, a product designer, and a brand strategist.
00:26:40.690 - 00:27:21.868, Speaker A: But if your experience doesn't fit the above roles, you can dm Seb from Zappa. Anyway, if you good, you good. As he says, goes back to what I was saying before, guys, it doesn't matter if you can't find an exact role to fit your skillset when looking on these crypto jobs websites or looking on. On, you know, really anywhere and job boards, things like that, literally, you can actually jump into a discord channel these days and make a role for yourself. If you filling in a role that a project needs, or if you're filling in a niche that a project needs, you know, if you do good enough work, they're probably just going to hire you anyway. And even if it is a casual part time basis, they're usually going to pay you in tokens as well. So if the project's doing really well and you hold on to the tokens, you can have lots of upside in that from just kind of like creating a role for yourself.
00:27:21.868 - 00:27:39.836, Speaker A: So. So if you don't fit any of these roles yet, definitely DM Seb. I mean, working for Zappa, honestly, I mean, you guys know I'm an investor in zap. I've been a user and lover of Zappa for a very long time. They've got a kick ass team there, so it's probably one of the best teams to work for in the crypto ecosystem. So if you do fill those skill sets, definitely go. Definitely DM Seb.
00:27:39.836 - 00:27:56.314, Speaker A: But even if you don't kind of like DM him anywhere anyway, if you think you can fit in anywhere else there. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
