00:00:00.120 - 00:00:26.130, Speaker A: So I'd say once you're at that conviction level of, like, you believe the Internet can look and feel completely different, power can accrue to a set of users or, you know, I think we're all aligned on sort of the long term visions and principles of distributed and decentralized technology. Then the actual company building parts, I think look a lot more similar to, you know, the things that we're used to building and growing for the past decade, decade plus in Silicon Valley.
00:00:28.440 - 00:00:50.184, Speaker B: Today, I'm super excited to be joined by Christine from Greylock. We were chatting a little bit prior to the podcast about NFT NYC, all the fun things that were going on there. Me and my co founder just got back from a trip, but the energy was good. I was a little surprised that people were as optimistic in New York as they were.
00:00:50.232 - 00:01:09.672, Speaker A: Yeah, it's great to be here. We were just talking about NFT NYC before this conversation. I went last year. I did not get a chance to go this year. Conferences were also a lot more my jam last year, and this is not with the market sentiment. I would love to get out there to more of them. I had a baby, so I have to be really choosy about which ones I leave them at home for.
00:01:09.672 - 00:01:19.808, Speaker A: But consensus is coming up and we've got some other things to look forward to. So, yeah, I'm glad to hear that the energy was good and that you had a good time in New York. Hopefully I'll get out there soon again.
00:01:19.984 - 00:01:57.036, Speaker B: Yeah, the conference tour definitely gets a little exhausting, but yeah, it was cool to see New York kind of, um, excited about crypto, even though the bear market's going on. But again, super excited just to have you here. Thank you so much. Really looking forward to this conversation. Respect what you have done at Greylock and the team that you have built there as well. So really looking forward to this one. I think maybe on a high level where I'd love to start off the podcast is just talking maybe more broadly to Greylock's approach to crypto.
00:01:57.036 - 00:02:08.800, Speaker B: Obviously, you've been in the space for a very long time and crypto is kind of a new ecosystem. So how you and the team think about that, I think would be a great place to kick it off.
00:02:09.700 - 00:02:33.120, Speaker A: Definitely. Yeah. Well, first and foremost, thanks for having me. It's always awesome to sit and chat and take a step back and talk about markets or crypto or just what we're excited about as investors. And so, you know, before getting into how Greylock thinks about crypto specifically and some of my thesis around investing in that space. I'll just give the listener some context about Greylock. If you're not as familiar, we're an early stage venture fund.
00:02:33.120 - 00:03:06.652, Speaker A: Our fund is north of a billion and a half, and we normally invest in early stage. So we do a lot of investing at seed Series A and some series B. We invest across all sectors that are technology or software based. And crypto is definitely a big theme for us and one that we're excited about. It's one that we've made investments in, in the past. And, you know, I think one that we, despite turbulence and local volatility and maximum and minimum or paying attention to token prices, we really look at the long term potential for a technology. And we're really long term investors.
00:03:06.652 - 00:03:55.420, Speaker A: Given that we invest early stage, we're typically investing in companies with a five to ten year time Horizon. We're often working with our crypto companies with deals that looks like equity, sometimes equity with warrants for tokens or future tokens. But we're investing in a lot of projects that are pre token. And so, yeah, I think one consistent thing across our whole portfolio within crypto and outside of crypto is that really long term perspective. And so we really hold our crypto companies to that same bar, or we really dive in with that, you know, expectation that we're going to be in the relationship for a long time. We're not really that the typical, you know, I would say crypto investment, that crypto investor is pretty liquid or in and out of tokens or we, we don't run a liquid portfolio. We don't run a hedge fund portfolio.
00:03:55.420 - 00:05:03.070, Speaker A: To that end, you know, to talk about our thesis and some things that I'm really excited about, I would say there's four categories that I come back to again and again when I'm looking at various crypto investments. The first being the backbone of crypto, or what we would call picks and shovels or really infrastructure protocols close to the metal technology. I think you could make an argument for there's a lot of infrastructure and tooling that's going to be needed to build amazing applications that we want to see. When we talk about web3 or consumer applications, whether we're talking about new layer ones, scalability solutions, or even big unsolved problems like security, privacy, these are all things that I consider as part of that core infrastructure backbone layer. And so that's one bucket of work that we come back to again and again. The second one is Defi. And, you know, I really think probably most listeners have heard of Defi and don't need much explanation, so won't get too into that, you know, but we're really into just the evolution of defi as we've gotten to the first sort of primitives around exchanges, tokens, swaps, I mean, yield.
00:05:03.070 - 00:06:10.320, Speaker A: All of these concepts are really unlocks, huge unlocks in crypto. And we're excited to see what kind of innovation will come of that and how we can even start to rewrite some of our centralized financial systems. One thing we're particularly excited about going forward is marrying real world assets and connecting that to some digital representation. So how can we get all of the things that have value in our real everyday life and represent that on the blockchain and then speculate, trade, underwrite it, securitize it, all those things? And then third bucket we return to is the user owned Internet. I also call this web3. We could call this consumer applications. Basically, the idea here is that we're really excited about this new type of Internet that's going to be decentralized, permissionless, distributed, truly global, uncensored, anyone can interact with and kind of, you know, everyone I think that gets excited about web3 thinks about those golden era days of the web one Internet, when everyone can open this portal to the world of information and start to do, you know, start to, you know, share information super freely.
00:06:10.320 - 00:07:25.904, Speaker A: I think we're excited to do that with now. You know, we have billions of users who have smartphones, who have Internet. What will, you know, blockchain technology bring to the Internet? When we think about amazing consumer applications, things that we're really excited about there our gaming nfts as not necessarily a market, but as a technology to serve other markets as well as social music, there's a lot of excitement around new media types and things like that on the Internet. And then the fourth bucket, or the theme that we invest in, we call the crypto economy. And I think the main principle behind this last bullet in our crypto investing is that really crypto and blockchain is this financial, financially native technology where you can get financial incentives and financial alignment, and that can really transform how people exchange value, people collaborate, or people organize themselves online. And so one way to think about this last bucket is just how do we take the financial aspect of crypto, and how can that change traditional business platforms that we're used to investing in, whether it's like crypto powered labor markets or crypto powered marketplaces. And I come from a marketplace company.
00:07:25.904 - 00:07:51.816, Speaker A: I used to work at Uber before I came to Greylock. Daos are sort of, you know, the next generation of forums or clubs or communities or governments, but there's financial alignment and incentives and governance baked into it. So we're really interested in some of those new models. And I would say, you know, they can create new business models, they can create new ways of organizing people online. And it's a sort of emerging way that we're seeing people organize themselves that we're really excited about.
00:07:52.008 - 00:08:36.310, Speaker B: Amazing. Great way to set up the podcast on the four high level things. Again, those kind of being the infrastructure side, Defi user owned Internet, and more broadly, the creator economy. I would love to weave each of those into our conversation as we go a little bit deeper. I would say maybe that you've laid perfect groundwork just from being in the industry for as long as you have, even on the operating side as well. What are some of, like, the big parallels that you've seen either on, like, early tractions that have worked in web two that also work in web3? Are they similar? Are they different? I would love to kind of get your thoughts.
00:08:36.770 - 00:09:35.150, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think there's a lot more similarities than people give credit to. And so I think in some markets where everything is moving so quickly, if I were to reflect on how 2021 and even parts of 2022 felt, there's a sort of maybe naivete around among crypto founders or web3 founders that web two experience doesn't matter. We're entering this brave new world, and you're either on this new ship and there's this kind of big rift, and you're either with us or you're not kind of attitude. And, you know, I think we've come down to a little bit more of an even sort of eye to eye playing field now where I think there's a lot more appreciation for what web two investors, operators, builders and founders have done and what we can learn from them. And so, yeah, I would say, on the whole, there are a lot more similarities than I think, with the caveat that you really have to believe in the future of decentralized technology. And if you really do think about it hard enough, it can look vastly different than the world that we live in today.
00:09:35.150 - 00:10:53.518, Speaker A: So I'd say once you're at that conviction level of, like, you believe the Internet can look and feel completely different, power can accrue to a set of users, or I think we're all aligned on sort of the long term visions and principles of distributed and decentralized technology, then the actual company building parts, I think look a lot more similar to the things that we're used to building and growing for the past decade, decade plus in Silicon Valley. And so a couple things I can think of concretely are just hiring. Hiring across the board is generally the most constrained and tough thing for early startups to get right. You know, they have you build your product, you're trying to get product market fit, get users, you have your founding team and then really scaling the company and a lot of its early success is just getting the right people and the right talent around in your company. And so I'd say that is consistent with web two and web3. I think in web3 there's a lot of excitement about how you can empower contributors and developers at the fringe. And I think certainly there's models like that that are really interesting to talk about where you might not just have a strict employee base, you can sort of have contributors that are contributing to an open source code in exchange for a token in your protocol.
00:10:53.518 - 00:11:35.676, Speaker A: Like that sort of collaboration is one that feels quite new to web3, although I would argue we've seen that with open source dev tools and in the open source community for a long time. And so, yeah, I would say on the whole, hiring, for example, is a great example where there's a lot of overlap and a lot of consistency with how that works. When we talk about getting new users or new user distribution, growth, marketing, performance marketing, these are all things that I think web3 also feel very similar to web two. And there are these points of distinctness. But on the whole, we like to think that we, as a firm that has invested in web two for decades, we bring the right experience to the table when it comes to working with founders in web3.
00:11:35.868 - 00:12:43.090, Speaker B: Yeah, it is interesting in some sense. Maybe naive is a good way to put it in terms of founders almost giving somewhat of the middle finger to web two in some cases. But I think the teams that have had some operational experience, especially whether in the bay or kind of some of these earlier, larger, even like coinbases of the world, have really made amazing products and that operational experience is really invaluable. And even being around individuals that are super high caliber on the teams, I think definitely has rubbed off on the industry. And I think new people, new people coming to the space or building don't fully appreciate because it is a new space and everybody's kind of just trying different things. So yeah, it's definitely been an interesting journey.
00:12:43.590 - 00:13:38.030, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, there is like a punk rock sort of rebellious middle finger up. I love that phrase way of building in web3. And I, you know, part of that is what drew me to this space in the first place. You know, I think if you really zoom out and think about why technology, why Silicon Valley, why the Internet, why all these periods, if you think that have been interesting for investors or for builders, you know, I think there's a set of people that are always going to be interested to like the edge of where innovation is happening, where the most creative thinking is happening. And I think at that edge you're going to encounter, you know, the most zany, unique, different perspectives and types of people. And so I think, you know, when we run into the anonymous Degen, you know, there's a whole range founders as well as the very commercially oriented. They come from, you know, high scale enterprises.
00:13:38.030 - 00:14:17.286, Speaker A: It's amazing to interact with that whole range of founders. But I would say, yeah, that flavor of the sort of, you know, really confident, like we're going to change the world attitude. And maybe there's just some naivete because you have young founders that haven't built businesses before or haven't worked at a company like Google before, I think those can be both strengths and weaknesses. But really that kind of thinking and that freshness is something that I think is very attractive about the industry. And to me a sign that you're generally in the pool of innovation, of creative thinking. Like I said, I kind of think about it as the edge. And of course you're going to encounter different personalities like that.
00:14:17.286 - 00:15:19.018, Speaker A: I think you comment on a really good observation, though, which is folks that have a marriage of web3 and web two experience tend to be really strong builders, operators and entrepreneurs in crypto. And so we invested in a company named Magic Eden. They're an NFT marketplace company on Solana and quickly expanding to others like bitcoin, ordinals and Polygon. And so we're really excited about that team and we really made the investment because the team blew us away. And the team had this mix that I'm talking about where they brought web two experience and they were all sort of classically trained, if you will, at great web two companies, but then they worked in web3 as well. And so they were bringing all of that experience and knowledge into their next venture when they decided to all start a company together. So you had engineers from Uber, you had product managers from Google who are then working at Coinbase, DYDX, FTX come together.
00:15:19.018 - 00:15:32.790, Speaker A: And I thought that track record across all four co founders was a really good recipe for success, and one that has turned out to be true. As we continue to work with that team, they just continue to blow us away every single time we meet with them.
00:15:33.450 - 00:16:35.620, Speaker B: The Magic Eden team is super impressive, and I think how quickly they're able to iterate, as you mentioned, is to me, the most impressive. I think during my time at Tesla, Elon's thing was always, it's the number of iterations to actually get to something that's useful in the product. Magic Eden is truly, in my point of view, much better at shipping and iterating than the peers. And ultimately that manifested itself and them having a tremendous amount of market share and continuing to really just create a cool creator platform. And so we try to. Or with Jack and team, yeah, they're just a very impressive team. More broadly, maybe on that front, one of the things that Greylock more broadly is very famous for is blitzscaling.
00:16:35.620 - 00:16:52.180, Speaker B: Do you think kind of Magic Eden took a form of blitzscaling in their own right? Or maybe, in your words, start with blitzscaling what it is, and then maybe sprinkle in, did a magic eat and kind of do some form of this?
00:16:52.640 - 00:17:57.804, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So on the comment on velocity, I love that you bring that out, because I think velocity is probably one of the more important factors to look for in crypto investments, because I think with crypto, you have a lot of market risk that may not exist in other sectors. So I sit at a venture firm that invests across all sectors, and so I get to be part of these conversations when we're looking at different textures of investments across all different industries and across all different founder types. And so when we look at crypto investments, I think there is general consensus here at Greylock that it takes a strong founder, a strong product, a strong problem opportunity, all of that. It's a framework that we use when we evaluate companies and when we make investment decisions. But crypto specifically often has market risks. So you almost need to believe in this, like, domino like thesis where, like, if you believe this one thing can lead to the second thing and then this third thing, great, then you can, you can theoretically paint the picture for this big outcome for this company.
00:17:57.804 - 00:19:03.732, Speaker A: Right? And so, for example, with, with Magic Eden, there is an investment around nfts, about nfts enabling, you know, some interesting use case with gaming. On top of that, they've chosen to build on Solana. So, not to say that, like, all of those things have to be right for this company to be successful, but it's more of a layered, you know, there's more of a layered investment framework with more market risk than, let's say, another market where you're replacing an incumbent. The market, the Tam, is already known, and it's more about operational or about executional risk. And so with that, I guess to sum up, when you're investing in areas with market risk, like crypto or like any market that is nascent or early, I think velocity is an incredibly valuable asset to have because it just allows you to learn a lot more quickly in these environments where we're not even really sure what the end use case or the end goal is exactly going to look like. So to blitzscaling. So first, I'll take a step back and say, what is blitzscaling, if you haven't heard of it, for our users? Blitzscaling is a term that Reid Hoffman has famously coined, and he's written books about it and done a lot of content about it.
00:19:03.732 - 00:20:01.986, Speaker A: So here in the halls of Greylock, we definitely debate and think about the concept of blitzkill scaling a lot. It's the idea that companies should prioritize growth over things like efficiency or profitability or stability or security. There could be a number of things, I say security and stability as things that probably are the things that crypto founders would want to balance. But in the traditional sense, it's the idea, instead of first getting product market fit, getting to good unit economics, and then putting gas on that engine and scaling it up, it might actually be better to scale up this company, gain massive dominant market share, and then in the reverse, work on your unit economics, profit, efficiency, things like that. So it's a bit counterintuitive, because I think it's almost the reverse order that most companies are advised to work. And so it's something that one company might want to ask themselves, should they blitzcale? And to your question, did magic even blitzcale? I think they were certainly in a position to. They raised a lot of money.
00:20:01.986 - 00:21:04.362, Speaker A: And the classic thing with blitzscaling would be, if you have access to raise a lot of money, you use that capital to then go out and essentially spend money and acquire new users, and then go in and build a product that's durable and sticky and long lasting. So I would one say, and kind of warn that blitzscaling really applies to companies where you're sort of more confident about that approach, that, hey, first, establishing dominant market share is going to work. And then I can work on some of the more foundational aspects of the product, products or markets where you think there's a first mover advantage could benefit from blitzscaling. And blitzscaling also is a really good strategy in general economic markets where companies really have access to ample capital. And not just access to ample capital, but access to ample capital cheaply because you want to make sure that it can effectively and somewhat efficiently feed this engine of you going out to essentially acquire or buy users at some cost. You don't want to do it at no cost. You know, I come from Uber.
00:21:04.362 - 00:21:28.090, Speaker A: Uber is definitely a classic blitzkilling company. Airbnb, Amazon, these are all famous examples of one. TikTok is a very famous one, where TikTok came into the US, essentially bought users by aggressively spending through meta and Snapchat. I think at one point it was one of the top ad spenders on both of those platforms, and then has now risen to become its own force. Right.
00:21:28.950 - 00:21:30.046, Speaker B: That's impressive.
00:21:30.198 - 00:22:14.604, Speaker A: Yeah, there's a lot of really interesting things to look if you see it's almost sort of this, like, board game of shifting market share. And so I think there's certainly a lot of lessons that we could learn about those. I think there are some dangers to those as well, because you are going to sacrifice things around, you know, just what makes a foundational, sticky, durable product, or even building an efficient organization internally. So I can only speak for Uber because that's where I spent six years of my early product career. We grew so quickly, and there was a time where we almost overgrew, I shouldn't say almost. We definitely overgrew, and as a result, we had to cut a fourth of our staff. This is for the layoffs that you're hearing throughout 2023.
00:22:14.604 - 00:22:46.160, Speaker A: This was sort of going into when we had new management. Dara came in, we reassessed and looked at really where the business was going. We had grown to this massive size. We cut all the business lines that were not profitable, and then we kind of retrenched and really focused on the core business. But without that blitzscaling mentality, we probably would have not had a big international footprint. And that has served us well when you compare us against a competitor like Lyft. And we also would not have had new business lines like Uber Eats, which is the business line that I worked at.
00:22:46.160 - 00:23:42.446, Speaker A: So there's definitely, I can look back at examples of being at a blitzcaled company and see how that was a big key to its own success. I would say for crypto companies, there is generally access to capital, especially for crypto companies that can tokenize. I think we know that tokens generally provide a flood of liquidity for crypto companies generally don't really trade on fundamentals, certainly are not necessarily tied to revenue or users. And so that can be awesome for crypto companies because you have liquidity, you have resources, you have things you can use, but it can get really dangerous if you get used to that. In a similar vein, if you're a company or your project that has NFT revenue that can be super lumpy, and if it's not consistent or durable or recurring, it can be dangerous to think that that sort of capital is going to be something that you can always rely on and something that you want to pin growth, business growth too, maybe.
00:23:42.518 - 00:24:24.870, Speaker B: Unlike, I think. Amazing summary on two kind of high level things that you said stood out to me. One, the dynamics of the market has definitely changed, one, with interest rates, but also on the capital raising side. And two, I think that's just normal traditional tradfi markets. But then you add in crypto, and crypto is definitely cyclical. And so both of those kind of make it a little bit challenging for founders now. How, when, like, you're talking with the teams that you've already invested in, or even advice to general founders today, with these market dynamics changing, how, what is your advice to builders in this kind of uncertain time?
00:24:26.410 - 00:25:20.046, Speaker A: Great question. So crypto definitely is cyclical. And I think the cycles are extremely healthy. I think, you know, if we were to just continue at the pace and the growth and the rate that we were experiencing in previous years, like if we had 2021 just on repeat for the next ten years, I don't know what kind of world, honestly, we would be looking at. And so I think these waves of cycles are extremely one, healthy for us to pull back and assess what are the problems we need to fix, what are the things that are really foundational that we should be working on, and they kind of ebb and flow. And so one, I'll say despite the cycles, it's really, and despite sort of the bear that we're in right now, it's really easy to take a step back and be really negative about crypto. Token prices are down or projects are getting valued at way less than they were in previous years.
00:25:20.046 - 00:26:26.780, Speaker A: The number of users that are coming into the sector that are trying these technologies is down. You can look at all these trends and just compare to the peak of the last cycle and get super depressed. But if you look at the history of this technology and just sort of rewind to the last 510 years, it actually paints a lot more compelling story of at the end of the day, there are just that many more layer ones or that many more games, NFT projects, the number of active wallets that are actively trading or that are holding ether, bitcoin, or any, you know, name any cryptocurrency you want, the number of users that have metamask wallets. Like you can look at any project and just see that overall, we are showing very healthy adoption for an early technology. Now, these cycles and this extreme volatility is to be expected because crypto is so financially motivated and there's so much speculation and there's so much like a financial aspect of it. So of course, there's going to be things that feel like a volatile stock market when we are looking at the industry as a whole. And you don't really get that flavor with a lot of other industries where there's sometimes more of a steady state feeling and march towards progress.
00:26:26.780 - 00:27:17.036, Speaker A: So in terms of advice to founders, one, if you're a founder starting a crypto company or building a crypto company right now, I am so excited to meet you and so excited to talk about crypto with you because I'm also an investor investing in crypto at this day and age, and I feel like we can just sit down and have a conversation without the noise about all the things that we're really excited about. Whereas, you know, in 2021, there was a ton of excitement, a ton of adrenaline, a ton of pace as an investor. It was a super exciting time for me as well, just to see so many people excited about crypto starting companies left and right. But there was a lot of noise. There are a lot of people that were not really experienced. You saw a lot of projects that pretty much looked the same or that had the same, were using the same language, the same sort of vision for their product. And not a lot was built right.
00:27:17.036 - 00:28:19.822, Speaker A: We're all sort of just thinking about the exciting things that we wanted to build. And now I think in today's market, you actually have a much more sober, realistic, thoughtful set of entrepreneurs that are really sticking around to build. I think if you're a founder, you know that these times are tough to get other investors excited, to get other people excited to join your company, to hire. But for every single investor that you do get to invest, for every person that you do hire, you know, all of these kind of different benchmarks. If you're doing that in this market and you're navigating these waters, you're ultimately building a really strong, resilient, and really committed team. And so I think I actually am finding all of these conversations, like you and I, sitting down to do a crypto podcast during this time to be, you know, some of the more thoughtful conversations that I've had where we're not sort of just repeating this echo chamber of all the things and parroting everything else that everyone else is excited about. We're actually kind of taking a step back and thinking about what are the real things that we're interested in.
00:28:19.822 - 00:29:26.260, Speaker A: So, you know, some of those things for me are like thinking about, well, what are the learnings that we can think about from the last cycle that were big problems that we would like to solve going forward? So what are things that are really preventing crypto from becoming this mainstream, easily accessible technology that's delightful and easy to use? So whether it's security or fraud or scams or hacks like crypto has a really charged reputation outside of our own circles. And so how can we make people see that this is actually the way it should be and at the same time address and solve some of these problems? So, yeah, kind of. I mean, long winded. But I would reiterate that point that for anyone that is building or starting in a company during this time, it's kind of the worst time in that the overall mood is negative. But the secret is it's kind of the best time in that if you can actually find your community, the builders, the other people that have long term conviction, you're going to be building really long term relationships and relationships that are going to be enduring the ups and downs, and those are going to stick with you as you embark on your journey.
00:29:26.560 - 00:30:23.654, Speaker B: Yeah, I would definitely echo that last point. It seems like a terrible time to start a company, and it may be difficult to raise money. I think I'm going through some of those learnings myself. But ultimately being able to build at this time is the people that actually care and the people that want to build lasting products and the people that do have conviction. And so from that standpoint, being able to start now, kind of before the cycle hits another uptick, I think is a great time. The other thing that you mentioned prior was, on the token side of things was the ability for these companies to raise or go liquid much sooner than I would say web, two companies. That lifecycle is now more methodical and pretty well understood in the valley and different venture firms.
00:30:23.654 - 00:31:14.410, Speaker B: Then crypto comes in and messes it all up with token models and valuations. As you said, a lot of them don't terate on any fundamentals or even users. It's just a little bit of a challenge. Maybe a two part question here on the investor hat or wearing the investor hat, how do you think about investing in equities or the equity side of companies that are building in the web? Three space versus tokens. Then maybe on the builder side, some of that liquidity, as you said, can be addicting, but maybe is not always the correct move for sustainability. How do you view that? Or at least when you're having conversations, talk with founders through that aspect as well.
00:31:15.550 - 00:32:31.994, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think we see sort of a Barbell pattern when it comes to tokens. And the barbell would describe the types of companies that are out there and whether or not tokens are applicable to them and so on. I would say it's a barbell shake because to me there's an opportunity for interesting token innovation at the top at the application layer and at the bottom at the protocol and sort of the close to the metal layer. So when we think about protocols, we think about tokens like ETH that are currencies or payment for some underlying resource that the network provides. Maybe it's a storage network like Filecoin, maybe it's a scalability network, but there's a real utility for the token. And then you can start to say, okay, well, what is this token worth? How should it trade? And you can almost try to project out some fundamental valuation framework or reasoning for how to think about this token other than how many people are trading it. What's the volume? All these things that ultimately are just sort of recursive and self referential and don't break out of like, okay, but what is the core value of this project? But you know, I would say at that end of the spectrum, tokens can be a really interesting model for value.
00:32:31.994 - 00:33:46.628, Speaker A: At the high end of the spectrum. If you're an application, especially if you're an application that's more community oriented, where you have users, where you're doing things like experimenting with, building in public, with governance, with Daosh, then I think those are also interesting opportunities for tokens. And those tokens feel a lot of, they have a different flavor than the utility layer one tokens that I would describe in that first bucket. So I'd say one, we're kind of seeing interesting opportunities for innovation for token models. And both applications could also include, I didn't call out games, but game economies are some of the more interesting things that we're also looking at. And it's a barbell because I think in the middle you probably have like a middleware b two B Saasden category of crypto companies these are companies that are maybe offering professional services or services to other enterprises, are charging more recurring revenue, and are probably charging it in fiat. It's a little harder for me to imagine whether a token model would make sense for those set of middle businesses that I would call either b two b services or sort of the middleware and the glue between the protocols and the applications to your conversation topic around the pros and cons of tokens and how we think about that when we think with founders.
00:33:46.628 - 00:34:33.638, Speaker A: For one, we really never even bring up tokens. Of course, when we're investing in crypto founders, we're generally doing safs or things that are going to tokenize in the future. And so we want to know what are the plans for tokens or how do they think about it. But we really let the founder guide those discussions and guide that strategy. We're not a fund that pushes for tokenization or pushes for liquidity, or tries to assign and get them to a token white paper right away, any of those things. Again, this kind of goes back to an earlier point that I made when I was introducing the firm, just about our style of investing. We tend to invest in very few companies in a concentrated way, so we can be hands on, and we really are signing up for that multi year company building journey.
00:34:33.638 - 00:35:11.370, Speaker A: And so it only makes sense for us to look at companies, even if they plan to tokenize with the same perspective that we do when we look at equity investments. So we don't have a separate token team or crypto team that kind of just operates in a much more liquid room, whereas we have traditional VC investors that are looking super long term. We all have the same time horizon. Time horizons. We're all investing out of one unified fund. We hold crypto investments to the same bar, if you will, as we do our other investments. We hold other investments to the same, you know, timeline and liquidity expectations as we do vice versa.
00:35:11.370 - 00:36:04.256, Speaker A: So I think there's a lot of consistency with how we look at things there. And the reason for that is I actually think that tokens can be so we'll always know the power and the strength of tokens because we've seen them as a market, we've seen how even meme tokens, even meme tokens, right. And so it's really hard. It actually takes like more discipline to not have a token. And I think the trickier thing to do is to really design your token well and release it well, or release it over a long time horizon or over stages that's ultimately going to set up you and your company for the most long term success. So we've seen companies or we've seen plays right where all their tokens are live. And so now it's actually hard to see where does growth come from, from here, especially if from our perspective, capital is one way to fuel growth.
00:36:04.256 - 00:37:10.776, Speaker A: And so for typical companies, if you think about it, they have seed Series A, Series B, Series D, and then they go to become a publicly traded company. Now, not all of those stages of funding are not just intentional gates and hoops that you have to jump through before you could be a publicly traded company. They're meant to be points where you can inject more and more and more capital to get the business to grow. And so when you think about it that way, then all of a sudden going shortcut to IPO or publicly traded token sounds awesome, but you are actually giving yourself a lot less chances for injection of capital for you to grow and grow and grow the business. So in some sense you're saying like, great, we've made it, we're going to be this liquid publicly traded company. But what if you're actually a nascent company with only 1 million users? How are you going to then get to a billion users without the ability to structure your cap table or your economics to allow more capital or to allow more people to participate in that way? And so I think there's a reason for why we have the sort of stages of funding that we do in the classic world. And I think we could learn from that in the crypto world.
00:37:10.776 - 00:37:51.750, Speaker A: You know, obviously capital finality and permanence, you just can't undo taking away tokens. So if there are aspects that you want to redesign with your tokenomics, or you decide you want to redesign anything, it's really hard to do that with tokens. And then I also think alignment with investors is really important to consider. So we're the investors that are not pushing founders to have a token really early. I think there are some investors that are going to have the opposite end of that view, and we actually enjoy working with those investors as well. It's good to have those different perspectives around at the table with you to talk about these different pros and cons. I think if you have too many investors that are just at one end, you could get into misalignment.
00:37:51.750 - 00:38:39.766, Speaker A: So, for example, if you're a founder and you have only investors that are all interested in tokenizing, well, what happens when you create that token all those investors are going to sell, and then they're going to leave you, and then are they really there to help you through the next phase? And so maybe you want some investors to be able to move in and out of their positions or effectively their relationship with you in that manner. But I would say, you know, if you're looking for more of a long term investor, then tokens essentially gives that investor an out much sooner. And so equity helps us stay involved and just helps us be financially aligned. So we're going to be building with you in the trenches for that much longer. So it's sort of one of these things like help me help you by not having a token too early so that we can continue to build and nurture this company together for as long as possible.
00:38:39.958 - 00:40:00.780, Speaker B: It's almost like the entire crypto ecosystem is taking that iterative approach to tokens. And unfortunately, there's going to be a lot of fallen soldiers going through that iterative process of trying to figure out, all right, what is the appropriate model? How do we make this work for our team, for our community, for the investors, all the parties ultimately involved? And I think we're still very early in that process more holistically. But I 100% agree. I think there's a lot of learning lessons from the web two world that we could probably bring over and into crypto, but maybe pivoting back. I want to talk about some of the things that Greylock's thesis more broadly, where we first started about just infrastructure, defi and creator economy, and owning the Internet in those particular four categories. I guess now that you have been investing in the space and specifically at Gravelock for a couple of years, what I would say when you initially started were those investments segmented towards one of those categories. And has that changed over time as the crypto market has matured? I'm curious.
00:40:01.560 - 00:40:45.360, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say those categories feel pretty even when you look across our portfolio, our current portfolio. And so as an example, you know, we haven't, I can think of an investment that we've made in each category, and we've made, you know, a handful of investments at this point in crypto out of the fund that all fall into one of those four buckets. So for infrastructure picks and shovels or tooling, an investment that we made is in espresso systems, which is a general purpose scalability solution. Sort of like, think of them as an l two. That can be general purpose on top of any l one that you as a developer might want. They're in testnet right now going to have Mainnet. They're more on that side of the spectrum where I talk about being close to the metal.
00:40:45.360 - 00:41:27.758, Speaker A: They're going to have a token network for token for sure. And it just makes sense with their model. For the second bucket I talked about with Defi, we're in zero X Labs, which is also the behind the Dex aggregator matcha, and they do payment for order flow and power swaps for a number of enterprise partners. For the third bucket, where I talked about consumer applications and web3, we've made investments in portals, which is a metaverse company, Magic Eden. We've talked about the NFT marketplace and then the last one is creator economy. We're an investor in this company called Rabbit Hole, which is really about incentivized learning and engagement. It really helps protocols find new and qualified users and then pays and rewards those users in the native token.
00:41:27.758 - 00:42:55.752, Speaker A: And so when I actually take a step back and I think about all the areas that we're interested in investing in, partially it's for us to structure and think about hey, how do we, how does our current portfolio shape up? When we think about it, what are the areas that we're interested in going forward? When I think about like pure time and energy, what gets me excited if I kind of cycle in and out of one versus the other, you know, I would observe that in periods like last year we just had so many, or last the last two years, we had so many new users that were coming into crypto, new end users and consumers, that it was super interesting to spend a little bit more time at the application layer. So spending a lot of time thinking about what are new creator, streaming or music or social platforms. And you could start to get into these either galleries or metaverses, or I could almost laundry list these really cool applications that we were spending time with. And you could start to see these early signs of, man, this is what the Internet will look and feel like, whether it's ar, VR, gaming, and there's a whole list applications there. I would say I was spending a lot of time there primarily because that's just where there was so much energy and fire and where there was a lot of interesting adoption happening. So you want to be paying attention as an investor to where are young people, where are new crypto users, et cetera, spending time and discovering and playing around on the Internet. Going into this year, I would say I'm spending a lot more time in the infrastructure tooling side of things.
00:42:55.752 - 00:44:18.878, Speaker A: And so I think the way that I would frame the question that I'm asking for a lot of companies these days is what are the problems that we have learned from the last wave that we would like, or what are the problems we have seen from the last wave that we would like to solve going forward? And I kind of alluded to, you know, I'm really interested in privacy, scalability, security. How can we make web3 secure and easy to use? How can we make the onboarding experience easy? I love that your podcast is called frictionless because crypto is not a frictionless experience. So how can we make it frictionless for people? How can we make it easy for our parents to use, for future generations to use? I think in the future, crypto is going to fade into the background as just this, like, technological, given that most people are interacting with, but won't really be even aware of how they're interacting with it in the way that most of us are able to do super sophisticated things online, but could not really tell you how TCP, HTTP, ICP, basic protocols work. And so I think that is where we're headed. But to head in that direction, it will pay off to spend some time thinking about, well, what are the innovations or the changes that we need to see at the protocol, at the network sequencing meV. There's so many interesting things happening there. I think that feeds into applications again.
00:44:18.878 - 00:44:30.210, Speaker A: So I do oscillate between the two. But I'd say for 2023, I'm really excited about spending time closer to the metal and thinking about some of the bigger opportunities or unsolved problems we can work on.
00:44:30.550 - 00:45:19.686, Speaker B: Definitely, it sounds like you and the team have equally weighted those buckets. To me, I definitely get excited about the infrastructure side of things. I think just with the amount of people that we at least tried to onboard, I mean, even as you said, just getting people into the crypto world is probably the biggest challenge of them all. Once you get them in, then there's kind of a really exciting sandbox for everybody to play in. Try these applications. And within the application front, I think I'm also excited about the creator side. I think obviously, this podcast is, uh, interesting kind of take on the creators, but, uh, today it's becoming, or I think you only really have, like, a couple options.
00:45:19.686 - 00:46:04.720, Speaker B: Uh, like, well, you can kind of, like, remove the NFT side of things for now, but like, on the web, two world, kind of YouTube, TikTok, uh, there's, there's not, like, to me, in my mind, like a great way for, like, the middle curve of creators to make money and so with blockchain really hoping to open up that avenue, I think Legion from variant has a great essay, like 100 true fans on this, and unlocking crypto's potential for creators to make a middle class income, which I think would be great, because right now it's either you make no money or you make a lot of money.
00:46:05.430 - 00:47:25.846, Speaker A: Yeah, I think we're now getting beyond just the web3 and crypto and starting to think about how the convergence of many trends that we see in technology will converge and feed off each other. And so I think the trends that we're seeing with the rise of creators, the rise of people leaving corporate jobs and finding ways to monetize content online that is converging with crypto and web3, obviously, NFTs is one form of content, and so it's really natural for those two things to converge. When you throw in AI on top of there, the ability for AI to either augment the way that we're editing videos or to straight up generate videos or generate content itself, I think we're going to see a really interesting coalescence, if you will, of all of these technologies playing off each other to an Internet that's going to look supremely awesome in the future. But, yeah, I think creators and empowering creators and individuals and thinking of creators as small businesses is also an area that we're really interested in investing in here at Greylock. So whether that's financial services for creators, ways that they can monetize content, ways that they can just monetize the skills that they have, those are all really interesting threads and then a lot of ways, tokens, web3, crypto are starting to experiment with those very things for creators as well.
00:47:25.998 - 00:47:34.742, Speaker B: It is interesting how they're kind of all kind of heading or getting melded with crypto in some sense. Kind of funny.
00:47:34.926 - 00:48:21.564, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think in venture, I often encounter people that are on one side or the other. Like, I'm an enterprise investor, I'm a consumer investor, or people start to carve out their niches and their areas of expertise. And I think that there's obviously a super logical way of organizing like that. We have that, you know, a level of organization like that at Greylock as well. But it's also important to recognize that ourselves as just users of technology, that all of these things actually kind of play off each other and affect different industries that we tend to think of super discreetly and compartmentalize in our headland. But at the end of the day, there can be technologies that are horizontal to all of these verticals that we think of separately.
00:48:21.564 - 00:49:21.890, Speaker A: And so when I think about the way that mobile has changed both enterprise, both consumer, all across different verticals, across different use cases, cloud, I think when we think about AI, crypto, to me, those are horizontal technologies that are going to massively change the way that we interact with the Internet or interact and connect with different users. And so I don't tend to think of like crypto as a consumer thing. Even though I have spent a lot of time in consumer crypto applications, I tend to think of it as a fundamental technology. And then it gets even more interesting and kind of meta when you start to layer on AR accelerations in hardware or operating systems, which I would argue we have not really seen a great new operating system or platform in a long time. When you layer in changes that's going on with AI or anything like that, you can, it's almost impossible to say, like how are these two things going to feed off each other, but we're all just sort of living through this live experiment and see what the future beholds.
00:49:22.350 - 00:50:10.080, Speaker B: Yeah, 100%. When you throw in augmented reality or virtual reality, things will definitely get a little funky. But maybe on that topic of just like user adoption, I think I was a little surprised when I started looking at some of the user metrics. And I think magic Eden and marketplaces are kind of one of the few that I would say have found product market fit with the users. And also just on the volume side, do you think, I mean, there's probably multiple answers to why there are so few users, but what is your kind of opinion? What do we need to do to bring users into crypto instead of just like either holding or speculating?
00:50:11.980 - 00:51:07.092, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there needs to be more real use cases that provide utility for users at the end of the day. And so I think the things that you named off, I would call those more business models. And so I would say the business models that we've seen that have grown to be durable business models, or you could say they're killer use cases, are exchanges, wallets, and marketplaces. And then with marketplaces you start to get into, okay, well, you're not just trading tokens, you're trading non fungible tokens, and those are the nfts and media types that we see, but with exchanges, sort of the equivalent of a marketplace, except you're exchanging fungible tokens. And so there's a whole reason why exchanges of pool tokens work there. With marketplaces, you're maybe selling and trading one for one. And then wallets, of course, is a store of value or the thing that is your gateway to all the different dapps out there.
00:51:07.092 - 00:51:53.138, Speaker A: So these are sort of three business models or use cases that I think have been successful today. But then at the end of the day, I separate those from like the use cases that we see, which is okay for all of the tokens that we are trading in on exchanges or that we are holding on wallets. What is the underlying resource or the use case that it serves? So for something like Ethereum, it's compute. And, you know, without it, without a doubt, compute is valuable. And I think we're sort of testing whether or not decentralized global, permissionless compute is something that we want, as opposed to centralized compute that we have all of our apps running on today. We also know that storage is a valuable thing. You know, Dropbox, Google Cloud, Azure, they all have proved that.
00:51:53.138 - 00:52:47.414, Speaker A: But I think with things like Arweave or SiA or filecoid, we're trying to see whether or not decentralized storage makes sense. And so I think, like storage, compute, those are the use cases. It's up to us to experiment and decide what are the use cases that are worth building. And the more use cases that we can discover and experiment with, I think that those will bring in the users into the space. Now, it's hard because I think storage and compute, they're like quite primitive use cases. So end users don't come in to use the Internet to say, great, now you can store something, because that's now become a means to an end. And they're like, what else can I do with this? And so I think other use cases that we're really excited to see are things like social networks or messaging, or when we think about media and entertainment, I think gaming falls under there, music falls under there, video falls under there.
00:52:47.414 - 00:53:11.842, Speaker A: There's a lot of ways in which you could imagine decentralized technology being an additive technology layer to any of these use cases. But I would say it's up to us to really continue to experiment with and improve on those use cases. The more use cases we have that are real like that, the more users that are going to be tempted to buy, to try crypto, not just for the sake of buying crypto 100%.
00:53:11.906 - 00:54:11.092, Speaker B: And I think one interesting example of that was Polygon and Reddit, where they kind of did the community points, and I think that was all kind of opaque to the front end user, but they got some NFT community points or representation that they're involved in the community. And to me, as far as I know, that was like one of the largest onboarding of people into crypto. I think they had a couple million users, which is super impressive. Were people that claimed those NFTs on chain. I'm definitely interested to see if web two companies start to integrate these things. I think at least most of the headlines today are a little bit more hype oriented than real use cases. But the Reddit and Polygon announcement did get me excited to actually see some of those things being reflected on chain.
00:54:11.092 - 00:54:15.040, Speaker B: So still early, but promising days ahead.
00:54:15.540 - 00:55:16.738, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we get really excited if we think, if you think about companies like Roblox and Fortnite and the amount of sales and the volume that they do with in game assets or just, just the concept of in game assets in general, like how much money people are spending on their digital identity, that's kind of what it boils down to, right, in these games. It's pretty incredible. And then when you think about, okay, what would it be if you could take that identity and have Logan on Fortnite and on Roblox and on Minecraft? And there's some continuity, yet also some customization, given the context of the world or the game that you're playing. These are things that could happen if web two players make moves towards web3 just as much as we're seeing web3 games that are trying to deliver on this promise or on this vision. And so, yeah, I think there's a lot of ways in which these kind of different use cases or ways of interacting are going to be super interesting. Reddit is a really great one, but I agree with you.
00:55:16.738 - 00:55:35.232, Speaker A: I think web two could be an incredibly powerful on border for these technologies. I think the power is in large companies hands to decide strategically whether they want to embrace this technology or not. But yeah, it definitely gets me excited to think about the possibilities there.
00:55:35.376 - 00:56:22.610, Speaker B: And one game, I feel like one successful game that interacted or incorporated some type of NFT or web3 element could onboard the combination or the aggregate of all crypto users pretty much today. So it definitely shows you how early we are in these different ecosystems. Maybe just wrapping up the podcast. If either founders want to get in touch with you, how could they go about doing that? And then what are some things again that you are particularly looking for from founders and team? Is that early traction? What gets you excited in like a cold email or a pitch that you're like, yes, I need to talk with this founder right now.
00:56:23.670 - 00:56:59.112, Speaker A: That's a great question. So I would love to talk to any founders that are building in this space. I kind of mentioned earlier on the call that if you're a founder or if you're a builder, or even if you're an operator looking to join into web3 and you're thinking about joining one of these companies, I think it's one of the best times. It feels like the worst and yet the best time. And, you know, we've kind of already talked about this. Like, it obviously feels like the worst for so many reasons. But I have strong conviction that we will all look back and have, you know, very little regret on either entering the space, starting a company, or investing the space at this time.
00:56:59.112 - 00:57:52.188, Speaker A: Because at this time, all the noise is gone, all the tourists have gone, and you have people that are really deep technologists that are really interested and passionate about the technology building. And so it gets me excited as an investor. So if you fit that category, you're a deep technologist, you're really interested in the technology, you've been in this space, and you're sort of also relieved that the noise and the tourists are gone, then I would love to have a conversation or a chat. I find those conversations to be some of the most thought provoking and the most intellectually stimulating in terms of things that we're looking for. We really invest in things that can be just at the idea stage, pre product to, you know, having some traction, having some signals, especially because we invest it. Seed series a and beyond. You know, I would say we invest, given that we invest at all stages, there's often a question of, like, what is the right stage for us to start working with a.
00:57:52.188 - 00:58:41.418, Speaker A: With a, with an entrepreneur. But, you know, I would say some of the most interesting conversations are conversations that I have with founders that haven't even left their company yet and want to vet an idea and see if it's a fundable or something that would be interesting to work on. And so everything from that to you're a known founder working in a known company, and we just haven't had an opportunity to interact before. Those are all things that I really welcome. And, yeah, I think another benefit, if you will, of building a company at this time when there's not a ton of users that are adopting this technology, and so there's not this natural tide that's like, rising. Everyone is. There's a little bit of, like, less pressure, honestly, to have these metrics that are like hockey sticking left and right.
00:58:41.418 - 00:59:15.990, Speaker A: Just because we all know that the number of users, the number of wallets in this space have just detracted from previous levels. And so actually, what we're looking for is really unique technology, really unique worldview, not something that's just sort of, you know, thin tokenomics on top of it, you know, pretty simplistic defi principles. Let's call it a game like those are. We're kind of past those concepts, and we're actually more interested in thinking about some of the more, you know, nuanced, detailed, you know, business concepts that people might be working on.
00:59:16.410 - 00:59:56.496, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, truly appreciate you coming on the podcast. Appreciate your wisdom and sharing it with everybody. I totally echo all your statements. It's a hard time. But I think we'll all look back and say that this was an amazing couple of years of building, and hopefully that will bring in the next 10 million, 100 million people, because I truly think crypto is one of the most interesting fields in tech today. It's exciting to be working along in the field, investing with founders, talking with them, even doing conversations like this.
00:59:56.496 - 00:59:59.400, Speaker B: So thank you so much for coming on the podcast.
00:59:59.520 - 01:00:06.760, Speaker A: Christine, thank you so much for having me, Logan. I am very optimistic about the future, and, yeah, this is a super fun session.
