00:00:07.440 - 00:00:16.598, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to a new episode of the Kill risk taking rendezvous. Today we have Kendall from proximity labs. Kendall, how are you doing today?
00:00:16.766 - 00:00:18.354, Speaker B: Doing great. How about yourself?
00:00:18.814 - 00:00:25.394, Speaker A: Doing great. Doing great. Weather outside, a great Friday afternoon. Where are you based?
00:00:25.834 - 00:00:27.174, Speaker B: I'm in San Francisco.
00:00:27.714 - 00:00:29.654, Speaker A: Nice. How's the weather there?
00:00:29.954 - 00:00:31.734, Speaker B: Yeah, it's been beautiful lately.
00:00:32.634 - 00:00:53.174, Speaker A: You guys are on the lucky side because our friends in Paris, they don't have that luck, unfortunately. But anyways, to start this off, I would love if you could introduce yourself, kind of tell us, like, what made you join the crypto industry and why you are here right now.
00:00:53.614 - 00:01:35.982, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I started working full time in crypto in 2017, which doesn't feel that long ago, but also feels really long ago, depending on the day. I started working in it, mainly just because I was really fascinated with just how open and accessible it was to build things. I really saw him up with Ethereum and just how you could build new financial products, new games, new incentive structures, all types of things on it, uh, just kind of, you know, at will. Uh, so in 2017, I joined consensys and, you know, kind of built some developer tooling for the ethereum ecosystem for a while, uh, for a couple of years. And then in 2019, I joined near, um, because I was just really, uh, in love with the, the way they were thinking about a lot of the user experience problems.
00:01:35.982 - 00:02:49.252, Speaker B: And a big focus of it has always been kind of, uh, scaling is important because the user experience is constrained. If you don't have scaling, like expensive transactions, slow transactions, at least for a lot of use cases, are a really big blocker. So, yeah, now I've been working in the near ecosystem for, I guess, going on five years, which is crazy to say. So for about two and a half years ago, me and a couple of the other early near employees set up proximity, and basically the intention was really to have an entity solely dedicated to building out different parts of the ecosystem. Over time, we started to help really take to market new and exciting products and functionality that's built around here, which gets me to the reason I've heard today, which is that the core near team is working on a product called chain signatures, and we're helping a lot with the go to market and just building out, getting people excited. We're planning to launch it eventually once we solve some technical problems, but we have a pretty clear path to it, too. It's planned to be launched as an abs, taking advantage of the incredible economic security that Eigen there can present.
00:02:49.252 - 00:02:58.544, Speaker B: That actually, I think is going to be has some interesting cost structures as well, and just really make this product all that it can be. So, yeah, that's what we're here to talk about.
00:02:59.044 - 00:03:19.290, Speaker A: Awesome. And so we're going to be talking a lot more about what you're building, but just kind of to introduce the, like, I would say that the tech side behind it, we're going to be talking about MPC, multi party computation technology. Can you introduce a bit like, what is this technology and what does it do right now for the space? Who are the actors leveraging this tech?
00:03:19.482 - 00:03:52.798, Speaker B: Absolutely. So the main idea. So MPC stands for multiparty computation. The main idea is that you have a distributed set of parties that each have some sort of private information, and they're able to basically utilize that private information to create some sort of deterministic, usually like signature or computation. Basically, that's the computation part of MPC. So the most practical case that we see in the crypto industry is you have say, like, basically you can think of it as having a private key that's sort of sharded and distributed amongst a bunch of different parties. In reality, they each have their own private key.
00:03:52.798 - 00:04:51.656, Speaker B: And what they can do is basically sign for a given public key and consistently sign some sort of information using a given public key. And what's cool is you need some type of threshold in order to basically do that. So it could be two thirds, five, six. There's different ways to set it up depending on which type of MVC function you use. So the most practical way that we've probably seen it used thus far is for things like custody management. Oftentimes where you have a user or, or some type of party will have say, like there's three total shards or keys, a user will have two of those, and then a third party will have a third, and it's a two of three sort of signature scheme. So what this allows is that a user can set up some type of two factor authentication, where they initiate a transaction and then they get a message or some type of confirmation from the third, the centralized party who's holding one of the keys, and then they can confirm kind of offline.
00:04:51.656 - 00:05:42.234, Speaker B: Hey, yes, I actually want to do this. So if someone were to have their phone stolen where their one key is, it won't actually enable an attacker to steal their funds necessarily. And another way you could think of it is if you lost that one key, but then you have another key backed up, or even you delegated a key, you delegated a couple of keys around, you could use it to recover your account. So we've seen Coinbase wallet adopt this for some of their products. We've seen Trustwallet recently rolled this out and that we've seen even institutional great custody like Fireblocks uses a similar scheme to provide a non custodial but really, really highly secure and robust custodian environment. So yeah, that's kind of been wave one is custody, and it's a very interesting use case. It's still getting adopted more and more, and I think it's only going to grow, especially as these signing schemes become more efficient.
00:05:42.234 - 00:07:09.998, Speaker B: What we're really excited about is that use case, but thinking about other ways that we can extend functionality using this multi party computation, I think what we're most excited about is actually a concept of basically giving smart contracts the ability to sign things like one of the problems or one of the, I guess, limitations of a smart contract is they obviously don't have a private key, because usually it's a user who has a private key who's entering through a function call and then manipulating some data, but the contract itself cannot sign on behalf of itself, which can enable a lot of really interesting things. One just very simple set of use cases is imagining bitcoin by design is very limited in what it can do for a lot of good and sometimes bad reasons, depending on your perspective. But what would be cool is that if you have a decentralized NPC network, it can be controlled by smart contracts, enabling a smart contract aside, a smart contract could then actually manage bitcoin assets. And this can annul not an entirely broad set of cases you can imagine like Dai Makerdao style stable coins that are built basically on top of bitcoin and utilizing it in bitcoin. It can enable swaps between bitcoin and ethereum and other chains. And we even actually seen some adoption with this. With chains like door chain uses a very similar type of scheme to enable bitcoin to deer in trading, and some newer protocols like Chainflow do a similar thing and they can enable permissionless lending where rather than having to use a wrap bitcoin, which is actually very centralized, you could use bitcoin that you actually control on the bitcoin network.
00:07:09.998 - 00:07:30.634, Speaker B: You delegate custody to this decentralized NPC network and then you can use that as collateral to borrow USDC or some type of other stablecoin on a different chain. So it's a very, very interesting design space that we think has started to be explored, but has been under explored because there haven't been that many really flexible protocols that have existed. So that's what we're particularly excited about.
00:07:30.974 - 00:07:53.594, Speaker A: Great. So MPC started off for the industry as kind of like a way to do like like differently, like kind of like a way to implement like super multi signal, if I understand correctly. And what you're saying is that the interesting part of this is that actually like it could be a great tech to leverage, to be leveraged by interoperability protocols.
00:07:54.334 - 00:08:33.326, Speaker B: Exactly. Interoperability protocols are one, are one example of the use case in addition to custody. Another one that's you. Quite different is you could use this to basically you could have a key that encrypts. Basically use this public key to encrypt some data and then you can only decrypt it by having the multi party network signed to decrypt it. What's cool is you could then have a smart contract that's controlling when something is encrypted or decrypted. A great use case for this would be if you want to have some type of information someone can buy and only if they hold an NFT or some type of identifier can they actually decrypt this information.
00:08:33.326 - 00:08:53.686, Speaker B: So there's many different interesting use cases. We think it's basically, there's a very broad design space here. We really want to open up what's possible to explore. But interoperability is certainly, I think the next wave of use cases that we'll see. I think we'll see it become pretty pervasive here in the next two years. A lot of NPC. I mean there already are quite a few MPC based solutions for interoperability.
00:08:53.686 - 00:08:58.894, Speaker B: I think we'll see even more new sort of design patterns for them.
00:08:59.594 - 00:09:17.258, Speaker A: Very, very cool. And can you run us down a bit? What's the origin story of proximity labs and all of everything you're building with MPC? When did basically Nir decided to build products like this?
00:09:17.306 - 00:09:17.466, Speaker B: And.
00:09:17.490 - 00:09:28.254, Speaker A: Yeah, talk also about the relationship you guys have with, with Eigenair. When did you guys decided to become Eigenair? Ivss.
00:09:28.634 - 00:10:02.284, Speaker B: Yeah, sure thing. Yeah, so we, I mean, so proximity is not building the core technology that's being built by the pagoda team. So they actually started building it before we heard about it. And the main reason they were building it is we were like as near we've been really trying to push into serving a more multi chain type of world. Near is a very scalable chain and that's great. But we also recognize that there's a lot of chains out there that people want to interact with. But one of the core problems is that if you want to interact with five different chains right now, for the most part, you need a pretty different setup for each chain.
00:10:02.284 - 00:10:42.254, Speaker B: Depending on what type of combination you get, there's basically no solution out there that serves everything. There's literally zero. You can pretty easily get yourself into a situation where you're going to need at least two or n number of products for using n number of chains. And we saw that as a really big blocker to one. Normal people coming in and using this stuff, that's going to get really confusing and so much overhead. But even for crypto natives using this stuff, I mean, there's nothing worse than you get excited about this new chain and then you realize you have to get a new wallet and acquire some gas tokens and figure out which bridge to use. And then finally you can actually interact with the applications and test things out.
00:10:42.254 - 00:11:11.644, Speaker B: And especially with L2s and layer threes and a bunch of app chains, this is only going to get worse. This modularity idea is going to make this. There's a lot of benefits to it. But one of the big trade offs is Ux. We started this, rather the pagoda team in particular started this, as there's three major problems that we have to solve to solve the user experience and create true chain abstraction. One is we need a united interface. Everything needs to be in a single place.
00:11:11.644 - 00:11:54.102, Speaker B: So the technology for that, that we started barking down was what we call the blockchain operating system, which really is decentralized front end. The main idea was that application layer teams deploy their code base into near, into a decentralized storage network, and then anybody can easily display that kind of integration into a single page. What's cool is that as the app layer team makes changes and updates that component, they can pretty easily pull down the latest version. Because one of the challenges of like supporting a million integrations is that you need a pretty large team to maintain all of those integrations. And so we wanted to kind of take that burden off a little bit. So that was, that was sort of like the first. So like, so you like single place to use things.
00:11:54.102 - 00:12:36.876, Speaker B: Second thing is like asset management. If you have assets on five different chains and you want, and you want to interact, you want to move those assets around or at least transfer that value around, you need a lot of different solutions there. And so we were thinking like, yes, bridges are interesting, and there are some really great bridges out there, but even under the bridge layer, no bridge serves every single chain. Some chimp chains are just really difficult for bridges to serve, like bitcoin. And then the other issue is that most of the bridge designs require kind of like a new endpoint, at minimum to be deployed. Or even in the case of something like Axelar, the validators have to run a full node for that new network, which has benefits, but, but makes it really hard to scale. So bridging is not really the right solution, is the way we saw it.
00:12:36.876 - 00:13:17.674, Speaker B: And then the other problem related to the assets is sort of gas management, having to acquire a little bit of a gas token to use a new chain, even though you really just want to do something in USDC is problematic. So there's a lot of really good solutions being worked on there in distinct ecosystems. I'd say, like, cosmos has some pretty good solutions with this, with interstate accounts. The EVM world has some pretty good solutions with 4337, and I would even say even better at 3074. And probably there's something in Solana and we have some solutions in there, but the issue is that there's no solution that's universal. So we're like, okay, it'd be way better if there was actually a universal solution that you could take advantage of. Use USDC, have USD on one account, and then use that for gas on any chain.
00:13:17.674 - 00:13:38.466, Speaker B: And that's always, sorry. Figure out how do we build this? And the pagoda team in particular was coming up with ideas on how to build this. And then finally, uh, is like the accounts. So, like it in particular, I think you see this with something like four, three, seven. It's great. It's a, it's a smart contract wallet. You can, uh, swap in and out your keys, you can, you know, kind of set up these like interesting multi sig or two fa, or different types of more secure setups.
00:13:38.466 - 00:14:10.978, Speaker B: So like social recovery, all those great things, but you have to have a different contract deployed on every single EVM chain that you're going to use. And so if you want to update your key or make any sort of change to this account, you have to update it on every single chain, which is not ideal. So we basically looked at all these problems and we're like, how do we, like, what are some solutions here? And so I'll give all the credit to the pagoda team because they were the ones who came up with the chain series and then just told us about it and we're like, this is great. There's definitely a market for this. There's a lot of exciting stuff we could do. We have a lot of teams who are facing these problems. So this is really fun.
00:14:10.978 - 00:15:12.186, Speaker B: And so that's how proximity started to really work more heavily on this is supporting basically the pagoda team as they take this great technology market. So that's how we got here is basically like, okay, so we have a product for the first problem of like having United interface. How do we solve those extra problems? And the idea was basically, well, if we can create a robust and distributed network of these operators that will maintain this MPC network, and then we have this MPC network basically be entirely controlled by smart contracts or near accounts, then we can create something like a gas station relayer. We can where you take USDC on NIR and then you can pay for gas on any chain. We can create something like truly chain agnostic Dexs, which will be really good for moving between different chains very quickly. Whats cool is you could actually build a Dex on near that controls assets on any chain and then settles the trade between those two chains at nears runtime. So you could even trade between bitcoin and say doge, which both have pretty long block times at near block time.
00:15:12.186 - 00:15:59.056, Speaker B: So you can settle that trade within a second. And users will then be able to move those assets wherever they want at of course the other chain, but that will unlock a lot of liquidity. And then last but not least, near accounts are smart contracts by default. So if you want to take advantage of any of that kind of cool four, three, seven style account abstraction functionality, you can just update your single account on the near blockchain. And obviously that'll be reflected effectively, that'll be reflected on every single chain. Because what you're actually probably going to do is have one single smart account that controls an EOA on any single chain that you want to use. If you update any of the keys, the keys that consign for that smart account on near effectively, you update the key that can sign for all of the coas on all those different chains.
00:15:59.056 - 00:16:50.126, Speaker B: So you can even trade your account, you could have assets on 15 different chains and then trade some of your account, your entire account with all those balances if you want to, which opens up some pretty wacky stuff. So yeah, that was a long rant, but that's kind of how proximity and the different groups fit into all this. Oh, sorry, I didn't actually get to Eigen layer. Which was your final question? Yeah, so we've been fans of the Eigen layer team for a very long time, a personal friend of a couple of the folks on the team, and we just saw what they were doing I don't even remember exactly how I heard about it. I feel like they, like I've known about them for a while now just because I feel like they've been almost pervasive for at least a year plus. And certainly people were excited about the concepts before then as well. But yeah, I think it was actually through the process of a different near team that I think was on the podcast.
00:16:50.126 - 00:17:47.636, Speaker B: I was talking to you guys already out the super fast finality layer was working with the Eigen Lair team, and we started thinking of a lot of different abs ideas. You know, restaking is also a huge design space. Like, what are some of the potential use cases? And so during the design process for chain signatures, you know, one of the, one of the key questions is like, well, the biggest risk of this is some type of collusion between the different operators to then steal some underlying assets. And so there's, there's several levels of security that can, you know, help prevent this. One of them is if you have a single honest operator that is ends up getting a request to sign a malicious payload that wasn't requested by an end user, they can report that and then slash all the parties that basically contributed to that signature. So there is a one and honest majority assumption that can be powerful. One of the issues though is you could, in theory, still have like really insidious offline sort of collusion where you like, you don't even have reported anywhere, you don't like, request the signature openly only with the parties you already colluded with.
00:17:47.636 - 00:19:11.304, Speaker B: And then you go and like steal a user's assets on bitcoin or something. Whats great is that you can prove that that transaction happened on bitcoin. And you could even, we have a bunch of lite clients running on near for all the major chains soon will be bitcoin included. And so you can prove that that transaction happened, and you can also prove that it happened at a different time than when a request is made or that there was no request made. And so you have a way to sort of deterministically say, okay, this transaction should not have happened. And so we have to penalize some folks who participated in this, but you need for them to have a penalty to pay, and ideally as big of a penalty to pay as possible. And that's where the real magic behind the idea of restaking comes in, is I think you can just get more economic efficiency from the restaking approach than if we just had our own staking sort of setup that was created, which, I mean, the reality is they'll likely probably a hybrid, because I think what we also want to do is have different, basically completely different groups that have different incentive structures that are all part of the same MPC operator network so that you have, because I guess real security and real decentralization comes from a distribution of all different types of things, geographies, hardware companies, risk, individuals, all types of factors.
00:19:11.304 - 00:19:23.324, Speaker B: So we'll probably see sort of a hybrid, but yeah, very excited about, I think, the economic efficiency, just, I mean, the quality of the product because it's such high quality team behind me that they're going to bring to this mix.
00:19:24.064 - 00:20:06.314, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. You said it very well. I'm definitely excited to use it for maybe a piece of my bitcoin. I would love to see how far my bitcoin can go on other chains. My follow up question was around, like a more broader question about this is that why do you think you need this solution to be decentralized? And why do you need that economic security to be backing this decentralization, to be ethereum economic security where it could have been any other economic security and maybe also near economic security?
00:20:07.134 - 00:20:48.050, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a great question. So one approach would be to do this in a way where you have these known parties who each have some sort of legal agreement to relay these transactions and sign these transactions. That is one way to do it. I think one of the downsides to that is at some point in time you could run into some problems where they might just choose to not sign certain payloads. So one of the nice benefits of this is that they are, all they're signing is hash, and so they don't really know where they're signing. It is quite private, but there's, I mean, ways for them to, like, try to figure out where it's coming from and, you know, have a lot of heuristics to decide. I don't want to sign that.
00:20:48.050 - 00:21:23.002, Speaker B: And that's, I mean, that's all we're trying to build here. We're trying to build like a really robust, just neutral. Like, I think that's the most important part, like a credibly neutral set of operators here. And so it's hard to really, really enable that over the long run. I think you can get there in the short run, I think that's okay. But I think it's harder to enable that over the long run and just have this through the robust system if you don't have a lot of different layers of other sort of measures of decentralization. So it's really to establish that long term credible neutrality is why I think, but also we agree in proximity that this should be uh, you know, decentralized.
00:21:23.002 - 00:22:16.242, Speaker B: And, and the main reason that you need the economic security is just that, well, basically you have to look at the different attack vectors. I think the biggest risk is this like very difficult in practice, especially with like a large set of operators, but also, you know, still theoretically possible, uh, collusion type of attack. And um, again, I mean, I think like we have different layers, like the one, the one honest node, you know, assumption, which is, which is powerful. Uh, you know, that's good. But having something at stake I think makes it nearly impossible that you'll see, I mean, you get to a really high degree of security if you have a large sort of stake behind this. So those are sort of the reasons I think it's establishing that long term credible neutrality and then just making sure that we have several different layers of security and several different ways to avoid any sort of attack vectors on the system as part of it. And economic security is certainly.
00:22:16.242 - 00:22:19.954, Speaker B: So it'll be cryptographic security, but also crypto economic security.
00:22:20.454 - 00:22:26.454, Speaker A: Okay, and you chose Ethereum economic security because you thought.
00:22:26.534 - 00:22:59.126, Speaker B: Yes, good question. Well, again, this actually gets to. So there's a couple of reasons. So we will be using near for part of the economic security for short, just because we do have substantial bit of exam security and we have really aligned set of actors who want to do what's best for the Nier ecosystem and of course for the users there. But I think the really key part of why Ethereum is very attractive as a part of the security mix. One obviously is just you can get some pretty high dollar value. And the Ethereum restaking, I think the cost is going to be quite attractive.
00:22:59.126 - 00:24:07.368, Speaker B: You can get high amount of economic security for a pretty efficient cost. But also the important thing is nearest community is different than Ethereum's community. Certainly there's some overlap, uh, but you know, it is, there are independent sort of parties there. And I think what we really want to do is, uh, is, is get to a point where the different, the participants in the NPC network come from pretty different communities, have different incentives, uh, and, you know, like that, that's what's going to ride the greatest amount of security. It's like not just the dollar value, but also like where and what motivates these different groups, you know, and that we might even see, you know, a long term future where there's like bitcoin restaking for this, eth restaking for this new rest taking for this, even non restaking ways to secure it. Just a lot of different mechanisms. And the cool thing is, because of the way the NPC works, as long as they're running the same node and they're storing their key in the right way in HSM or whatever it is, and you're participating actively and then they have some sort of economic reason and something at stake, basically solving the nothing at stake problem, then you can have a coherent network and one that'll be really robust.
00:24:07.368 - 00:24:26.684, Speaker B: Even if for some reason one of the chains goes down or whatever ends up happening. We could be more robust against that. It's ultimately going to be a mix. But in the short term it's very clear that I think the most economically efficient restaking setup is going to be Ethereum. I think you see that in the numbers today.
00:24:28.344 - 00:25:04.208, Speaker A: Makes sense. Yeah, yeah. And talking about economic security, I guess now that you're building an AV's on Ethereum and again, real estate TVL is close, it's very dependent on the ETH prices, of course, but it's around. So I bring around $15 billion. My question to you is, how much of this economic security do you actually need? And have you also looked at the different ways you could get this economic security? Have you looked at the pros and cons of pool security versus attributed security? What are your thoughts there?
00:25:04.336 - 00:25:59.984, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a really good question. So I think we have the benefit of by the time this goes live as an AV's, it'll have been several months after, like they've seen some other avss go live. And so, I mean, I would say I personally, and the pagodas team's view is probably a little bit different. But like, I personally, you know, have some thesis on what's going to happen, but it's, you know, that it never works out like that in practice as we've learned from, you know, from running these type of systems and participating in type of systems. So, yeah, I mean, I think one thing that it's going to be really interesting to watch is like for our type of security model or like this AV's type of security model, the really dumb way is like, okay, however many assets you have under sort of management, like, you know, that this, these NPC operators are securing, that's how much economic stake you need. Or like, that's the maximum, right. That's like, I mean, auger kind of came up with that idea like many years ago.
00:25:59.984 - 00:26:44.176, Speaker B: So that's like, that's one way to think about it. Another way to think about it is that, well, in reality, and especially in eigen layer, there actually is a pretty big reputation aspect, right. Like these operators are known, right, because people are actually choosing to delegate to an operator. So operator reputation will be, it'll be transparent and it'll actually be like quite an important aspect, aspect of this whole thing. And so, I mean, there's more at stake than just money because one, if you're publicly known and you do something very intensely malicious, I mean, I don't know, this is exactly what we intended as the whole crypto ecosystem. But the reality of it is that if you do that, it's actually really easy for you to be prosecuted because there's a lot of evidence that you did something very maliciously. And we've seen people now go to jail for doing this type of thing.
00:26:44.176 - 00:27:09.788, Speaker B: So I think theres a lot more at stake than just the amount of money that you might be able to take. And especially if its a fairly small difference, not only are you going to get slashed economically, but fine, so you steal $2 billion, you lose a billion. So you made a billion, but then you go to jail. I dont think its actually going to work out that way. So I dont know if it has to be one to one. I think the cost will actually end up being less, I dont know how much less. I think thats what still this was figured out.
00:27:09.788 - 00:27:56.530, Speaker B: And then the other aspect is we do have, the first line of defense is actually that cryptographic security of, you can submit a cryptographic proof that somebody was trying to sign a malicious request, which doesn't actually require really any much of the economic security. Technically. You could just sort of get, you could basically just decline the request and nuke the request. So I think that's probably going to be an important part of it as well. So I think ultimately the cost will be lower than the amount of assets under management, and they'll probably even see the wallet use case, for instance. I think in practice, we're going to see users probably retain kind of a master key and then use the siding network as sort of a confirmation key. And so in that case, collusion is actually impossible.
00:27:56.530 - 00:28:30.784, Speaker B: So probably what we'll end up looking at is like, what is the sort of total value secured of all the smart contracts who are building protocols using this technology? And they'll end up being some type of heuristic of like some like somewhere less than one, like 100% of that's the sort of assets under management. So, I mean, it's really hard to say. I think probably we're still looking at, you know, a billion plus would be ideal. But yeah, we're going to learn a lot over I think, the next like six months as to, you know, what the costs really end up being and how much security you need.
00:28:31.774 - 00:29:19.204, Speaker A: Very interesting. And yeah, so we talked about the economic security aspects. If you, if you take the other part of the equation, you look at who is providing this economic security and who is providing the economic security are the rest takers that delegate their ETH to operators. And very sort of the main thing that they care about is the incentives part. Of course they, they want to be aligned, they want to help great initiatives in the ecosystem, but they are definitely interested in getting their incentives. So how will your AV's incentivize this economic security to be attributed to your protocol?
00:29:19.984 - 00:29:48.964, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a great question. So there are going to be fees taken immediately for chain signatures. There already are on Testnet, but the way it works right now is basically the request for a chain signature to. Basically the request to the MVC network to sign something is made on the near blockchain as a transaction. So there already is a fee that has to be paid there. So there's a couple of ways that you could extend even that fee loss. You could of course charge a little bit extra on top of that.
00:29:48.964 - 00:30:35.202, Speaker B: I think that'll just be borne out as like what is the prevailing rate for a signature as to how viable it is, what that cost. Another option is near actually has whats called contract secured revenue which is basically we built this in to protocol a very long time ago, which is that 30% of the gas fees paid on any sort of account is then given to that account. Its rebated to the smart contract. In this case the signing smart contract that the NPC operators are listening to will be earning some revenue. Now that requires a very large amount of signatures to become like a meaningful sort of dollar value. So a lot of it's going to. A lot of that particular model being the right one is going to depend on what is the sort of adoption of this tech.
00:30:35.202 - 00:31:33.250, Speaker B: So I think that's probably a long term play, maybe even a very long term model. Shorter term will likely involve some type of additional fee on top of the sort of signature that can be passed. And then another option that ultimately will have to be adopted by the near validators. Although I expect if they're optimistic about the spring values, the near downward it won't actually be very controversial. Is that part of the near security budget, which the near ecosystem, the validators in particular maintain basically to keep the network running, could be distributed to these restakers, especially for like a, you know, a set period of time while the network is kind of bootstrapped. It's basically an investment, right? It's kind of like the near network investing in the ABS layer in order to ultimately lead to a ton of transactions on the network for signature requests that then can kind of become self sustaining. So likely we'll see some combination of maybe even all of these.
00:31:33.250 - 00:32:18.174, Speaker B: It might be like initial batches is coming from the near validator set, who choose to know, have a little bit of inflation instructed to AV's midterm. Might be like a bit of an extra transaction fee on top of the new transaction fee for a signature. They can then go to the ABS operators and then long term might actually just be that kind of contract secured revenue that'll get paid to the operators. So it's still being figured out. I mean, ultimately a lot of these decisions will be made by the new system as a whole, since the ones in control of that. But yeah, early, early signs point to that being, and I think we're fortunate as an ecosystem that there is a pretty large substantial security budget there, or even a small amount could go a long way towards really making this system a reality.
00:32:20.114 - 00:33:05.594, Speaker A: Okay, so if I understand correctly, if all of these basically become like the way that the protocol is being used, that means that potentially the users on bitcoin will pay a fees on the bitcoin that they transact with, because they only have bitcoin. So they might as well give a piece of bitcoin. Then the users on XYz chain will give XYz tokens. So that means that all of the revenue that the AV's will be getting might be in lots of different types of token. Do you plan to abstract all of this for the rest takers? And then they get just eth? Or how would you plan to retribute?
00:33:06.214 - 00:33:48.664, Speaker B: So the fees will almost certainly be paid in near, because the near network is the one ultimately accruing the fees. So almost certainly, I mean, the abstraction is going to happen at the app layer and there's already teams doing that. There's some creative ways to make it. So basically the user on the native network is only paying fees in their native token. But ultimately that fee will end up, somebody will have to be basically taking that fee and then paying near to the near network. And so the actual accrual of any type of anything that could be paid to the restakers ultimately will I see it almost certainly being in near. So what I would say is restakers will expect to be paid in year.
00:33:48.664 - 00:34:02.634, Speaker B: That's very much the most likely case here, at least for a while, if not, if not indefinitely. And it's hard to say what's going to happen in the long term. I would say certainly in the short to mid term, expecting to get paid in the year is what's going to happen.
00:34:03.734 - 00:34:24.714, Speaker A: Very, very interesting. You briefly mentioned it, but could you share a bit how you envision your roadmap to be like? Do you have a timeline in mind? And do you already have an expectation of what will be the amount of usage of the protocol when it launches?
00:34:25.613 - 00:35:10.852, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good question. So the pagoda team launched a testnet just over a month ago, right at the end of March. And so that's been running for about five weeks or so with some early, actually a lot of abs type of operator cohort who's been running that. It's kind of a proof of authority mode. So the audits for that core tech mainly. So the cryptography and the FPC implementation and the smart contract, those are, I believe, supposed to begin in the next week or two or like pretty shortly. And then basically once the audit is completed and anything that's selling there is sort of rectified and basically it's feeling very secure.
00:35:10.852 - 00:36:14.714, Speaker B: Then the pagoda team is going to push to a proof of authority that'll launch with likely ten early parties who have eight to ten early parties who have expressed interest in been working with team to date. The intention there is basically to give developers an opportunity to start building on it. The idea is there's a new design space here, there's a lot of infrastructure that's going to have to be built. Best practices are going to have to be developed around this technology. At the application layer, the decision was made basically to really target those developers first and give them the opportunity to start building these applications and also understanding that they have, that they know who's running this system, that it's really, really reputable group and that is a good way to bootstrap the network. So we're expecting to see, I'd say over the first six months or so of that, quite a few applications launch. There's at least ten teams who are building full time using this right now and a lot more that have reached out and expressed interest.
00:36:14.714 - 00:37:10.790, Speaker B: So it's still very early days and very much like aiming much higher than that, but there's already quite a bit of, and a pretty diverse group of teams are building. And we have some teams building multi chain dexs, multi chain lending, quite a few wallet teams, telegram wallets, regular wallets, like the kind of the whole sort of stack, and then even a lot of like a couple applications looking into building bitcoin functionality, like really trying to solve some particular problems to the bitcoin, particularly around ruins and ordinals training. So yeah, it's going to be interesting to see one when those applications are able to go live and then what type of usage they're able to attract. But so far we've been pretty impressed with the quality and are very optimistic here about the update. So that's the timeline for getting the product itself out. Now obviously the goal here is to make this as robust and decentralized as possible. So I think the timeline for that, one of the big considerations is what really makes this powerful.
00:37:10.790 - 00:38:16.814, Speaker B: The biggest benefit to add to this using eigen layer is the slashing. And so I think a target is, to be honest, probably learn from some of these earlier launches which will actually include another product from the near ecosystem and the fast finality layer, and just learn from their experiences like how much security costs, how much security they actually need, uh, you know, when slashing goes live, like what type of slashing conditions are people launching with? How are they being used? Like how are they testing it? Right. Because I think this has been interesting. Learning from watching the L2 ecosystem is fraud proofs are hard because they should never happen. And so it's hard to know like do they actually work and you tried set sort, but it's, yeah, it's complicated and it takes some time. So all those factors I think are going to play into, into this system. Um, and so, uh, yeah, the team is very much kind of taking it like let's be very, very close to teams who are building this and really learn from some of these best practices and then turn this thing into an AV's once those are established.
00:38:16.814 - 00:39:10.956, Speaker B: And also one of the big things here is making sure that a large enough set of operators can actually participate in this network. And that requires quite a bit of basically just engineering work and even some design work going from that sort of 810 network to a scalable 30 5100, hopefully eventually more set of operators. And so that's likely to take, I would say, for what the team is telling me, probably six plus months is the plan. So I'd say end of the year is likely when the team will be looking to turn this into turn the abs on. But ahead of that, there's definitely opportunities to build a relationship. There's the opportunity to validate the other AV's from the fast finality team that's building that. And yeah, we'd say on the proximity side and pagoda side.
00:39:10.956 - 00:39:28.684, Speaker B: And others always interested in building relationship operators. A lot of them fortunately are already near validators. So that's another good way to build a relationship. Yeah, there's going to be definitely, I'd say towards the end of the year is when we likely expect things to transition.
00:39:29.384 - 00:41:06.144, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, and yeah, you know, we internally at Ken, we're also extremely excited to see like how all of this will play out because you are very right in saying that slashing is currently not available on again, Mainnet. And it's going to be a crucial part of the process to see how slashing works practically on Mainnet, to understand basically like what people can actually do, how people can actually build things and how people can actually rely on this slashing, this economic incentive to behave well to make sure that they can build the best protocols. And it's also going to be interesting to see how the Eigen token, for example, plays out in all of this because something that was recently announced and that will presumably allow for more intersubjective, for persistence, basically. So very interesting stuff. I had a question, kind of, I would say a very personal question for Kyung is how is it to run an operator on proximity labs on your AV's, how is it we already running an operator on near? How much of a stretch is it to run the AV's? And is it something that will be very, very scalable once you'll support many, many chains?
00:41:06.964 - 00:41:36.604, Speaker B: Yeah, so it's a great question. So the pagoda AV's is quite lightweight right now. I think like a lot of the current operators are running it on like the n two instance on GCP. So not an insanely powerful instance. The things to watch. So a couple of things that are important. One, the intention is actually to make this operator, like the actual usage, or rather its function, extremely limited.
00:41:36.604 - 00:42:21.180, Speaker B: It the only thing it does, I mean, only being he's doing a lot of work here, but it listens to a smart contract on near for a payload, or request for a payload, and then it basically derives a deterministic sort of public key to sign on behalf of that's based on the near account that's requesting it, which also be a smart contract. And the derivation path that's passed in as part of like one of three arguments for the function. So you pass in a payload derivation path and signing scheme. So basically takes the payload takes the derivation path. It's like this is the public key I'm going to use and then uses the signing scheme to actually complete the signature and then returns the signature back to the blockchain. So the cool thing is that to add new chains, nothing actually has to be done. The only thing that has to be done is supporting science.
00:42:21.180 - 00:43:08.928, Speaker B: So initially at launch, ECDSA will be supported. The team, the Go team, is already working on EDDSA, which a lot of that work actually reused for things like shore signatures, which is great. And then eventually they'll probably be BLS and maybe some other signature types. But for the most part, within probably a few months of launch will be support for most chains and signature types that are used in practice today. What's great about that is that any chain that launches that uses that signing scheme with a couple of considerations should more or less be supported out of the box, which is really cool. Adding new chains won't actually add any load, really. In fact, maybe if there's a new signing scheme that has to be added that's really computationally intensive, that could add some overhead to the nodes, but that would be the only thing that would actually really.
00:43:08.928 - 00:43:45.000, Speaker B: And usually signing schemes tend to become more efficient rather than less efficient. And so pretty much expecting that. Yeah, actually the core computer clients want to search. Now, the big, obviously, the big kicker is the amount of signatures that are requested. So that's one of the core focuses of the team right now, is basically being prepared. Their goal is actually to match the throughput of a single nearshard, which is, I mean, depends on its transaction type, but it's roughly like 300 transactions per second and like absolute peak load for one shark. And so that's what they're looking to match by, like before the end of the year.
00:43:45.000 - 00:44:24.218, Speaker B: And I mean, if the product actually gets that much load for the end of the year, I will personally be incredibly ecstatic because that would be a smashing success. I think that's like, that's like blowing out the top success. So, yeah, I think that they'll have enough capacity pretty quickly. So what the sort of node requirements will look like at full load is still sort of being determined, but it should be, I'd say, on the light, like, it's not going to look like running a near validator, most likely just because you don't have to do. Yeah, there's just a lot like less than you have to do than a full near battery. You keep a lot less in memory. You don't have to keep anything in memory.
00:44:24.218 - 00:44:40.114, Speaker B: It's like you have the signing material. You sign the payload report to the chain. That's it. And then you move on to the next one. Everything else is kept on the near blockchain. So I would expect definitely lighter than running a near router. But again, we'll know when.
00:44:40.114 - 00:44:49.354, Speaker B: You always learn about scaling as you're scaling because it's always unexpected things. But I would expect to be pretty lightweight.
00:44:50.034 - 00:45:37.384, Speaker A: Great. Just some closing questions and some closing thoughts for you. I would love to ask you if we just take a step back on the entire restaking ecosystem, not just Eigen layer, but the concept of restaking. How far in the exoticism do you think the builders will go in terms of building new Avss? That's my first question. And then my second question is, do you think we'll see a future where there could be competing restaking hubs, meaning not just a different set of restakable assets like bitcoin, ethereum, Solana, but also different ways to do restaking as a hub?
00:45:38.844 - 00:46:05.392, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a super interesting question. So I think, and actually, an early question I didn't touch on as much as, like, the sort of, I guess, like, shared restaking versus. Versus, I guess, attributable restaking. I think how that, like, how well shared restaking works is, I think, going to be a really big determining factor. And, like, how big restaking becomes. Uh, because, I mean, attributable restaking is great. It's like, you know, it's.
00:46:05.392 - 00:46:26.064, Speaker B: It's. It's like a step up from just staking. Because it's like, okay, you can instaking you own and you can kind of delegate it. I mean, there's some, you know, some. Some consequences that I think we're gonna have to learn from, for sure. But, yeah, you know that there's, like, kind of a limit to that, right. It's basically like, you know, well, there's like a clear limit, whereas, like, just shared restaking.
00:46:26.064 - 00:46:54.374, Speaker B: Yeah. It's like it was more leverage, basically. Like, that's. That's like a levered play. So I think, like, if shared restate, if shared rethinking can actually work in practice, not actually lead to a house of cards, of security and a lot of clear downsides, then people are going to be trying to use it everywhere they can. People probably even try to use it for things that right now it doesn't seem very practical. You wouldn't really think it makes sense.
00:46:54.374 - 00:47:45.444, Speaker B: But a lot of crypto economic security is about security budgets. And so if like, that would, that would, in theory, enable much smaller security budgets. But then I think, like, we're going to see a plethora of AP's. If it turns out that shared restaking is not actually, or rather is, there's a lot of clear trade offs to it and teams have to really opt more for restaking, then I think that is, by definition, kind of going to cap the amount of ABS is more realistically. So I think that's actually the thing I'm watching the most is, you know, how is that going to shake out? But I'd say I'm definitely optimistic that at least a lot of use cases will be able to use it. And so it's going to be really interesting to the second question about, I guess, basically whether we'll see eigen layer competitors, not just on the asset level. I think that the.
00:47:45.444 - 00:48:31.872, Speaker B: So first of all, I think competition generally is good, and I think crypto in particular, the whole point of crypto, one of the points of crypto has been to eliminate rent seeking behavior or at least minimize its impact and make it harder to do in practice. Obviously, in reality, there still is rent seeking behavior. But I think it definitely helps when you have competition to at least keep teams in check. The regular team is great and very honest, but as it becomes more distributed and decentralized and all these things shift and things, it gets out of control. Even if you start a corporation, it gets a lot bigger than any individuals and even the original founding team, and it has a life of its own. And I think that happens even more so in crypto by design. And so having competition, I think, is good for that reason that it really is sort of like a check on.
00:48:31.872 - 00:49:17.472, Speaker B: It just makes the user experience better, ultimately. Like, users win when companies and protocols and things, right? So that's one benefit, I think what's important, though, is that where we always go overboard is it's so easy in a way, to just fork and launch a competitor, which changing basically nothing, and then just. Just having a different marketing strategy that users don't actually win. It's like almost as like the opposite effect in a way, in some cases. So I'm hopeful that I think what will lead to there being multiple players in restaking is if there are different ways to implement restaking. Right. It's like, if there's, like a design, if there is a design space here, like basically, probably if there's like some all different things to learn about the economics and like, you know, even the tokens, all of that and the mix of them.
00:49:17.472 - 00:49:53.554, Speaker B: Um, that's where I think, like, we might see, you know, multiple players, because, like, they focus on different, like, different use cases, different aspects, different whatever it is, like something different. Um, but, uh, yeah, I mean, we already see, I guess, like a bunch of teams who are, like, very much inspired by eigen layer, uh, and are launching. I think it's. Yeah, for the most part, though, it's kind of like eigen layer, but with different asset. So it's going to be really interesting. We start to see, like, okay, we saw that this was working for Eigen layer, but this wasn't. And this feels like an area that they don't think actually makes sense to invest resources in, maybe for good reasons, but that we think makes sense to invest resources.
00:49:53.554 - 00:50:07.234, Speaker B: And so we're going to shape a product built on that, targeting that group, and, like, hope that, you know, there's a business there. So kind of an odd answer, I guess. But, yeah, it's basically. We'll see. I mean, it's so hard to say. I think it's still so early. There's like, not really.
00:50:07.234 - 00:50:19.204, Speaker B: I think Eigenva will be the first AV's live. And it's like, sort of not exactly live yet. Excited to see it go live. So I think the next couple of months are going to tell us a lot about how this whole thing is going to shake out.
00:50:19.784 - 00:51:08.960, Speaker A: Yeah, it's been definitely, definitely a very interesting time in the crypto history. We're very excited to see how all of this is going to play out. And I do think, personally, that, again, Ar has a clear advantage in being just the first actor to execute up on this vision. And in a way, we could see that other actors have executed in the past on the vision of restaking. Because in a way, you could consider the cosmos hub, the atomic ammo, as a sort of rest taking hub, but not at the scale. And with the amount of assets that Eigenaire has today going to be very, very interesting. I wanted to.
00:51:08.960 - 00:51:30.324, Speaker A: We were a bit over time. I wanted to thank you a lot for this conversation. I had a great time and very, very excited to see you guys on testnet and eventually on Mainnet. And I hope Kyon will be running your AV's. It's going to be very, very interesting time.
00:51:30.714 - 00:51:37.254, Speaker B: Yeah, likewise. Thanks for having me. Yeah, super fun conversation and, yeah, excited about the future.
00:51:37.754 - 00:51:41.930, Speaker A: Perfect. And to the audience, guys, we'll see you in the next one. Bye.
