00:00:00.090 - 00:00:43.878, Speaker A: Atmosphere. So yeah, I think I can personally perform better in this kind of culture atmosphere. And really, first of all, I have to thanks for having Stakestone and me, Chris here for having this, doing this sharing about Stakestone. And today the topic for sharing is a standard option, liquidity as the new module in the era of modularity, because really wants to make combination for race taking modularity as the major thesis for today's sharing session. So currently in this market, what's, what kind of voice we hear. Modularity is the future and we are very, very hyped about race taking. So there are trends.
00:00:43.878 - 00:01:40.810, Speaker A: And before we starting on lots of details, we'd like to say like stakesome as the omnichannel liquid distribution infrastructure, like sitting in the intersection or across infield for modularity, as well as ray staking. So it's very excited we got the opportunity to share some of our observation thoughts in terms of all the opportunities we got with the builders and protocols and project with all these directions. So first let's start with modularity. As mentioned, stake zone's business is connected supply side as well as demand side of liquidity. And we highly focus on growing with the rising ecosystems. That's how we basically achieve 1 billion liquidity in tv up. So what interesting we observe from the chains and ecosystems we're talking with, partnering with and future going to work with is the inevitable trend for modularity.
00:01:40.810 - 00:02:23.974, Speaker A: We can give some examples here, because they're all trying to seize advantages in terms of embracing modularity. So first of all, Mana network, we work together very closely and achieve 800 million liquidity. Don't have to say much about it because it's a very outstanding modular blockchain. And I personally heavily integrated and interacted with Manta before their switch to celestial. And as a defi user, I have to say the experience is going to be totally different to levels and B squared. They currently secure is Polygon CDK and currently secured around 400 million liquidity. And interestingly, they are also developing their own data ability layer.
00:02:23.974 - 00:03:10.330, Speaker A: And for all star they originated in polka Dot. And now what's modularity? And for Tusami, very interesting things. They have lots of resources in terms of the offline retail systems. Sorry, not offline off chain retail systems in Japan. But their funding teams told us they're quite excited about the near DA as well as Polygon CDK, and willing to adopt this as a tech solutions for the resources they got. And also recently we got mod op stack and also a modular defi layer too. So basically we can say that they all have very, very different origins, but what's the same trend that is all embracing modularity to a certain degree? So this is basically our observation we made for our partners as well as our customers for liquidity.
00:03:10.330 - 00:04:02.374, Speaker A: And I have to say that for six, as we're dealing with liquidity, what we observe is that we mentioned lots of chains, lots of ecosystems, and we find out every chain has their different advantages, they have different features, they have different strengths. Someone's focused on community, I have very strong community, a very strong vibe someone is building. Basically I have advanced technologies in terms of the technical infrastructure. Someone said I'm focused on Gamefi, someone said I'm focusing on social fi. Someone said I'm focusing on Defi. So chains actually find out they're trying to make themselves different in terms of getting advantages. But from our perspective, as well as the real need for all these chains builders and teams, they have the same need and pain points for cost effect liquidity for its application layers.
00:04:02.374 - 00:04:57.462, Speaker A: So they need liquidity to build their ecosystem, not only defi, but also other, as we mentioned, social gamify or on chain gaming. They can also adopt deal bearing assets to increase their capital efficiency. And this is basically where stakes on sitting. And the opportunity we got is we find out that there's opportunity to be an omnichannel liquidity infrastructure solution for all this rising chains with different features, but with the same need for liquidity. So here basically wants to echo with today's major topic. This modularity is that we find out there's opportunity to be, we call it liquidity as a service or liquidity infrastructure like stakestone itself can be a new module for chains on its application layer. That's beyond basically not only data ability or consensus layer, it's happening on its applications layer.
00:04:57.462 - 00:05:47.094, Speaker A: So by adopting it, they solve the pain points as basically liquidity, and then by adopting the module on their application layers, they can further gain advantages. And I would like to further dive into solutions for sixum and to further echo back how the solutions can solve these problems. So on the left side, kind of high, basically this is the illustration and high level of extraction for six zone protocols. When users deposit ethereum mainnets, they will get stone. And stone is a Yale bearing assets, or omnichan Yale bearing Ethereum that can tap into different kinds of underlying assets. According to we do Ethereum staking and we're also definitely 100% compatible with restaking. And elaborate more on race staking parts.
00:05:47.094 - 00:06:34.250, Speaker A: Basically we're compatible with Lst ray staking, big engine race staking as well as race staking pools or you can call it lrts. And all these Enderland assets are managed under a decentralized fund management system. So basically users deposit Ethereum and they get and stone, which is the Omnichan Yobar Ethereum. Another side is for the bridging part. This is something that happening around Ethereum CC in Paris at that time we realized the supply side, basically demand side liquidity are switching from the Ethereum mainnet to the rising ecosystems. They're not on mainnet anymore. Instead, basically in the past, in the Defi summers or even before a few months ago, that is separated protocols that I want liquidity to debute myself, that is sitting on the main net.
00:06:34.250 - 00:07:20.890, Speaker A: But now we see this, that we have rising ecosystems and chains with all the protocols within them that is sticking liquidity as a whole. So we adopt layer zero's OFD standard as the very beginning. And this helps stone to get very strong cross chain compatibility. So basically user deposit Ethereum gets stone and bridge them to all the SQL systems and further apply them on the application layer in different protocols. This is just a very high level abstractions and probably can get a chance to share more about it in the future. So here comes the question is why adopting it? So basically it also integrates some of our thesis or some of the trends we observe in this market. And also this is echo back to the visions in position number six and stuff.
00:07:20.890 - 00:08:20.134, Speaker A: First of all, adopting the six stone as well as stone, this application layer, the new module helps the change to solve the opportunity cost for Ethereum because basically this trend happened after the merge and it's intensified after Shanghai upgrade. And basically I think it's become a consensus for the chains builders after the huge success for blast as well as manda. So yield bearing is important for layer two because native ethereum is too expensive to be attracted at this moment, especially in the bull market as well as our huge expectations for ray staking. So the opportunity cost for Ethereum is insane. And there is going to be one asset that helps the chains to wrap the risk free rewards. Basically staking, Ray staking and also upcoming potential risk free yield sources. So stone help them to solve the problem for native yields as well as solve the problem for opportunities cost for Ethereum.
00:08:20.134 - 00:09:42.182, Speaker A: And second is like one standard with less fraction because at the very beginning we mentioned that stone wants to be the standard for omnichannel, liquidity wants to be a standard for your bearing ethereum. Then why one standard is so important? Personally I want to say when I come to America, I have to use us dollar, I have to change money, right? And also I cannot use union pays card here. And also my only visa card don't have a chip, so I cannot use as a payment in most of the use cases. So basically, if we draw this structure on chain, it's basically like why we not speak same language in all the regions? Why if I want to explore different ecosystems, for example with my fixed amount ethereum, why I have to switch back and forth into different asset standard assets, type and add lots of frictions and fragmentations of liquidity during the swap, stake, gun, stake withdrawal, things like that. So we basically think that it's very, very important to have one standards for liquidity that is to reduce, the purpose of it is to reduce the fragmentations. And it's going to be the first principle, one standard for higher efficiency and yellow bearing for higher capital efficiency, for higher capital efficiency and more cost effective liquidity. And third thing is very interesting is the chain itself.
00:09:42.182 - 00:10:11.326, Speaker A: From chain's perspective it seems that they adopt a normal ERc 20 token. So there's nothing special. But actually the chain self got empowered from the whole industry chain in terms of the yield generation as well as liquidity providers. So this layer are chains. And basically here's referring to their application layers. And this is where six zone and stone sets in. So first of all, we connect.
00:10:11.326 - 00:10:36.242, Speaker A: Liquidity providers spent long time wisdom to build trust with individuals, with communities, with institutions. So here is liquidity providers put Ethereum into sixum, the liquidity infrastructure. Then they get stone. So save the application layer, spend enough time on them. So for a younger generation part. So liquidity provider gets stone. They are bearing Ethereum for the center of Omnichan liquidity.
00:10:36.242 - 00:11:11.790, Speaker A: And they further apply them into different use cases to get another layer of rewards to max them the capital efficiency. On the other hand, for the ethereum they enter. We call the part of yo generation taping your staking as well as ray staking. So for staking also it can be done with staking pools. And also basically there are lots of players here, but currently we only do with staking pools, but definitely 100% compatible with it and also do with weather providers for race staking part the same we can do with race staking pools. You can do the bitcoin chain race staking, you can do the LSD race staking. And finally the funds go to the Avs operators like Alt layer.
00:11:11.790 - 00:12:04.430, Speaker A: So basically bio adopting stone is not just about adopting a normal us economy token. It's about adopting the power of the whole industry chain, including liquidity provision as well as your generation. All right, spend lots of time on the application layer, application Rustone or basically it's a use case of stone and currently go back to the basically second topics for stakes on is race staking as well as echo back to the major theme of today's sharing. That is like what is the potentials for Stakestone in terms of ray staking? Basically there are a few points. First of all, as mentioned that Stakestone and Stone's mission is to broad risk free rewards to the rising chains and ecosystems as well as existing one. Definitely. And to increase the capital efficiency for users, chains and protocols on the application layer.
00:12:04.430 - 00:12:36.720, Speaker A: So we see great potentials in terms of risk taking at the very, very beginning. So we make sure our architecture is compatible with it even before I think I can later enable the first deposit. So make sure the overall architecture is compatible with it. So adopting the restaking into the underlying assets for 60 is one of the strategies. And the allocated Ethereum we collected into it can increase the risk free reward for Ethereum and going to hence benefit everyone. Adopting stone and second is. Sorry, I think I just covered second part.
00:12:36.720 - 00:13:53.186, Speaker A: Segal has multiple underlying management system that can tap into different kinds of yield sources and manage fully on chain as well as decentralized. So basically this is some of the synergies for Stone with Eigen layer as well as racetaking. Currently I think in the mid of March or beginning of March, we're going to make the first deposit around going to make the first deposit into the racetick ecosystems here. Also like to draw, this is one of the scenarios I would like to draw from a very high level is that for Eggon layer it's building the liquidity market for the consensus layer. They get Ethereum liquidity and get them restaked into different cases basically on the consensus layer. But for stakestorm we gather liquidity, put them into restaking to enhance the capital efficiency and also for storm itself, the token itself can be further distributed into use cases on the applications layers. So basically on this perspective, stone itself and stake stone as an overall system is the liquidity market or option liquidity market for the application layer.
00:13:53.186 - 00:14:46.738, Speaker A: And also we have a ve model to make sure it happens and make sure it makes sense on the economic perspective and also help the protocols to capture the value. All right, so the final thing is I grabbed lots of information in this page and also this is something that currently we are thinking about because we are really serious in terms of providing risk taking service in the future. And also this might be kind of open questions for all audiences and lovers. For stakers here, the first is the number as well as the diversity for AVss. Because in our communications with the one who are interested in building AVss as well as all layers, they're helping with lots of these avs. That's upcoming. Thinking about first of all, the fundamental differences is that staking and restaking in this part is for staking, the underlying assets is homogeneous.
00:14:46.738 - 00:15:42.582, Speaker A: Like basically you put Ethereum into bitcoin chain, put Ethereum into validators. So there's no huge differences among all different kinds of service providers. But for Avss it's going to be very different. So if we say like ETH, staking is the onshore treasure bill, we would say AVSs are more like corporate bonds or corporate bills with different level of risk as well, different level of reward. So it's going to be a really diverse as well as complex ecosystems. And here we might have the kind of concept called like blue cheap av assets, probably because if you have 30, 40, 7100 av assets, some of them are going to be more stable and less slashed, while offering you with probably more balance or even less rewards. And some of them, they are very aggressive, constantly slashed, but it might offer you more aggressive rewards.
00:15:42.582 - 00:17:22.570, Speaker A: So very excited to see the future and basically the birth of the concept for blue chip AVss like we see in the past, like blue chip defi, like we see cheetah here, right? As well as it's very interesting and looking forward to the real AVss ecosystem in the future. And second is we're thinking about the capital capacity for each separate avss, as well as the race stake ecosystem as whole. So currently we have huge amount of liquidity in agile layer and also lots of liquidity are still waiting to be restaked. But here comes the problem is as avss is how many liquidity I will be accepted to restake into my consensus layer, as well as I have to distribute fair rewards for them. So basically this is going to be, we have to do some calculations as well as anticipations for it, for separated abs, how much can I accept for a signal system, how much I can accept if I have lots of abs? And it's going to be lots of challenges for our basically abs operator providers like outlayers and also I think lots of traditional value providers, also swift expand their business into this area. Lots of challenges for them, but also very excited about dynamics because based on the different portfolios, based on the different AVss you might have a combination of different AV Asss and finally deliver different performances as well as in terms of their risk as well as their rewards. So it's going to be more interesting, more diverse than staking probably at this moment.
00:17:22.570 - 00:18:19.994, Speaker A: And finally, some thoughts and perspective from Stakestone is that as constantly mentioned in the beginning, stakestone has ability to compatible with different kind of assets. And our basically goal is to make stone self delivering the secure as well as stable rewards for the chains ecosystem as well as users. So basically we think that by compatible with different NLR and assets, instead of fixing it or instead of influencing the stone we already issued, we got ability to reach a better balance in terms of risk as well as rewards for the upcoming very diverse like restaking abs ecosystems. So basically this is everything I like to share today. And really thanks for having us having stakes on here. Thank you so much. Yes.
00:18:20.192 - 00:18:50.950, Speaker B: So actually the two possibilities for a yield burning asset, they'rebases or increases the value constantly. And both these are bad, especially for stable fundamental assets because they require arbitrage and it makes these assets incompatible with defi protocol, I guess. Have you thought about introducing a way to segregate the yield for safestone for roll up based assets? Kind of like what blast is doing for its bridge?
00:18:52.730 - 00:19:26.594, Speaker A: I grabbed two points in the questions, correct me if I'm wrong. First of all, rebase tokens, really not that friendly for Defi compatibilities. So as day 1 st is a rebalancing token, it's non rebase. So basically every DeFi particles can integrate it without additional complexity. And second is how to solve the problem for bearing native yolks for layer two. As Amanda case, I proposed that we're building the first live yo bearing layer two because the Biden sticks blast don't have a main net. Sorry for that.
00:19:26.594 - 00:20:06.362, Speaker A: But how we achieve that is we exactly have 99 lines of code and we post it on Twitter. When users deposit ethereum on main net, this one transaction will activate staking as well as bridging in this one transaction. So user experience is going to be like this. I deposit ethereum on Ethereum mainnet and I directly receive LSD or bearing the storm on manta network. So in the past case we do things like that, but we have bunch of solutions for that. So when blast came out, the market isn't quite ready for that. But at this moment we have lots of other choices.
00:20:06.362 - 00:20:45.862, Speaker A: We have layer zeros. As mentioned, we already successfully made it in different cases. And also we have intent based protocols. We have conversation with several of them, and they have the solutions for six. Okay, so the third thing is you can also have a kind of liquidity pool model for basically bridging the assets. The user experience going to be like I deposit ethereum and basically I deposit ethereum on the source chain and I get LST on the target chain. The experience is going to be like bridge, but in fact it's conducted by swiping in terms of liquidity pool.
00:20:45.862 - 00:20:55.276, Speaker A: So we have lots of solutions for that. I think today is not going to be a huge, huge problem. Does that make sense?
00:20:55.458 - 00:21:05.772, Speaker B: Yeah, it makes sense. It seems like fragmentation, but there's a lot of fragmentation groups by having a separate yield bearing asset. That's not.
00:21:05.906 - 00:21:39.044, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. This is something I like to say. So basically we see like exchanges, they want to have their own yo bearing assets. This is understandable. But if we have 10, 20, 30 yo bearing assets in this market, and they are based on like, for example, doing for race staking and based on different kinds of underlying assets, are going to be too much fragmented for users for participating in different kind of. For different ecosystems. If I'm a very active ancient players, I would not sit my funds in one ecosystem in one use cases.
00:21:39.044 - 00:21:58.560, Speaker A: Instead, I have to move it frequently. But frictions and fragmentation happens when I have to switch the senders as well as if I have to switch the chain, I have to switch the sender, then the fragmentation is going to be basically very huge. And this comes the first principle why we need one standard for the omnichan liquidity.
00:22:01.220 - 00:22:29.850, Speaker C: Okay, thanks for sharing. And also notice the only feature of the stone token. It's quite interesting. So I have one very simple question. The storm on different chains will be traded equally or they will be different. Maybe they have different price, different types, or maybe you will try different fees for.
00:22:32.220 - 00:23:15.288, Speaker A: I got it. So basically, I think there are two perspectives in terms of response. The first is I can explain the mechanism in terms of bridging. So currently, no matter you're using Excel, using layer zero, or using CDIP, using basically using wormhole or anywhere, the bridging itself is like you lock the assets on the source chain as well as the issue, the assets on the target chain. So basically this is mechanism as well as this mechanism for stakeholder itself. So for stone is going to be treated, definitely going to the assets is going to be treated equally on every chain because the assets is locked. For example, I want to bridge Stone to a chain that's supported by layer zero.
00:23:15.288 - 00:23:53.204, Speaker A: So stone is locked on Ethereum because we do some customization in terms of the bridging services. So for oft native oft, I think it's going to be a burn end mint. But burn and mint will influence Stone's price. So we are doing a lock and mint. So you lock Stone on the source chain and you issue another stone on the target chain. So basically, the standard of the assets really depends on who issued the token or which standard you follows. So basically, if you follow the real standards on the chain is supported, it's going to be, technically speaking, it's going to be the same about the redemption and the price part.
00:23:53.204 - 00:24:37.456, Speaker A: For the redemption, the redemption only happens on the main net because all the real assets, like Ethereum or St. Ethereum or the bitcoin chain, ethereum that's in the validator are all on the Ethereum mainet. So if they want to do the redemption, they have to bridge their stone back to Mainnet and do the withdrawal. And about the price, the price definitely going to be a little bit different across different chains, because here you are referring to a dex price. And Dex price really depends on users'trading experience, trading behaviors, as well as the depths of liquidity on each specific chain. There might be a chance for arbitrage, but if the space is not enough, there's going to be a slightly difference for Stone's price on different chains. Yeah, please.
00:24:37.638 - 00:24:40.624, Speaker C: So we notice the price of the rental of stone.
00:24:40.752 - 00:24:55.800, Speaker A: Yeah, because the bridge is. I totally understand. This is too so frequently asked because according to Mantis policy, they will not open the bridge. Yeah. Stone cannot be withdrawed.
00:24:58.780 - 00:24:59.732, Speaker C: Anytime.
00:24:59.876 - 00:25:57.192, Speaker A: Yeah. Basically what is going on here is like arbitrager cannot finish the arbitrage, even though we know someone in person, they bought huge amount of stone, but they cannot bridge them back into mainnet and get Ethereum to finish the arbitrage. So since the arbitrage itself is not completed, the deepak happens. Yes, this is the question that we're frequently referring to. In fact, you have huge amount of liquidity required on Manta to constantly repack the price because Manta's reward is happening previously, not at the end. So users all have the organic incentives and motivations to bridge the assets out of Manta to dramatically increase their capital efficiency. So I think around two days ago, someone bought large monstrome, even repacked the price, and it is immediately depacked.
00:25:57.192 - 00:26:07.744, Speaker A: So it's going to be a loop forever like this because the arbitrage cannot be completed on the main net. Thank you for the question. It's a good one.
00:26:07.942 - 00:26:09.890, Speaker C: If no more question, may I ask.
00:26:11.380 - 00:26:12.130, Speaker A: Sorry.
00:26:13.140 - 00:26:39.560, Speaker D: After all these airdrops happen, right? Maybe Eigen layer does an airdrop, maybe you guys do. How do you see people staying on Eigen, like keeping their ether in there? Because they have a pretty high opportunity cost, right? And at the same time the risk is very high. You don't like the flashing. How do you see, do you think people like baby assets are going to have enough money to pay people to outweigh that cost after the airdrop?
00:26:40.220 - 00:26:42.430, Speaker A: Yes. This is a pretty harsh one, though.
00:26:45.120 - 00:26:51.390, Speaker D: The risks are very high, right? You get slashed, but now everybody's farming the airdrop. What happens after?
00:26:52.160 - 00:27:40.504, Speaker A: Because we are not Eigen layer, but from a six month perspective, currently we do 0% with race staking, because we really want to be very cautious with that because we know some part of it isn't finished yet and agon pause need an upgrade. So we move pretty slow in that pace. But in a general sense, we're bullish about the potential in terms of boosting the risk for rewards. And I'm not sure whether you still remember I mentioned the concept of blue chip Avs. That is like when for example, egg and DA, they deliver their rewards in terms of Ethereum. And probably it's going to be one of the first very stable and give you a very fair rewards av assets and it's going to be solid boosted for the risk reward ethereum. And then we call it blue chip av assets.
00:27:40.504 - 00:28:34.188, Speaker A: And another thing is for stakeholder assets, our underlying assets is not fixed and we think this is our advantage. So when basically it depends on the future growth of ABS ecosystem, as we mentioned, the diversity number, the capital capacity is all unfixed at this moment, but we got flexibility. If at that time we are really, really bullish, the market really bullish. And the risk taking is very stable, definitely we can allocate more and more and more helium into it. So basically, the more stable the risk taking system is, the more allocation we put into it. So basically stakes on here got the flexibility and for the future for restaking from our attitude, we are bullish about it, but we also want to move in relatively stable pace. In terms of that, are you going.
00:28:34.194 - 00:28:42.064, Speaker D: To allow for LST and at the same time LRT or is going to be wrapped together with the LRT once you do that.
00:28:42.182 - 00:29:35.852, Speaker A: So for the method of restaking, Anderstex flow mechanism is all going to be exist in terms of strategies. As we can see currently St. Ethereum holding strategy, that means just holding St. Ethereum in the vault and for restaking we mentioned we also post a kind of like solutions tech roadmap on our Twitter. If you're interested, refer to that. No matter if it is LST race staking, bacon chain restaking or LRT, it's going to be the same. It exists in stake zones, vote in separated strategies, so it's not going to be a huge difference, but really have to consider additional factors like the safety suitability for each of the solutions adopted or basically what kind of assets would Avas support? Or who has the ability to put their ethereum into the blue chief a assets.
00:29:35.852 - 00:29:58.650, Speaker A: So it's really, really complicated questions, but definitely gladly we got the flexibility. So we see risk taking as a chance to boost Ethereum's risk rewards and resource chains ecosystem going to all benefits from it. Yes. Okay, we can talk about later. Sorry.
00:30:01.520 - 00:30:09.470, Speaker C: Any more questions? Actually, I have one. What's our criteria for change that we choose to integrate with?
00:30:10.160 - 00:30:33.364, Speaker A: In fact, we are planning a campaign related with our own incentives at the very beginning. We are open to discussion and if you are interested in terms of the liquidity as a module, as a service, so feel free to reach out and we can have an in depth discussion open to that.
00:30:33.562 - 00:30:34.550, Speaker C: Thank you.
00:30:36.200 - 00:30:38.290, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank.
