00:00:01.930 - 00:01:27.042, Speaker A: With the appearance of decentralized Oracle networks like Chainlink. And really, I think Chainlink pioneered a lot of this and is continuing to pioneer what's possible here. You have the additional layer of functionality about access to market events, access to weather data, access to sports events for prediction markets, access to any data out there in the world, the ability to do computation in a trust minimized environment that maintains certain amounts of privacy and can just update the state on chain relieving. You have certain scalability, privacy and other cost issues, and the ability to send commands and tokens between chains. So all of those key, three key functionalities are housed in Oracle networks, which essentially make up a set of what are called off chain services. You have on chain services, which is usually the contract itself or the financial product itself, that then interoperates with other financial services and other products, and that is underpinned by blockchains and Oracle networks, often in equal measure. Right? So you have the blockchain storing the actual contract, making the state changes happen, but then you have the Oracle networks generating hundreds of different services about providing data to that contract, about allowing it to communicate to another contract on another chain, about allowing it to perform a certain computation that it can't or doesn't want to perform on chain for cost or privacy reasons.
00:01:27.042 - 00:02:10.900, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, you end up seeing a large collection of services. Right now, we have hundreds of distinct decentralized oracle networks. In my expectation, we will at some point be at thousands of decentralized oracle networks. Each of them you can think of like a distinct stripe or Twilio or plaid or Google Maps. Even recently, we did something with Google where we started putting weather data from Google systems on chain for insurance. So what you're really seeing now is the evolution from just tokens to all of these more advanced hybrid smart contracts that are composed of both the on chain code and the off chain service, which is what a decentralized oracle network is.
