00:00:00.330 - 00:00:11.920, Speaker A: You. Hi, guys. Good morning. My name is Darren Camus. I'm the CEO and cofounder of IPor Labs. Thank you, guys, for coming to the 10:30 a.m.. Talk.
00:00:11.920 - 00:01:02.014, Speaker A: I guess the guys who are here didn't get liquidated last night at the opening party. So I'm here to talk about iPore. So, iPore, we consider it the base of the D five credit markets. So we're bridging the interest rate derivatives, or bringing interest rate derivatives and composable products to ethereum. So if you know a little bit, or if you were here last year, you would have seen Wukash talk about ipor and what are the fundamentals? But just to give a little kind of background, IPor is both an index and it's an interest rate derivative protocol. So what's the importance of an index? Last year, we talked about, for example, the Vibor, right? The Warsaw interbank offered rate, or something like the Libor. This is how you understand what's the cost of capital in a market.
00:01:02.014 - 00:02:02.370, Speaker A: And then, of course, on top of that, you can issue different deals, derivatives. You can offer a home loan, for example, based on this index rate. Okay? So we consider the ipor index, like the Libor or the vbore of deFi. But if you're thinking about a central bank, or if you're thinking about an interbank offered rate, you're thinking about a set of banks that you query. You ask them, what's the cost of capital that you would loan from one another today, right? The issue was this Libor was used to structure, I think, around $360,000,000,000,000 of deals, debt and derivatives. The issue was that you had actually corrupt bankers that were under or over reporting it, and then they were taking the opposite side of a trade in a derivative to pocket money, right? So if you guys are here in this industry, you probably understand that it's not the best idea just to trust. You need to verify.
00:02:02.370 - 00:03:03.910, Speaker A: So we take the idea of this decentralized or benchmark rate, and we apply the best of DeFi. So what do we have in Defi? We have smart contracts that are auditable. They're verifiable, they sit on chain, they're rules based, so we know how they work. So instead of actually asking banks, what's the cost of capital today? And you do it like the Libor was surveyed once a day, Monday to Friday, and accept weekends and holidays, right? And that's really something that's not a construct that matches the DFI markets, which is global, it's open twenty four seven. So we take this idea of a survey and instead of applying it to banks, we apply it to smart contracts. So the iPor index is based on what's happening on the different money markets inside of DFI. So right now it's a composite rate of ave v two and compound v two on ethereum l one.
00:03:03.910 - 00:04:03.114, Speaker A: Why? Because those are the most liquid markets. But actually, one thing cool about a benchmark rate that has this decentralized nature, that has a DAO, is there are some proposals to update the iport index. Right? So you have this idea that banks or protocols, which are proxies to financial institutions inside of deFi, they may rise, they may fall, they may get hacked, they may increase in TVL, they may decrease in TVL. So right now, inside of the iPor forum, there's a proposal to actually potentially include ave v three, compound v three, and even morpho to the index. So you can see how this construct, it's really taking something that's built in tradfi, adapting it to DFI, and embracing all the power that you get inside of DeFi. And on the other side, iPor is an interest rate derivatives, Dex. So if you think of what an index does, it moves over time.
00:04:03.114 - 00:04:50.454, Speaker A: It tells you what's the cost of capital today, tomorrow, it may be different. Three years down the road, it's going to be very different. And what do you need to do inside of the credit markets? So the whole idea of an interest rate derivative, it offers you some level of clarity of what's going to happen in the future. So, for example, if you're a borrower, you're exposed to the interest rate. If the interest rate goes up, obviously it's very painful for you because you need to pay more to service your debt in the future. And so we can take a very simple example of this. People that took a home loan in 2020, they were getting market bottom rates, but as the central banks hiked up the rates, this actually can increase their debt costs by two or three times.
00:04:50.454 - 00:05:36.626, Speaker A: Right? So this whole idea of predictability in credit markets is very important. So what can you do with an interest rate derivative inside the iPor protocol? Well, you can hedge, you can arbitrage, or you can take a directional position, right? So if you're going to say that the rates are going to rise, you're going to take a pay fixed position. If you think that the rates are going to fall, you're going to take a receive fixed position. Or naturally, if you're a borrower, you want to take the pay fixed because you don't want your cost of debt to go up. And on the receive fixed side if you're a lender, because you don't want to lose future income. Okay, so that's the basic function of the ipor protocol. But what does it do on chain? So the iPor protocol is actually printed block over block.
00:05:36.626 - 00:06:15.106, Speaker A: That's why we call it the iPor. It's the interproteocol over block rate. So this index is printed on chain. And so if we go back to the home loan situation, when you go to your bank, your bank is giving you a contract. They say, okay, I'm going to lend you a million dollars for the next 30 years to buy a very large house. Right? So how do they set the rate terms? Well, first of all, they go to an interest rate index, could be something like the vbore or the so four. And then they add a spread on top of that.
00:06:15.106 - 00:07:30.800, Speaker A: Right? So they're actually pegging this contract to a reference rate. And what we can do on chain is actually look at that at the smart contract level, where you have an external smart contract that's referencing the iPore and the iPor rates changing over time. So instead of this kind of pen and paper thing that sits in a database at a bank, we have this transparent smart contract that can be pegged to the iPOR index that's printed on chain block over block. And so that means that we actually get this very transparent on chain immutable rate that you can use to structure deals, debt or derivatives. And that's actually exactly what we do on the other side, which is the ipor interest rate derivative. So the iPOR interest rate derivative contract is a derivative instrument that references this on chain rate block over block. And so what's the goal of printing this benchmark rate, which is just a number, and printing it on chain? Well, first of all, it gives the entire market clarity of what's the cost of capital across USDC, USDT and DAI, or pretty soon the eth staking rate as well.
00:07:30.800 - 00:08:41.970, Speaker A: Second, it allows this free data point, this public good that any protocol can use to structure their different instruments. So for example, if you want to bootstrap a money market, and you don't want to use this utilization curve that you find, for example, on Avenger compound, you can actually just reference the iPor rate and you can set a basis point spread. Or if you think that you can build a better derivative than the current iPore interest rate, swap, you can do so just using the iPOr index as a reference. And so the value of the iPor index over time, in my mind, will be the value, the volume and the velocity of the future contracts that are actually using this benchmark rate to set their terms. Okay, so on the interest rate derivative side, typically how it happens and typically why most retail users don't know about interest rate derivatives is actually, it's not accessible to you. So you typically go from financial institution to financial institution. There's a broker in the middle and they set the counterparts, they set the terms and this is an exchange of cash flows.
00:08:41.970 - 00:09:39.110, Speaker A: But when we wanted to design this for DeFi, we wanted to actually take the best of DeFi, especially because we're starting a market from zero. So we decided to go with a peer to pool construction for the first generation of the interest rate swap. So what does that mean? So there's a couple of different ipore indices right now. There's an iPor index for USDC, iPor index for USDT, iPor index for DaI. So for example, what happens when someone is underwriting the interest rate movement? Also the interest rate velocity is you have one side, which is a passive depositor, and you can consider this also an earn participant. So for example, if you're a DAI participant, you would deposit DAI into the smart contract, you would get your interest bearing token, which can accrue value over time. And that capital is going to underwrite the derivative instruments.
00:09:39.110 - 00:10:41.770, Speaker A: While it's underwriting the derivative instruments, it actually goes out to different money markets to earn. And why I mentioned DAi is, for example, the iPOr protocol is one of the first protocols to integrate Makerdao's EDSR. The EDSR, if you're not aware it was subsidizing the DAI savings rate up to 8%, it's now been dropped down to 5%. So for example, if you are a passive depositor and you have DAI, and you want to choose between, let's say the Makerdao EDSR contract or the spark SDI contract, you can also deposit into iPor. Why? Because you're getting that underlying yield from the money markets and you also get two different revenue streams in the form of fees from the interest rate traders and also the net outcome of the different swaps. Okay, so that's the depositor side. And actually iPor depositors are earning industry leading returns actually since the start of the protocol, which is actually just one year ago in August.
00:10:41.770 - 00:11:18.498, Speaker A: So what happens is that capital is then used on the other side to offer a quote. So, if you're an interest rate trader, you come and you ask for a quote from the AMm. That Amm is looking at the current state of the pool. It's looking at the near term volatility of the ipor index. It's looking at some probabilities of what the index will be in the future. And it's giving you a quote so you can consider it kind of a request for a quote mechanism. So, for the past year, we've run, really, instruments very short, very short durations.
00:11:18.498 - 00:12:10.680, Speaker A: So, 28 day or a four week peer to pool interest rate swap, we're right on the verge of the V two. And that V two will extend the tenors to two months and three months and beyond with proper testing. Okay, so I mentioned that kind of the process of a depositor actually putting their money in the protocol. And this is something that can be very scary for DeFi users, because you put your money in a protocol, you see this APR, but you have no idea how it's being generated. And sometimes this leads to problems, and sometimes this leads to loss. But what we really love about DeFi is we also embrace this transparency that we get from things being built on chain. They're auditable, they're transparent, you can track them in real time.
00:12:10.680 - 00:13:08.618, Speaker A: So this is a screener that we're just about to launch, which is really tracking where is my money? In the machine. Right. So if we start from the left side, you can see, okay, so here's the liquidity that's going into the pool, so you can see where your deposit goes. There's a reserve ratio that's underwriting the instruments, and then you can go see it being deployed to the different money markets. So you can understand what it's earning here and here. So you understand, actually, how your deposit is earning. And I think this is a really nice thing that we would like to see a lot of other projects doing, because with the collapse of all of these Ponzi schemes, the collapse of these very high yielding products, everyone is now starting to ask, okay, so I'm getting this high APY, where is it coming from? So we just built a simple screener, slapped it on.
00:13:08.618 - 00:14:00.050, Speaker A: What's the blockchain infrastructure to tell you where's your money in the machine and how is it earning? Okay, so here's the current state of the IPor protocol. Actually, these figures are a little bit outdated, but right now, the pool has underwritten over 4.1 billion in notional volume. The pools are about 13 and a half million and we're actually right on the verge of launching the V two. So, as I mentioned, the iPro pools for the USDT, USDC and die pools have been earning industry leading rate of return since the inception. We're talking about top ten, top 20 yields for those stablecoins. What's important about the v two is actually that we'll be launching a new product, which is the stake rate swap.
00:14:00.050 - 00:14:53.930, Speaker A: So you can consider it similar to an interest rate swap, but it's off of the ETH staking rate. So what does that mean again, you will be able to deposit ETH, you'll be able to be earning the ETH staking rate, and you'll also be able to earn from the fees and the net outcome of the swaps. And on the other side, as a trader, you'll be able to offset your variable staking rate risk. So why are swaps interesting? Why are swaps important? So a swap actually allows you to exchange a fixed floating rate for a fixed rate. Or in other words, you can predict your cost of capital. So, for example, again, if you're a borrower, you want to lock in your cost of borrowing in case the interest rate goes up. You don't want to pay more on your debt cost, right? So you'd naturally be a pay fixed taker.
00:14:53.930 - 00:15:34.918, Speaker A: So we have a lot of these different mechanisms where we do leverage looping, for example. So you might be borrowing ETH, you have your ETH debt cost, you might leverage loop that into the staked ETH. And really what's important is when you're building kind of these simple, structured products, you actually need to take a derivative to lock in this rate differential between the cost of borrowing ETH and your rate of return. So this is where the interest rate swaps come into play. In terms of structured products, they also allow you to play different market conditions. So if you can see there, this is a screen from Delphi Digital. They did a deep dive on the iPor protocol earlier this year.
00:15:34.918 - 00:16:44.030, Speaker A: This is an example of what happened during the Silicon Valley bank crisis. So there's a couple of different ways that you can play this, but you can see if we go back to that time, we remember that USDC rates spiked up, the USDT rate spiked up, the USDT exchange rate spiked up, and the USDc exchange rate dropped. Right? You had this kind of DPEG. And so we saw a couple of very interesting things where people were playing this kind of, not only the rate differential, but they were playing the stablecoin arbitrage, playing this repeg on the USDC. So you also can take different interest rate trading strategies. So if you think that it's going to be a divergence or a convergence between two rates, you can take fixed for floating, floating for fixed, or fixed for fixed swaps between different currencies. And so this is another interesting rate strategy that's possible inside of Defi, because really, these stablecoins, they have their own rate risk, they have their own interest rate dynamics, because they're fundamentally different instruments.
00:16:44.030 - 00:17:23.290, Speaker A: So I mentioned that we'll be launching this kind of stake rate swap, which has the underlying pool. So there's a lot of different opportunities that are possible with these different structured products now coming onto Ethereum. So let's imagine that you guys are eth whales, and you want a very simple, you want a very low risk and you want a predictable return, right? And let's look at the other side. Everyone's talking about real world assets. Everyone is going crazy about us treasuries. So let's go ahead and walk through this kind of flow. So you're an eth whale.
00:17:23.290 - 00:17:57.182, Speaker A: You want to get that stake rate yield. And in case over time, the stake rate is going to drop, you want to hedge yourself against that downside risk. So you'd naturally be a receive fixed taker. So you're effectively locking in your eth stake rate yield. Then you want to make that productive. You can potentially leverage loop that, borrow against it in what's now very cheap debt in Defi. And you want to deposit into something like Ondo or matrix port or open Eden, which is the tokenized treasury yields.
00:17:57.182 - 00:18:42.210, Speaker A: Well, you can do that. What you do is you borrow from the money markets, you take the pay fixed swap on the ipor rates, and you can go deposit into those different pools. And so this is obviously something that you can do on your own, but it's also very complicated. So one of the things that we're doing for the v two is we're creating simple, structured products. So you get that one button click where you can create this, what's a very complex loop into a single multicall. And so this is one of the features that's going to be built on the v two infrastructure. And this is why we say that ipore is this base of structured products inside of DFI, where you can actually make these different plays inside of the credit markets.
00:18:42.210 - 00:19:38.354, Speaker A: And let's imagine, let's fast forward one year. Right now, the money markets are pricing in rate cuts starting in about June of 2024. And let's say we're looking towards this bitcoin happening, and maybe we get a risk rally, right? So, right now, you have very cheap debt inside of DeFi, and you have this high yielding treasury bills, right, in case the cycle inverts, that means that the T bill yield will drop. In case we get a risk rally. That may mean that DeFi participants are more interested in taking risk, they're more interested in taking debt. And maybe you get this reinversion of the rates, where it's actually interesting to go from the other side of the cycle, where you're going to actually borrow against your t bills to actually get access to the DeFi yield. So what does that mean? That means that ipore is at the center of this kind of two way yield bridge.
00:19:38.354 - 00:20:27.654, Speaker A: And we're not talking bridge going across chain. We're talking about a bridge of liquidity that's going from tradfi to DeFi and DeFi back. And so this is one of the fundamental features of the iPOr index that makes us very bullish about this infrastructure piece. Okay, so this is a little bit of a visualization. In the case that you go through this flow, you can get up to maybe about four X leverage looping going between one side and the other. But the really differentiator of using the iPOr index and the iPor swaps, rather than just looping by yourself, is that you get to actually lock in that rate of return. Okay, I think I just already covered this.
00:20:27.654 - 00:21:34.222, Speaker A: So this, in case we get this inversion, I think people in DeFi will go back to loving Defi yields and maybe a little bit more not bearish, but not so crazy about us treasuries. But the big thing is we have this massive opportunity and this massive yield bridge. And right now, we have stablecoins that are leaking out of DFI. Right? We have, from what I think, 130,000,000,000 stablecoins, and creeping down all of this liquidity is now leaving DFI to go park it in money market funds. And if you guys think that tradfi is very excited about getting this 130,000,000,000 of DFI stablecoins, no one cares. But from the DeFi perspective, we should be really bullish about tradfi. People that are getting sub defi yields in a market cycle inversion piping in trillions of dollars of liquidity into DeFi.
00:21:34.222 - 00:22:12.070, Speaker A: And so this is the point that I want to make. We have a very short term view to the market. Two years ago, everyone was getting 10% on their stablecoins and now everyone's talking about treasuries. In the case that cycle inverts, that's going to be potentially a huge influx of liquidity into the DFI credit markets. And we look at Ipor and the interest rate derivatives as this ability to bridge between these two worlds. So we're on the verge of launching the v two. There's a couple of huge things that are coming up here.
00:22:12.070 - 00:22:53.886, Speaker A: One, we have an entire architectural overhaul. So we're using the diamond proxy pattern, which allows for a single smart contract that routes throughout the entire protocol. That does a number of things. One, it reduces gas fees. Two, it increases composability. And so that allows the iporce protocol to be this infrastructure that you can build these structured products on. So what that means is that on the front end you can offer these very simple kind of one click products, but that creates these powerful dynamics where you can start looking to pipe this massive tradfi liquidity into DeFi.
00:22:53.886 - 00:23:27.854, Speaker A: The other thing again is the e staking rate swaps. So we're starting out with the stake rate for the Lido eth rates. From there, there's a possibility to expand to other LSD rates and then to create these structured products. So if you guys are interested in learning more about iPore, here's the app right here. Keep it tuned. The v two should be set to go live in Q three, which is ending this month. So make sure to follow us on X.com.
00:23:27.854 - 00:23:46.760, Speaker A: We're one of the very few protocols in the industry to have our own quant library. And if you're interested on building on top of iPore, whether you're a money market, whether a yield aggregator, whether you're an asset management protocol, or whether you're a credit market, feel free to talk to us. We have a booth downstairs. Thank you guys very much.
00:23:53.690 - 00:24:09.130, Speaker B: Anyone has any questions for Darren? A very cool presentation. Darren, I have a question about your liquid staking slide.
00:24:09.710 - 00:24:10.458, Speaker A: Sorry, what?
00:24:10.544 - 00:24:41.990, Speaker B: Your liquid staking slide, maybe can you open it? Because yesterday Nicola from exactly Defi saver was showing us that you can do liquid staking leverage three times and then you can get 10%. And in your example, I think it's on the previous slide. Exactly. You're doing leverage four times and you are making even 15%. And I understand the reason is because here behind you don't use Ava, but you use ipor protocol.
00:24:42.730 - 00:25:27.650, Speaker A: Well, the iPOr protocol is actually leveraging other money market protocols. So, for example, it depends on where you source your liquidity from. It depends on what the liquidation thresholds are. But for example, if you use something like Ave, or if you use something like Morpho, Morpho is like with their p two B cursors, like this mid market rate. So that means that you can get even a little bit more juice out of it. The other thing is, why would you use the interest rate swaps again, is to hedge in that yield, right? So if you're leverage looping without a derivative, that means your leverage yield can expand or contract at the same that you leverage loop. Right? So your APY.
