00:00:00.170 - 00:00:32.310, Speaker A: We're sitting here a month ago and to an extent, that's, like, really excited and drove up to Solana Kool Aid. Nice things to, like, remember. What exactly are we billing towards here with Solana or just with, like, smart contract platforms in general, what are some things that won't change? I thought maybe there's, like, four words that aren't going to change. People want speed, they want things that are cheap, they want things that are safe, and they want things that are simple. Right. Those are the four things that people want, and that wouldn't change.
00:00:32.460 - 00:00:53.318, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Access protocol. Access protocol is the best way to get access to premium crypto content without the ads, without the annoying subscriptions that are impossible to cancel. It's crypto native. It's here today. Go check them out. What's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we're joined by Wilson and Ryan from Synchroncy Capital.
00:00:53.318 - 00:00:57.214, Speaker B: These two guys are prolific investors in the space. Guys, welcome to the show.
00:00:57.412 - 00:00:58.766, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for having us on.
00:00:58.868 - 00:01:00.142, Speaker C: Yeah, happy to be here.
00:01:00.276 - 00:01:08.100, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm pumped to have you on. I know you're both out of Missari. I do want to get into that later in the show, but you now have had your own fun. Has it been about a year and a half now?
00:01:08.470 - 00:01:15.090, Speaker A: Yeah, a year and a half. We launched in May 2022, actually, five years before terra collapse. So free time.
00:01:15.240 - 00:01:30.322, Speaker B: Yeah. Exciting, guys. Well, I'm sure you've listened to lightspeed a few times. We often hit on the salana themes, and you had a big salana report that came out, I think, about a month ago. But I do want to start with the news that's happening today. It's January 10. For those listening, there's a good chance that the bitcoin spot, ETF is going to get approved.
00:01:30.322 - 00:01:54.400, Speaker B: Right now, ETH is up, I think, about 8% on the day. Lido is up 20%, and bitcoin actually hasn't moved. So it's interesting how narratives switch, right? Because this whole, like, are you going to sell the news? Is bitcoin going to pump? Is it going to fall? But it's like the narrative's already switched to, oh, is there going to be an ethereum ETF now happening? So I want to talk about, just, like, this institutionalization of the crypto space with this ETF and maybe how this shapes your ethereum thesis and, Ryan, maybe. Let's start with you.
00:01:55.570 - 00:01:56.078, Speaker C: Sure.
00:01:56.164 - 00:02:47.042, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think it's, like, one of the most exciting events in the history industry. So we've been waiting for nearly a decade for the bitcoin ETF to be, you know, while the ETF itself isn't furthering anything about technology or like the adoption of technology for something like bitcoin, where the purpose of it is to just hold it, this actually is extremely beneficial to bitcoin being adopted. So for a long time, bitcoin has been. This very conservatively designed protocol doesn't really change much. It's just this digital goal that just sits there. What's been challenging for people to do, especially for institutions, is to actually purchase and custody these assets, because they don't want to deal with new counterparties and also don't want to deal with managing private keys themselves.
00:02:47.042 - 00:03:34.578, Speaker A: So the fact that now you can just use a traditional counterparty like a blackrock, and all that custody is outsourced, and you're spying at three crypto channels, then now you can actually onboard real institutional players in this asset class. And I think that's actually transformative for the industry. So I think for bitcoin, it's very exciting. And then naturally, what happens next is all these institutions, they just go down the rankings list and they go to Ethereum, and I'm sure down the road they'll get to Solana. Right. And this is very exciting because this is actually how you get intuitions to start, at the very least, holding these assets. And then I think that's usually the first thing that people do, is they hold the assets, and then before you know it, they're getting way deeper into the crypto economy, which I'm sure we'll discuss.
00:03:34.664 - 00:04:27.694, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's a great step. It's a major step in that direction. Like, you're finally crypto getting its foot in the door and getting some legitimacy from these major institutions. And that's really what it was missing for a large part. Like Brian talked about, it's not really this monumental change in the technology itself, but it's more so the implication of how these institutions begin viewing this asset and that you have the stamp of approval by someone like Blackrock. I think the perception of bitcoin being like an investable asset all of a sudden starts to make its rounds and makes it that much more appealing to everyone out there. And then at the same time, now you have all of these different brokers out there that are going to start advertising this to their clients.
00:04:27.694 - 00:05:03.850, Speaker C: You're going to start people setting up, like, regular inflows on the way in. So all of a sudden, you have this net positive inflows on a regular basis, almost like ETI index style kind of investment flows going forward. So it's just again, like foot in the door, like we said. And the business, for someone like Blackrock, they want to click fees on all of these ETFs all the way down. So bitcoin is the first one, and it's not going to stop from there, especially if there's an opportunity to click fees from other. Again, it's just, it's just the first step in that direction.
00:05:04.270 - 00:05:04.586, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:05:04.608 - 00:05:35.330, Speaker B: That stamp of approval from Blackrock and really all these institutions, I think is just huge. I mean, I'm already seeing on my Twitter timeline today, people are now talking about the Ethereum ETF, which I have no idea what that timeline would be. And I even saw someone tweet like, avax ETF coming soon, that one. I don't know. I don't know how many ETFs are going to pop out of nowhere, considering how long it took to get bitcoin. But I do think this stamp of approval gives institutions to look at crypto more seriously. And does that impact how you think about Ethereum at all? Because if you go out the smart contract landscape and you think about what else would institutions look at, to me, that's likely Ethereum.
00:05:35.330 - 00:05:50.940, Speaker B: And you hear people trying to find Ethereum's narrative right now is ultrasound, money, the world computer before that. And now you have this restaking narrative, which institutions love yield. Right? And I've seen you guys tweet about Lido quite a bit. So I'm curious, can you maybe, I don't know, hit on that thesis and that thought process there?
00:05:51.950 - 00:06:24.322, Speaker A: Yeah. So as far as Lido Dow goes, I'll start with that, and I can kind of back into the theorem thesis. So for us, I think there's like a confluence of catalysts for Ethereum right now. You mentioned, like ETF, we also have EFP four. Four we also have for staking. And these are all just happening more or less on the same timeline. Like ETF for Ethereum, like in Q two, EFP four four within Q two as well, if not sooner, restaking.
00:06:24.322 - 00:07:36.494, Speaker A: I mean, that's kind of like an ongoing process of Eigen kind of rolling out and kind of taking off the safeguards of the system. So for us, this kind of all just points back to Liodemp, because these liquid staking protocols, for one, are just kind of like take rate businesses on the smart contract platforms that they exist on. So they're just clipping all the fees and Mav that the system is earning goes back to validators. So as activity inflects on these smart contract platforms, for a number of reasons, we all know this ass class reflexive. As price goes up, activity on these chain goes up. So it's obviously good for these guys take rate businesses on the smart contract platforms, then restaking or staking kind of supercharges the yields for stakers. So not only do you get this enhanced yield from all the activity that's happening on chain inflation rewards, but now you also start to get increased yields from providing services or providing economic security to other kind of use cases, whether it be different middleware like oracles or bridges or even new blockchains themselves.
00:07:36.494 - 00:08:28.110, Speaker A: Right? And then the kicker is that all these new protocols launching through like an eigen layer will likely be airdropping their tokens, incentivized users as well. So it's like supercharged yield for Ethereum stakers. And naturally with Lido being the dominant player, that's damn near monopoly. That's why everyone, so many people complain about how dominant Lido is. It's obviously really exciting for Lido. And then to go back to Ethereum, well, I think for us the whole staking component isn't as critical to the thesis around Ethereum. I think it's just like a basic feature that every proof of stake blockchain has, which is great, that being said, because it is kind of like the first mover of these smart contract platforms.
00:08:28.110 - 00:08:56.630, Speaker A: In the same way that bitcoin is first mover in the entire asset class. It's kind of just naturally one great mind share within, globally and especially among institutions. So, yeah, because it is like the second asset that people go to after bitcoin. Now the narrow, there is going to be a claim. Well, here's this potentially superior asset to bitcoin. It has this native yield, which is great, and it's a more functional platform. Right.
00:08:56.630 - 00:08:58.566, Speaker A: So that's how we think about it.
00:08:58.588 - 00:08:58.982, Speaker B: I think.
00:08:59.036 - 00:09:02.506, Speaker A: Just Lucy speaking on, if there's anything you want to add, Wilson, I think.
00:09:02.528 - 00:09:51.846, Speaker C: The only thing I'll add is just kind of to top off that last point, which is that one of the critiques of bitcoin is that it lacks any sort of intrinsic value. And I mean, we can argue about that and there's some hand wavy stuff. But I think the point is that the investment thesis for Ethereum is far, or in smart contract platforms in general, just proof of stake chains, like the fact that they have a capture of fees and activity on the network. And so as an institution looking at the space you're looking at, you finally have multiple ETFs approved. Which one are you going to look at? As you're evaluating, makes the most sense to you based on what you've been previously investing in. And so that would just naturally tend for them to look at some of these smart contract platforms over something that is really just digital gold.
00:09:51.958 - 00:11:13.790, Speaker A: Yeah, I think maybe something I'll add there, because, Wilson, you brought up a good point, is that the name cryptocurrencies, this is actually long with something I would share with some friends that were skeptical about the asset class, is that the word cryptocurrency is actually a misnomer for the industry, because not everything here is attempting to be a currency. So I think a lot of people, when they're looking at this asset class and they see bitcoin, they're like, oh, why do we need like 10,000 different currencies? This is ridiculous. And at the same time, even if they kind of get over the line on bitcoin, they're like, well, why is it that people who are not macro investors need to care about this asset class? Well, the reality is there's so much more to this asset class beyond just money. And I think what Ethereum offers for institutional investors is like, well, you know what? You don't need to buy into this whole digital goal thesis at all. You can just look at this as a technology platform and there's applications being built here, and that is the way that you actually want to play the asset class. It's like growth, it's technology. So it actually, I think, fits the criteria for a certain type of investor that doesn't actually want to invest in bitcoin, which is good, because then we're just onboarding more investors, a great and diversity investors, into the asset labs.
00:11:13.950 - 00:11:36.118, Speaker B: That's well said. That's actually really good framing, too. When someone not from crypto asked me about why crypto has any value or what it does, because everyone asks about bitcoin, and then it's hard to explain crypto when they have no context at all. But the currency part is so confusing, I think. So that's a really good point. I'm curious. I go to your website and it says hedge fund, but something either Ryan or Wilson you guys have been tweeting out about is makerdao.
00:11:36.118 - 00:12:08.206, Speaker B: And I've actually seen Makerdao get a narrative lately. Some people are trying to make like middle of the bell curve memes come back. That's because it has cash flow like they actually have revenue. And right now, with yields high, they're making pretty good revenue from that. And also, when you have speculation in the market, people are going to be borrowing from Makerdao, and you get even more yield from that. So I'm curious, do you invest in Makerdao because it's a hedge fund? I think if you guys may be getting in and out of positions. So when you're looking at Defi to invest in, is Makerdao something that's attractive or how do you even underwrite these projects when you're a hedge fund? Versus, like, oh, Makerdao has great revenue.
00:12:08.206 - 00:12:11.000, Speaker B: It's going to be great in five years. So I'm just going to invest and hold.
00:12:11.930 - 00:12:41.598, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think the way to think about it is that, yes, structurally we're a hedge fund, although philosophically, for many positions, we do think with a venture mindset. So there are positions that we've bought basically a year ago at this point and have not sold, maker being one of them. We bought, like, in January of last year or something like that. And we're underwriting on a two to three year time horizon. And to be honest, it continues to compound. This is something that could hold for a much longer time.
00:12:41.598 - 00:13:08.362, Speaker A: Right. Same thing with Solana, which we obviously shared a public piece of. Like, that's how we think about it. And the goal is to take concentrated positions into what we believe will be, like the secular winners of the crypto economy. Or another way of thinking about it is we think that the next fangs are emerging, this asset class. We have the opportunity to buy all these basically down 70, 80, 90% from all time highs, and basically just ride them for the next decade. Right.
00:13:08.362 - 00:13:54.342, Speaker A: So as far as the maker thesis, yes, definitely. The yields that you're getting on the treasuries right now are exciting. And that was something that was exciting in the bear market, where it was very hard to discern what was valuable in the bear market. But here you did have this one project that was bringing in nine figures of revenue and actually accelerating that in the bear market. So that was a very attractive place, kind of, to spark capital from here on out. One is a story. Well, it's like, yeah, you know what? This whole yield play is nice, but there's a chance that yields go down over next year.
00:13:54.342 - 00:14:29.214, Speaker A: So you don't really get growth from that. Really what you're playing for is the growth or the expansion of the dye supply. And how does that happen? Well, it happens through, for one, just demand for Dai, and that could be to use as collateral to the theoretical financial system. And SDI already is starting to be an SDI is basically just like a yield bearing version of DAi. Sdial is already starting to be used as collateral on perps exchanges. Right. Starting to be used as collateral in lending markets.
00:14:29.214 - 00:14:53.494, Speaker A: Right. That's kind of one way that it can expand. Other way is just, well, maker's core business. And this first business ever got into is just lending. So as there's more activity on chain, as people just want to speculate more, people are just going to borrow more. And that's actually how the supply has grown historically in bull markets, is people just want to lever up on their assets. So that's another way it kind of grows.
00:14:53.494 - 00:15:57.390, Speaker A: And then the final way is really just around endgame. And endgame, I think for the longest time I was actually a baron. And the reason why is because it first came out, it just kind of felt like it was this very messy and kind of ill thought out vision for what maker would become. But then as you track it over time, what seemed to happen is that what actually got implemented into the endgame plan was far more muted than what was in that original proposal, and far more sensible and actually did incorporate some community feedback. Whereas on the outside it was like, all know, Root is going off the rails and he's like a tyrant. And that's not actually what's happening in reality. And what's exciting is with Endgame is that, well, you have a new governance structure, you have new protocols that be launching as subdows, and these subdaos will be providing airdrops to maker holders, to Dai holders.
00:15:57.390 - 00:16:46.442, Speaker A: And it's really pushing adoption of DAi across Ethereum and hopefully l two s as well. Maybe the last thing I'll say, just because you kind of mentioned this earlier. Hi to that, when we were saying like, we're a hedge fund. But one thing I think is exciting as well, just to be honest, is like the of MKR, there is like a serious unit buys that people have in this asset class. Which is why, to an extent, some of the dot coins have done well beyond the fact that it's funny, is like you can dream that something that's like $0.01 is going to go to a dollar and maker for a long time has been this expensive coin at like $2,000, right? Well, when it does this big, this token redomination, it now be like less than a cent or two, right. So that's also something to get excited about just from like a narrative perspective.
00:16:46.586 - 00:17:08.600, Speaker B: I'll add for the audience there that for Maker, if you're not following it closely, they're doing a rebrand of both like Maker and Dai the token to make it a bit more memeable, and that they're also doing what you could call a stock split, so that you have this unit bias for like no one wants to buy a token that costs $1,000. But once you do a stock split and it now looks like it costs one dollars, you're more likely to buy it. And it sounds dumb, but it's actually how psychology works.
00:17:08.970 - 00:17:09.862, Speaker C: Oh, absolutely.
00:17:09.996 - 00:17:15.462, Speaker B: Ryan, I think you said that ETH is the center of the crypto ecosystem. Is that still the case in this l two future?
00:17:15.596 - 00:17:59.986, Speaker A: So I think ETH is the center of the ethereum ecosystem. But as far as the crypto economy, I mean this probably dovetail nice into the Solana thesis, but yeah, I don't think that the smart contract platform landscape is winner take all. I think it's winners take. There are, I think there's a sufficient amount of trade offs in the design space of smart contract platforms that make it so that a single technical stack can actually serve every single use case effectively. Therefore there's room for more than one. Right. So that's, I guess the view on whether Ethereum is still the center of the crypto economy.
00:17:59.986 - 00:18:47.198, Speaker A: I guess yes, for now it is. But long term, I think that obviously competitors like Solana will start to win share over, and that's good because I think it's expanding the pie. The pie is going to grow and expanding the pie. As far as ETHs being the center of the ethereum ecosystem, I think that'll continue. I think that there is a ton of buy in, not only from roller communities but also just more practically speaking, there are so many new protocols coming out to solidify Ethereum or ETH dominance in theorem ecosystem like Eigen layer. So it'll continue to be like the most important asset ecosystem. So ETH will be the asset that's collateralizing a lot of these middleware protocols.
00:18:47.198 - 00:19:00.410, Speaker A: So Eigen layer ETH will be the asset that's used to pay for gas on the roll ups, right? I think that it's pretty clear to me that ETH is still going to be the most important asset on Ethereum.
00:19:01.790 - 00:20:43.100, Speaker C: No question there's still some path dependency there. That with Ethereum having as large of a user base and holder base, the level of developer talent within that ecosystem is going to continue to push it forward. I think right now it's definitely in a bit of a rut, where most of this l two ecosystem, which was supposed to be not only like extensions of Ethereum, but start to expand on what could be possible, they really only launch mainly vanilla EVM ports where it is right now, I think you're going to start to see more experimentation at the VM level along l two s that could start to expand it from there. But as we touched on, we've really only tapped into the service of what could be possible within blockchain systems and to really grow the pie there. I think exploring different variant VMs, different architectures, is something that's really going to be interesting. And it's understandable why we're continuing to go back to the EVM and what we know, because it's simple, it's easy, there's definitely money flowing into those systems, and there's a lot of familiarity with that. But as the needs grow, and as we're starting to see with Solana, the want for much faster, cheaper use cases, and then the expansion of applications into ones that are branching into almost like traditionally off chain use cases, like payments and Deepin, they start to center around something that could be something like Solana, because that's just not readily available on something like Ethereum today.
00:20:43.100 - 00:20:52.586, Speaker C: So, yeah, there's still very much a gap now that's needed where some of these other newer architectures can step in.
00:20:52.768 - 00:21:05.886, Speaker B: Yeah. Well said. Quick break to tell you about access protocol. The easiest and best way to stay up to date on what's happening in crypto by following your favorite publishers. And you can do all of it without a subscription, without having to worry about ads. And we all know subscriptions. How many do you have? 1020.
00:21:05.886 - 00:21:27.702, Speaker B: Can you cancel it? It's all a mess. Well, access protocol solves this, and they do it in a crypto native way. They have over 60 publishers that include Coin Gecko, the block crypto slate, and a whole long list of independent creators. So how it works is you find your favorite publishers and you stake the ACs token. That's the access token. And once you stake, you have access to all that creators content without the hassle of ads or subscriptions that you can't cancel. You don't know how many you have.
00:21:27.702 - 00:21:52.986, Speaker B: Access protocol already has over 225,000 users that are finding new creators that are reading content and even receiving NFTs from these creators. Because one of the cool things with access protocol is that these publishers, they can know who their subscribers are. They make it where? Okay, maybe we'll do an in person event. Or maybe we'll do an NFT drop and we'll do it only to our most loyal stakers, aka readers. Really tough 24. They're even releasing V two. It's crypto native, it's from Salana, and it's an awesome product, but a link in the show notes to the hub.
00:21:52.986 - 00:22:18.086, Speaker B: It's the easiest way to get started, so go check them out today. Quick break to tell you about an upcoming event I promise you don't want to miss. It's blockwork's biggest and best institutional conference, called Das London. It's a two day event happening in London this March, where we're going to have over 700 institutions, 130 speakers, and a couple thousand of us all under one roof. Crypto is in a position for the first time to actually onboard these institutions, and they're showing up. We have companies from Blackrock to visa launching real products in the space. We have the real world asset narrative taking off.
00:22:18.086 - 00:22:41.866, Speaker B: We have things like payments that have been exponentially growing, and then we have things like deepen happening in the Salana ecosystem. There's a ton of capital right now in this institutional space that's going to be coming on chain. It's going to completely change the industry. Whether you are an institution or you're a retail user, or you just want to learn more about what's going on in the space, this conference is for you. You're going to be able to meet some of the best and smartest people in the space. The speaker lineup is absolutely incredible and you'll get to hang out with me. But the best part is you actually get 10% off your ticket if you use light speed.
00:22:41.866 - 00:22:58.054, Speaker B: Ten, when checking out, I put a link in the show notes. I recommend buying this today because, one, you'll forget about it. Two, these ticket prices go up every single month. So anyways, I hope to see you there. Now let's get back to the show. Okay, so let's get into Salana then. So I was actually talking to somebody yesterday, and I think they're quoting Jeff Bezos or something.
00:22:58.054 - 00:23:15.082, Speaker B: And then it made me think of, he often says, it's not like what's going to change, but what's not going to change. Like, you hear that all the time. He's like, people are going to want cheaper costs, more options, and faster delivery. I know that's not going to change. That's kind of true with Solana. People are going to want cheaper fees and faster transactions. That's always going to be the case, no matter what.
00:23:15.082 - 00:23:40.980, Speaker B: So that's like your really lizard brain salana thesis that I'd have for you right there. But I'm curious what you guys have to say, because in December, you had a big report on Salana that said back in Q two, 2023, that your fund accumulated a large position in Seoul, which at that time, you don't have to say what your entry price was, but it was sitting around $20 at the time. It's sitting around $100 today, I think. So. Obviously doing pretty good so far. What is that big thesis there, Wilson? Do you maybe want to start for us?
00:23:42.630 - 00:24:02.266, Speaker C: I'm going to kick it over to Ryan, because the thought of what Jeff Bezos was saying, what won't change over the long time, was something we actually just talked about not too long ago. And so Ryan kind of kicked that conversation off, and so I'll hand it over to him and then I can spin on it from there.
00:24:02.368 - 00:25:05.440, Speaker A: Yeah, it is funny you mentioned that this is almost like a slight divergence, but we're sitting here, I think, maybe like a month ago, and to an extent, that's really excited and kind of drunk off the salon of Kool Aid. And I see it to really remember. Okay, what exactly are we billing towards here with Solana or just with smart contract platforms in general? What are some things that won't change? I thought maybe there's like, four words that aren't going to change. People want speed, they want things that are cheap. Like you said, they want things that are safe, and they want things that are simple. And those are the four things that people want, and that won't change. So how is Solana addressing those four endpoints versus Ethereum? Well, it's definitely focusing a lot more, at least initially, on cheap and fast and simple.
00:25:05.440 - 00:26:09.460, Speaker A: And to an extent, the integrated stack or integrated design addresses the simplicity of the system, not only for users that are experimenting applications, but also for developers that are building, and then the speed and cost. And we can get into more of this, I guess, as we kind of thesis. But that is explicitly what Solana was attempting to do from the genesis of how do we make sure that software doesn't get in the way in the hardware? How do we make sure that, to an extent, that the system almost functions as efficiently as, like, a single node, which was kind of like one of the original design goals of why you'd want to really optimize the data propagation of the network. Right. That was just a slight diversion, but, yeah, that's something we explicitly thought about recently, which I think is a good kind of North Star for what we're building towards here and what's important.
00:26:10.390 - 00:27:10.626, Speaker C: And just to expand off of that, when we talk about safe, we're talking about potential security of the network. And really that's just kind of like a nebulous concept still, we don't really understand what is that threshold of security that's necessary for network to have. Is it a certain level of economic security? Is it decentralization of the nodes? Is it some amalgamation of that? Probably, yeah, it's some combination. But I think the one thing that matters more than anything is perception of security, where something like Ethereum and bitcoin have already been talked about that as that being like their leading design philosophy. And so it's kind of memes into that point. But then you also have the aspect of the SEC coming out and not declaring bitcoin Ethereum explicitly securities, you have Blackrock launching the bitcoin ETF, and know exploring an ethereum ETF, those kind of stamps of approvals. Again, going back to that concept kind of gives us illusion of security and safe.
00:27:10.626 - 00:28:12.570, Speaker C: And that's all to say, these are some things that can be improved and are likely heading in that direction for a lot of these other networks as well. So it's not just something that's just exclusive to bitcoin and Ethereum. So that was one thing, and the other one is like simplicity. Obviously those are the four main things, and you can break it down into little subsections. Obviously the integrated side removes all the complexity of trying to pick which roll up you have to launch on, or design for portability of your application, or launching multiple instances of your application on different chains, which just increases the resources you put into it, like cognitive overload on that end for the developer side. So you're simplifying development process on that end, the other end, launching a new VM in the sense with the SVM. Obviously it's been around for three years now, but much lower in the totem pole in terms of EVM, in terms of adoption.
00:28:12.570 - 00:29:06.282, Speaker C: It's going to take a lot more to get the developer tools up to a point where people can be very comfortable and jump in easily to start developing on this, because this is just a completely different architecture. But it's something that we touched on in the thesis, which is that as the incentives to build on the platform continue to grow, so too will the incentive to fix a lot of these remaining problems or issues or any sort of developer hurdles. And you're really starting to see that come into play with the continuing advancement of the anchor development framework, or everything that's going into the SBM 2.0 changes that Salana team has been talking about. Yeah, I think, as you can start to see, those are the four main things. And then from there, how are smart contract platforms optimized for those four main things?
00:29:06.416 - 00:29:48.086, Speaker A: Right. And then maybe a follow up there on safety, because I think this is actually an important point, at least in my personal journey with Solana, is that I think the other three were quite clear from Solana for a long time, the safety was always my biggest concern, and it was my biggest concern. So I thought safety was among the most important properties of these systems if we want to build mission critical monitoring, financial applications. And in the beginning, I thought that perhaps the salon of the community wasn't taking safety seriously enough. It wasn't just about uptime issues. It was more so about how the network first started. And obviously, I've kind of ball since then.
00:29:48.086 - 00:30:44.630, Speaker A: But when we first follow Solana and Brennan, I think Wilson have kind of been with it throughout its entire life. Know what was kind of irking me? Well, in contrast to these more like grassroots type communities that were bitcoin and Ethereum, this was like a venture backed startup with a corporation that was actually leading development. Right. Eventually, FTX and Sam Bankman fraud come in, and they're really jumpstarting the ecosystem, structuring. A lot of the token economic designs for these different protocols are coming out. A lot of what was there on Solana at first was just kind of like low effort copy and paste forks of what was on Ethereum. So when I looked at it, I was like, you know what? And then another thing, too, because it was backed in this very nontraditional manner, and because it was being driven and developed, was being driven in a more centralized fashion.
00:30:44.630 - 00:32:06.070, Speaker A: And there was kind of these kind of single figureheads that were really spearheading the community in design of all the mission critical protocols. I thought that, you know what? That was enough to make me skeptical that this could eventually be a platform that provides enough safety. And then it also made it easier to accept the common wisdom at the time that what was actually enabling Solana to scale wasn't any kind of technical innovation, but just simply jacking up the hardware requirements. Now, what changed? And to an extent, this is, I think, in hindsight, we'll look at as one of the best things that happened to Solana community was FTS collapsing in a way, because it kind of purged all of these mercenaries that were already, I think, the community was starting to move beyond SBF's influence. But it kind of, at least for the public, really made it clear that, okay, SBF is not running the show here. And then what happened for myself is like, you know, what really started to dive into the technical architecture in Solana. And what I really started to appreciate was twofold.
00:32:06.070 - 00:32:49.406, Speaker A: One is that it's not just jacking up the hardware requirements that enables you get higher throughput for Solana. It's having significantly more efficient data propagation and also having parallel execution. And you actually get more transaction throughput for a dollar invested in hardware than you would on some competing systems. So there actually is like genuine innovation here of how do you actually get more throughput, which is one. And another thing is this more like philosophical is what actually adds security to a blockchain. And how do you actually increase the number of full nodes? Well, people don't run full nodes because they're cheap. They run them because there's demands from full nodes.
00:32:49.406 - 00:33:36.082, Speaker A: So as activity on Solana rises, so too will the full node count rise. And that's actually the path to getting a large number of full nodes running for Solana. And mind you, the quality of who's running those full nodes also matters if it's just know, some random person running a full node. Does that contribute to the security of Solana equally? As a sophisticated node operator, I would say no, but. So if you have a large number of sophisticated node operators running nodes for Solana, then I think that actually leads to a more decentralized system over. And like, once those two ideas were kind of ingrained in my head of like, all right, you know what? There actually is genuine innovation here. That's why this is a scalable system.
00:33:36.082 - 00:34:25.040, Speaker A: And actually, this whole full node discussion isn't as terrible as it seems on the surface, and actually is like a path towards this concentralized. That's great. And then the challenge on top is that the end game for all these blockchain anyways is to actually enable things like data availability, sampling, and have, like, clients so that it's very easy for the end user to cheaply verify the state of the chain anyways. So it actually seems like this concern that I had about safety initially, which was one of the reasons why I wasn't excited about Solana, is not actually an issue, but Solana is actually doing enough work to address those challenges long term. And I think that's where I kind of got over the line personally in my personal journey and why I know, to an extent, we're able to get the conviction there.
00:34:26.630 - 00:34:41.894, Speaker B: What a sales pitch. That was great. I agree. That is so well said. And I think that's what 99% of people also kind of missed or saw back when you had SBF. And I also agree that SBF going away was very positive. And Chris Brunisky will say the same thing.
00:34:41.894 - 00:35:07.966, Speaker B: He's like, I just didn't want to get involved back then, but I saw that they actually had real innovation happening there. And I think Anatoly has been a really big part of that, because you have to have these leaders to almost have a shelling point to get around. And I think Solana's had that, and it was Anatoli. But you have Armani and Viboo, who I think when we talked about, what do users always want? And Ryan, you listed like, five items or four items, one of those being speed, low cost. I think if you added a fifth one there, it's entertainment. And I think crypto. And Solana has done an awesome job with that.
00:35:07.966 - 00:35:28.630, Speaker B: And vibu is like, leading that with Drip. Drip is like an NFT protocol on Solana. So I think that's something people always want. And I'm not saying this is, like, only something Solana has, but it's definitely more fun, in my opinion. And they lean into, you know, some people say it's the consumer chain, some say it's for Defi, it's general purpose. I don't know how you guys see it, but, yeah, I think it's kind of exciting.
00:35:28.970 - 00:36:25.874, Speaker C: I think, to talk on that last point there, it's like, yeah, I think Solana is a little underappreciated for the different kind of apps that are being built in it right now. I think any smart contract platform is going to have some sort of defi plumbing. It's going to have to be there. So in terms of that, everyone's going to be part of that. We're starting to see Ethereum shift more into this platform for high value transactions, or high value financial transactions, where Solanda doesn't get maybe enough appreciation, is that it's really becoming the home for two of the more critical applications evolving in the industry, one being payments and the other one being deepen. And why I see these things as being so critical is they are these kind of like off chain components that are bringing people and their wealth on chain. So all of a sudden, you're having people use payments on Solana, they're storing their wealth on chain, maybe in some ways not noticing they're using a blockchain.
00:36:25.874 - 00:37:45.410, Speaker C: But at least as soon as you start having your wealth on chain, that all of a sudden makes you want to explore what else is out there. And that is really kind of like the missing component we've been talking about. What's the onboarding process for users, and why has that been so difficult? Well, outside of maybe the yield opportunities and the vesting opportunities, there hasn't been a main driver for people to want to bring their wealth on chain. And where something where they're either running payments through any sort of crypto based front end, or they're spinning up hardware devices and earning incentives on chain for these various deep end networks, all of a sudden that means more of the wealth is going to be on chain. They're going to start using Defi applications as well. And then as more wealth gets stored on chain, you might start to see them looking at like, well, I want to start diversifying my portfolio that's on chain, and that's where you get demand for stuff like real world assets. So having those two components and Solana being the home, or really the potential home for them with payments, the integration with visa, or the experimentation with visa and shopify there and then on deepen, obviously you have the leader with helium migrating over there.
00:37:45.410 - 00:38:22.960, Speaker C: Now render migrating over there, and a couple others spinning up as well, like hive Mapper, where a lot of the innovation experimentation is happening on Solana. And that's mainly due, like we said before, it's fast and cheap components. But a lot of the other innovations, like simplicity, is something that is very clear from a standpoint of why helium wanted to migrate over to Salana so they didn't have to spend as much resources on their L1. So I think that component is like, hey, what kind of applications are going to be built on here? And how does that translate down the line into people actually using more crypto native products?
00:38:23.650 - 00:40:02.750, Speaker A: I think this also dovetails into one of my favorite discussions around these smart contract platforms, which is like this whole concept of the monetary premium. It's like a meme in a way, and there's a sense of exceptionalism in the Ethereum community about the properties of ETH asset, and that it's impossible for any of these other smart contract platforms or their native assets to achieve those same properties. And I had to check my biases on this for a long time because it's something that I almost accepted as well, is that this is not possible. But what's changed is that while, yes, maybe to be fair, Ethereum has optimized itself? Well, by prioritizing safety and security, number one, for these kind of monetary and financial applications. But I think what's kind of changed for myself is that, well, if you really just kind of strip out the whole memetics of it, the basic properties that enable Ethereum to be this monetary store value are shared among every other smart contract platform, right? So the native asset being the premier store value in the system, same thing for salon, it captures all the MEV captures fees, it's asset with the lowest counterparty risk. Therefore, it's used as collateral. In DeFi, the Sol is used as medium exchange for gas payments, it's used as unit counts, price nfts.
00:40:02.750 - 00:41:30.458, Speaker A: These are properties that every single smart contract platform has, and in fact, every single blockchain has, right? Because you can also just zoom out and be like, okay, well, what makes bitcoin special as well? It's the fact that you can store with no counterparty risk, an arbitrary amount of wealth with a private key, and you can send it across the world instantly and you can divide it up as much as you want, right? These properties, every single native asset of a blockchain has, there's nothing special about anyone. In fact, I think the only thing that actually makes a difference, if you can accept that premise that 99% of properties are shared among every blockchain, the only thing that's actually different is just what is actually being adopted. Because if you actually get the adoption and there's actually activity on your blockchain, you know what, all those properties become stronger. Right? So if there's a ton of activity, say, in Solana, well, you know what, it's going to be used as a medium exchange more than any other native asset in the industry. If there's more activity on Solana Defi, then Solana is going to be used as collateral more than any other asset. You kind of go down the list of all these different activities that people associate with this monetary premium, and they're almost all tied to adoption. So adoption is like the number one thing that all these different systems need to be focusing on.
00:41:30.458 - 00:42:08.418, Speaker A: And yes, while there are different ways that you can engineer around making these properties stronger, like making your token a little bit more deflationary, or making inflation a little bit lower, that doesn't actually move the needle. In the long run, it's all about adoption. That's another way I think about kind of like the difference between what applications they serve. It's like, yeah, there is a difference, but in the long run, there's going to be overlap and there's no reason why Solana can also serve those mission applications as well, even if it's starting from maybe like a different starting point.
00:42:08.504 - 00:42:38.026, Speaker B: That's really well said. One thing I'd like to get back to on Salana is to get a little bit more practical or get more down into details. Is in the report that you had, I think you compared Salana today to maybe Ethereum in 2020 from the DFI renaissance. That is happening in some ways. How do you view investing in individual projects in Salana? Because obviously they're sole, really easy to understand. Salana hasn't had a lot of tokens. They have had a few in the past, but now we're seeing more and more points programs, but also token launches.
00:42:38.026 - 00:43:08.342, Speaker B: One of the big ones was Jeto, which went to 10,000 wallets, and, like, the minimum airdrop was about $15,000. So it's a pretty good airdrop for everybody. Jeto, which is very similar to lido in many ways, except it's even, you could say, has more value potentially, because it's like a built in flashbots within it as well. Right? So they have the Mev side. It actually had a higher FDV than Lido did, which had much higher adoption than LTV. But everything's based on future flows. What I'm curious, though, is I think Gdo got above $3.
00:43:08.342 - 00:43:38.418, Speaker B: It's back to 150. That's narrative is moving fast. And also maybe just a repricing as more tokens launch on Salana, I think it's going to be more confusing where you actually invest, because it used to just be like, I want exposure to Salana, I'll buy soul. And then it was just like, just Cheeto. Well, then what happens when Jupiter has an airdrop and then you have this diffusion of attention? So I'm curious, when you're thinking about what to invest in Salana, is it looking at what happened in Ethereum land, like, oh, the Dexes? Those exploded in 2020. So I want to go to Salana and invest in the Dexes. Or is it more.
00:43:38.418 - 00:43:43.060, Speaker B: You have unique things like metaplex versus deepen. I'm just curious how you guys think about that.
00:43:44.230 - 00:44:19.706, Speaker A: Yeah. So maybe one high level framing, and then I'll go from there. So we think this is like a massive opportunity. Invest in a slan ecosystem. When I zoom out on the asset class, if you were to survey majority investors in the industry, whether they're individuals or institutions, and ask them what percentage of your portfolio is allocated to Ethereum or ethereum, ecosystem. I think in many cases it'll be very high, like 50%, if not more so. I think the industry structurally is still very overweight.
00:44:19.706 - 00:44:56.742, Speaker A: Ethereum and over time, if we're correct, and these other alternative ecosystems do have a rightful place on the throne, then there will be a shift in capital flows to these ecosystems. That's not just me limited to Solana. It's going to include all these applications on Solana. So that's a framing as far as what excites us within the ecosystem. We start from a first principles basis. And I think a good example of this is Jupiter. The corollary for Jupiter on Ethereum would be something like a one inch.
00:44:56.742 - 00:45:45.846, Speaker A: One inch is not as exciting as Jupiter is on Solana. And I think one of the reasons why is, well, for one, in this roll up economy, where liquidity could be fragmented among all this disparate block space, an aggregator is just going to be far less efficient at routing your order than if you're doing an integrated system. It's a deal with bridging. There's so many different liquidity pools asked to tap. It can actually get to the point where it's actually more expensive to use the aggregator than just to go to the rope and buy it on a single Dex then same thing even just on Ethereum main chain. Well, so much of liquidity that was being tapped was just in the uniswap pool. In many cases, you were just better off going directly to the uniswap pool and just buying from there because it actually cheaper.
00:45:45.846 - 00:46:40.598, Speaker A: So the cost, I think was actually prohibitive towards those aggregators actually getting meaningful adoption. Whereas on Solana, what's just like, you know, like this is actually where an aggregator would. Right, because there is this parallel execution because there's a cheaper cost and you can tap into all these liquidity pools. That is actually a much more superior product on Solana and actually far more investable on Solana than it is on Ethereum. So that's kind of one example of a first principles basis. And I think another thing that also excites us as well is that beyond the fact that we're starting to see unique. So one thing I mentioned before is how back maybe two years ago, a lot of the leading projects kind of copy paste of what was on Ethereum, and now you're actually starting to see more actually differentiated projects that are actually taking advantage of the unique design of Solano.
00:46:40.598 - 00:47:22.330, Speaker A: And I think what these projects are also doing is kind of taking more strategically the learnings of how competition played out in Ethereum and actually use it to inform their roadmaps and how they actually build the businesses. So one trend that I think we've observed is that it seems like a lot of the category leaders in Solana tend to actually be playing in multiple markets at once. So one name you mentioned is that Jeeto. But Jito is not just like a liquidating part of Lido, it's also like an MEV infrastructure, like Flashbox. Right. And perhaps it could also be restaking infrastructure as well down the road. That's like three products on Ethereum rolled up into one.
00:47:22.330 - 00:47:50.078, Speaker A: And I think there's a couple of examples like this that are kind of like taking that same approach. Another thing to mention, like the first principles, Metaplanx, there is no corollary on Ethereum because it's just ERC 721, which just like a standard, whereas for Salana, this is like a program that a team developed, and it can monetize that program itself. So maybe that's just like one highlight. I don't know if there's anything you want to add, Wilson?
00:47:50.254 - 00:48:43.186, Speaker C: Yeah, you definitely mentioned the two that I was thinking about as well. I think the only thing to add is where in something like Jupiter, we haven't really seen aggregation theory play out on Ethereum. And really why is the case? And it kept coming back to the fact it's just a really excessive cost to ping all these different contracts in a single transaction. So that just ultimately led people to just continue to use uniswap because it was cheaper and then it had deeper liquidity, and then you had the Dex network effects work its magic. And so now, not many people have really migrated away from uniswap with Jupiter because everything is so cheap. They can continue to be that front end for Solana. And at the same time, as more markets get added to the network, that just expands what Jupiter can offer as well.
00:48:43.186 - 00:49:50.790, Speaker C: So it's one of those things where we might actually see aggregation theory play out. It just took a different architecture and a cheaper, faster network to enable that. And then, yeah, I mean, it's fascinating to see how a lot of these Defi protocols on Solana are really learning from Ethereum's past, because you've seen one of the logical things. When we're looking at Eigen layer as well, it seems natural that they want to have some sort of liquid staking token for all of their restaked ETH as well, because people would want liquidity on that, but that would place them in direct competition with someone like Lido that already had a massive lead in what seems to be like a winner take most market. Well, now you have Solana within its early stage to really figure a lot of the projects to figure out, hey, this is just the logical extension of everything that we're building here. And instead of trying to do it more piecemeal, we're able to bring it all together at once. And that just almost, in the end, makes it a more simplified experience for users.
00:49:51.290 - 00:50:17.214, Speaker B: I haven't thought about this a lot, so we'll see if this comes out coherently. But it is interesting to see that on Ethereum you had this money Legos concept where everybody's going to be like, I'm just a lending protocol, I'm just a Dex. And then you did have this vertical integration where you start saying like, no, I'm going to have a stable coin. And I also do lending and borrowing, and now I might even do perps. So they're definitely going for that, right? It's a clear trend. And then in Solana, you're starting to see a little bit of that. You see it from Jupiter, who now has a perps product.
00:50:17.214 - 00:50:48.342, Speaker B: I think Jupiter is the best protocol at shipping product. And when I say shipping product, not only what it does behind the scenes, but how it looks and the features that they do, they have a good product manager that's not swimming in the pool all day. But I also think you could say that it does already look a little bit more centralizing in the sense that Jupiter is in a clear position to almost keep adding more products. And I'm going to keep going to Jupiter because I think it's a great experience. And then you have Jito, which is really great at liquid staking. Now, they're not the leading liquid staking product. I don't think that's marinade.
00:50:48.342 - 00:51:26.200, Speaker B: They're about neck and neck. But then they also have the flashbots, and then they have stakenet, which I think in some ways might lead to this restaking protocol. I'm not really sure if those are connected, and that probably offers the best integrated experience, but then do you really want one protocol almost owning all that? And I think judo, just like with Stakenet, they're trying to make it in the most decentralized way possible. But I don't know, it's just interesting to see how Solana already has this aggregation theory kind of playing out with these two protocols, and they're killing it, and that's really good. But in some ways, I could see how people would push back and like, no, you don't want only one project to control that. But you're seeing people in Ethereum try to do the same thing. It's just not working yet.
00:51:26.730 - 00:52:02.526, Speaker A: Right. And I think at the end of the day, the only reason why people are concerned about single. I think there's two reasons that people are concerned about, like a single protocol, say, controlling a large amount of assets or facilitating a large amount of activity. One is, I think, just simple smart contract risk. So, for example, you had a single liquid staking protocol that was managing the entire validator set for a blockchain, or maybe like 70, 80%, like this middle for majority. And the concern, even if there was perfect governance with the system, is that there she is a buck, and that's systemic at that point. I think that's like a valid concern.
00:52:02.526 - 00:53:16.406, Speaker A: The other one is around just like the governance of it. How do we actually make decisions, for example, with Lido Dow, how do we actually onboard invalidators? How do we actually manage the flow of capital coming to system and allocate to validators? That is a challenging problem that I think could be addressed or mitigated over time. I know for Lido Dao, for example, there's like a whole dual governance proposal where you would have holders that are stakes through Lido Dow that would actually have the same governance, like veto rights. So there's different ways you can work around it, I think can mitigate those. But, yeah, I think that the bigger thing, like I said, I don't think there's any way getting around is just the smart contract risk. Now, to be fair, this is something that I think can only be proven over time as how safe a smart contract is. It's almost like the way of thinking about securing this industry is not only what is observed about it, but practically speaking, over the course of some time, it's like a function of time, is it being secured? So one thing that makes bitcoin so exciting is that, yeah, you know what? This thing's been running for 1415 years now, and there's not really been a critical buck.
00:53:16.406 - 00:53:27.680, Speaker A: So it's like, this thing probably works. It's almost like a trillion dollars. No one's stealing a shit ton of bitcoin. Right? That's what we think about it.
00:53:28.850 - 00:53:47.030, Speaker B: Nice. That makes sense. Okay, we're about 50 minutes, so we'll just do a few more questions and close up. I have to ask you just. Have you been looking into the DA layers? Like Celestia Eigen layer Da? It's such a narrative going on right now and we're talking about what are going to be the big themes of 2024. And it keeps being like DA layers. I believe that.
00:53:47.030 - 00:54:06.490, Speaker B: Also I feel like DA layers are super boring. So I don't know, I'd way rather invest in applications, right? So I don't know, I don't get that excited about it. But how do you feel about it? One, just as DA layers as a whole, how do you think about it? And sounds like no, but do you think that impacts the Ethereum thesis at all just because more and more roll ups use, say, Celestia instead of using Ethereum?
00:54:08.430 - 00:54:48.550, Speaker A: Yeah. So I'll split this up into like a short term view, a long term view. I think short term, there's definitely going to be a lot of demand for these alternative data availability layers. And that's just simply because Ethereum will not have enough DA for its rollups if they want to scale beyond kind of rudimentary levels of transaction throughput. And yes, this is inclusive of EFP four from four. That's just typically not compriving up. So a lot of these roll ups are going to use third party layers over the next one, two years, and the beneficiary is going to be projects like Celestia and in Agaman.
00:54:48.550 - 00:55:43.894, Speaker A: As far as longer term, it's where it becomes more challenging. Is that for one? I think data availability in itself I'm not fully convinced, is like a big business mean. It's a very cheap service to provide. And I wonder if for the specialized datability layers, what have to do long term is feature some form of settlement, or at least have maybe some kind of two way bridge where you can take the native assets, say like Celestia, and you can bridge t into the roll ups and it can be this kind of like modular money. But the challenge is at a certain point it starts to look very much like Ethereum and the roadmaps overlapping. They end up being like competitors in a way that I think many of these DA layers are not marking themselves as. They're like, oh, we're complementary.
00:55:43.894 - 00:56:40.666, Speaker A: Which is true for now. In the long term it's not. The other thing is that data availability sampling, while I think is like a very important innovation, long term will likely be like a feature that every blockchain has, including Solana, for example. So yes, it can be a defining feature of a blockchain right now, but over time, as this gets incorporated to every blockchain, it's not really as interesting for differentiating. And the only way that it is differentiating is if you just have a sufficient number of light clients that are actually doing this database sampling, in which case that is kind of like competitive moat. But that's also just another way of saying that blockchain gets adopted as it moves, because there's a lot of people that are running like, yeah, all I.
00:56:40.688 - 00:57:46.202, Speaker C: Was going to add to that is that really, when it comes to DA layers, and specifically Celestia, I'm sure Eigen is working towards this way as well. So just moving beyond just like the Ethereum aligned l two s is the idea that they're going to be able to support these new, almost like sovereign roll ups or different types of roll ups. And the customizability and flexibility that you have in design is just that much more than what is enabled by roles that settle to Ethereum today. And so I think we're just tapping the surface as far as what can be done at the VM and the protocol layer for a lot of these networks, where they no longer have to spin up their own validator set to go do this. Their minimum viable security is simply just posting their DA to Celestia. And so it just enables this new pocket of innovation and experimentation that we haven't seen before. So we're starting to see maybe a lot of the protocol level innovations happen in an area like Celestia.
00:57:46.202 - 00:58:17.850, Speaker C: And like what Ryan was saying, that's just one of those areas where adoption for these DA layers can explode. And that has to be their long game, because I know Celestia doing this, I'm sure Eigen is moving this way, is for the actual DA component to be very elastic for demand, and that just in the end is going to make it so that resource is just very cheap. So you can't really base the long term business and have it actually justify these mass evaluations long term.
00:58:18.510 - 00:59:00.066, Speaker B: Definitely agree. Yeah, I think it goes back to our aggregation theory that we're talking about a little bit like ten minutes ago. And by the way, I love making fun of modular money just because Celestia does have great marketing. And so I push back constantly, and I think there's no way they're not going to vertically integrate in some way in the future. Often think it's funny in web two, and web two is different than crypto, but if a web two company came to you like Shopify, and said, we're only going to do one thing, ever be like, I'm not going to invest in you, like one thing? No, they're going to keep adding products and features. And the Shopify example, I think, really sticks out to me because the 90% of their revenue used to come from subscriptions, and now 90% of it's from payments. But they first got the customers in, similar to DA, and then now it all comes from payment processing fees and shopify checkout.
00:59:00.066 - 00:59:09.900, Speaker B: So I just think Celestia has to do something like that. But I 100% agree with your two points. I don't know, is there anything you want to add to that, or. I have one last question, to be fair.
00:59:10.430 - 00:59:49.894, Speaker A: And that's, like, a fair point. And it's fine that these systems evolve over time once they actually test out their product in the marketplace and see what works and what doesn't or what they need to adjust. None of these systems were perfect from Genesis. I mean, I think Solana included. Right? For example, one thing that we all know is not going to work by Solana is just having just these fixed fees for transactions, and that's it. So what do we actually end up doing after that? It's like, okay, like local fee markets. And now we're exploring the full dimensionality of what fee markets could look like on the system.
00:59:49.894 - 01:00:19.854, Speaker A: And it's a better system because of all these systems do evolve over time. And there are like. And the same thing with Ethereum. Ethereum, when it first started, was this integrated system, and now it's starting to modernize because it realizes that this might be a better way by casting this roadmap. And now it has, like, roll ups and these third party databases and all this different stuff. So I think it's like, fine that it ends up doing that. That's like the story of this industry.
01:00:19.854 - 01:00:23.970, Speaker A: We experiment, we figure out what works and then exactly adjust.
01:00:25.750 - 01:00:50.670, Speaker B: Cool. All right, guys, the last question for you is, you both used to work at Masari. Then you started this fun together, I believe. I know we have a lot of researchers that listen to this show, probably specifically in Solana, but we also have people in Ethereum, and I know the research guys at blockworks do, at least, so we've got a few. What was that experience? And what would your advice be to someone that is a researcher that is looking and probably thinking right now, should I start a fund? Do I want to go work in a. Like, what has that experience been, Mike?
01:00:51.410 - 01:01:11.938, Speaker A: Yeah. So just for clarification, my co founder, Dan, has a background in public equities. Used to work at Richmond hedge funds before, although civil center at. So I guess the question is, what would be, I guess, advice that people are doing research, or what was it like to be on?
01:01:12.104 - 01:01:22.600, Speaker B: Yeah, a combination of both. Just like, what was it like, that jump going from a researcher at Missari to then leading your own fund? What is the biggest difference there? And what's been the hardest thing?
01:01:24.330 - 01:02:01.550, Speaker A: The biggest difference, granted, while I was there, was definitely still managing my own pa. So, yes, I was still researching and investing. I think what's different now is that the research is far more targeted and far more investment focused. There's trade offs. When I'm at Masari, I handle an infinite amount of time to do research on anything. And that research doesn't need to lead to an investment decision. It can just be purely for intellectual happiness.
01:02:01.550 - 01:02:26.826, Speaker A: Right. Or it can be purely for theoretical purposes, or I can just research something that may only be relevant ten years from now. Maybe. I'm doing some work on zk roll ups three years ago, and there's literally nothing I can do about them in public markets. Right. Whereas for now, everything is like, let's do research. And this hopefully is actually driving PNL for us.
01:02:26.826 - 01:03:35.070, Speaker A: I think that's one major difference. And yeah, the output is also different as well. When we're doing research on Asari, it's, yes, about understanding what's going on, but it's also about understanding what's going on and being able to articulate that to a general audience. Whereas now the research is mostly for internal purposes, but if we are sharing it for external purposes, we're catering it to more of like an investment community. And yeah, I think the core philosophy of mastar research still, I think, is in the DNA of this business when we write publicly, which is not only explain what are the investment themes and how this all works mechanically, but why it matters, which I think is like a very critical component of being able to tell a compelling story, is like, what is the purpose of all this that we're building? And, yeah, I think that's also what I think makes researching, even in this world, still exciting, is that, you know what, when we do share public theses, it's not just about making money. It also is about telling the story. And I think the storytelling is so important for the development of these communities long term.
01:03:35.650 - 01:05:08.270, Speaker C: No question, just very similar. But I think there's just a more practical application that we need to bring to the whole research process, which is before you go down a rabbit hole for days on a lot of these concepts that were just intellectually fascinating. And it's not like we still kind of do that, but you need to bring it back out and understand, hey, where is this in its investment cycle or even product cycle? And where would this make sense in the largest scheme of things in the market? And dialing it back to almost like, hey, you have your 130 IQ thesis, and then you also have to understand the 70 IQ thesis as well. And that's just something like when you're doing more of that hardcore research work, that's not necessarily something you really need to think about. But on the public market side, that's definitely something where it comes into play and you need to think about how people are going to perceive this and how is this going to play out from here? Because both retail users and investors play a good role here. And so that's also why everything in crypto tends to be very narrative driven as well. And we're not only being able to articulate what's going on technically, but on top of that, telling the story of where not only this product, but the industry and sector at large is heading.
01:05:08.610 - 01:05:53.598, Speaker A: I think maybe one final point I'd here. This is probably the biggest difference between just doing this at a fund versus doing this at a research shop, is that when we're researchers, our only job is to do research and publish it. But being like a fund manager, research is just one of many things that you do. So you're not always dedicating as much time as you were to just doing research before. It's also making investment decisions, it's also fundraising, it's also operations, it's also managing a team. So it's like, to an extent more holistic, but it is a trade off, right? If all you want to do is research, don't do that at a fun anymore. But hopefully it's more rewarding in other ways.
01:05:53.598 - 01:05:58.400, Speaker A: If that's like the path you want to go down. And I think I made the right decision, I'm happy.
01:05:59.090 - 01:06:00.190, Speaker C: Likewise.
01:06:00.770 - 01:06:23.846, Speaker B: Yeah, this is kind of a selfish question or something that I went through back in 2020. When I was in, I was like in between. I just moved back from Sydney, I was just working in crypto, aka just trading on my laptop in a cafe for like six months. And it was really great. But I wasn't putting out any content in the sense that at that point, if you're investing in crypto, numbers just went up. So you felt pretty good about it. Like, wow, I'm actually doing good here.
01:06:23.846 - 01:07:07.310, Speaker B: I'm reading all day, I'm learning a whole lot, but I wasn't putting out any content. So eventually I got myself to actually write, put things out there one, because I was trying to create a resume of sorts so people can actually see what I'm doing, because you're not going to put a dashboard of your investment returns. But like I said, everyone was going up at the time. Has that changed at all, how you feel? How do you look for feedback in your current job? So when I think about as a research analyst, you're putting out reports, your name is on it, you might do like a post on Twitter, people are giving you feedback and there's some back and forth. Whereas I would think maybe for you guys, sure, you see your dashboard with your liquid tokens going up and down, but if you're not writing research, you're not really getting that feedback. You're not putting things out there. Has that shift been different at all? Maybe this is too philosophical.
01:07:07.310 - 01:07:13.160, Speaker B: Does it feel a little bit more isolating at all because you're no longer engaging as much, maybe with the community as you used to be?
01:07:15.770 - 01:07:53.570, Speaker A: Yes and no. So I think we still write just as much, except, and we also still do the review process just as much. It's just that it's more internal. So we're constantly providing feedback to each other. And then also we do have different investors in the industry or researchers or just people that we speak to that we can get feedback for when we're doing diligence on an asset, or if we're already past the diligence stage and we're just writing a public thesis where they can help us kind of craft a narrative. And these people are, like I said, they're investors, they're researchers, they're engineers or founders. And that's how we get the feedback now.
01:07:53.570 - 01:08:25.280, Speaker A: And it can be equally as rewarding. But you're right. I guess the difference is there's not as much public facing content, but I think it's fine, right? Because sometimes the public facing content is a feedback I'm getting really valuable if it's just like, yeah, to the moon or someone. Because I think I'm wrong. I think I prefer someone who I know and someone serious, like providing meaningful feedback on something that I rather than just release Twitter spear and who knows what happened.
01:08:25.890 - 01:08:52.440, Speaker C: I think it's just been really condensing and shrinking that sphere of influence in who we're communicating with. And then I think there's also the standpoint of, like, we like to develop a lot of these theses and research in house so we can develop our own ideas and help them evolve from there. So in that case, it's not like we're getting too much influence from outside. We're really thinking through it from first principles in house.
01:08:52.890 - 01:09:07.930, Speaker B: Yeah, it's really good. Twitter is the source of all good and evil. It's like, it's so easy to get lost on your Twitter feed all day because there is some really high quality content on Twitter. But that's probably like 5% of what's out there. And it's so easy to get lost in the 95. So I think overall, you guys are. You're doing it right.
01:09:07.930 - 01:09:16.126, Speaker B: Anyways, guys, thanks so much for jumping on. This is a super fun conversation. I feel like we covered a whole lot from Ethereum to Salana and even more so. Yeah, guys, thanks for coming on.
01:09:16.308 - 01:09:18.446, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for having us on. This is awesome.
01:09:18.628 - 01:09:23.694, Speaker C: Thanks, Garrett. This is great. Big fan of the podcast, so. Yeah, happy to be a part of it.
01:09:23.812 - 01:09:34.962, Speaker B: Glad to hear. All right, guys, we'll see you next time. All right, I've got a little ending note here. First, thank you so much for listening the full episode. If you really liked it, hit subscribe. But secondly, make sure you sign up for Das. This is Blockwork's biggest institutional conference happening in London tomorrow.
01:09:34.962 - 01:09:43.650, Speaker B: Merch. I've included a link in the show notes and also discount code. Get 10% off. Make sure to use lightspeed ten when you sign up. All right, I'll see you there. And I'll see you next time on Lightspeed.
