00:00:01.450 - 00:00:15.994, Speaker A: Okay, we're online. So hello and welcome, everyone. I'm Peter Robinson and this is the Ethereum engineering group meetup. So today we've got Daniel and Annabelle from HB Ellsworth.
00:00:16.042 - 00:00:18.960, Speaker B: And I'm probably Wl Ebsworth very close.
00:00:20.770 - 00:00:21.182, Speaker C: Anyway.
00:00:21.236 - 00:00:48.906, Speaker A: And they are going to tell us all about the legal implications, missions of nfts. And look, I thank you very much for coming on today. And, you know, it's going to be on YouTube. And I'll say ahead of time that these very brave lawyers have said, look, nothing is certain. This is just an opinion piece. And at the end of the day, don't sue us if there's something. Tell us if there's something.
00:00:48.906 - 00:01:00.014, Speaker A: If you think there's something that's not quite correct. Look, thank you very much. So please introduce yourselves and so that everyone knows exactly who you are.
00:01:00.132 - 00:01:04.134, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you've preempted our first slide.
00:01:04.282 - 00:01:05.666, Speaker C: Hang on, I have to hit the.
00:01:05.688 - 00:01:39.930, Speaker B: Share screen button, which is the big disclaimer that says, look, this isn't legal advice. Don't rely on it. Look, we want to try and keep today fairly conversational and relaxed. And so the flip side of that is, don't hold anything against us. We'd prefer to be able to sort of talk off the cuff a little bit rather than be sort of super rigid. But the flip side may be that we occasionally slip on a few things. So if that is the case, I apologize, especially if you're watching this after the fact on YouTube.
00:01:39.930 - 00:01:47.278, Speaker B: So who we are and why we're here talking to you, actually. Well, hang on.
00:01:47.284 - 00:02:06.550, Speaker C: Yes, first I'm going to dive in and just do a quick acknowledgement of country. So dad and I would like to acknowledge that this presentation is being delivered on the traditional lands of the Ghana people. So we'd just like to pay our respects to Ghana elders, past and present, and recognize the ongoing connection that the Ghana people have towards as kin and communities.
00:02:07.050 - 00:02:38.960, Speaker B: So who we are and why we're speaking to you today. So we are from Hwo swift lawyers. HWL is a national australian law firm. We have offices in every state and territory. We are not necessarily tech focused, but we are sort of a broad commercial firm. And we have people who are experts in tax and insurance and real estate and things like that. But because we are quite a large firm, we've got the opportunity to specialize and we've got a very good team in the tech and ip space.
00:02:38.960 - 00:03:40.642, Speaker B: So we are coming to you from the Adelaide office in South Australia today, our Adelaide office here was last week some rankings came out and said that we were the top single top firm in Adelaide for tech, media and telecommunications law. So that's why we're here. Personally I've been working with the firm for about twelve years and before I was working here studied law and computer science. So that's my background and interest in the area notwithstanding that. So obviously I do know a bit of the tech and have coded bits and pieces along the way up front I've dabbled a tiny bit with some solidity stuff but nothing sort of deployed into production so only the tiniest little bits. So I'm not here as a tech expert, but I do have a bit of an understanding. I'm also the chair of the South Australian Committee for the Intellectual Property Society, so heavily invested in that space.
00:03:40.642 - 00:04:58.730, Speaker B: Annabelle has joined our team in the last year as recently graduated from the University of Adelaide. Annabelle is interested in this area as well as someone who's obviously she's part of our ip team and interested in ip and tech, but specifically the background in the arts. And so this intersection of nfTs, of tech and arts is an interesting space for the two of us to talk about. She perhaps as well has a finger on the pulse of some of the zeitgeisty pop culture bits that are perhaps passing me by a little bit. So yeah, we're here as the legal experts but not necessarily the tech experts. If we get this along the way, Peter might chime in, I'm sure, but hopefully we're pretty representative of the tech. So what we're going to speak about today are a handful of different issues associated with to have a bit of a primer, but we assume, you know, most of the stuff, most of the tech, and then it's about the interaction with the law and I think probably the most substantive one that we're going to talk about are the bits relating to sort of copyright and issues that sort of interrelate with that, like royalties.
00:04:58.730 - 00:05:13.120, Speaker B: Assuming that you have that understanding of the tech, understanding sort of how the copyright system works is then potentially illustrative into how NFTs fit alongside that.
00:05:13.810 - 00:05:55.200, Speaker C: So we've given you a little overview of the legal issues and we've done our introduction. We just sort of wanted to give you a broad roadmap. So we'll be doing, as Dan mentioned, a little bit of an NFT refresher just in case there happens to be anyone in the room who's not quite as up to scratch as they'd like to be. And then as Dan mentioned deep diving into those legal issues with the focus on copyright, moral rights and royalties. And then we're hoping at the end, if anyone has any questions, we'll be able to wrap up and sort of do a quick q a. So what is an NFT? So this may make you laugh. Until very recently, as Dan mentioned, I only joined the firm in September, and before that I had no idea what an NFT was.
00:05:55.200 - 00:06:48.298, Speaker C: And I understand that most of you here today should have a very good idea. But just in case anyone doesn't, an NFT is a cryptographic tool that acts as a certificate of authenticity for scarce goods. So the acronym stands for non fungible token, and the non fungible component reflects the fact that NFTS cannot be transferred on a like for like basis. So the specific details of the NFT, for example, its creation, dates, creator, the assets linked to it, and consumer demand determine its worth. And this is in contrast, of course, with fungible items like money or other cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin. We know that if a and B both had a bitcoin and swapped them, they would each still have a bitcoin of the same worth. And then that tokens component refers to the myriad of assets that can underlie an NFT.
00:06:48.298 - 00:07:05.810, Speaker C: But broadly, however, we like to think of NFTs being defined into two distinct categories, and that's digital certificates that are linked to entirely digital assets, and then digital certificates that are linked to physical assets. So I think Dan's going to go through some of the more technical aspects.
00:07:08.650 - 00:07:48.500, Speaker B: So obviously we're using the underlying blockchain technology. So these things live on your decentralized, immutable ledgers. And I sort of expect. I don't need to explain that stuff to you. We'll create them using smart contracts, often on the Ethereum chain, and potentially on some subsequent ones that have come along after that, that have similar mechanisms. Using those public chains makes it with the immutable records, gives you a clear record of ownership that's irrefutable. All the stuff that's built into the blockchain with the hashing and stuff to make sure that the records can't change that stuff that you guys will know.
00:07:48.500 - 00:08:42.162, Speaker B: The bit where we're sort of straddling into the tech a bit more is perhaps to talk about the specific smart contract standards that are the ones that get used for this. Obviously, this isn't the only way to do it, but the sort of canonical standard original NFT, you're usually talking about an ERC seven, two, one, or an extension of that on an ERC 1155 template. And again, now this is starting to creep out of the legal bit. But the ERC seven two one template has a bunch of methods, a bunch of functions on it, pulling out a handful of key ones. It's a pretty simple mechanism, really, that it's a smart contract that's going to maintain a ledger of ownership, of token ids. So a function that you give it a token id and it'll tell you who's the owner. And a function to transfer ownership from one wallet to another.
00:08:42.162 - 00:09:36.210, Speaker B: And a function that takes a token id and gives you back a Uri, a link to where you can find out more information about what that token represents. And at that link you should find something that implements the JSON schema that basically sets out three key properties, a name for the token, a description of it, and then another link that links off to the actual underlying image itself. So obviously there's a lot of tech and sophistication in the way that the blockchain works and the way that smart contracts on top of the blockchain work. But this smart contract in itself is relatively, I say, as someone who's not writing these things themselves, but straightforward enough that it is not doing an exceptionally sophisticated thing. It is keeping track of a ledger of ownership and being able to interrogate the ownership and then interrogate the details of the tokens.
00:09:36.550 - 00:10:33.666, Speaker C: And so I guess if you need a little bit of help climbing out of that technical rabbit hole like I sometimes do, I think a useful analogy for NFTs is to think about them in the way that we think about fine art. And I'm sure you've seen references to this before. So I am making an educated guess that we have all seen and know at least one of these paintings. And now I am going to say something potentially sacrilegious here, but I personally don't think that the art contained in any of these incredibly famous works is particularly impressive skill wise. For example, I create that Pollock painting almost every day at work trying to get my pens and highlighters to go. However, what I think is, irrespective of their visual appeal and my own thoughts, it's not necessarily the actual art that's contained within these works which has made them so valuable and so well known. Rather, it's the history and the grandeur which surrounds these works, which is where the value lies.
00:10:33.666 - 00:11:48.910, Speaker C: And so, despite their existing plethora of fake versions shared online and copies printed onto various bits of merchandise, we know there to be one true version of each of these works, which now happen to hang in some of the most famous museums in the world. And so mapping this onto NFTs, by purchasing an NFT, you're sort of buying into this history and this grandeur, or essentially affording yourself with, I guess, the bragging rights to an original or limited version of something that you're able to verify through a digital record. And as well, that's perhaps akin to having that original signed by the artist rather than those copies or fakes that exist later on. Why are NFTs a big deal? I'm going to take you through a couple now and then I think Dan will end up with one. So first and foremost, I think we couldn't go past the fact that they are a really exciting investment opportunity for people. I mean, we all know the beeple NFT that made millions of dollars. And I think for people who are sort of interested in dipping their toes into the crypto world popular culture, we're seeing lots of references to these NFTs, and I think it's helpful because they're visual and they're sort of connected to things that are permeating through the mainstream.
00:11:48.910 - 00:13:05.880, Speaker C: But then also being someone with a background in arts, it was devastating for me to see and continue to see the impact that the pandemic has had on the industry. And I think one of the really exciting things about NFTs and what they can do for creatives, particularly independent creatives, is offer a new revenue stream which allows these creatives to maintain their relationship with their audience. So, for example, for those in the music industry who are often unable to tour due to Covid, they're able to reconcile that gap left by touring and offer perks like audiovisual art, which is attached to an album and thus really keep their fan base engaged. And I think in addition to this, royalties, although they're not necessarily hard baked into smart contracts, there at least seems to be some convention amongst the NFT community of coding a resale royalty right from anywhere from about 2.5% to 10% into them. And I mean, Dan and I are going to touch on this more later on, but in Australia at least, a royalty mechanism of this kind for visual artists already does exist under law. Nonetheless, I think it's excellent that the NFT community are recognizing that artists should be able to benefit from their work more than once.
00:13:05.880 - 00:14:04.982, Speaker C: And then in terms of marketing, I'm sure I am not alone in having been overwhelmed completely by the volume of advertising that seemed to erupt. Really, when the pandemic kind of got into its guts in March of 2020. And I think NFTs in this sense, provide a bit more room for brands to get creative in their ad campaigns. And I think it's certainly seen as explore more interesting ad campaigns and whether this is simply because they wanted to jump on the NFT hype train or not, I think that is a cool thing that NFTs are facilitating. And then you also probably remember that back before when I was describing nfts, I used some quotations around the term scarce when I was describing them. And I think in many aspects, the level of scarcity that is offered by an NFT is entirely artificial. So an NFT attached to a digital artwork does very little to prevent that work from being infinitely replicated.
00:14:04.982 - 00:15:06.650, Speaker C: And this is something that Dan particularly is going to touch on more later on. However, I do think at least it's a cool thing about nfts, is that creators, again, at least in theory, can set the level of scarcity that they attach to their creations. And I think this has seen nfts in some respects, go from that fine art example that I used before, and sort of that's generally the way that nfts are held out and see creators and brands sort of, I guess, implant, sorry, a level of utility and functionality into nfts. So, for example, we've seen festivals and events like Coachella, Mint, nfts that can be used as lifetime tickets, and they have a real world effect. And then finally, I think another aspect of nfts that definitely deserves some attention is their accessibility. We know that, again, using my fine art example, that they can be really exclusive and lucrative markets to tap into. But through NFT marketplaces, particularly like Opensea, anyone in theory, can create an NFT.
00:15:06.650 - 00:15:49.702, Speaker C: So while at a technical level, the minting of an NFT does involve deploying a smart contract to the blockchain, most of that process can actually be streamlined to an NFT marketplace. And that means that everyday people can have access to the NFT world. And even if you're someone that's not interested in minting nfts, if you're interested in purchasing and engaging from an investment perspective or a creative perspective. Sorry, usually getting your hands on an NFT is very similar to online shopping, which I think now most of the population is quite adept at. Again, with NFT marketplaces avoiding that need for consumers to trade directly onto the blockchain.
00:15:49.846 - 00:17:09.894, Speaker B: Yeah. And so there's all this stuff that, where people are sort of interested in what's going on right now, and then there's sort of this broader thing of, well, what does this actually represent for the future? So maybe that you're not necessarily sold on the idea that sort of buying and selling pictures of monkeys with different hats on is necessarily that seismic shift. But is this the sort of gateway into using this technology for broader applications? And the buzword at the moment seems to be web3, which is hard to get anyone to give a consistent sort of definition on. And I suspect that this group is kind of already familiar with this kind of concept. But the idea that we can take some of the decentralized stuff and sort of recalibrate a bit how the balance of power works with sort of big centralized operators on the Internet, and then whether we can use tokens that sort of attach not necessarily just to digital artworks and these sorts of things, but to physical assets to sort of track provenance and track ownership. I know that in a recent presentation you had sort of everledger come along and talk about how they'd done that with diamonds and now various other things. And I suspect when they started doing that with diamonds, it wasn't really nfTs, wasn't really sort of the flavor of the month.
00:17:09.894 - 00:18:08.886, Speaker B: They were just using the blockchain to track something. But we're all sort of converging on the same thing. There's even a suggestion that the other buzword of the month at the moment is the metaverses and Facebook now meta trying to take a lead in that space, but various sort of organizations kind of looking to have control over those kinds of spaces. And we did see recently Facebook sort of quietly announcing that they suspect the royalty you'd pay on digital transactions inside their metaverse to be something like 50%. And so there's ideas, well, why would you invest in sort of digital items that just exist in Facebook's metaverse when you invest in nfts that represent items that exist across different metaverse platforms or something. So there's these broader sort of big sky ideas about why these could end up being a big deal. And time will tell which of those actually shake out into anything particularly useful.
00:18:09.078 - 00:18:56.854, Speaker C: So we've done our quick NFT refresher. Now let's dive into the guts of the presentation, which is the legal issues with NFT under australian law. So an aspect of NFTs that is certainly raising hairs for lawyers is its decentralized nature. And the effects of this are twofold. So first, as we've mentioned, the value of nfts derives from the perception of the buyer and that's invariably influenced by the broader market. So although some nfts are linked to physical assets that do hold some inherent value, the vast majority are linked to intangible assets whose value is driven only by their popularity. And so if you're using nfts as an investment opportunity, they're an incredibly risky asset class to invest in.
00:18:56.854 - 00:19:45.698, Speaker C: And your NFT could be worth a million dollars one day and then zero the next without any real explanation as to why. And second, there is very little NFT law, or specific NFT law, I should say, in Australia. So our federal parliament, it's a bit of a mouthful. Select committee on Australia as a technology and financial center has recently released their final report into cryptocurrency and digital assets. So this certainly suggests that NFT legislation could be a direction that we're heading in. And we've also recently had a federal parliamentarian announce at our national blockchain week that they would be interested in initiating a digital services bill with the view that I guess, genuinely helping successful NFT trading occur.
00:19:45.794 - 00:20:38.726, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's right. The people that are sort of pushing for this at the moment in parliament are the ones who are trying to be ahead of the game and are genuinely interested in this stuff. And so quite often the promise of regulation feels like almost a threat that they're going to come in and regulate us out of existence. I think the people that are putting things on the table at the moment are the ones who see potential in this area. And so what they're trying to do is more put sensible frameworks in place so that good operators can get on with it with certainty and also have some confidence that the bad eggs are going to be weeded out and have a bit of a first mover advantage from doing this. Now, whether obviously we've got, for those of you outside Australia might not be aware, we've got a federal election coming up in a couple of weeks. So whether this stuff comes into fruition remains to be seen.
00:20:38.726 - 00:20:40.454, Speaker B: But it is on the agenda.
00:20:40.502 - 00:21:25.986, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And exactly as Dan said, until this time, where sans NFT specific legislation, and this is similarly the case for case law. And while we are certainly starting to see a range of NFT lawsuits filed, there is, at least to our knowledge, very little case law. There's only one UK case currently of which judgment could be potentially persuasive to australian courts. So in Australia, decisions of the UK are persuasive but not binding for judges to follow. So, yes, that hasn't occurred yet. And so in the absence of any case law or any specific legislation, we're reliant as lawyers on interpreting the general legal frameworks and how these could potentially apply to nfts.
00:21:25.986 - 00:22:25.850, Speaker C: And so this is a really important point that I wanted to bring up, simply because there's no specific NFt legislation, that doesn't mean that NFTs are immune from the law. So, in fact, there are a number of frameworks that can apply. So, for example, the IP regimes that Dan and I will be touching on later on in this presentation, and then also the concept of misleading and deceptive conduct, which is regulated by the australian consumer law. So under the ACL, we have sort of a general provision under section 18, and that is that a person must not, in trade or commerce, engage in conduct that is misleading or likely to mislead or deceive. And then also under section 29, we have a more comprehensive list of examples of false or misleading representations. So, for example, under subsection a, making a false or misleading representation that goods are not of a particular standard, quality, value, grade, composition, the list goes on.
00:22:25.920 - 00:22:39.626, Speaker B: Yeah. One of the ones on that list is that making a false representation that goods have a specific sort of endorsement or sponsorship or affiliation, which, if you're minting what you're saying is the NFT for this thing, you want to be able to actually stand behind those claims.
00:22:39.658 - 00:23:17.002, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. So although there are only a couple of examples, I think you can see how these sort of broad provisions could potentially be useful to someone who's met with NFT foul play. However, there are still a couple of sticky points, and those are in relation to the boundless scope of the Internet and the anonymity of the blockchain. So how do you determine what laws of which jurisdiction apply when and where, and if you were able to work that out, how do you enforce these against the person or the entity that you have an issue with, when that person or entity could simply abandon their digital wallet and run.
00:23:17.136 - 00:25:06.942, Speaker B: Yeah, and the other part as well, that courts are used to being able to issue remedies that involve sort of winding back transactions to say, no, we think that that shouldn't have happened, so this should be reversed. And in the world of immutable blockchain transactions, that's very difficult to do. So there's a preliminary step of where in the world is this person? Can we find this person? Can we pin it on them? And then secondarily, how do we actually then practically implement that? So as intellectual property lawyers, we hear about nfts, and the pitch is at a broad level, hey, you've got these digital artworks taking at least this example of applying nfts to digital art. You've got these digital artworks that at the moment they could be replicated over and over again infinitely. But what we want to do is actually introduce some sort of control and scarcity to the system by saying there's only one person, the token holder, who is the canonical owner of this thing and so they have some exclusive rights around it. Now as an IP lawyer I hear that and I think, gee, that sounds an awful lot like copyright and other IP rights, right? That we've got systems that have developed over hundreds of years of law to say, notwithstanding that a novel or a painting or a photograph or a movie could be replicated infinitely, that we as a society have given through the law the ability for one person to say that they own and control that. So how does know old school system fit with the NFT stuff? So I think before we to dive into that we've got to go back one step and talk about what VIP system looks like.
00:25:06.996 - 00:25:48.730, Speaker C: Absolutely. So intellectual property, as you can see on the screen, is a bundle of rights relating to intangible creations. So they can be creations of the mind, for example inventions, discoveries, books, literary works, creative and artistic works, or brands or physical embodiments of those creations. So we've got models, machines, computer programs, circuits, et cetera. So the rights are protected by legislation or common law or equity and they give the creator of the IP the exclusive right. I want you to remember these two next buzwords that I've highlighted in orange to exploit their creations or protect their creations from unauthorized use.
00:25:48.880 - 00:26:14.740, Speaker B: And just quickly, because for this audience, when we talk about common law and equity, what we're talking about are things that instead of parliament making a law over time courts will attempt to decide decisions consistently and so they will rely on precedent. And so over time we've got bodies of law that have been built up by saying, well, no courts will recognize these rights and we'll act to protect them and what we're referring to.
00:26:15.990 - 00:27:02.674, Speaker C: So in Australia we have kind of two broad types of IP. So we've got registered and unregistered rights, so we've got patents which protect inventions, design which protect physical appearance products, we've got trademarks that act as badges of origins for brands and then we've got what we'll be talking about today, we've got copyright. So that is an unregistered right. We also, I'll just mention never low, have got confidential information as well, so looking at those trade secrets and areas, so two distinct areas, some have to be applied for and some arise automatically. So copyright in Australia is governed by the Copyright act. Shock. And copyright protects the original expression of an idea or information, but it doesn't protect the idea itself.
00:27:02.674 - 00:28:09.310, Speaker C: So that's why, for example, in romance movies, the idea of boy meets girl is not a novel concept, and you see that replicated time and time again, but it's the expression of those distinct movies and sort of how they're set out and written that separates them. And so the copyright there steps in to protect that expression of the boy meets girl idea, rather than that idea of boy meets girl itself. So as I've sort of alluded to, copyright can apply to a range of categories of original works. So we've got literary works, and as tech people that are mostly online today, I'll let you know that software sort of falls under a literary work for the purposes of the Copyright act. And as well we've got dramatic works, artistic and musical works, sound recordings, films, broadcasts and photographs. So protection of copyright is automatic and it's automatic upon the creation of an eligible work. So to be an eligible work, it must be an original work, it must be in a material form, so reduced to writing or recorded, and it also must have some connecting factor with Australia.
00:28:09.310 - 00:28:38.850, Speaker C: Now, I guess some of the good things about copyright, you could say if you're developing copyright or, sorry, copyrightable work, is that it's not necessary to register your work to invoke copyright protection. Now, I'm least aware of in the US, for example, I think if you want to sue for copyright, you might have to register, but at least in Australia that is not necessary. And then also copyright lasts for quite a while. So usually for the life of an author plus 70 years.
00:28:39.000 - 00:29:06.010, Speaker B: And just before we leave that slight quickly, that the connecting factor with Australia, that's obviously to get protection under the Australian Copyright act, but then our act will recognize through a series of international treaties copyright that's from overseas and vice versa, that our rights will be respected. So if you don't have that connecting factor with Australia, but do have an original work in a material form, you probably have copyright protection under your local act instead. Yes.
00:29:06.160 - 00:29:33.726, Speaker C: So the exclusive rights that are conferred by copyright are to copy, publish, broadcast license, communicate, perform, sell and import. And again, importantly, unless and until the owner of that copyright explicitly signs these rights to someone else in writing or permits someone else to do something within the scope of these exclusive rights. So for example, through a license, stick.
00:29:33.758 - 00:30:11.950, Speaker B: On that slide for a second. Okay. So that's our sort of broad landscape of what copyright looks like and what it protects. So let's say you want to mint an NFT that would involve reproducing that work and communicating it. Sorry, mint an NFT that relates to an artwork that would involve reproducing that artwork and communicating it to the public at the very least. So to do that, you need to either, per this slide, be the owner of copyright in that work or have a license to do that from the copyright owner. Now, as Adebel sort of mentioned, there's no register for copyright.
00:30:11.950 - 00:31:15.290, Speaker B: The copyright automatically arises to the author and can be assigned in writing. But so that does create some difficulties in making sure that you're actually the one with permission to do that thing because you have to pull through the chain of title to see, right, who did the author assign their rights to? So that you can see that you've got a chain of title flowing back to the author. And this can be difficult sometimes. So we've seen an example very recently where from late March is the tweet on the left with a project calling itself the TMNtNft purporting to have rights to mint nfts from the 1987 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cower bunga. And then on the right is a post from their discord within the last couple of weeks saying, yeah, Paramount's lawyers have been in touch and maybe we don't actually have the rights we thought we did. So this chain of title stuff can be difficult. And this isn't unique to nfTs.
00:31:15.290 - 00:32:26.246, Speaker B: Where this comes up very frequently that we've dealt with is in creating a motion picture. If you want to make a film, you will want to make sure that you have proper chain of title to the script and all the stuff that flows into it before you start shooting and waste a whole bunch of money filming a movie that you can't release because you actually didn't have the rights to make it. It can also turn on some interesting questions. We've seen this one where Tarantino was going to mint some nfts of pictures from his handwritten script from pop fiction, and Miramax has filed a lawsuit against him saying, well, hang on a know you assigned rights in that script to us as part of making that film with our studio. This is going to hinge on what rights he either licensed or assigned to them at the time. And so it's going to involve looking at the contract for that sale or license from the before anything like this was contemplated and trying to work out what the parties intended at that time. It's quite an interesting exercise.
00:32:26.246 - 00:33:23.278, Speaker B: So we interested to see where that one shakes out. As we've said though. Right, so let's say you've got a properly minted NFt, you haven't hit these issues, you've got something, you have permission to create it. Now someone comes along and buys that, what do they get when they buy it? Do they get ownership of the copyright that comes along with it? Well, we think generally no, that under the Australian Copyright act, and presumably under corresponding ones internationally, there are very sort of strict requirements for assignment of copyright and it needs to be in writing outside of this space. One of the scenarios and mistakes we see a lot is people commissioning a contractor to do something and paying them to do it. And assuming that means they own the work that the contractor creates, that's very much not the case. Just because you're paid for something doesn't mean you own it.
00:33:23.278 - 00:34:38.254, Speaker B: It needs to be in writing and specifically contemplate the assignment of copyright. So for an NFT to do that, I think would need something that sits alongside it, like something beyond just the digital smart contract that there's some sort of terms that accompany it that convey the copyright. So then, okay, what have you got? Well, then it's also not potentially, from a legal perspective, not an awful lot, that if you're not getting copyright, maybe you are getting some limited implied license to sort of deal with it in the ways that an NFT is typically dealt with. But it doesn't give you the right to start doing things like printing t shirts or making movies based off of the character in the thing that you've created. So we've seen that play out. One example that was quite prominent a few months ago was the spice dow who got together €2.6 million to buy an NFT that was for this artwork book of a digitized scan of this artwork book for a June production that never made it off the ground.
00:34:38.254 - 00:35:30.946, Speaker B: And they stated, we're going to buy it, we're going to make it public, and then we're going to make a cartoon series out of it and sell that to a streaming service and sort of had this complete misconception about what it was they were acquiring. What they're acquiring looks more as an analogy. Like, if I walk down to the bookshop and buy a copy of Harry Potter, I don't get the rights to make a film based off of that just because I bought a copy of the book. Okay, someone is pointing out in the chat that they actually bought the physical book for $2.6 million, not an NFT of the book. In any event, that's even closer to my Harry Potter analogy. Sorry, I've just noticed we had a few questions.
00:35:30.946 - 00:36:36.634, Speaker B: Yeah, so look, David has also raised the question, how would this apply? Sorry, this was obviously what we discussed a few minutes ago. How would this apply to generative NFTs which generated when minted and not prior? It's actually really interesting as I understand what we're talking about are things like you have a series of 1000 different sort of cats that you're minting and they get generated by a procedure that assigns a different hat and whiskers and ears to each different cat to come up with the 1000 different combinations. Say. And I think what you've actually got there is a real question about whether those are artistic works that the copyright would attach to. Copyright, at least in Australia, flows from authorship by a person. And things that are generated by computer programs typically don't attract copyright protection. It protects the sort of intellectual endeavor of a human author as opposed to some procedurally generated thing.
00:36:36.634 - 00:37:35.374, Speaker B: So in the context of an NFT series, which consists of a whole bunch of generated things, there would be a live question as to how robust any copyright that attaches to that is. I suspect what you probably get back to is that you say, well, there's still copyright in the hand drawn artwork of all the different hats, and there's still copyright in the different things. And so the program that puts them together, maybe it doesn't create a new artistic work, but to reproduce that, you still have to reproduce all the artistic works that form part of it. So there is some copyright, but it is a very interesting area. This sort of computer generated artwork type stuff that is just a whole separate bundle outside of today. And given an NFT has to be published to sell it. Does that mean that copyright goes for 70 years? Or is it the creator's life plus 70 years? Look, the things that talk about publication plus 70 years are typically for categories of works that inherently have a publication thing.
00:37:35.374 - 00:38:32.030, Speaker B: Inherently it's things like there is copyright in broadcasts that goes from 70 years from the broadcast for things that are more in the nature of artistic works, like a painting or a photograph or a digital artistic work. I think it's probably going to go from, it's probably still going to be author plus 70 years because the copyright arises from the creation of the artwork as opposed from the publication or the broadcast. Two more questions that have taken further. The NFT could also be generated by an algorithm and not from component images. Yeah. And so that's going back to the previous question, but, yeah. The more that it is completely procedurally generated and doesn't have any human sort of touch in there, the less it looks like something that's protected by copyright.
00:38:32.030 - 00:40:13.870, Speaker B: This is a live question that is not just in this space. If I write an AI computer program that generates artworks, and then I give it to Annabelle to run, and she runs it, and it produces an artwork, who should be entitled to ownership of that? Is it me who sort of trained it and did all the right things to make the artwork? Is it Annabelle who drove it and maybe gave it a few parameters to sort of steer it in the right direction? Because generally the answer, though, is probably neither of us. But there's a live question of, should the law change to reflect either or both of us actually having some rights to exclusively control that output? And there is, just as a further sidebar, there's a thing at the moment, the similar question arising in the patent space, which is further away from what we're talking about today, but where someone's trained in artificial intelligence thing, it has come up with a patentable invention. They have applied for patents for that invention in a number of countries around the world as a test case and have put forward. And basically in most countries, it is passing the questions about, is this the kind of thing that is sufficiently inventive to be patented, but it is running up at issues of, can an AI be named as the inventor, or does it need to be a human person? And Australia's so far had two court cases on that, like one with one judge at the first level and an appeal with three judges. And I think from memory, the first judge has said, yeah, that's okay. There's nothing in the australian act that says it has to be a natural person that invents it.
00:40:13.870 - 00:40:35.080, Speaker B: And it's the full federal court that said, no, hang on a second. We don't agree with that. We think it does need to be. And there's similar things with disagreeing court judgments going on in different countries around the world. This is a really interesting area. It's not core to what we're talking about today, but fascinating. And so I've got sidetracked myself, and I've scrolled the slides, trying to scroll the questions.
00:40:35.080 - 00:41:49.310, Speaker B: Yeah. Horatio's question about the procedurally generated art by someone like Brian Eno, it raises real questions. There'd be questions of fact and degree as well. Is it the kind of thing where you just press the go button and the AI does all the stuff, or are you actually meaningfully having input into the artwork? Because then you really get into some fine gray questions where if you're using some of the more sophisticated tools in Photoshop these days to create an artistic work that can do sort of AI sky replacement and things like this, where's that line between I've had enough involvement versus I've not very interesting space. So look, our last bit that we had mentioned was about how, look, just by buying an NFT, you don't get copyright ownership and you don't necessarily get a license to do anything sophisticated with it. But we do see some NFT projects that are taking it upon themselves to say, well, no, we will explicitly grant you rights. So board Ape Yacht Club with the series of board apes is one of the most prominent ones that I've sort of alluded to with monkeys wearing hats.
00:41:49.310 - 00:43:07.090, Speaker B: But they have a thing in the license terms from Yuga Labs, who runs that project that expressly grant an unlimited worldwide license to use, copy, display the purchased art for the purpose of creating derivative artworks for commercial use. And they specifically said there you can sell t shirts with it on, you can go off and make your own things. And so we've seen people now latching onto this that there's a music project involving timberland with a rapping one of the apes is now rapping in the token holder doing thing. And look, we can question the artistic merit of the song that's come out at the end of that, but they have deliberately taken this approach to open the field for people to do things with what they're doing. So it's an interesting one, but it's not the default position, as we've said as well, the copyright owner is the one who retains, well, copyright owner will retain ownership notwithstanding that minted an NFT. And so that gives them the right to continue to reproduce, to continue to reproduce things. So like in this example, Yuga Labs doesn't necessarily say that this is an exclusive license.
00:43:07.090 - 00:44:07.846, Speaker B: So there's potentially nothing preventing Yuga Labs also making their own t shirts with that ape on it. But then going a step further, if I've got the right to continue to reproduce, I could just continue to mint more nfts. I'm not infringing my own copyright by making another NFT with the same image. So one example we had of that recently and look, I didn't think I'd be putting a cartoon frog butt on a slide anytime soon, but here we are Matt Fury, I hope that's how that's pronounced, had minted. He was. He created Pepe the frog, who's had a long, you know, checkered history, but he's been trying to steer Pepe back to a more pure and kosher existence. Anyway, he minted that token on the right and sold it at auction to Halston Theia for about what it works out to about half a million bucks, and then weeks later gave away 46 tokens for an identical artwork.
00:44:07.846 - 00:44:40.360, Speaker B: Now, from a copyright law perspective, I have no issue with that. Right. Whose copyright has he infringed? It's his copyright. He can't infringe it. It's his own thing. He can do that. There may be issues from a consumer law perspective, right, that if you've held out that this is going to be the one token, the one NFT for this thing or the exclusive, this thing, and then gone against that weeks later, that's potentially misleading or deceptive conduct and false and misleading representations and various other things.
00:44:40.360 - 00:45:17.642, Speaker B: That's the australian sort of terminology. There'll be corresponding laws in other countries for similar concepts. My understanding is that in this scenario, Matt had actually been quite public about before he sold that first NFT, about his intention to mint further nfts based on that. Not necessarily that they were going to be given away for free, but still that. So that maybe he hasn't actually engaged in this leader septic. But obviously Halston is very concerned that the value of his once super exclusive half a million dollar frogs butt NFT has now tanked as a result of that. So just giving.
00:45:17.642 - 00:45:25.220, Speaker B: It's the kind of scenario that feels a bit like trite and silly, but when people have got half a million bucks on the line, suddenly it feels important.
00:45:25.830 - 00:46:22.802, Speaker C: So now that we've had a bit of a chat about copyright, we wanted to talk about moral rights, and these are rights which accompany copyright and are also found under the Copyright act in Australia. So, as you see on the screen, moral rights. And again, I've importantly heightened a couple of terms there for you are personal, non economic rights belonging to the creators of materials protected by copyright. So if you take nothing away from what I talk about in relation to moral rights, what I want you to remember is that they cannot be transferred, waived, assigned, sold or otherwise disposed of. So they always remain with the original creator of a work. So even if you have validly transferred to copyright something that doesn't remove your moral rights, so even though you're no longer the owner of the copyright, those moral rights stay with you as the creator of a work. However, as you'll see on the screen, you can consent to the infringement of your moral rights.
00:46:22.802 - 00:47:13.138, Speaker C: However, importantly, this has to be in writing and you're informed, and genuine informed consent has to be given to do this. So what are the moral rights? Well, they're broadly the right of attribution, so to be credited for your work. So, for example, if it's placed on a website, the right against false attribution of authorship, so the right not to have someone else credited for your work. And then also the right of integrity. And I think importantly, the right of integrity brings up this term called derogatory treatment. So I guess the right of integrity reflects the right to not have your work treated derogatory. Now, under the Copyright act, derogatory treatment is given an interesting definition that I think is potentially tricky for the world of nfts.
00:47:13.138 - 00:48:27.402, Speaker C: So you'll see on the screen, I've got the Copyright act and I've got section 195 AK under subsection a, derogatory treatment. And I'll just note as well that this definition flows through the whole of the Copyright act includes anything that results in a material distortion, destruction, mutilation, or material alteration of the work that is prejudicial or, sorry, prejudicial to the author's honor or reputation. Then similarly, in subsection B, we have derogatory treatment, including the exhibition in public of the work that is prejudicial because of the manner or place in which the exhibition occurs. And then we have this really broad subsection, subsection C, which defines derogatory treatment as anything else in relation to the work that is prejudicial to the author's honor and reputation. So while the infringement of moral rights is not an offense, it can lead to the awarding of some remedies. So, including an injunction, which is an order for the infringing parties to sort of stop doing what they're doing. So to stop dishonouring your work, a declaration of the wrongs committed damages.
00:48:27.402 - 00:49:19.710, Speaker C: So a monetary award, removal or reversal of any derogatory treatment or a public. Oh, sorry, Dan, did you want to dive in? I was just going to say a couple of things quickly, if you don't mind. So that these remedies exist, I think, and are available, are really crucial when you're engaging in the space of nfTs. So while again, I think it would be remitted me not to acknowledge that enforcing these remedies are likely to be difficult. The possibility remains that you, having valuably obtained copyright from the original creator of an artwork that you've purchased, you could be put in a situation where, upon minting some nfTs, on the basis of this artwork that you've purchased, put in a situation where the original creator claims that you've infringed their moral rights by way of derogatory treatment through minting that NFT.
00:49:20.130 - 00:50:25.950, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, that's a real live question. I suppose if you had an artist who was vehemently opposed to NFTs and you somehow validly own the rights to their thing and minted an NFT, notwithstanding their objection, that could maybe be something that is prejudicial to their overall reputation. I don't know that we've seen that specific claim yet as well. I think there's probably scope for attribution claims, but it seems like that we see, I've heard stories about NFT projects where sort of artists get commissioned to do work, sort of not really realizing what it's for, and then having their work sold as NFTs for significantly higher amounts than they were paid and feeling sorry. The moral rights don't really address that I didn't get paid what I should have got paid issue, but they do at least go to the issue of you've exploited my artwork and not given me any credit for it, that if that's how you want to do things, you need to make sure that you've got their permission to do those acts contrary to their moral rights. Does in public include the Internet?
00:50:26.030 - 00:50:27.122, Speaker C: That is a good question.
00:50:27.256 - 00:50:28.974, Speaker B: So this is for the purpose of.
00:50:29.112 - 00:50:30.354, Speaker C: Purpose of derogatory treatment.
00:50:30.402 - 00:50:58.766, Speaker B: Derogatory treatment, yes. Look, I would have thought generally, yes, I suspect that the Internet is a big place these days. I would have thought possibly that you could do something in a discord or a private messaging channel that is technically the Internet. But maybe you could argue is not public. But certainly minting something onto a public blockchain is, I would have thought, is.
00:50:58.788 - 00:51:00.494, Speaker C: Probably going to be in public.
00:51:00.692 - 00:51:01.440, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:51:02.050 - 00:51:26.402, Speaker C: Awesome. So then, related to moral rights, we have got our royalties. So you remember me making quite a sales pitch for NFTs at the start of this presentation relating to royalties. And I'd still certainly maintain my position that it's great to see a recognition of the effort that artists put into their work and that should be rewarded more than once. Nonetheless, Dan, I think that you have something to say from a technical perspective.
00:51:26.466 - 00:53:18.026, Speaker B: Well, yeah. So at first, looking into nfts and this picture of royalties to artists, as someone who's yet to delve into the technical details, and certainly when I speak to people who aren't inclined to delve into the technical details, I think that there's a perception that, right, so you've got a smart contract that runs this thing, and so the computer program ensures that is in the smart contract ensures that artists are paid their royalties. But the standards that we've got, these ERC seven two one, as I understand it, doesn't actually implement royalties at all. That's not to say that you couldn't make a smart contract that works that way, but that for most nfts that are just doing the boring default thing, that the smart contract itself doesn't actually provide for a mechanism for royalty payment. And so what you're relying on and where these royalties are coming in are at the marketplace level, that you're sort of launching something on, say, opensea and setting a trailing royalty that says every time there's a subsequent transaction on this, I'm going to get 7% that you're relying on overseas as the marketplace provider to actually pass that through. But if it's a true ERC seven two one token sitting on the chain that hasn't been customized to do something unusual, you could transact with that directly on chain and avoid paying that royalty. So you guys would probably, as a technical audience, probably understand that better than I do, and maybe we're aware of that and don't think that that's controversial, but I do think it doesn't quite line up with what ordinary people have in their head as an understanding when they're told that this has this royalty system, that it's not as strictly enforceable as people might think.
00:53:18.128 - 00:54:31.134, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, also, as I mentioned as well earlier, we have in Australia the resale royalty right for Visual Artists act. So under the scheme that the act sets up, which has sort of been enforced since about 2010, visual artists and other right holders are entitled to 5% of the sale price of eligible artworks resold commercially for $1,000 or more. So obviously, this is not going to apply to nfts sold for less than $1,000. However, we are at least of the opinion that the act does apply to nfts, and this is because eligible works under the act are defined to include things such as digital and multimedia artworks with the resale of an artwork occurring commercially. If the ownership of the artwork is transferred from one person to another for monetary considerations, which we understand happens in the NFT realm, the transfer is not the first transfer of ownership of the artwork, and the transfer involves an art market professional. Now, this is defined as a few things under the act, and so, alongside optioneers, it also, interestingly includes people otherwise involved in the business of dealing artworks.
00:54:31.134 - 00:55:23.502, Speaker C: Now, I think you could very well argue that that includes traders, purchasers and sellers on the NFT marketplace. So another thing about the act is that it also allows for reciprocal resale rights to be established with countries that also have an operating resell royalty scheme. So under these arrangements, australian artists will receive royalties when their eligible works are resold in reciprocating countries, and vice versa. Artists from reciprocating countries will receive royalty payments for their eligible artwork resold in Australia. So I think in jurisdictions that don't have schemes such as this, embedding royalties into nfts and smart contracts, or at least in the T's and C's on NFT marketplaces, certainly has its place. I'm just unsure that if in Australia at least we're doing anything really other than simply reinventing the wheel.
00:55:23.566 - 00:56:15.890, Speaker B: Yeah, it's interesting because the pitch with NFTs is sort of like, hey, guess what, artists, you traditionally, you sell your artwork once and then that's all you ever see, and other people make the profit when it gets resold for higher and higher amounts. And so we're doing something about that that the physical art world never did. But that's not true that there is a scheme for this in the physical art world as well. I think what people are sort of pitching as something that's completely new in left field is not necessarily quite so. There is also question as to whether if you set a royalty rate of two and a half percent on open sea, and then we're selling artworks for more than $1,000, whether you might actually be in breach of the royalty of Rights act. Now, there's a few bits, a couple of issues coming up that I want to just quickly get through. I appreciate we've been going for a while now.
00:56:15.890 - 00:57:15.000, Speaker B: There's a couple of things that basically I'm not going to spend a lot of time on because they're not exactly legal issues. They are more things that if we were presenting to an audience who were less familiar with the tech, I think they would perhaps not fully have appreciated previously. So one of those is smart contracts. You guys know how smart contracts work. I'm not going to come in and re explain that, but I just feel like we've mentioned them that many times today that I feel like I have to get in the point of saying that we don't think that smart contracts are actually contracts, that it is a bit of a misnomer. That's not to say they're not useful and don't have a role that just in terms of there's hundreds of years of law about what a contract means and that this does not align with that. I think we won't dwell on that, but I think I can't mention smart contracts so many times and not say that.
00:57:15.000 - 00:58:03.682, Speaker B: Although that has prompted comment in the. So Vitalik's saying as yeah, so that's right. I mean, we've started to see people in the legal industry talk about ideas of trying to make things that know a hybrid of a smart contract and a traditional legal contract. And then they're having to come up with these weird names like legal smart contracts and things. And it's early days for that stuff. Another thing that I wanted to discuss as well, it's more of a practical issue that I think people generally don't appreciate, at least ordinary, non technical people don't appreciate, is how you go about linking the asset to the chain or to the token. And so I think there's a sort of the layman understanding of nfTs.
00:58:03.682 - 00:58:50.390, Speaker B: People who are interested, but not super technical would say, well yeah, there's this thing on the blockchain and the blockchain says, I own this thing. But as we saw earlier, the ERC seven two one, all that's stored on chain is a record that you own, a token that has an identifier that has metadata at a URL. And then at that URL there's metadata that includes another URL to an artwork. So there are two hops there of things that are not stored on chain that are super important to what you're buying. They define the artwork that you're getting or the asset that's coming along for the ride. And they are potentially vulnerable to change. Domain names can expire.
00:58:50.390 - 00:59:49.254, Speaker B: People can change things. At a server we saw over sort of Christmas, New Year's, moxie, Marlin Spike's post where he had rigged up a token to point to a URL that would return a different image depending on the IP address, who was requesting that image, so that it would show up with different pictures on different marketplaces and a different picture again when it landed in your wallet. I think just as a neat little illustration of how sort of loose this stuff is, there are obviously anytime I sort of make this complaint to someone technical, they'll usually tell me like, yeah, but what we'll do is we'll put a hash, say maybe it's prohibitively expensive in terms of gas and stuff to put the whole image on the blockchain, but we can put in a hash of the image and so you'll know that if there's a difference. Yeah, that might work. But if you're just doing the bog standard, erc seven two one. That's not a feature of it. Peter suggested when I was talking to him about this.
00:59:49.254 - 01:00:25.462, Speaker B: Well, maybe the interplanetary file system that uses hashes as part of URLs. So you could put in the token metadata. The URLs involve a hash, and so you've snuck a hash into the existing sort of schema that sort of works. But it still feels to me a little bit like you're building on a bit of a house of cards there, that you're relying then on ipfs to sort of stay running and continue to function in the same way that it always has. I see that this is prompting multiple comments in the chat. We're still back on the smart contract question. Yes, good.
01:00:25.462 - 01:01:06.946, Speaker B: I'm glad that no one's furiously in disagreement with me at that point. As I said, this is not necessarily a legal issue, but is one that I think when we're explaining how NFTs work to people, especially people that's particularly bullish on NFTs, I want to make sure that they understand this point. This is also what we're talking about. There primarily is digital assets. I think. Then again, there's another step where if you're starting to try to apply this stuff to physical assets, you can sort of go, all right, I've got an immutable record that shows I can trace this thing through the chain, this asset. But how do I know that this asset in the real world correlates with that thing on the chain? I know.
01:01:06.946 - 01:01:49.120, Speaker B: Again, Everledger presented recently, and I know that they've got some techniques with their diamonds that they have effectively like a fingerprint of characteristics. So that you can be pretty confident that this diamond is the same one as that one on the chain. But it's an interesting space and challenge as far as I'm concerned. Yeah, so that's right. So David's saying that, look, solving the issue of storing the image data on chain is something that we might end up solving with. Look, I don't understand the technical enough, but realistically, if gas fees weren't as high, maybe we could actually just fix this problem right now. It's just that gas costs too much.
01:01:49.120 - 01:02:23.210, Speaker B: I might be talking out of my behind with that one, but that's all fine. I get that this is a fixable issue, especially for digital classes of assets. I just think that a lot of ordinary folks who might be tempted to get in on the NFT train think that it's a fixed issue as opposed to a fixable one. The blockchain has solved that issue for us full stop. Whereas I think that there's still some scope to improve here. Anyway, let's move on so we can get back to stuff that looks a bit more like legal issues. Privacy.
01:02:23.210 - 01:03:22.990, Speaker B: Look again, if this was a non technical audience, we would start to explain a bit more about the pseudonymity of blockchains and how you can trace the public ledger through. You will all be across that, I suppose I wanted to point out that in Australia, privacy law, the key one is the privacy act and the apps, that's the australian privacy principles that are in that act, and they regulate how you deal with personal information. Personal information is defined as information or opinion about an identified individual or an individual who's reasonably identifiable. Now that reasonably identifiable depends on the context. If you know information about someone, that might make it easier for you to identify them than an ordinary member of the public can identify them. Some unique combination of characteristics. It can be a bit of a gray area, but in the context of the blockchain, it is usually a pretty straight up and down one that if you know their wallet id, then they are absolutely reasonably identifiable.
01:03:22.990 - 01:04:13.680, Speaker B: And so then that brings in privacy obligations that are just. That's more of a blockchain thing than an NFT specific thing. And again, at that sort of blockchain level, if you know wallet addresses, then you know an awful lot. We're starting to see governments trying to keep a bit of a tally on where the wallet addresses sit. A few years ago, we had amendments to the anti money Laundering and Counterterrorism Financing act that had previously dealt with things like where you front up to the bank with large amount of cash. Now it added some things in the last few years about know your customer requirements for exchanges, so that they at least have a view of wallet exchanges on the edge, where you're converting fiat into crypto and back. That does segue us into another issue in the NFT space of money laundering itself.
01:04:13.680 - 01:05:06.606, Speaker B: Look, money laundering has traditionally been an issue in the art world, pre nfts that there are an unusual class of assets whose value is very subjective. So there's scope to pay large amounts for art and use that as a mechanism to sort of cycle money around separately. The crypto world, with its sort of pseudonymity has also been a bit of a target for money laundering type stuff. And so NFTs that put those two things together is a real sort of honeycop for this kind of thing. The traditional laws continue to apply. You're not suddenly absolved from that, but it is definitely an issue in this space. NFT does at least have the advantage, compared to the old school artwork, of dragging the transaction logs out into the open.
01:05:06.606 - 01:05:42.854, Speaker B: But, yeah, it's not necessarily a problem issue. That sort of also segues us to a broader category of kind of just generally dishonest practices. That there does seem to be a bit of an attraction in this space for sort of scams. And there's a few factors. It is quite technical, and so there's a lot of people involved who don't fully, technically understand what they're doing. The pseudonymity, these kinds of things can lead to people feeling emboldened to try out sort of scams. And of course, the immutable nature of the blockchain.
01:05:42.854 - 01:06:25.042, Speaker B: Right. Because if you can get away with the scam, you can't reverse the credit card transaction like you can in a traditional environment. If you can get the scam, then it's locked in, it's on the ledger, it's yours. So seen all sorts of categories of things, like rug pools, where you start a project and then sort of abandon it and pump and dumps, where you try and sort of artificially the initial founders try and get the stock up and then sell out and leave everyone else for it to crater. Phishing, we're seeing. So we saw within the last couple of weeks, the board apes Instagram account had been hacked. And that's obviously nothing to do with the security of the ledger or the smart contract or anything, just this bit at the fringe.
01:06:25.042 - 01:07:02.814, Speaker B: But if you've hacked their thing, you advertise a new drop. You get people to come on to a website and give you their wallet credentials, and then, hey, guess what? You lost your apes. It's a real issue. The point here with this is from the legal perspective, that the law continues to apply. As Annabelle said at the start, there's a challenges in enforcing that law, but all of these things are the kind of things that are already contrary to laws. On the commercial side, there are the things that we've talked about, like misleading or deceptive conduct. On the criminal side, there's two categories.
01:07:02.814 - 01:07:39.578, Speaker B: There's sort of broad, like fraud offenses, and then there are also sort of misuse of computers and passwords and these sort of hacking type offenses. We're not criminal lawyers, so I'm not going to go into any significant detail. But it's not so much that we've got a void of laws to deal with this stuff. It's pinning it on people getting the enforcement issue, it's getting the authorities interested and then making sure that they actually have the means and ability to pin it on the right people. The picture on the left there is a frosty. That was in January, an NFT project that made off with $1.1 million in a rug pool.
01:07:39.578 - 01:08:23.966, Speaker B: So they launched it, made all these promises, took the money and then ran. We've seen very recently, 220 year olds from New York charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering. And the attorney general's office there saying the same rules apply to investment in an NFT. The same rules apply to an investment in an NFT or an investment in a real estate development. You can't solicit funds for a business opportunity, abandon that business, and abscond with the money your investors provided you. So this isn't a lawless wild west. It's that the authorities are taking a bit of time to catch up.
01:08:23.966 - 01:08:32.286, Speaker B: But just because you can potentially practically get away with a few of these things doesn't mean that it is legal, appropriate or anything like that.
01:08:32.468 - 01:09:34.098, Speaker C: So I am going to give Dan a very well preserved chance to take a drink of water and have a bit of a break and round out our presentation discussing NFT marketplaces and this sort of gatekeeping role we think they found themselves in. So one point that I would make clear to people who are not so I guess caught up with the NFT world is that NFT marketplaces are certainly not uniform spaces, and they do differ in their terms of services. So different obligations may apply to you depending on the marketplace that you choose to, for example, upload your NFT to. To be sold. So whether that allows them to reuse and reproduce your work for the purposes of advertising your NFT. However, I think today what we really wanted to drill home to you is, again, this awkward situation that NFt marketplaces are finding themselves in. And I think this is given the ledger's role as a canonical, immutable record of NFT creation and ownership, no party can later amend or correct that record.
01:09:34.098 - 01:10:24.926, Speaker C: And if someone were to mint an NFT of a copyright image and they didn't own that, no amount of letters from Dan or legal pressure could remove that NFT from the ledger. And so if a user is hacked or defrauded and loses their token. No one really has the authority under law to reverse that transaction. But NFT marketplaces also can't really sit by idly while knockoff nfts circulate and fraudster sell their tokens and stolen wares. And so one mechanism that marketplaces are using to resolve this issue is to delist and block the sale of the offending NFTs from their website. However, this is usually a really poor remedy. The underlining NFT still continues to exist and it can still continue to be traded, just not by that NFT marketplace.
01:10:24.958 - 01:10:26.770, Speaker B: Yeah, it could still be owned by the fraudster.
01:10:26.850 - 01:11:04.898, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And it also rarely addresses the underlying issue that the fraudster has still stolen and committed that act. But the remedy also offends kind of a core tenet of NFTs and the NFT world. And that is that NFTs are a decentralized and unregulated space. So I think the takeaways that we have from NFTs and what the research that we've done is they've certainly caused a splash. And they're arguably now part of the mainstream and popular culture. As with a lot of areas of tech, unfortunately, lawmakers, at least in Australia, are still on the back foot.
01:11:04.898 - 01:11:27.080, Speaker C: And without any legal background, it can be really challenging, especially for consumers, to comprehend how NFTs can intersect with sort of our general laws. But NFTs haven't really added a new it framework. However, they do intersect with them in really exciting and interesting ways. And I'm sure I can speak for Dan when I'm really interested to see where we.
01:11:29.210 - 01:12:08.822, Speaker B: Yeah, that's right. And I hope that today's know has given you a bit of a taste of the kind of things that we're seeing and the way that these things kind of intersect. You may still have different questions and queries, and we're happy to have a chat now, but just if we've planted the seed, hey, copyright still exists. And a few of those concepts about how copyrights transferred and how licensing works and stuff, that might be useful. So the chat has lit up with someone? Yeah. Peter says recovering soul in crypto nfts is a long know. Get them taken into custody, take their private key.
01:12:08.822 - 01:13:25.626, Speaker B: Yeah, but it's very different than the way things work in other ways. I mean, one analogy that is really quite a boring one, but is the way that the land registration system works, right? That we have a central register where the owner of that piece of land is recorded and you can see on the register and one of the tenets of the torrent system of land registration is that the register is canonical, what the register says. So that looks like that, but there's a whole bunch of protections that are built into that framework. There is the ability potentially for certain things to be rescinded if a court orders or if the registrar general so deems. And also they've got this concept, at least in South Australia here there's a fund basically for some of the transaction fees you pay go into a bucket. And in the event that there's an issue with the register that robs someone of their property, they can be compensated from that fund. So there's all sorts of things where we've seen these in the past and come up with systems and ways to take the harsh edges off some of that immutability.
01:13:25.626 - 01:13:51.480, Speaker B: But it's hard to see how to do that in a system that is decentralized and programmatically so thing without introducing a new gatekeeper or a new authority. I think it's a very interesting space look. So yeah, we're happy to take any questions. We should also put up the slides from Peter about upcoming things. Peter's welcome to jump back on as well if he wants to. Coming?
01:13:54.330 - 01:13:59.020, Speaker A: I don't know, play with the tech and get my video to work. Yeah.
01:13:59.390 - 01:14:00.780, Speaker C: Should we stop?
01:14:01.950 - 01:14:17.534, Speaker A: No, it's all good. Yeah, I'll talk about what's coming up and then we'll go to any open questions, which I'm sure there are heaps, but. Yeah. Flip to the next slide, please.
01:14:17.652 - 01:14:22.494, Speaker B: Yes. Did it go? We're trying. Yeah. There we are.
01:14:22.692 - 01:15:11.150, Speaker A: There we are. Cool. Thank you. All right, so in two weeks time, but at 05:00 p.m., Brisbane, we're going to have Mikhail talking about the Ethereum merge. So he's going to talk about essentially the move to proof of stake for Ethereum as well. We're going to have Ben Edgington on that call as well and ready to handle any questions about proof of stake and all the questions that I know people have got around the whole merge and how is it going to happen and what does it all mean? Moving along from there, myself and some others are getting together and we're going to talk about creating crosschain applications so applications that can bridge multiple blockchains.
01:15:11.150 - 01:15:47.180, Speaker A: And we're going to talk about how you can get involved. Then another one, Ethereum two related is checkpoint sync and Adrian and Paul. That should be actually, Adrian and Paul are going to talk about checkpoint sync and that's the synchronization process used by the beacon chain, which is the proof of stake chain for Ethereum two. And then we've got a whole heap of other talks coming up as well, so you might as well unshare your slides and then make it easier for us all to see each other. Yes. And so are there any questions?
01:15:50.030 - 01:15:51.580, Speaker C: We tied you all out.
01:15:53.490 - 01:16:13.634, Speaker A: Whilst we're waiting for people to think about questions, can I say that that was a very polished, very well put together talk? It was very slick. And the handover between the two of you, that would have taken a lot of work. I know. So thank you for putting so much effort in. That's awesome. Thank you. All right, I know.
01:16:13.634 - 01:16:21.400, Speaker A: I'm going to cast to Michael, because Michael here, he is an intellectual property lawyer, so he should have tricky questions.
01:16:25.210 - 01:16:26.680, Speaker D: What's your favorite color?
01:16:27.710 - 01:16:30.010, Speaker C: A question I can answer, Michael. Thank you.
01:16:30.160 - 01:16:33.690, Speaker D: No, look, I'll leave it to the others, the intended audience.
01:16:34.030 - 01:16:34.778, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:16:34.944 - 01:17:03.780, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think there's a lot of open issues with NFTs, and I know there is a proposal to have a version of, like, the ERC 721 with the baked in royalties, and I think that would be a massive step forward, but things like that have got to get. Yeah. Okay. What about you, Sandra? Do you have a question for us?
01:17:07.850 - 01:17:08.818, Speaker B: No, I don't.
01:17:08.914 - 01:17:33.034, Speaker E: I just like everyone else, it was a really lovely presentation. Thank you. And really enjoyed the way you put it together. It was engaging and I think really logically put together. And I was really interested to find that there are already some NFT lawsuits out. Like, it didn't even cross my mind. And then you've gone through several aspects, so I found that really interesting.
01:17:33.232 - 01:17:38.358, Speaker B: Yeah. I mean, wherever the money is, lawsuits follow, I'm sure.
01:17:38.544 - 01:17:44.434, Speaker A: And you mentioned there was one in the UK. What's going on there?
01:17:44.632 - 01:18:13.866, Speaker B: That's a pretty recent one we've seen in the last little bit. I think it's at a sort of preliminary stage where they're trying to. Someone's had a token misappropriated, I think. And so they've tried to get a judge to find that those were property and assets, and so therefore get injunctions cross jurisdictionally. Yeah.
01:18:13.888 - 01:18:26.206, Speaker C: So I think it was important for the UK, I guess, that it recognized NFTs as property, but I don't really think that the issues that we've come across, Dan, like, really intersect with that.
01:18:26.388 - 01:19:09.740, Speaker B: Not necessarily. It is an interesting development as to how they sort of recognize it. Yeah. At this stage, it's sort of at this preliminary stage where we sort of haven't got a final judgment. We've got this interlocutory judgment that says, okay, we're willing to recognize that there's enough of a case that we're willing to give court orders that opensea should freeze the asset and various things to try and get more information about who's behind the issue and stuff like that. So it's early days in that one, but it certainly wasn't a foregone conclusion that they would say, this looks like property that we want to get involved with at a legal level. So, yeah, an interesting one.
01:19:10.190 - 01:19:23.162, Speaker C: In Australia, we're usually the last people to get anything, whether that be the latest Netflix special or whatever. So it's nice at least to have some sort of persuasive case law that we could potentially see developing and having some effect in Australia.
01:19:23.306 - 01:19:25.060, Speaker B: It's not always true.
01:19:26.310 - 01:19:49.560, Speaker A: Well, this is certainly a global thing. And the idea that there's a question about whether it's property or not seems to me really crazy, because you've purchased this good, and it's not like you're purchasing the right to watch a movie once you're purchasing the right to this forever. But anyway, I'm not all.
01:19:49.930 - 01:20:34.662, Speaker B: But, I mean, there's a question of, like, is it a good. What have you purchased, Peter? It's an interesting question because to some extent, what you've purchased is that you're recorded in a ledger somewhere. What's the property that, at law in Australia, we sort of broadly have. This may be sweeping oversimplification, but we've got three sort of kinds of property. We've got real property that's land and the stuff that's built on it. And then we've got sort of other sorts of tangible property, like cars or the clothes I'm wearing or whatever. And then we've got things that create intangible property, and that is typically intellectual property, or maybe things like securities and shares and things like that.
01:20:34.662 - 01:20:45.500, Speaker B: But they are created by specific laws. They are not things that just sort of exist because we decide, I paid something and so I must have.
01:20:47.790 - 01:20:48.106, Speaker E: That.
01:20:48.128 - 01:20:53.626, Speaker B: Everything you're saying, Peter, is sensible. It just does it actually line up with the legal understand?
01:20:53.728 - 01:21:05.890, Speaker A: And, I mean, it's almost. Yeah, because you could imagine if there was some other ledger or, I don't know, it's like a guest book or something. I guess it's not quite because it's showing ownership.
01:21:07.990 - 01:21:09.890, Speaker B: But again, ownership of what?
01:21:10.040 - 01:21:49.200, Speaker A: Yeah, of what, exactly. And even if you had something where you could directly show it's ownership of this image on this website, say, and it was using ipfs, so you can't modify it. That's only an inference. There's nothing in the block in that actual contract, the smart contract that is, that actually says that it's only the inference that we have. It's like the social rules around using the contract that imply that as opposed to.
01:21:51.170 - 01:22:45.710, Speaker B: As we sort of talked about, the traditional IP systems where if you want to say, oh, I own this trademark, you can see the register says that. But the trademarks act sets up a system whereby it recognizes that as property that proprietary rights exist in, as opposed to, I mean, the other speak earlier, I said where the money is, the issues will follow. The other one that we sort of haven't dredged up here is how crypto generally and NFT specifically are handled for the purpose of tax. And the ATO is more than happy to skip past any questions of whether these are property, because it wants its hands on the revenue. So we have tax lawyers in our firm. Annabelle and I are definitely not tax lawyers, but that's one space where the law might generally be conservative, but the tax office will try and say that anything can get to the hands on. This is taxable.
01:22:48.130 - 01:23:22.320, Speaker D: Michael, the issue of the copyright issue, when you have it pointing to a URL that has a picture of the artwork on it, that's a reproduction of the artwork, you need to make sure you've got the rights to actually. Someone has to have the rights to actually reproduce it online. And if we're now talking about L2 networks, solving the issue of storing the data or image on the chain, whether that's actually in some way a reproduction of the original artwork, which is an exclusive right of the copyright owner. So as soon as we start doing that, then we are looking at potential breaches of copyright, having to make sure that the person who puts it up there actually has the right to do that in the first place.
01:23:23.170 - 01:23:29.150, Speaker B: And the decentralized nature of all of this, meaning that there is no one to sort of make sure that that person has the rights.
01:23:31.730 - 01:23:32.480, Speaker A: Exactly.
01:23:33.730 - 01:24:24.190, Speaker E: I was just going to mention that one that I found interesting was the concept of someone spending 500,000 to purchase something just for other free tokens to be given away, because I think it would be pretty. Someone's not going to spend that amount of money. Whether or not it was alluded to the fact that more will be produced, how does one actually go about to say, well, the pretext on which that person bought it was they would have understood that the others wouldn't have gone for no money. So to me, that must be as a bit of a gray area to actually say, well, this is absolutely fine, and it could have been done, because I still believe there must have been some belief there by the purchaser that that would not be the case.
01:24:24.340 - 01:25:46.970, Speaker B: Yeah, now we're getting into those questions are getting into not the copyright thing, but the sort of misleading conduct type thing. And so it is going to be reliant on having an understanding of all of the facts involved. Right. There's cases predating the Internet, but about whether in Australia, if you've got an advert for something that has a big writing at the top that makes it seem like something is free, and then in the fine print has something about actually it's going to cost x, y and z or whatever, whether that fine print is good enough to get you out of the impressions conveyed by the thing. And generally the answer to that is no, that you can't sort of say the misleading part loud and the not misleading part quiet kind of thing. So it's taking those laws that are not about tech at all, but applying them in this context of, well, what was the impression that they created? Did they mislead them? Interestingly, the australian law, obviously, that case won't be decided under australian law, but the australian law doesn't talk about intention to mislead or anything like that. It talks about whether you'd have misled and even talks about whether you're likely to mislead or deceive.
01:25:46.970 - 01:26:21.570, Speaker B: That one's far from an open shut thing. But, yeah, I don't know as well whether it could turn on facts like whether it was advertised on the marketplace or wherever the auction was happening. And that didn't mention it, but he'd mentioned it elsewhere. And is that good enough and all that? It's really going to come down to facts of do they convey a misleading impression? Because very clearly, at least, it seems like the guy who bought it got a misleading impression, but that's not necessarily determinative.
01:26:21.730 - 01:26:39.660, Speaker A: But it could also be their paradigm, their worldview. When they went in, like the people who bought the dune book, they went in with a completely incorrect interpretation of the situation and that was their own. I don't know.
01:26:40.270 - 01:27:47.626, Speaker B: Yeah. Anyway, I think there is scope, though, for the idea, though, that misapprehension was sort of foolish. But this misapprehension of the way that NFTs usually work is that there's one owner for one token, and that's how it goes, is something that could be relevant. I don't know off the top of my head, but I'm sure we could find cases that misleading, deceptive conduct cases in the traditional, boring, pre Internet world where the misleading conduct has arisen because someone's done something that are out of the commercial norms that you go to sell a car and you don't sort of discuss some part of it, that it's just because that's the way it's always done. And everyone knows that's the way it's always done. And if you want to kind of depart from that norm, it would be misleading to sort of go and do something else unless you actually sort of draw that to their attention. It's an interesting space because there are probably some sensible norms that have evolved in the NFT space.
01:27:47.626 - 01:27:59.190, Speaker B: If you want to do something other than those norms, you probably would need to be quite explicit about what you're doing to avoid this sort of being misleading. By omission, by inference, by silence.
01:28:02.920 - 01:28:18.100, Speaker A: Well, thank you. So thank you, everyone for joining. And thank you, Daniel and Annabelle. That was an awesome talk. It'll be up on YouTube in about 24 hours. I'll send you the link when it's up there. So thank you again.
01:28:18.100 - 01:28:19.156, Speaker A: Have a great day.
01:28:19.258 - 01:28:22.480, Speaker B: Beautiful. Thanks, Taylor. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
