00:00:00.320 - 00:01:19.359, Speaker A: If you think about like the venture capitalist community, right, in the last 12 months, if you're a VC and you see something like Pepe or Shib or you know, all these, these memes, you haven't for the most part invested. And I think, I think the provenance of this coin being from, you know, Andreessen sending $50,000 of Bitcoin to goat is kind of important because you have all these sort of disillusioned kind of right wing venture capitalists who don't really buy into either political party and are like, look, all I want is for me to be able to develop artificial intelligence and make a lot of money, because that's the core to my business. So if you kind of think about it like, you know, from a TAM perspective, you're like, okay, there are all these really, really kind of right wing guys who miss the meme coin meta who want to develop unconstrained artificial intelligence. And they actually really financially benefit from a large number of people owning meme AI coins. And this is for two reasons. Number one, they, their fund can participate in these memes, right? Because they can tell, tell an investor like, look, we have a technological differentiator with this meme coin. It's better engineered, it's able to generate quantitative results.
00:01:19.359 - 00:02:19.145, Speaker A: Whereas if you're like, I'm in Pepe. People are like, why? Right? It's not actually, it's not a tech investment, it's like closer to a fashion or culture investment. It's not these guys wheelhouse, right? Whereas this is very much Marc Andreessen's wheelhouse. This is very much Elon Musk's wheelhouse. So number one, you can invest, which is a big difference versus the old memes, right? Number two is if you do invest, you have a really, really skewed expected value formula because you're like, okay, let's say one of these hits it like doge, right? Like let's say we activate a shitload of retail investors. Everyone's long this like AI cult coin, you know, suddenly you have like 2 million distributed lobbyists who are on social media being like, you can't shut down. Like, you know, like all the AI safety guys like will be the equivalent of Gary Gensler, right? They're going to get ratio, they're going to get like ratioed death on every single post that they have.
00:02:19.145 - 00:03:16.885, Speaker A: Because you're going to have like 2 million guys who are like long some token be like, you can't like shut this down. Like you have to remove the safety caps dog like you have to let it run, man. They're just going to be saying this stuff and it's going to be like really dangerous. But it doesn't matter because the regulators are, are going to fail at social proof, right? Like you look at all the EU commissions on like AI safety, a lot of them get like quote tweet ratio to death by crypto Twitter right now, right? It's going to get so much, so much worse from an attention perspective. And I think it's like it's probably likely that Kamala Harris, if she wins again, ends up replacing Gensler just because I think they're like keyed into social media and they're like, yeah, this guy's really unpopular. Like so. So I think that those are kind of like the two elements that meme coins didn't have that actually AI cult coins do have, which is one, they're investable by large venture capitalists.
00:03:16.885 - 00:03:55.009, Speaker A: And we know that these VCs are like chronically online people. And I think the other thing that to note is that they've all read Accelerando. They all were like super obsessed with Roko's basilisk. I mean I talked about this in my post, but basically like Grimes and Elon actually met because they were like memeing about Roko's basilisk, which is like the og, you know, AI safety, right? And so, so it's investable. It's already in their head. And then too if everyone does invest, if they actually cause these things to go up, it's very, very beneficial for their business financially. So, so it's very different from, from the previous meme coin cycle.
00:03:55.009 - 00:04:04.895, Speaker A: And so, you know, and that's completely outside of the sort of religious elements and sort of the socio cultural position that this self occupies, right?
