00:00:03.600 - 00:00:40.574, Speaker A: Okay, so it's my pleasure to introduce Thiago Fonseca from the mathematical institute at Unicamp from the State University of Sao Paulo in Brazil, and he's going to speak about, from multiple polygorithms, the universal vector extension of analytic curve. Oh, it's. You're on mute, Thiago. Hello. So thank you, Paiman, thank you very much for the invitation. It's really a pleasure to speak at the field seminar. And.
00:00:40.574 - 00:01:47.088, Speaker A: All right, so that's the title of the talk from multiple polygons to the universal vector extension of an elliptic curve. And I'm going to explain everything, which is on the title. But before, let me just say that this is joint work still in progress with Nils mates, who is also in the audience. And so what we're going to do today is we're going to discuss some problems in algebraic geometry related to elliptic multiple polygons, okay? But it will mostly be an algebraic geometry point of view. And for those who know, this amounts to studying the algebraic, the ramp fundamental group of a punctured elliptic curve. So by that I mean an elliptic curve with the origin removed. And we're going to do that, and I'm going to explain why over an arbitrary base scheme.
00:01:47.088 - 00:02:55.184, Speaker A: Okay, so not just elliptic curve over a field, but really elliptic curve over any scheme. Okay. But I know that a lot of people might be unfamiliar with this kind of language, so I'm gonna try and keep things as down to earth as possible. And what we're really gonna do is we're gonna discuss certain classification theorems on unipotent connections on punctuality curves. And this actually. So this is not a new subject, this has already a long history and some of the most important names here, Levin, Rasenne, Hein, and there's also recent work by Enrique Zimen Pettingoff. And for this talk, I try to find any specific goal, and the goal will simply to make a case for the universal vector extension of an elliptic curve to some group scheme you attach to an elliptic curve as the right framework to study this kind of questions about multiple polygonal algorithms.
00:02:55.184 - 00:03:59.044, Speaker A: And this idea was actually advocated by the ling. So, if you will, we're just taking his advice seriously and trying to push the theory as far as we can within this framework. Okay, so also I put in the chat, a link to the slides. If someone gets lost in the middle of the talk, you can just have the slides. All right, so let me start with, because this is a number theory seminar, so let me start with some motivation that comes from number theory. So it all starts with these kinds of functions here, polygorithms, which are defined by this power series, and they are defined on the unit disk. And then you can extend them to the complex plane minus zero and one.
00:03:59.044 - 00:04:55.734, Speaker A: By analytic continuation, you can extend them to a multivalid function, and they're called polylorisms because they're supposed to be some kind of generalization of the logarithm. Okay, so li, one is minus log of one z, and then you have the dialogarism, the trilogy, etcetera. There's another generalization of these kind of functions, which are called multiply logarithms. And now instead of having just one index here you have multiple indices, and again, they're just defined by, by some power series and they converge in the unit disk. And then you can extend them by an empty continuation. Okay? So this, this kind of functions go, go back to the, if you will, go back to the founding fathers of calculus. And, and they have been studied for different reasons.
00:04:55.734 - 00:06:16.584, Speaker A: So for us, what's going to be interesting is that when you evaluate them at algebraic numbers, you get interesting arithmetic phenomena. Just to give a concrete example of that, here's a conjecture, bizagier, which links these poly logarithms to special values of Dedekind zeta functions. Okay? So f here is a number field. This is the zeta function. And this star here simply means that you take the first known vanishing Taylor coefficient, and then you're interested in understanding what are the special values at integers of this zeta function. And so there's this beautiful conjecture of Zagier, which links this, which says that this special value is essentially is given by values of polylogarisms at algebraic numbers. So this tilde here means up to, up to some power of PI and some rational number.
00:06:16.584 - 00:07:02.964, Speaker A: And a way of understanding this is as some major generalization of the analytic class number formula. So, I'm not going to talk a lot about this. There was actually a talk about this conjecture in the field seminar, and I think it's recorded last year by Herbert Gangl. So I invite you to watch his talk and just to, to explain a little bit. So this curly L's here are single valued polygons. So I told you that you can extend the polylogarism to a multivalued function. And then these single valued guys are just certain combinations of these polygons which turn out to be single valued functions.
00:07:02.964 - 00:08:08.814, Speaker A: Okay? And just to complete the discussion here, this conjecture is proved by, for m equals to two, three and four and I should say that this last one is quite recent. All right, so this is one kind of arithmetic phenomena. There's another kind which is related to multiple zeta values. So multiple zeta values are the numbers. The complex numbers are real numbers you get when you evaluate, or rather consider the limit when z goes to one of multiple polylogarithms. So you get some numbers which are transcendental or which are thought to be transcendental. And what is special about these numbers is that, well, they appear in many different problems in mathematics and physics, but also they satisfy many relations.
00:08:08.814 - 00:09:10.634, Speaker A: And we would like to understand these kind of relations. They satisfy. And so, just to mention one theorem, there's this amazing theorem by Francis Brown which says that any multiple zeta value is a q linear combination. So it's a combination with values in rational numbers of multiple zeta values, where you, where the indices are just two and three. And this has a lot of consequences in the theory of multiple the values. And this is really something arithmetic, because you're really taking combinations with coefficients in q. So these are just two examples of some arithmetic phenomena that these polygons and multiple logarithms satisfy.
00:09:10.634 - 00:10:16.126, Speaker A: And then at this point, you may be wondering, well, this just looks some random functions. Why do they have these properties? And the reason is, is that they're not random at all. They come from archaic geometry, and particularly the solutions of certain differential equations which come from object geometry. So we can also say they're period functions. Okay, so just to give a very concrete example of this kind of differential equations, I think the easiest way to see that is, is to realize that these multiple poly logarithms can be seen as integrated integrals of algebraic differential forms. So here I wrote an example for the dialog rhythm. So you have these two algebraic differential forms on p, one minus zero, one in infinity, dy over y and dx over x minus one.
00:10:16.126 - 00:11:18.022, Speaker A: And the dialogue is just an iterative integral of these guys. And for the purpose of this talk, I would like to reformulate that in terms of a connection, and I'm going to recall in a minute some facts about connections. You can define a connection on p, one minus zero and infinity, like so, a rank three connection. So, if you will, this is just a linear differential equation where I choose these two new potent matrices here. And then a fundamental system of solutions of this, of this particular equation are given by logarithms and data log. So that's how it appears, um, in this case. Okay, so let me just before, before I'm moving forward, because this is this will be central in this talk.
00:11:18.022 - 00:12:10.514, Speaker A: Let me just, just in case, briefly recall what the connection is. So, so let's take a smooth variety over a field, okay? Okay. And then we consider a vector bundle. So this is just a locally free and coherent sheath on x, and a connection is just a way of derivating sections of this vector bundle. So formally, it's a morphism from, it's a morphism of a billion sheets on the vector bundle with values in differential forms tensor, the vector bundle that satisfies, Leibniz rule for derivation. So that's true. And as I said, this is only a way of derivating sections of vector bundle.
00:12:10.514 - 00:12:57.714, Speaker A: So in particular, when the vector bundle is constant, so v is just a vector space over k. So if you choose a basis, this is just a trivial vector bundle, then you can describe a connection by a matrix. This is the matrix of the connection, and this matrix has values in differential forms. And that's what happens in the last slide. So we had a trivial vector bundle and I just described the connection in terms of this matrix. And then there's this important definition here. We say that the connection is integrable or flat.
00:12:57.714 - 00:13:59.420, Speaker A: If the curvature is zero, this is the curvature. And in this concrete case here, where the vector bundle is constant, this amounts to this equation on the connection matrix. And this condition says, if you're working in analytic geometry, it says that you can solve the differential equations locally. Okay? So that's why it's called integral. So that's just very briefly what a connection is. And another key definition for us will be of a unipotent connection. So if you have a connection, v nabla, we're going to say it's unipotent if you can filter it by other vector bundles with connections in such a way that the successive quotients are just the trivial connections.
00:13:59.420 - 00:15:12.568, Speaker A: So you have the sheath of functions on your scheme, and the connection is simply given by derivation. So in other words, a unipotent connection is an iterated extension of the trivial connection. Okay, and the example I gave before on the, on the dialogue with them, we had an example of a unipotent connection, and you could see that the fundamental solution to the equations, the matrix, was also unipotent. Okay, now remember that I said that polylogorisms are not random functions, and the reason is this theorem. So I'm not sure who to attribute this theorem to. Sort of the ideas go back to, I don't know, the 19th century, but maybe in this language and this formulation, you can find something very similar in this book of the ling on p one, three points. And the theorem says the following.
00:15:12.568 - 00:16:07.804, Speaker A: So let's take a field of characteristics zero. And the theorem is going to classify unipotent vector bundles with integrable connection, okay, on p one minus zero, one and infinity. So it says that every such object is canonically isomorphic. And I'm going to explain what canonically means to something of the following form. So you have a constant vector bundle given by some vector space, and the connection is quite simple. It's given by these two matrices or two endomorphisms of this vector space, which are new potent. And there are these two differential forms here that appear dt over t and dt over t minus one.
00:16:07.804 - 00:16:57.736, Speaker A: Okay, so that's the theorem. We're going to see briefly how we prove this theorem, because I think this will help us understanding what's going to happen in the elliptic case. But before that, let me just mention that. So if you think now in terms of solutions to the, to the corresponding differential equations, so the flat sections, you can convince yourself very quickly that the solutions are going to give are going to be given by multiple polygons. So, iterated integrals of this and this differential form, dt over t and d over t minus one. So you see that it's in that sense that these are not random functions. You have this algebraic geometry definition, unipotent vector bundle with connection.
00:16:57.736 - 00:18:15.830, Speaker A: And these are just the functions that appear as solutions of or flat sections. Okay, so this equation here is related to the kz equations, where k and z mean Niktinik and Zamalochkov, which actually come from conformal field theory. And this is just a comment for those who know. So this is basically just the casey equation if you replace a zero and a one by certain formal variables, non commuting formal variables. Okay? And then also, for those who know, this result implies particular that the Durham fundamental group of p one minus zero, one and infinity doesn't depend on a base point. So there's some kind of canonical fiber functor or a canonical duram path, and it's actually of this very simple form. So this is the tensor co algebra on the vector space generated by dt over t and dt over t minus one with, with the shuffle products.
00:18:15.830 - 00:18:50.004, Speaker A: So this is a half algebra. And so this is the group scheme, and that's the fundamental group. And this follows from this theorem. Okay, so let's see how we prove such ethereum. So we're going to start. So we want to prove that every vector bundle every unipotent vector bundle with integrable connection is of this one. So we start with a vector bundle, a unipotent vector bundle with integral connection on x, which is p one minus zero infinity.
00:18:50.004 - 00:19:50.104, Speaker A: And the first thing we have to remark is that by unipotency this is regular singular at infinity. And so it extends canonically to a unipotent vector bundle with logarithmic connection. Okay, so this is the lien's canonical extension. And now this is defined on the whole of p one, but it has logarithmic singularities on the divisor zero, one infinity, but still unipotent. And now we're going to use this very simple geometric facts about p one. And the first is that the h one with coefficients in o is zero. So this h one is the same thing as extensions of o by o, where o is the sheet of market functions or regular functions.
00:19:50.104 - 00:20:34.854, Speaker A: Okay, so if this is zero, it means that there are no non trivial extensions of o by o. And so by induction you prove that every unipotent vector bundle is trivial. But then this other condition here, which says that the only global functions are constant, which just comes from properness of, says that they are not only trivial, they're canonically trivial. And canonical means this. So you have this canonical map from global sections. So this v is just global sections of, of the canonical extension. And you can map global sections to sections of your vector bundle.
00:20:34.854 - 00:21:19.146, Speaker A: And these two conditions here imply that this map is an isomorphism. That's what canonical means. So once you know that your vector bundle is constant, well, it's given by some matrix of differential forms, but now it has logarithmic singularities. So the only thing left is to understand differential forms with logarithmic singularities. But in that case, this is really easy. So, global sections of this sheath are simply given by this vector space generated by Dt over T and Dt over t minus one. And so you can write your matrix as a sum of these two things.
00:21:19.146 - 00:22:10.094, Speaker A: And again, by unipotency, the two matrices, a zero and a one that are going to appear, are going to be new potent. And that's your classification theorem. Okay? So it's really quite simple. Once you understand this business about canonical extension, and you use these very particular properties of p one, which some people call the lean good properties because they allow you to do this kind of argument. And then you have the theorem and all its nice consequences, okay? And then from this theorem, you understand that the flat sections are multiple polygons and etc. Etcetera. So that's what I wanted to recall about the genus zero case.
00:22:10.094 - 00:23:09.164, Speaker A: But now that we have this theory, it's very natural to wonder, well, what happened if I replace p one by an elliptic curve? So I'm going to complicate a little bit the geometry and try to understand what I get. People have asked these questions on finding elliptic versions of multiple polylons. Okay? So more precisely, what we are looking for are analogs of these multiple polygons, which are defined. So these guys are defined over p, one minus zero and infinity. But we want something defined over e, an elliptic curve minus its origin. Okay, of course, this is not a very precise question. I mean, what do I mean by analogy? So that's what we're going to try to find out.
00:23:09.164 - 00:24:17.426, Speaker A: So, one of the first attempts to sort of study this problem was by Bloch, who defined an elliptic dialogarism. Okay? And the idea is the following. So you write your elliptic curve in Jacobi form. So as this multiplicative way of writing an elliptic curve where you have c minus zero and you quotient by q to the whatever the group generated by q, where q is a number in the unities, no zero number in the. So once you write your elliptic curve like that, what you can do is you take the single valid dialogue and you average out by q by all the powers of Q. So when you consider this series, of course you have to prove it converges. And so on.
00:24:17.426 - 00:25:04.504, Speaker A: You get a function defined on E because it's invariant under the multiplication by Q. And that's block's definition of the elliptic dialogue. And not only this is okay, I mean, this is a definition, but you can also prove that this is interesting in the sense that its values are related to the special value of the l function of analytic curve at two. So, BSD, which has to do with height and everything, concerns the l value at one. And this dialogue concerns the l value at two. And there are theorems about that. And I put here the names of the people who contributed.
00:25:04.504 - 00:26:03.588, Speaker A: So there's clearly something interesting going on here. And then people followed up on this thread and developed a theory of polylogariptic polygons. And then there's this theory of the Eisenstein symbol and so on and so forth by many people like Bailingston, Levin, Deneger, and other people with the kings, etcetera. But that's not exactly the direction I'm going to follow. So what I'm going to do now is, okay, so I'm going to take a definition of elliptic multiple polygons. And we're going to try to understand what are the problems with it and where is the algebraic geometry. Okay, so there's actually a definition of elliptic, a general definition for elliptic multiple polygons.
00:26:03.588 - 00:26:55.884, Speaker A: And I'm going to use the definition of brown and latin, and it goes as follows. So we start with, it's sort of a brutal definition if you've never seen it. So you start with this chronicler function. So it depends on tau, which is going to define your elliptic curve. And then it's some function in two variables which you define using Jacobi's theta function. Okay? So just take this as a definition, and then we're going to do the following. So we're going to, first we're going to consider this non holomorphic function here given by imaginary part of z over imaginary part of tau.
00:26:55.884 - 00:27:49.444, Speaker A: And for now tau is fixed. And so we're going to see this just as a function of z. Okay? And then we're going to define certain one forms on, on a puncture, okay? So the one forms are as follows. So there's a form new, so bl stands for brown, and leaving, so nu is just given by doctor, two PI I doctor, where r is known non holomorphic function. And then there's an infinite number of omegas, omega zero, one, two, et cetera. And these guys are given by this generating series. So we take this chronicle function and then we multiply it by e to the two PI I r of z times w.
00:27:49.444 - 00:28:25.586, Speaker A: So this is a function in two variables, z and w, and we expand it in w. So it has a simple pole and that's the DeLorean series. And the coefficients are going to be differential forms in the variables that, I forgot that dz here somewhere. So there should be a dz here. Okay. And so these are the brown and LeIbniz forms. So you have this form nu and then omega zero, omega one, et cetera.
00:28:25.586 - 00:29:13.280, Speaker A: And I put here the first values. So omega zero is just, and omega one has to do with the, has something to do with the logarithmic derivative of the theta function. And the high ones are more complicated expressions. So now multiple elliptic poly logarithms are just iterating integrals of these differential forms. That's the definition. So in a way, this forms nu and omega n are the analogs, are the elliptic analogs of the dt over t and dt over t minus one that we had in geno zero. But there we had just two differential forms.
00:29:13.280 - 00:29:59.804, Speaker A: Now we have an infinite number of them. But the worst is that these forms are not algebraic, right? They are, if you will. They're only real analytic. They're not even holomorphic. Okay, but you got the theory of elliptic multiple polygons, a theory that makes a lot of sense. And they actually, they prove also that this definition, terms of iterated integrals, this definition agrees with this procedure of q averaging multiple polygons. But you can ask if it's not possible to link this more clearly with algebraic geometry.
00:29:59.804 - 00:31:02.604, Speaker A: And the problem is, there's this dysfunction here, which is just real analytic. It's not even holomorphic. So now I'm going to try to explain where we think this function comes from, right? I'm not sure what's the brown and living perspective on this, but I'm going to try to make this function appear rather naturally by considering unipotent vector bundles on elliptic curves. Okay, so the fact that they had to consider that they have to consider this kind of function is, is because unipotent vector bundles on elliptic curves are not trivial, and that's very different from the case of p zero one. So let me give you a very concrete example. We're going to construct a non trivial unipotent vector bundle of rank two. So I'm going to do that analytically because it's simpler.
00:31:02.604 - 00:32:06.280, Speaker A: So I start with the complex plane and I consider this trivial vector bundle of rank two. Okay? Now a vector bundle is really a physical vector bundle and not a sheet. And then, so this c here has the action of this lattice by translation such that the quotient is complex torus and elliptic curve. And I'm going to lift this action to this trivial vector bundle and the lift is given by the following formula. So on the last coordinate here, which corresponds to this c downstairs, is just the action, the usual action, and on these first two coordinates here is given by that formula. So once I lift this action, I can consider the quotient. And the quotient is going to give me a rank two vector bundle over the elliptic curve over this complex torus, okay? And this rank two vector bundle is, is unipotent.
00:32:06.280 - 00:33:15.544, Speaker A: So, so it's an extension of o by, okay, where this, this o here is given by, by embedding on the second coordinate, and then this one corresponds to the first coordinate. Okay? Okay, so we have a unipotent vector bundle of rank two. And so if it was trivial, this sequence would be split. Okay, but then, so we want to try to understand the splittings of this sequence. And then with this particular formula I wrote here for the vector bundle, it's rather easy to find out that splitting. So if you want to split this short exact sequence over the complex torus, it amounts to having a function. It's not x here, it should be c.
00:33:15.544 - 00:34:17.900, Speaker A: Okay, that transforms like that. Okay. And this, of course, corresponds to this, to this definition I gate of the, of the vector bundle here. Okay? But then it's also quite easy to, to convince yourself that there's no such, no such function defined on the whole complex torus defined on the whole of c, actually. Okay, no such function. That is holomatic, but there is a real analytic one, and that's exactly this one, this imaginary part of set over imaginary part of top. Okay, so with this realytic function r that we had before in the definition of random leaving, we can actually split any, any unipolent vector boundary, and that's over an elliptic curve.
00:34:17.900 - 00:35:43.086, Speaker A: And that's more or less a way of understanding why they had to consider such a function. Okay, okay, now that we have, maybe I should ask at this point if someone has a question. I'm not looking at the chat. All right, so now we can ask ourselves, okay, is it, is it the best we can do, or can we somehow algebraic this picture. So how do I really cast this elliptic multiple, multiple polygons in a purely outbreak fashion? So I'm going to try to explain now how thinking about this problem somehow naturally leads you to this universal vector extension. Okay, so, so if you want things to be outbreak, one thing you can do is simply to treat r as an outbreak function. So I'm going to consider r instead of as a reanalytic function.
00:35:43.086 - 00:36:38.794, Speaker A: I'm going to take r as a formal variable, and now I'm going to consider c two with coordinates z and r. And I'm going to define the action of the lattice by the transformation law I want. So on the coordinate set, it's going to act by translation as usual. And on the coordinate r, it's going to act by plus n, which is precisely the transformation rule that the function, the reanalytic function are satisfied. But now I'm just defining an action on c two. And so somehow I want to consider functions that are invariant under this action. So I want to consider the quotient of c two by the action of this lattice, by this action.
00:36:38.794 - 00:38:00.106, Speaker A: And the somewhat surprising factor is that this quotient has a non trivial but natural structure of algebraic variety in such a way that the projection to the projection on the first coordinate here, which projects to these complex torus is outbreak. Okay? And this outbreak structure is this universal vector extent. Okay, so here's a general definition of what the universal vector extension is. So I'm gonna work now over an arbitrary based scheme. Of course, you can keep thinking about the case where s is just the spec of a field, but we're going to see later that it's important to think about families. And so this is the framework I want to really work with of analytic curve over an arbitrary based team. Okay, so the universal vector extension is a vector extension, first of all.
00:38:00.106 - 00:38:54.164, Speaker A: So it's an extension of group schemes, of commutative group schemes, an extension of e by this vector group, which is basically just the additive group scheme. And this extension is universal in the following sense. For any other vector extension, the elliptic curve. So if you have the extension of e by a vector group, any other such extension should be a push out of this universal one by a map between the two vector groups. Okay, so that's, that's where it get its name. So that's why it's called universal vector extension. And there's a theory of universal vector extensions for a billion schemes in general.
00:38:54.164 - 00:40:04.834, Speaker A: And this goes back to the work of Rosenlicht, Ser Grotenziek. There is a very influential book of Maeser and massing on that, where they studied crystalline chromology of abelian schemes through the perspective of universal vector extensions and so on. Okay, so for us here, right now, what's important is the following. So we start with an elliptic curve, and then there is another group scheme that is now two dimensional over s and lies above the elliptic curve, okay? And be aware that this group scheme, the elliptic curve, is proper. So lengthy curve is proper, and the vector group is affine. And this universal vector extension is something in between. It's neither proper nor this complicates a little bit the story, but maybe that's also what it gives its term.
00:40:04.834 - 00:40:47.804, Speaker A: Okay, so that's the universal vector extension. And the reason it's, it's interesting for the problem you want to think about is the following. There's a theorem that, there's a theorem by Le Mans which basically says that the cohomology with coefficients in o of universal vector extension is quite simple. So it's written in a relative situation, because we are doing relative over a scheme. So the theorem says the following. If s is of characteristics zero. So this is very important.
00:40:47.804 - 00:41:52.246, Speaker A: There are no global sections, there are no non constant global sections on the universal vector extension. So it's as if it were proper, but there's also no higher cohomology. So it's very similar to the properties we had for p one. Okay, but this is now a two dimensional group scheme. So using this property, you can see now we can try to do, because it's very similar to, so these are essentially the Linux group properties, right? So we can try to do a classification theorem for vector bundles with unipotent connections on elliptic curves that is very similar to what we had for q one. So we're going to work over this space now for now. So the universal vector extension, and we're going to consider this divisor, which is given by the fiber above the origin of the elliptic curve.
00:41:52.246 - 00:42:39.034, Speaker A: So the universal vector extension maps to the elliptic curve. So we take the origin of the elliptic curve and take the fiber. So this is basically just in a fine line. And so we're going to try to classify unipotent vector bundles with integral connection on the universal vector extension with this divisor removed. And once we to do that, so we already have the lin squid conditions here, which tells us that unipotent vector bundles are trivial. So what is left for us is to understand differential forms. And so here's one of the first results I want you to show.
00:42:39.034 - 00:43:54.574, Speaker A: So it's somehow a computation of the sheath. So everything here is relative, but if it's easier, you can just of s as a point. So this is just global sections, okay, so we describe one forms with logarithmic singularities at D. Okay, and the theorem is that, so we have holomorphic forms, first regular forms, and then there are this, this rank one sub bundles, or in the absolute case, vector spaces, one dimensional vector spaces, which are completely canonical, and canonical means that they are determined by these equations here. So there are some sorts of differential equations and then a condition on the residue. Okay, I won't spend too much time on that. But the point is that there's economical decomposition of this sheath or this vector space in the absolute case of differential forms with logarithmic singularities.
00:43:54.574 - 00:45:18.006, Speaker A: And this allows you, so if you start with a trivialization of holomorphic forms or regular forms, so this condition, this exists, for instance, if the elliptic curve, if the elliptic curves, admits a vector's equation. So if you start with that, you can extend it to a trivialization of all the higher kns. And this gives you a differential form nu and omega zero, which are regular and higher forms, omega nice, which are, which have simple poles along z and which are defined by certain equations which are completely canonical. So once you have these differential forms, you have a very similar classification theorem. So again, everything here is written in this relative language. And I'm going to explain in a minute why. So we can classify so every relatively unipotent vector bundle with integral connection on the universal vector extension minus.
00:45:18.006 - 00:46:08.044, Speaker A: This divisor over s is canonically isomorphic to something that is s constant. So it's the pullback of a vector bundle that comes from s. And then all the rest is described by new potent endomorphisms of this vector bundle. And actually you just have to fix two of them and they go with this, regular forms nu and omega zero. And then all the higher ones are determined by a certain formula involving the brackets. Okay, so this is an analog of that theorem we have in genoa zero. This is some kind of genus one analog.
00:46:08.044 - 00:47:42.124, Speaker A: But you can say that, well, we are over this strange space here, not over the elliptic curve. But then you can, this also gives the theorem for the elliptic curve, because this canonical map from the universal vector extension to the elliptic curve is an affine bundle. And using that fact, you can prove that pullback gives an equivalence between the category of unipotent vector bundles with connection on the elliptic curve and unipotent vector bundles with connection on the universal vector extension. So using that, you obtain a classification theorem for, for unipotent vector bundles with integral connection on the punctured elliptic curve. Okay, so that's one of the main results, but also in some sense one of the starting points of our work. So before telling more about results, I just want to explain how, how this is related to what we, what we have seen before. So, first of all, this theorem, again, for those who know about the REM fundamental groups, just as the case of geno zero, this gives you a canonical presentation of the Durham fundamental group of a puncture elliptic curve.
00:47:42.124 - 00:48:42.044, Speaker A: So for that, we have to use that differential forms, regular differential forms on the universal vector extension are the same thing as the first round cohomology of an elliptic curve, and this is canonical. And we also have to use another thing for this invariance, for base points here for independence of base points. And it's the fact that you have this canonical map PI from the universal vector extension to the elliptic curve. So it doesn't have a section, a global section, but it has a section over the puncture elliptic curve. And the section is canonical inside sense. And using that, you can, you can get this, this. So the Durham fundamental group is basically just given by a tensor core algebra on the Duram cosmology of the DC curve.
00:48:42.044 - 00:49:54.386, Speaker A: Okay, but more concretely, let me explain the relation with Brown and Levin's multiple polygons, because we saw that in the geno zero case, multiple polygons had to do with classifying vector bundles with unipotent connection. Sorry, unipotent vector bundles with connection. And here it's the same story. So let's take now the Bayes field as c, and let's take an elliptic curve defined by a number tau in the upper half plane. So we've seen that the universal vector extension is basically just this quotient of c two by that action of this lattice I showed you. But now I told you that this map here, this canonical map from the universal vector extension to the elliptic curve doesn't have an arch break section or a holomorphic section, but it has a reanalytic section. And this section is precisely given by this function r.
00:49:54.386 - 00:51:12.734, Speaker A: Right? I mean, just from the formulas we had before, you can see that this gives a section of the map. Well, if you now pull back these forms nu and omega n that we've defined. So this forms outbreak. But if you pull back them via this real analytic section, you get precisely brown leavings differential forms. Okay, but this is telling us that Brown and Levin's multiple elliptic polygons are real analytic flex sections of unipotent vector bundles with integrable connection on elliptic curve. Okay, so this really in some sense explains, first of all, why do they have to consider these? But also explains the link to this question of classifying unipolar and vector bundles, which is really some problem, purely outbreak geometry problem. All right, so before finishing, I want to make some comments on the KZB equation.
00:51:12.734 - 00:52:40.674, Speaker A: So this universal KZB equation where KZB stands now for Nikini again, Zamolochikov and Bernard, which again, it's something that comes from physics, but this should be some differential equation that lives on m twelve. So this modular space octane is one curves with two points, which you can think as the total space of the universal elliptic curve, of the universal elliptic curve minus with the origin removed. Right? Because an elliptic curve always has one point which is the origin. And then to give another point, you arrive at this space. Okay, so it's some kind of equation that lives on this space. And a very naive way of understanding this equation is that it should tell you how to derivate elliptic multiple polygons, just like the KZ equation tells you how to derivate multiple polygons and the differential equations, they satisfy. This is some kind of universal differential equation for multiple elliptic polygons.
00:52:40.674 - 00:53:44.694, Speaker A: So this equation has been studied through, again, different perspectives by different authors, and there are formulas for it in the literature. And so I just, I just copied here a formula in a paper of Heng, but it goes back, the formulas go back to Kalake Enriquez and netting off the paper of living in resume. They also deal with that, and that's the formula. So it's phrased here in terms of a connection. But what I want to draw your attention to is that this c here is the elliptic variable. So it's what I call z. So when you, if you think about multiple elliptic polygons, they, they should depend on two variables, the elliptic variable z, but also a modular variable tau, and sort of the full elliptic case b equation.
00:53:44.694 - 00:55:19.194, Speaker A: The universal elliptic case b equation should inform you how they vary in these two directions. So the theorem I had before concerns the elliptic direction. And it basically, the formula we had for the connection is basically this formula here where this f is something. It's essentially the same as the conical function, but there are other components there, this type components here, which tell you how elliptic multiple polygons vary in the modular direction. And then, so people have explicit formulas, and then you can ask, well, we know that this kind of equation should be algebraic by thinking in terms of, of fundamental groups and so on. And there are algebraic results in the literature by hang and by Luo, which was a Heng student, but they rely on, so they have these explicit formulas, and somehow they try to find well chosen two structures, and they show that it works basically. And that's, in that sense, they prove that this equation is algebraic.
00:55:19.194 - 00:56:07.228, Speaker A: So our approach leads to a purely outbreak way of, first of all, constructing the KZB equation. So it's sort of outbreak by construction. And you can also compute with it and get this formulas. But this is, so that's what I'm saying here. And the formulas, so we don't have to guess in the formulas. They're basically just given by the geometry of the universal vector extension. In the same way of the theorem I showed you where we can classify the differential forms on the universal vector extension.
00:56:07.228 - 00:57:02.796, Speaker A: They're basically just fixed by these equations. We don't have to choose anything. And this construction involves. So I don't have time to talk about this and you're also still writing, but this construction involves another piece of structure of the universal vector extension is really nice, and it's sometimes called the crystalline nature of the universal vector extension. And this means that so we are in characteristics zero, that the universal vector extension is a crystal in characteristic zero. And this in terms of differential equations. And it can also reformulate in terms of certain splittings of the natural exact sequences you get on differential forms.
00:57:02.796 - 00:57:51.958, Speaker A: So here's a result that plays a key role in this construction. So we start now with a smooth k scheme and s. And that's why I wanted to consider the relative case from the beginning. And so we have the universal vector extension over s. And then you can consider this sequence on differential forms. So here you have relative differential forms with logarithmic similarities, and here you have absolute differential forms. So this theorem is saying that, first of all, this sequence is exact, because the actual sequence is lives on the universal vector extension.
00:57:51.958 - 00:58:35.774, Speaker A: And here we take push forward, but this just follows from Lamont's term. But the actual statement is that that sequence splits canonically. And so it's a way, there's a canonical way of taking a relative differential form with logarithmic singularities and lifting, and lifting it to an absolute differential form. And again, we can compute with that stuff if needed. So, on the uniformization. So we had this, this form, omega one, that I showed a while ago, and that's this form. So it's differential form on the universal vector extension.
00:58:35.774 - 00:59:16.884, Speaker A: And this theorem is saying that it has a canonical it to an absolute differential form. So it now it depends on z and tau. And the canonical extension is given by this one. Okay. I mean, we can compute it, but it's, you can see it's something non trivial. It's really doing something not trivial and would be somewhat hard to guess this formula. But okay, I'm just saying that we use these kinds of results, which has to do with the crystalline nature, to give a purely construction of this KCB connection.
00:59:16.884 - 01:00:30.014, Speaker A: So, just to finish the talk, let me just make a few comments. So, first of all, this, as I said, this has to do this, all of this work has to do with considering these fundamental groups of puncture ellipticus. And so this theory here gives the dram realization of a universal mixed elliptic motif in the sense of Heine Matsumoto. So this, we have this sort of Durham fundamental group, this universal Durham fundamental group, and this has extra structure like weight filtration and heart filtration. And the KZB connection is part of this structure. And these all should mix together to give you this duram, part of a universal mixed elliptic motif. So I just wanted to point out to this, to this link with the universal mix elliptic motifs.
01:00:30.014 - 01:01:37.628, Speaker A: So, another interesting thing is that we can treat also the case where we don't remove just the origin, but remove more complicated divisor from the litigrave. In particular, remove the end torsion of the lithic curve curve. So, doing that is the elliptic analog of the theory of cyclotomic MZV, where you have analogs of multiple zeta values on the complex plane minus zero and roots of unity. And so this also has been studied. So the, the KCB equation, in this case, it's sort of the higher level KCB equation. But now, in that, in that framework, people don't know how to prove anymore that it's outrage way. And we believe this, this approach should give you, should give you that.
01:01:37.628 - 01:02:29.914, Speaker A: But again, this is work in progress. And just to finish, just to mention that we started thinking about this question because we wanted to give a motivic theory for elliptic multiple zeta values. So we are still in the beginning of that. So, in the theorem of Francis Brown about multiple zeta values, what he does is that he constructs certain motivic versions of multiple zeta values. And these motivic versions have a natural action of a motivic yellow group. And it's by studying the action of this group that he gets the results. And we would like something similar in the elliptic case.
01:02:29.914 - 01:02:53.134, Speaker A: And that's why we started thinking about really algebraic in the picture, to really understand the ramp side of it. And that's how the project started. And we believe this could explain, for instance, modular elliptic phenomena satisfied by multiple zeta values.
