00:00:06.640 - 00:00:41.094, Speaker A: Thank you, Tom. So first things first, you have my deepest appreciation for being here early. I know it's tough to wake up in the morning, so. Well, kudos to you. So today I want to talk about something that we did at Pon recently, which is the crypto native economy report. It's basically a dive into understanding, a bit the entire scope of on chain transactions and user demand that happens on the various blockchains and in between adapts. My name is Joseph J.
00:00:41.094 - 00:01:29.838, Speaker A: I wear many hats, which I switch frequently. So first things first, I'm part of an establishment called parallel polis, which is a crypto native hub in Prague. It's basically a space that's dedicated to educating around, like, mixture of technologies and arts and scientific topics. And it's also the headquarters of the OR, I mean headquarters, not really the right word. But in Palo Nepolis, there is the world's oldest crypto only operated coffee in the world. Essentially, since 2014, the cafe establishment only accepts cryptocurrency. So there is no way to pay in cash, there's no way to pay using cards.
00:01:29.838 - 00:02:23.054, Speaker A: But the whole purpose of the concept is essentially to bring people into crypto through some tangible experience. So if they want to get a decent coffee, they either already need to be onboarded, or the staff will explain to them how things work and they will make their first crypto transaction for actually buying coffee there. I was also part of the Ethereum foundation for quite a bit. I was part of the Defcon team, opened up the hackerspace called Bordell in the basement of parliament police, which now is basically put on hold until we all get back to Prague for eat Prague, finally. So I also organized some community conferences, such as Eat Prague or Ethereum Zurich, with the production crew. And last but not least, it's actually the majority of my time now. I work at Pondao.
00:02:23.054 - 00:02:56.474, Speaker A: So today I'm going to tell you about what we did in the crypto economy report. First, I want to define the terms. So who are cryptonatives? What do we consider the crypto native economy to be? And then finally, we'll look into some of the numbers. It won't be like super detailed in terms of the numbers themselves. You will see a bunch of graphs. But the whole purpose of this talk is basically to get you to see the paper. It's like 37 pages of data from the various dapps.
00:02:56.474 - 00:04:47.668, Speaker A: So who are cryptonatives? Well, we're probably not so bold to come and tell you this is our definition of whoever this new demographic or personality could be. So we started doing instead was we started pulling in other people from the industry for interviews and we started asking them the question, who is a crypto native? And all of these people were people that we kind of assume are crypto natives that are part of this ecosystem for quite a bit now and have a decent traction in building or educating about a space. So the one thing you can do is basically go to our blog, Pondalmirror XYZ, and read all these interviews, kind of like a too long, didn't read version, basically compiled definition of who a crypto native is that we got from GPT, basically pouring the interviews into it, which you can find on our twitter. But I'll just tell you my current definition, in my opinion, who I think a cryptonative is. So first things first, it needs to be a person who uses crypto assets, who owns crypto assets. But I think the word use here is very important because in my opinion, crypto native isn't just someone who invests in cryptocurrencies or in tokens and just like have them in their wallet or sitting on an exchange and basically just waiting for appreciation. In my opinion, crypto native is actually someone who like livestream, who uses crypto, not necessarily day to day, but you should be a savvy user of a variety of defi apps.
00:04:47.668 - 00:06:40.738, Speaker A: You should have tried using a DaO or something, or voting in a DAO and basically try out what's out there. Another important aspect is using Defi, or having Defi as not a secondary way to handle your finances, but the primary way, like how do you reason about your wealth or where do you save money? So instead of looking at, I guess, traditional means of just putting $100 into your pension fund, you'll be looking at the DeFi protocols, figuring out what actually makes sense for storing your assets or putting them to good use. Another important and, you know, like quite, I guess, like more frequent in the last two years is also a person who actually gets paid in crypto. So there's a whole bunch of people now that can choose to be paid to have their salaries paid in cryptocurrencies, especially here in Switzerland. It has been so for quite a bit, but there's also an increasing amount of people who work for daos. And just like, they don't even have a regular contract, they just, like, are being paid through the different means of, like, collective treasuries and having their roles basically just captured in like, a smart contract which pays them if a certain group of voters agree. Another thing that I actually want to use the opportunity here in Zurich to maybe have some of the attendees to explain to me another aspect of who crypto natives are is people who don't understand the concept of bank holidays.
00:06:40.738 - 00:08:01.926, Speaker A: So it's beyond me how in 2023, international bank transfers take multiple days and don't work over the weekends or, like, don't happen at night and so on. So I guess it's just the, you know, it's just realization of the technological gap between the current system and what crypto actually enables now today, in terms of the ease of use or, like, ease of transfers. So, all in all, crypto natives, in my opinion, are people who, like, see and reap the benefits of crypto that already kind of, like, realize the ten x benefits for. For them not necessarily having to push it on other people, but are basically here, not even for, I guess, the low level tech, but for simply using it, using the stuff that the entire community has created over the course of the last decade. So what's the crypto native economy report about then? What we started looking at was, well, okay, well, there is this new demographic that's kind of imminent. It's happening. There's a whole bunch of people that we can associate as crypto natives, and what unites them is that their transactions or their interactions are happening on chain.
00:08:01.926 - 00:09:34.378, Speaker A: What's a transparent proof of usage? So let's just say, what if we forget about all of the other parts? What if we forget about centralized exchanges? What if we forget about all of the, you know, like, all of the SaaS services or, like, consulting services, whatever it's like around crypto? What if we forget, like, fiat exists and, you know, we just, we just focus on what we can actually track on chain, and we basically just say, all right, let's take the fees that people are willing to pay into the protocols to the validators or the miners. Let's even forget about mining rewards and newly minted coins. It's definitely an incentivization part, but it's not necessarily, and you could argue, really open to hear that argument. You could argue that, well, it's like a collective revenue or collectively decided fee to be paid to these maintainers of the network. But we were really just interested in, like, how much are people willing to pay for using the protocols themselves or some on chain services? So fees that are directly being withdrawn as part of transactions, part of Dapps and. Yeah, and we just said, like, that's it. Let's start with this as the base segment.
00:09:34.378 - 00:10:27.642, Speaker A: Let's forget about all of the rest. In this particular report, which is the first one we made, we don't also look all that much into how much people are earning from these protocols. Then, like how the DAO salary structure works, but it's definitely something that we want to add in the near future. So basically, now we are looking at what happens on chain, what is like verifiable things that generate value in terms of demand for those services and willingness to pay fees. And yeah, like in the near future, we'll be also looking at how that actually transitions into then, like, again, the purchasing power through like salaries and services. But that's not the part yet. So we looked at, we have like two data sources.
00:10:27.642 - 00:11:01.506, Speaker A: Obviously, like a whole bunch of these things are on chain. But there is a convenience in using already existing databases. The primary source was token terminal. The secondary source was Defi Lemma. The data was basically captured on 1 January 2023. And the data we consider in the report is essentially everything that happened in 2022. Yeah, so there's definitely some limitations that I should mention.
00:11:01.506 - 00:11:37.994, Speaker A: I already mentioned that we are literally only looking at protocols and dapps. We are not looking at exchanges. We also don't look at price movements. It's mentioned in the report just for allowing to, I guess, visualize. So 2022 was the bear market or the bear market slope. And all of these fees, in the case of a report, are denominated in us dollars. What you will see in most of the charts, obviously the trajectory of the bear market.
00:11:37.994 - 00:13:22.730, Speaker A: But what you have to take into account is that those fees are basically counted at the time of the transaction and at the time of the rate of the particle token the fee was paid in. So in the report itself, what you can basically compare is how these different protocols, or dapPs, have performed compared to the overall market price movement or the general market cap of the entire industry. So even though you'll see a whole bunch of falling graphs, it doesn't mean that these Dapps necessarily actually had lower interest than the previous months. So, in terms of infrastructure, l one blockchains, these five ethereum, BNB chain, bitcoin, surprisingly avalanche and surprisingly filecoin, are the five blockchains that basically together make up 97% of all of the l one fees in the space. Or at least these are trackable, and these are available through data sources that we used. All in all on these five chains, the user fees that were paid ranged to $5 billion for comparison when we did our first quick dive, mid June 2022 for the past twelve months. So it was like August 2021 until July 2022, this number was roughly $10 billion.
00:13:22.730 - 00:14:03.094, Speaker A: So definitely, definitely different. And yeah, we can. The interesting part here is that not all of these chains, not all of these protocols have the same trajectory throughout the year. So what do we see here in the graph is basically ethereum as the lead here compared to all of the other blockchains or protocols out there. So obviously, like, you can see that in January. Oh, by the way, apologies, I heard it's illegal to use it. I won't point it towards you, but yeah, so in January, things started off like still in the bull market season.
00:14:03.094 - 00:14:42.284, Speaker A: The fees, like ranging to $1.5 billion, 91% of that is ethereum. And then obviously you can see the decline throughout the year. But roughly, Ethereum still made up around like 70 80% of all of the protocol fees paid in 2022. So the second was BNB chain. BNB chain has definitely the largest traction in terms of user count. It actually has about 30 40% more users or daily active users than Ethereum.
00:14:42.284 - 00:15:33.740, Speaker A: And it basically followed very similar trajectory. And again, what you have to take into account is that despite the number obviously falling throughout the year, the prices were falling even faster. So this doesn't necessarily mean that there was actually less usage in the bear market. Another quite interesting thing is that, well, even though bitcoin isn't delete in terms of the fees paid, it definitely has a very stable community and actually increasing demand. So compared to Ethereum, definitely wasn't that overhyped. But there is definitely a significant traction in terms of just keeping users engaged on network. Another interesting graph, which we probably won't see next year as avalanche.
00:15:33.740 - 00:16:11.236, Speaker A: It actually made its mark throughout the first two quarters, but then kind of correlated to the Luna drop. The interest basically disappeared. I'm sure there is more reasons for that, but also very likely this will make it to the next year's report. Another quite interesting point here. Filecoin is number five. So if you didn't pay attention to filecoin, it's probably about time to start. So Filecoin actually didn't follow the same trajectory at all.
00:16:11.236 - 00:17:07.094, Speaker A: There was even a spike in usage in April May. So looking at Dapps, there's multiple categories of Dapps that we took into account. There's definitely importance saying like the number, the 5 billion paid in fees in 2022, Dapps is definitely heavily impacted by the NFT hype. So there is a whole bunch of NFT marketplaces, NFT infrastructure involved. But then we get into what we would expect it's like mostly defi, mostly dexs, and some lending and borrowing. So again, I know this is not easy to read, but the purpose is for you to go into the report. So again, similar trajectory as the protocol fees we started off.
00:17:07.094 - 00:17:39.372, Speaker A: I mean, this is the wrong graph. Sorry, this is just the different Dapps. But the actual fee graph is very similar to this one. So the largest mark on OpenSea side, it's like more than $1.5 billion paid in fees. This is not like the volume of OpenSeA. This is the user paid fees on OpenSea, which already is huge.
00:17:39.372 - 00:18:26.392, Speaker A: But then that's the mark of the NFT hype, which definitely is fading or was fading. And again, next year we'll be very likely looking at a different graph. The second one is uniswap, then again, looks rare. Back to the NFT hype. And then there's a very interesting project, convex Finance, which again is one of those that didn't actually lose anything during the bear market in terms of where these fees originated. Again, majority of these fees originated on Ethereum, it's the blue column, and then a whole bunch of other networks. In this case, there are also l two s considered here.
00:18:26.392 - 00:19:18.448, Speaker A: So it's not only focused on l one s, but the whole bunch of retractions happening on l two s already. So again, this is the graph, like basically showing you the trajectory of the entire bear market. But again, what you have to take into account is falling prices and the fees being denominated in the token exchange rate to US dollars at the time of origination. So when you look at, there is another mistake that I have to warn you about. It's not part of the report, but just in my slides, the table says average monthly users. This is actually average daily active users. So these are the addresses that are somehow involved with the particle Dapp, on average every day of the month.
00:19:18.448 - 00:20:19.514, Speaker A: So in terms of OpenSea, what you can see is, again, beginning of the year still being in an NFT hype, the fees being close to $400 million. There's definitely a good number of royalties that were paid as well. And what's also important to mention is that despite the NFT hype disappearing in terms of the fees being paid, it's not like the users actually disappeared. So the user drop wasn't as significant. It's like one 6th of the users that basically faded. Looks rare. Again, a similar graph in terms of the distraction, in terms of the users, it's like fraction of it, but they definitely made, again, a huge mark in the beginning of the year convex here you can see a very steady again I know the graph is falling but it's actually very steady revenue and interest in the protocol throughout the year.
00:20:19.514 - 00:21:46.724, Speaker A: Lido it's one of the projects that actually has increased demand, increase usage obviously thanks to more people getting into staking realizing this is a feasible way for them to participate. Ave again like similar graph to what you've seen before but not as much in terms of the user. So Aave daily usage is actually quite significant and it's I think it's actually with uniswap it's the most used app out there. So yeah I know this was pretty boring but it's kind of like meant to be. The purpose of the report is just to provide you some baseline of what you can look at and make the conclusions yourself. For me the conclusions where there's definitely huge I guess like gap between what we see in terms of the fees being paid on protocols and essentially to look at the top hundred coins on Coingecko somewhere because well it only made sense to consider the five that actually made up like 97% at the point. So just shows there is still a lot of speculative value in this space.
00:21:46.724 - 00:23:11.704, Speaker A: In my opinion this bear market is one of the last tests and in my opinion the entire crypto industry has passed it because the users didn't leave what we've seen I think in 20 1718 and the drop right after a whole bunch of people left the ecosystem it's not happening now at least in terms of the users that use the stuff that was created. The NFT hype is paused but it definitely had a huge mark. It's obviously a question what's going to be the next driving factor? It may resume but I'm again guessing that next year we'll be looking at a very different graph. As it was mentioned some dapps were growing so things like Lido, Aave or even convex are still functional not impacted at all. Someone coming into the space from more of the Ethereum background have to admit that things like bitcoin and binance chain actually have decent traction and are actually bringing users and have their own communities of users and yeah that's pretty much it. So the crypto natives didn't leave, they're still here. In my opinion the demographic will just increase in numbers.
00:23:11.704 - 00:24:00.714, Speaker A: So I think now it's actually the right time to start considering crypto natives or people in crypto to be even a buying force and start building dapps that are not necessarily focused on bringing more people into crypto but already can target, especially the crypto natives, someone we're building products for. So this was it. This is our smart contract, Dev, and this is actually our internal slide that we use on all hands. And yeah, if you're interested in reading the report, you can follow us on Twitter at pondao. And you can also just go to cryptonative pond Xyz to get the full report. Again, thank you for attention.
