00:00:07.850 - 00:01:11.410, Speaker A: Okay, let's start. Welcome to the Zikibob Workshop. Yeah, I'm Kiril Siddeseev, one of the core developers at the Zikibob Protocol. And let's talk about how you can use Zikibob and how you can integrate it into your privacy applications using our privacy enhanced smart wallet, which is what Zigibob really is. So at Zigibob Protocol, we really believe in this fundamental concept of personal financial privacy. We believe that it's crucial to have a choice to have this privacy and for people, for users to have this option to decide which transactions they want to keep public and which they would prefer to really keep hidden private from the outside observers. We also believe that given though currently all the available blockchain infrastructures mainly support only public transactions and all the information is publicly available on a blockchain Explorers and everybody is able to see the balances, the addresses, the transaction amounts, the history.
00:01:11.410 - 00:02:28.410, Speaker A: That is really inconvenient for most of the people who are getting onboarded from the traditional finance world, where something as important as financial privacy is something that really exists. And yeah, we believe that this is one of the reasons that prevents the crypto world from getting widespread adoption, which is the lack of privacy. So at Zikibob we are trying to address this lack of privacy by building our own privacy protocols, which allows to overcome these challenges. So, yeah, let's dive into it. The Zikibov application is built on top of Ziki snarks and it really allows you to make these privacy preserving transactions which are fast and easy payments within the all supported tokens, which you can perform by generating locally the Ziggy proofs. And yeah, within the Ziggybop you can make the private deposits, you can transfer tokens freely within the pool, which are completely private and hidden from outside world. And then you can also withdraw it back to the public blockchain, to your public wallet and continue using it in the DeFi from the already privacy enhanced tokens.
00:02:28.410 - 00:03:38.414, Speaker A: The way it works is that once you send a transaction on Zikibob to perform some deposit, transfer or withdrawal, only you. And as a sender and the receiver of those separation which can be yourself or a friend of yours only they are able to access, decrypt and actually get something useful from this data. And to understand what really happened within this transaction. So right now the Sigibob is available on polygon and optimism L2s, with more chains coming within the nearest future. And it supports BOP and USDC stablecoins, which are mainly used for salary payments and ETH token on the optimism for anything that requires privacy for ethereum native currency, which might be the private contract deployments, which happens to be useful in some specific cases. And we plan to add more chains and more tokens within the upcoming future whenever we're finding the demand for the Ziggybo privacy. So that's the sneak peek from our UI.
00:03:38.414 - 00:04:48.578, Speaker A: We'll have a live demo of how it works later in the workshop. But really, yeah, our UI is quite simple and by using it you can deposit, transfer and withdraw freely by just as you would normally do within the MetaMask or any similar wallet, just for other web browser app, without any need to download anything. All the Ziggybox proofs, ziggy snark proofs are generated locally. So that's really that simple and convenient UI to use for your everyday needs to achieve this, a little bit of privacy. Of course, the opportunities you can use the Ziggybop for are nearly limitless. But we trying to come up with a certain way of use cases for which people are already using Zikibob and what are we endorsing them to start using the Zikibob for? And these use cases typically involve anything related to the peer to peer transactions. For example, when you want to split the dinner bill with your friends after hanging around, after the ifglobal hackathon, you can use it for receiving and paying salaries and wages to your employees, both from the employer side and employee.
00:04:48.578 - 00:05:46.006, Speaker A: It can be used for anything related with the grants, donation, fundraising crowdfunding or really any other use cases. You just want to make your payments in stablecoins ETH or any other tokens private. So, yeah, let's take the most common example for now, the way how the salaries can be transferred with Tikibob. So let's say we have our employer Carl, who really wants to pay his employees on the public blockchain because he doesn't trust any centralized exchanges and he wants to keep all his budget, accounting and the salaries on the blockchain. But his employees really ask him to do this privately and that they would prefer to receive the salary also on the blockchain, but in some private way. And so Carl found out about Zikibob and now he wants to start using it for salary example. So the way it works is that Carl just chooses the stablecoin he wants to use and can be bob and can be USDC directly.
00:05:46.006 - 00:06:48.222, Speaker A: Then he deposits this stablecoin inside the Sikibob pool, let's say once a month. And then on the salary day, he's able to distribute all the salaries within one multi transfer transaction to his employee addresses he obtained from their invoices. And yeah, so he just needs to send once a month a single multi transfer within the Sikibob through our UI. And then employees are able to freely withdraw in any amounts their salary on their public wallets once they want to do that something. One of the features at Zikibob we think is really important for third widespread blockchain and privacy adoption is the good support for mobile devices when you can send and receive transactions on the fly, when you don't have access to your desktop or laptop. So we spent quite the time to actually optimize Ziggybop application for mobile devices. We made sure that the Ziggybop is usable on the mobile, that the proof generation works fast enough.
00:06:48.222 - 00:08:17.580, Speaker A: And now it takes only ten to 15 seconds to actually generate a completely private Ziggy proof in your browser on a mobile modern smartphone. Also, one of the cool feature we have with Tikibob is the integration with LiFi which allows you to actually perform any cross chain interactions from the chain and to the chains which are not natively supported by the Sikibov application. So you can really deposit and withdraw freely, not only from optimism and polygon, but you can simply connect to any other asset or chain within the same UI just by opening up the LiFi widget, which is really cool and we are really happy to see how it all works. And then the last point I wanted to discuss throughout this workshop is our accent on compliance side of things. So as regulatory requirements, as we've seen in the past couple of months, they became stricter towards any privacy enhanced application or protocol. We believe that's something that should be taken into account and as our mission, we see this goal of finding the right balance and the compromise between the level of privacy you get as a user of the Zigibop protocol and the way of compliance the government or different authorities can expect from such kind of protocols. So everyone kind of get what they want without hurting each other's kind of painful points.
00:08:17.580 - 00:09:19.920, Speaker A: And so Nzigibopia are trying to build this compliance friendly tool which still supports the privacy within these transactions, but then meets certain regulatory. So the way it works is that we employ several techniques within the Zikibob to support this compliance side of things. So the first one is the address screen. So anytime you make a deposit or withdrawal to the Zkibob, we make sure that your address and your wallet passes the necessary ML requirements. So this way we can make sure that Zigibob is safe from the different malicious parties and users that can try to access and use the applications. And right now we are using the Theorem Labs provider for such ML screen for automated checks. But we are always looking forward towards any other integrations and new protocols which does similar kind of things.
00:09:19.920 - 00:10:35.990, Speaker A: Then the way it works is that our checks are not only employed on the UI side of things, but they are deeply integrated within the Sequencers code, so that malicious party are not able to access the protocol by bypassing the UI somehow they instead integrate it with the sequencers. And Sequencer is the only party which is able to directly access the Ziggybop pull contract. Then the next important feature we had at Zigibop is this notion of optional KYC. So basically, KYC is not a requirement for the Ziggybop user and you are able to freely use Ziggybop application to the certain limits without any need in KYC. But then if you're a big business who wants to pay the salaries or you're a big user who wants to transfer big amounts in order to raise those limits. There is this concept of optional KYC which is something that you can pass, you can mint some soul bound NFT on your wallet and then the protocol will automatically use this NFT as your access key towards these enhanced and increased limits. And right now we're using this integration with the opium know your card protocol and underneath that it uses the binance pub soulbound NFT token.
00:10:35.990 - 00:11:32.490, Speaker A: And further down the line, we are considering multiple approaches towards further improvements on the compliance sides of the Ziki bulb. We are looking forward how we can employ and implement selective deonmatization of user transactions if they're willing to do so. How users can generate the cryptographically Verifiable account statements with their transactions. How they can export and give someone read only account access keys and yeah, how we can support multiple ways, not only the binance pub tokens, but, yeah, more on chain KYCs. So, yeah, let's have a few words about the hackathon bounty we have. So yeah, one of the bounty is related with this direct deposit feature. Basically it's a way how you can integrate the deposits towards Stickyboard protocol into any third party protocol smart contract, open source wallet.
00:11:32.490 - 00:12:55.170, Speaker A: Its purpose is to minimize the required effort and the entrance barrier quadrant requirements needed for accessing these sticky bob deposits. The cool thing about direct deposits is that in order to make one, you don't actually need to generate or communicate with our SDK to generate any stack proof. You just need to submit a simple smart contract call, which is something that you can do from any smart contract integration, any third party protocol and you don't need any SDK for that. So yeah, the way it works is that we have dedicated to separate smart contract which aggregates all those direct deposits and then which may come from all of those protocols on the left, it can be anything related to taxes, breaches aggregators, wallets, anything related to the payroll. And then after all these direct deposits are aggregated on the special contract, the sequencer will on its turn generate the ZK snack proof and actually include those deposits in the Zkbo pool contract where the receiver of those deposits and users will be able to access them a few minutes later. So, as I said, the first bounty is related with the implementation and the integration of those Ckbop direct deposits. So we have basically any best use of this particular feature will get the price.
00:12:55.170 - 00:13:55.474, Speaker A: So we have three places free, two and one K for each. And then the second way of bounty. If you are not feeling well about integrating the Ziggybob deposits into your own application because you have a bit different project that doesn't involve any stablecoin transfers, let's say then we have this open track price pool for basically anyone, any team that is able to just go through the onboarding flow in the Ziggybob application, generate a receiving address, open an account. Then we'll ask you a couple of feedback questions during the touching session. And it really takes 5 minutes to be a part of this price pool. So what we're going to do is just we'll take this four K and distribute it across all teams which completed the onboarding flow and basically created a Ziki Bob account. And just once again, a few ideas how you can integrate direct deposits into your hacks is to integrate with any open source wallet, let's say MetaMask snaps.
00:13:55.474 - 00:14:44.434, Speaker A: You can be integrated with different taxes, bridges, aggregators or any other smart contracts. And any awesome ideas of course are welcome here as well. So, yeah, let's have a small demo of the Sikibo Pi to see how it all works and what we can really do with it. So yeah, we're going to log in into our Tup, we're going to select we recently deployed the Ethereum pool for ethok and optimism. So let's use it for the purpose of this demo. But really all the pools are very similar and you can use any of them in your heights and in your workflows. So we're going to connect our ZK account by using our web3 wallet.
00:14:44.434 - 00:15:31.430, Speaker A: So the UI is going to ask me to assign the message and then use my signature to generate the private key for my account. I'm going to skip the password for now. Yeah, my CK account is now synchronized and in the right upper corner I can see that I have public balance of some ETH and wrapped Ethereum. And then I have also private balance which is completely hidden and is part of the Sikibo pool smart contract. So now that I'm connected with my SIKI account, I can make the deposits of both ETH and frappeth. I can transfer it to different people within the pool who also created a Ziki account. So yeah, I just make a transfer to myself.
00:15:31.430 - 00:16:12.078, Speaker A: So in order to make a transfer, I need to ask the receiver side receiver person to generate a receiving address. So each time I click this button in the account tab, it generates and outputs me a random address. So the number of total addresses is limitless. So you can just generate a new one each time somebody asks you to send it. So this way it helps you to preserve some level of privacy as well. So yeah, let's transfer some ETH. So yeah, what right now is happening is my web browser is using our SDK to generate a start proof.
00:16:12.078 - 00:16:59.410, Speaker A: So on the laptop it should take about five to 6 seconds. On the mobile it takes about ten to 15. So yeah, right now proof is generated. Just submitted to the sequencer and now sequencer has sent his transaction and yeah, it's already included. And if you go to the history tab then we'll see all the actions I have done few hours ago. And yeah, 20 seconds ago I've completed this transfer and of course all the history I see here is only I myself is able to actually decrypt this history and access those details to see what amounts to what addresses have been sent. And so the rest of the information to the rest of the blockchain is hidden and stays private.
00:16:59.410 - 00:17:54.740, Speaker A: So, yeah, I can access my history and see what have I done within my account. So, yeah, let's now see how we can make the track deposit and how they can be integrated to your application. So the simple way to test track deposits is to through the Block Explorer UI. So basically that's all we need. So I'm going to go to this awesome BlockScout user interface to see how we can send a direct deposit from there. So basically, in order to send a direct deposit, I also will be required to get this receiving address, which is a different one from the one we used before. So I'm going to copy that, I'm going to select the direct deposit function, I'm going to pass my CK address here.
00:17:54.740 - 00:18:44.750, Speaker A: Let's say I want to deposit 100 of ETH. And yeah, as a fallback user, I'm going to specify myself as well. So yeah, basically these three arguments is all you need to send the direct deposits on chain. And as you can imagine, this function call can be easily incorporated into any smart contract application, any protocol, and it's really that simple. So, yeah, I'm going to send the transaction, let's see its details and we see that 0.1 E were transferred to the direct deposit smart contract. Now it will take some seconds for it to be displayed in the history.
00:18:44.750 - 00:19:13.670, Speaker A: So yeah, let's wait and test. How much time does it take for the graph service to synchronize this deposit. So, yeah, it's already here. I'm able to see that 30 seconds ago I made this deposit. So we deposited 0.1 ish, but some fee was subtracted on the smart contract level. And yeah, now I'm seeing that my deposit is pending and it will be credited to my account in like 10 minutes.
00:19:13.670 - 00:20:09.860, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's how the direct deposits work. And we have a more extensive documentation on all of that in our documentation page within our docs on the Zikibob portal. So, yeah, feel free to try to yourself the Zikibob application, create an account, apply for our Bounties, check out the documentation regarding direct deposits, the SDK and the rest of the application on our Zikibob website. If you have any questions, please stop by our booth. We also have some cool merch. You can ask questions, have a chat with us, and if you are not on site, you can freely ask questions in the discord channel of the iftglobal. So yeah, and yeah, I think we have a couple of minutes for on site questions, so I will be happy to answer.
00:20:26.360 - 00:20:45.260, Speaker B: So with direct deposit, if I understand what you're saying is you can anonymize A transaction. So maybe if we make an app here in a decentralized app and we want users to run our functions from our smart contract without knowing who they are, could we easily black this scene to make it work or not really?
00:20:45.410 - 00:21:41.680, Speaker A: Yeah, I think you can. So basically the track deposit is a very simplified version of the deposit plus transfer combination. So if you want to do kind of similar thing in the UI, the way it works is that you first need to deposit in order for that you need to calculate a stack proof and then you can make a transfer. But drag deposit just allows smart contracts to bypass this complicated flow with the star proof generation and just call a function on the smart contract level, pass in a few arguments and it will do this deposit and transfer to the receiver side. So of course the sender address is public because the deposit is coming from the public network. The amount can also be seen, but then the receiver is actually anonymous party so nobody can really know to whom this receiver address belongs.
00:21:42.020 - 00:21:55.708, Speaker B: What if I want the opposite? Since I have my smart contract with a function, someone needs to call it. I just don't want anyone publicly to know who is calling my smart contract.
00:21:55.804 - 00:22:22.430, Speaker A: Yeah, for that. So in the Zigbeebop we are using our own sequencer and some sort of account. Yeah, for your own bills and smart contracts there are a few services that does the same kind of similar thing. So there are a few frameworks for account obstruction or like metric transactions. So yeah, you can connect to any of those. I think they also have bounty on this hackathon, so it might be them. Yeah.
00:22:22.430 - 00:22:33.440, Speaker A: Okay, thanks a lot. Thank you.
