00:01:42.670 - 00:02:40.150, Speaker A: Can I start, guys? Okay, so thank you for the few people I see here, but still, thank you for being here. It it's late so everyone is tired, but I will be happy to present this to you. Basically, today I want to talk to you about the web free marketing odyssey and how does it feel to be a marketer in this space, and some tips and lessons that I've learned during my experience in the space. So why it doesn't work? Sorry. Maybe. Okay, so why I feel entitled to talk about this? Who am I? Let me present and introduce myself. So I am italian, as you can listen to from my accent.
00:02:40.150 - 00:03:41.900, Speaker A: I started my career in web3 in 2018, so it's already six years. That seemed probably like 20. I have worked with mostly defy projects, so I started with Avid and Maker. Then I've also collaborated with the balancer and now I'm currently the marketing lead for summer Phi and I also help wreck and stake capital. In the meantime, I also founded Spaghetti, which is the italian ethereum community together with Matteo. So this is a small disclaimer before I start talking because I will give some tips and pieces of advice in this presentation. But what I want also to pass is that in my opinion, this space is still so young and too young to talk about marketing experts, or experts in general, probably.
00:03:41.900 - 00:04:44.080, Speaker A: So these stuff are true for me and maybe also for someone else. But again, I wouldn't use the word expert. Sorry. Okay, this is us. So this meme represents me or all the other probably marketers in this space where we have to deal with a lot of dramas, a lot of chats, a lot of regulatory constraints, no budget, low budget. When they need to cut something is marketing, as usual, crazy communities. Sometimes you need to wear different hats, which is good, but sometimes you also need to wear the hat of babysitter, which is not good for the rest of the team.
00:04:44.080 - 00:05:38.222, Speaker A: And so basically that's us. But it's challenging, it's stressful, but it's also very, let's say, yeah, we never get bored and I'm messing up with this. Sorry guys. Okay, so these are the four things that in my opinion are relevant for a marketer to do or to have. So the first is understand what we market. This is a challenge because sometimes you are market something that is quite difficult technically, especially in my defy space. But if you don't understand what you are marketing, you can't explain it to someone else, to your audience.
00:05:38.222 - 00:06:39.060, Speaker A: Right? The second is invent our own job and our own best practices, our own rules, which unfortunately can't be found in books. We need to invent our job, do many different things, try and fail and not get depressed, et cetera, et cetera. Then the third is constantly catch up and try to use web3 tools, social, et cetera. What does it mean? It means that we are guys. Like a space. Web free is a space which is still evolving as a family altogether. So sometimes it's easier to use web two tools in our job because the UI of the new web free social medias or web free newsletter tools or web free blog tools are not perfect.
00:06:39.060 - 00:07:26.900, Speaker A: But we don't need to give up. We need to embrace the change and we need to try to use as much as we can the web free tools also to do marketing and then be proactive and talkative, meaning that we need to experiment again. When you accept a job in this space, you don't expect that someone tell you what to do. You need to tell yourself what to do and do it. That's it. And talk with the team for your needs, but also with the audience. Be very loud when you need something and you need to tell something.
00:07:26.900 - 00:08:08.066, Speaker A: And here are the keywords. So in my opinion, there are three main keywords in our job. This is again what I have experienced during these six years. And these three keywords are sustainability, trust and team. So I will go in depth for each. So, sustainability, what does it mean when you join as a marketer, a web free project? Probably they will tell you we need users. So you need to get as many users as you can grab people.
00:08:08.066 - 00:09:13.746, Speaker A: So let's make an airdrop. Okay, yeah, that's not wrong. But then what? You can't keep going with doing airdrop, otherwise you're not retaining your users, you're not interesting. The first challenge is getting user and okay, but then you need to retain them, to entertain them, to convince them that they need to stay because your project is interesting and you offer them what they need. This means having a sustainable marketing strategy. So get the users and then talk with the users, keep the users and keep the conversation with the users interesting. So it doesn't matter if you release a lot of super good features, if you don't communicate them correctly with the user.
00:09:13.746 - 00:09:55.394, Speaker A: So otherwise they won't find these features by themselves. Second is trust. So trust means, especially now in these recent times, I think that trust is fundamental. And trust means being transparent in everything you need to tell to the user. So from within the product. For example, I work in defice. We have fees for something and it needs to be very clear where is the fee, how much you will pay for this and the risk you're taking.
00:09:55.394 - 00:10:37.700, Speaker A: You need to be very clear within the product and also with the community. So when they ask something, you need to be very clear in replying and also in the comms, pr and comms. For example, when something happens, you are hacked or whatever. The comms should be very transparent, otherwise the trust is broken. Second is consistency. So if you initially, you define some values, right? Mission values that you want to represent with your project, with your company, then you need to be consistent in everything you do. So you're not.
00:10:37.700 - 00:11:40.840, Speaker A: For example, you see that there is this fashion to publish memes, which are a bit provocative, but your tone of voice is not like that. You don't change because it's fashion. You just stick with your tone of voice, with your values, in whatever communication you give. And you stick with this, with this because consistency will pay in the long term. The third is showing your face, which doesn't mean that you can't be unknown. You can, but it's good to know who is behind a project, for the users, for the community, in terms of which kind of person you are. So if you want to stay anonymous, you can just tweet, tweet about your stuff, which is not always and only related to the product.
00:11:40.840 - 00:12:35.650, Speaker A: In my opinion, right now it's better if at least someone in the team is not unknown and go around at events, speak in the Twitter spaces, like people want to hear your voice, they want to know a little bit about who is running the product they are using. The third is team. Team means not just the marketing team, but also the rest of the team. So right now, in this space, can't think in silos. So there is no, in my opinion, we are not enough there to talk about marketing team, finance team, product team, engineering team, all detached. We need to talk to each other. We need to be super interconnected.
00:12:35.650 - 00:14:17.750, Speaker A: And it's quite surprising how the rest of the teams can help you actually in your marketing campaigns, in your marketing strategy. So for example, when you have an idea, you can ask product to brainstorm with you, to understand together what is better to do, because you have different point of views, they have more technical point of view, you are more in touch with the users and together the product will be better. Also in terms of marketing, and also when you need something, you need to ask. And also within the marketing team, it's very important to hire the right people. What does it mean? In my opinion, from my experience, again, the values, the culture of the people you hire are more relevant than the on paper capabilities because a lot of stuff can be learned and the values are kent. So maybe you will spend more time in educating, in teaching this new person how to do this job. But then in the long term this is way better to have someone who cares, who cares about the space, who cares about your product, who cares about the company and the team, in my opinion, is at least 70% of the value of someone who you want to hire.
00:14:17.750 - 00:15:11.030, Speaker A: Then the key areas. So these are the main areas that we deal with in the marketing of web3, but in general in marketing. So community contents, pr and coms, events and social media. Sometimes I see projects who just put attention on one of these. So for example, there are projects who has super active telegram groups and discord servers, but they don't have any blog or like no contents, no knowledge base. I can't find any documentation on their website. Or the contrary, some project has a super huge documentation and then if you want to reach out and talk with the team, you can't.
00:15:11.030 - 00:16:01.078, Speaker A: The point of this slide is that all of these areas are super relevant and every area has the same importance. Of course there are some times when you need to pay more attention and prioritize some of them. But in general it's very important to keep in mind that every area is important. So the final remarks are three to close this presentation. So the first is that marketing techniques are evolving. This is very frustrating. It's very frustrating because you get used to mailchimp and then some web free thing come up and you are I need to learn again everything.
00:16:01.078 - 00:16:54.534, Speaker A: But we don't need to give up. So embrace the change because the tools are evolving, but maybe they are evolving in a better way, then some traditional principles are still valid. For example, know your target, know your users is very important. So try to study your target as much as you can is very important. And listen to your users, ask them questions, ask for feedback. Then being snob in this space doesn't pay in the long term. What does it mean? It means that when a mini project, for example with like two k followers on Twitter, ask you to cross market in something because you are collaborating, you are like but you don't put much attention.
00:16:54.534 - 00:17:29.698, Speaker A: But that's wrong because we need to help each other. And from one day to another, this project could be two k followers. And then you want to be remembered as the project who helped their growth rather than the project who was like snobbing them. Know. So that's it for my presentation. If you have any questions? We have 4 minutes, but it was pretty straightforward. Thank you.
00:17:29.698 - 00:17:30.580, Speaker A: Thanks.
