00:00:01.210 - 00:01:41.118, Speaker A: The preprofessional class in Earth and environmental engineering is a better planet by design, and the class is structured to provide an overview of the three thematic areas that we focus on in the department, and it's also intended to raise awareness of students as to some of the key challenges that we face as humanity on the planet today and how we intend to address them. The three main areas that we are focused on are climate and water risks. The second is energy and materials processing, and the third is environmental health. The climate and water risks theme focuses on some of the challenges that we face because of increasing population pressures and as a result, the contamination of water supplies and the depletion of aquifers and other sources of freshwater on the planet, and how we can manage these resources better by looking at predictions of climate, by looking at conservation technologies, by looking at innovations in desalination and innovations in water and wastewater treatment. So that's one theme. The second theme, on energy and materials processing, looks more at the issue of the global carbon in the atmosphere and fossil fuels and other energy sources, and how best we can substitute these, and how best we can understand exactly what is happening with global warming physically, what are the causes, what are the potential players, what are the orders of magnitudes of these players, and how to go about attacking the problem from a diverse set of perspectives, both technical and policy. And we cover in the class issues related to solar energy.
00:01:41.118 - 00:02:42.574, Speaker A: Students will design new technologies for solar energy harvesting, for example, and we also look at the prediction methodologies and what to do with them. Finally, the environmental health theme is interesting, and it's motivated by the observation that it's perhaps useful to avert diseases before they reach humans, whether they are biological diseases or toxicity because of chemicals. Save the trip to the doctor. Let's fix the problem up front. And this focuses on innovations in molecular genetics, to detect bugs, to detect different toxins that are out there, and then also ways by which we can manipulate air pollution and water pollution so that it's not a factor. Conceivably, we could look at food, the food chain as well. Now, how the class works is that the first half of the class is more or less in the lecture format, and different experts who are in the three fields that I mentioned will come and talk about key problems.
00:02:42.574 - 00:03:46.162, Speaker A: And then their lecture is supplemented by text, material and actual problem solving in the traditional sense. So there's homeworks and things like that. And then in the second half of the class, the focus is much more on term projects, and students work in groups on a variety of term projects which range from how do you measure global happiness and achieve global happiness through development using Bhutan as a case study to designing a new solar furnace which requires much less land, to designing solutions for arsenic in Bangladesh. And typically there'll be three or four students in a group, and they are charged with looking at the economics, the health aspects, and the implementation aspects of any one of these solutions that they choose. Term project topics are suggested, but are not mandatory. Students go and explore topics that they get interested in. Frankly, I find that many times the student projects in this class are at a higher level of conceptual sophistication than the senior design projects and are better articulated.
00:03:46.162 - 00:03:49.894, Speaker A: So it's a fun class in many ways, and it's hands on.
