00:00:02.080 - 00:00:03.902, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, welcome to the.
00:00:03.918 - 00:00:08.754, Speaker B: Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:17.254 - 00:00:46.336, Speaker C: And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrunch's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Now, before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for you. Now, a lot of you have been asking for how I analyze projects that I bring on the show.
00:00:46.336 - 00:01:32.100, Speaker C: That's why I decided to create Blockchain's vip to share with you all the heavy research that goes on behind the scenes. Now, every week or so, our team prepares an in depth research memo with things like sector analysis, technical concepts made simple, in depth competitor breakdown, and even interactive models so you can learn about the most important projects before they become important. And our team is putting in hours every week, scouring discord, Twitter, forums and blogs to help you get an edge in crypto and understand the latest projects and themes at the deepest levels. That goes way beyond just an interview. Now, in addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions. So all of these are only available to blockchain's vip subscribers. And the good news is that while our interviews will always be free, the vip tier costs less than one coffee a day.
00:01:32.100 - 00:01:38.144, Speaker C: So head on over to theblockcrunch.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up.
00:01:39.924 - 00:02:22.206, Speaker D: Hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, things are looking a little bleak in Defi if you've been following this space. Now, total deposits in DeFi have fallen from $180 billion at the peak to just $60 billion in a matter of months. And it seems like nothing could really reignite interest in DeFi ever again. And the same sentiment is shared by a lot of founders that I've been talking to recently, because a handful of them are either giving up or basically stopping development because of concerns over unclear regulations, especially in light of the recent OFAC regulations. Now, that's why it's doubly exciting to see projects that continue to push forward, and one such project that I've been following is called Ribbon Finance. Now, as a disclaimer, I am a user of the product, but I'm not an investor.
00:02:22.206 - 00:03:02.602, Speaker D: Now, for those of you who are not familiar, Ribbon is a DeFi product that allows users easy access to crypto structured products so they have an options vault, and it was the first of their kind. And it allows users to basically earn yield from option strategies simply by depositing their capital. And to date, this product alone has facilitated seven to $10 billion in notional volume of options sold and earned about $4.2 million in protocol revenue. Now, more importantly, they have been experimenting with new ideas as well, such as issuing bonds for daos or allowing users to lend to institutions. So in this episode, we're also going to touch on all of these new plans, as well as the recently announced plans to launch a new exchange.
00:03:02.738 - 00:03:03.802, Speaker A: And we're going to touch on the.
00:03:03.818 - 00:03:30.994, Speaker D: Point about compostability as well and whether it's still relevant in Defi. Now, at the end, we also talk about how Defi can remain relevant and whether all of these things that ribbon are experimenting with can actually see mainstream adoption beyond a small group of crypto natives. So there's a lot of big questions that we're going to ask today. So I'm really happy to have ribbon and its continual experimentation in Defi and to explore all of this with the co founder of Ribbon himself, Julian Koh. So let's kick it off.
00:03:32.734 - 00:03:38.750, Speaker E: Thanks for having me on. I think this has been like a long time in the making. Yeah, it really has, man.
00:03:38.782 - 00:03:55.154, Speaker A: We have been talking about bringing you on the show for a little while, and I remember before you started ribbon, we were chatting on Twitter DM's and we were talking about structured products already. So can you tell me a little bit about how the idea of this came about and how did you go on this founder's journey?
00:03:57.454 - 00:05:00.654, Speaker E: Yeah, so for some context, prior to starting ribbon, I was like a software engineer at Coinbase for about one and a half years, and both my roommate and I, who is now my co founder, I think we were just spending a lot of our time, nights and weekends, just like playing around with Defi. We were running all these liquidation bots and just trying to make money as market participants in DeFi, obviously. I think one very interesting data point was when Defi summer rolled around, there was a whole influx of new protocols. There were all these new yield opportunities. So we were really swamped by trying to make money off these things. I think over that summer it became pretty clear that these yield opportunities were getting more and more absurd. So some of them, it started off as compound launching their own liquidity mining program but it quickly devolved into all these meme coin food farms.
00:05:00.654 - 00:06:13.498, Speaker E: It sort of became a bit ridiculous at that point. And I think from our perspective, we were looking at it as, okay, if, like, these yield opportunities devolved into these, like, ponzi meme coins in one summer. Like, is yield farming really like a thing? Like, will this exist in like five years? And I think we thought, probably not. And if we were sort of thinking about a world where yield farming didn't exist, where all these, like, shitcoin farming wasn't really a thing, how, what kinds of products would people use in defi? I think that was like the core genesis of, like, how we were thinking about things. And at the same time we started seeing these, like, asian brokers selling these like, dual income strategies and these types of, like, structured products initially to large bitcoin miners and institutions. So we thought these products are actually quite interesting. I mean, if you're a user and you don't really understand options, these types of products help you sort of simplify what you're getting.
00:06:13.498 - 00:07:02.654, Speaker E: So if bitcoin goes up, maybe you get some yield in dollars. If bitcoin goes down, maybe you automatically buy the dip. Some sort of structure like that was quite interesting. And I think we saw that, yeah, I mean, some of these brokers were just selling these things to large institutions or miners. And we thought, what if we could bring that kind of product to defi instead of just creating some sort of food farm? These types of products actually are rooted in financial engineering. You can actually trade these products forever as long as crypto options exists. So I think we thought, okay, this seems like a much more sustainable type of product that people will use.
00:07:02.654 - 00:07:25.472, Speaker E: Let's try and replicate this in Defi. We started the company about two years ago now, and I think we spent the first three months building it. And we launched the first, what is called a Defi option vault in March or April of 2021. And, yeah, growth has been really good since then. Yeah.
00:07:25.488 - 00:07:53.284, Speaker A: And you guys worked on a lot more than just the option vaults. There were a lot of different plans, and some of them were just announced. I guess by the time this comes out, it would have just been announced. And by the time this comes out as well, there were new plans that were announced one week before now as well. So we're going to cover all of that. But just for listeners who may not be as financially savvy, what exactly is a structured product? Because it seems like there's a lot of varieties out there. What does it have to do with options? And can you give maybe an example of how it works?
00:07:54.544 - 00:08:40.760, Speaker E: Yeah. So I'll maybe walk through the most typical use case of our most popular product, which is the ETH covered call vault. So how that works is, or at least stepping back, if you look at like, the yield opportunities in Defi for ETH, generally yields are pretty low on ETH of bitcoin. The reason for that is because most of yields in Defi come from borrowing. So I mean, any money market, all of those rates come from people wanting to borrow these assets. But every trading firm, every large borrower wants to borrow dollars. They don't want to borrow an asset, which is volatile, so they end up borrowing stables.
00:08:40.760 - 00:09:59.894, Speaker E: Rates on stables are generally much higher, and no one really borrows ETH of bitcoin. So because of that, I think historically, if you park your ETH in aave or compound for a year, you will get something in a range of ten to 30 basis points. So that's basically nothing. It's extremely low. So if you are sort of willing to take a bit more risk and you want to earn like a high yield on ETH, well, what do you do? We think that is like our core target audience, and a lot of those users, we think come to ribbon for that reason and how our product works is instead of just like, lending your ETH, where you earn, like, very passive low yield, what if you were interested in selling some potential upside on the asset and getting paid for it today? So, for example, I think on the week of the merge, ETH was sort of sitting at about $1,600. And if you thought, okay, I don't think ETH is going to go above like two k this week, you can actually get paid for having that view. You can sell a call option that says, okay, yeah, I really don't think ETH is going to go above two k this week.
00:09:59.894 - 00:10:55.616, Speaker E: I'll get paid for taking on that view today. So that was basically the call option that we sold last week. And what our products do is you bring on ETH onto our platform, we help you do this trade over and over every single week. So every single week you'll be selling an out of the money call option, which is basically a view that says, like, I don't think ETH is going to go up by like 20, 30% this week. So for taking on that view, you get paid something in a range of 30 to 50 basis points a week. So I think there's like a stark difference in like ten basis points a year versus 30 to 50 a week. And all products are, are not something people just like set and forget forever because it sort of requires a bit more market timing and thinking about risk.
00:10:55.616 - 00:11:20.804, Speaker E: But I think people are generally interested in using these products for a few weeks at a time, for maybe a few months at a time where they don't think ETH is going to do anything crazy. So yeah, I think that is like our bread and butter. We offer the exact same strategy on bitcoin, on a bunch of smaller cap assets, but our biggest products are still like the ETH covered call vaults.
00:11:22.464 - 00:11:37.364, Speaker A: You mentioned that this is slightly higher risk than things like aave and compound, where you just passively lending your capital out for that low yield. So can you outline what the risks are? Is there like a risk of capital loss if the contract expires, say like in the money?
00:11:39.384 - 00:12:17.678, Speaker E: Yeah, exactly. So there is a risk of capital loss in, in terms of like the ETH that you put in. So for example, you put in one ETH when ETH was at 1600 and you sold like the 2000 call option. If ETH suddenly doubles that week to like 3000, you would have basically sold your ETH at two k and you get back the remaining. So you put in one ETH. Currently ETH is worth three k, but you only have two k. So you do have capital loss in the case that ETH or some of these coins makes a huge move that week.
00:12:17.678 - 00:12:46.934, Speaker E: But we think generally the product works pretty well because these capital loss scenarios only happen in like a major up move, which people are actually generally happy about. So they are fine sort of earning, selling this type of upside because I mean, the rest of their bags would be going up as well, like that week generally. So yeah, that's sort of, we think that's like the way people reason about why they use our product.
00:12:48.074 - 00:13:07.894, Speaker A: Maybe capital loss was a bad way to describe maybe opportunity cost, but giving up the upside is a better way to put it, I guess. Unless in the case of Rippon actually getting hacked, then you actually lose your capital. But I would imagine that type of strategy to be really popular in a time like this when prices seem to be just going one way, which is not up.
00:13:10.744 - 00:13:39.934, Speaker E: Yeah, so I think some of the products like the Solana covered call or like the Avex covered call, I mean, those tokens have been going down basically for almost a year now. So if you are sort of like a Sol maxi or like an Avax Maxi, we have those products for you. And every single week you're just like stacking more. Solar stacking more. So yeah, I think definitely that's, like, a very popular type of behavior as well.
00:13:40.674 - 00:13:56.786, Speaker A: Yeah. And I'd love to understand how these products are structured as well. So, obviously, by abstracting away a lot of the complexities of actually executing a cover call strategy, you guys are doing that trading basically on behalf of people who deposit. So how do you guys handle those trades?
00:13:56.810 - 00:13:59.334, Speaker D: Are there rules or transparent rules for.
00:13:59.394 - 00:14:06.434, Speaker A: How you guys select the strike price or how the options are settled? Or do users just kind of have to trust you guys to do it in a discretionary manner?
00:14:07.574 - 00:15:04.810, Speaker E: Yeah, so we definitely don't want to be, like, a discretionary hedge fund or something where, like, you park your money here and we run your money. These are really automated smart contracts, so they follow, like, a very specific rule set on how they select strikes, how they sell the options. And all of those rules are sort of codified on chain. So in our V one version, we used to have, like, a concept of a manager where we select strikes, and we do a lot of trading on behalf of the vault. But in our V two version, which we launched maybe start of the year, end of last year, we really tried to automate as much as possible and try and put as much of, like, the brains of the product on chain, uh, so that you wouldn't have to trust a human. Um, so, yeah, how it works generally is we. We target a specific type of option.
00:15:04.810 - 00:15:50.344, Speaker E: So in. In our case, uh, it's usually like a ten delta option, which is, uh, which is like, a pretty far out of the money option. And, um, our contracts would basically select this option, select this strike, and mint a bunch of these options contracts. And on the flip side of that, as, you know, like, I mean, if we have 20,000 ethn a vault, we need to sort of offload 20,000 ETH calls into the market. So on the flip side, we need to figure out how can we get the best execution for selling off all these ETH calls in size. So we have gone through, like, many iterations of this process, and we have spent, like, a ton of time trying to improve execution of the product.
00:15:51.564 - 00:16:32.534, Speaker A: Yeah, that is another question that I had, because now that you remove this more less transparent discretionary process and made it into a totally on chain and transparent process, you're basically almost acting like a automated hedge fund that publicizes the strategies, kind of similar to depositors and amms are basically, you know, publicizing the strategies. And whenever you publicize your strategies, we know some sophisticated market maker out there is going to take advantage of that. So has that happened for ribbon. Do you see market makers basically trying to time these option settlements because they know ahead of time exactly what time you guys will be selling? A lot of options. For instance, has that affected returns or how does that affect the protocol?
00:16:34.794 - 00:17:25.150, Speaker E: Yeah, so this is like, very hot topic about all these different dovs, which are basically our competitors. All of us are doing the exact same trades. It's like a really, really crowded trade, and a smart market maker or a smart trading firm should be able to front run our flow, like the flow from all these different products which just sell a bunch of calls or puts. So we have actually seen front running behavior in the market. I think initially when ribbon was much smaller, it didn't really matter. Like our size was too small for any serious person to care. But in sort of Q one or Q two of this year, where, like, our vaults was selling something in a range of $300 million notional every single week, that those sizes really mattered.
00:17:25.150 - 00:18:20.524, Speaker E: And that's when we actually saw, like, some of the vaults, people would front run the vaults and then basically sell it before we do and rebuy it later. But I think the solution to that is a pretty complicated game theory problem. And I think we figured out the best solution to this is really just to make these processes as competitive as possible. So initially, if there are only two market makers who participate in our auctions, anyone else in the whole world could front on this flow. But I think if, I think we have brought on like a ton of people participating in auctions. So something in the range of like ten to 20. If all the big trading firms are basically aware that this kind of front running stuff happens, they would, like, price that in and how they participate in our vaults, all of them would basically compete on each other to buy back the flow.
00:18:20.524 - 00:18:57.484, Speaker E: So I think we have just learned that making these things as competitive as possible between all the major trading firms has significantly improved. Pricing has significantly reduced the gaming of these products. And, I mean, if anyone is still trying these types of strategies, they're basically competing against, like, the top 20 trading firms in the world, which is like, quite difficult. So, yeah, I would say initially it happened quite a lot, and now we have just tried a bunch of strategies to mitigate it, including making it as competitive as possible.
00:18:58.864 - 00:19:34.124, Speaker A: That's really interesting. So it's almost like the problem solves itself when the product gets larger. Now, if you attract more market makers and they kind of compete away that potential arbitrage there, because I do remember seeing some other people kind of propose a solution maybe you randomize the time every week where you settle the options. So instead of telling the whole world that, hey, at like 04:00 p.m. Today, we're going to settle all the options, you kind of just like pick a different time every day. So it seems like there was a lot of out there ideas that people have explored before, and it's really interesting to see it all kind of converges of solving the problem itself just by the product growing. And I'm also curious.
00:19:34.124 - 00:19:49.744, Speaker A: So in terms of the types of people that you guys are targeting with these faults, it's definitely not the sophisticated market makers because they probably execute their own cover call strategy, they prefer to select their own strike and so on. So is this mostly retails or is it like maybe daos and treasuries that you guys are targeting?
00:19:51.064 - 00:20:42.978, Speaker E: So our products are generally skewed much more retail. I think the last time I ran the numbers, which was sort of, admittedly a few months ago, the median depositor in our products was something in the range of ten to. So definitely on the smaller side and it sort of goes up. I think we have one user who at the peak had ten to 15 million us in one of our products. But yeah, I think as far as we know, we don't have any large institutional guys who use our products a lot, or maybe they do without telling us. So I think generally, just because of our marketing or our community, our products skew a bit more retail. And I think we are aware that some of our competitors skew a bit more whale heavy or institutional heavy.
00:20:42.978 - 00:21:05.074, Speaker E: I think since we have sort of started out retail focus. One angle that we are trying to do now to grow our products is find the 100 biggest crypto whales in the world who want to use this type of product. Like hunt them down one by one and try to get them to use it. So we started out retail and we're trying to move up to the institutional side now.
00:21:05.854 - 00:21:41.014, Speaker A: Yeah, I'd love to go to market strategy, and it's really interesting because so even before ribbon, there were some other kind of automated strategies. They weren't exactly like options faults, but these were things like index funds or thematic funds that automatically rebalance, maybe like metaphors, index and so on. And we've never really seen any of these take off to the extent that ribbon has. So what would you say are the biggest reasons that people, or these, like retail, sort of depositing ten to 50k, seem to be much more interested in ribbon vaults than any of these other package products that came before.
00:21:43.474 - 00:22:49.394, Speaker E: Yeah, I think, as you mentioned, like some of these index funds or thematic funds, these things have like, they sort of come in waves. Like sometimes this idea is interesting and then people want to go trade this thing for a while, but they sort of die off. I mean, if you look at like the DPI stuff, there was a lot of interest in DPI when DeFI was hot, and then DeFi coins just went down a lot and people just lost interest in using that product. I think for us, we target specifically yield products on majors, which is something that every crypto person owns. Some part of their portfolio is in ETH or bitcoin or USDC. And I think our focus is really just like, we think there really isn't much alternatives in DeFi if you want high yields on ether bitcoin. So because of that, you almost have to use revenue if you are looking for the type of yield profile.
00:22:49.394 - 00:23:10.786, Speaker E: So, yeah, I think it's very different from trying to sell people a thematic idea compared to like, this is the place that you can get high yield on your ether bitcoin for some part of your portfolio. I think that's an easier sell and something that doesn't go away once the hype cycle disappears. Yeah, I really like the way that.
00:23:10.810 - 00:23:55.058, Speaker A: You thought about the pain point. You guys are actually trying to solve the problem that people who hold ETH and don't want to sell their ETH, they want to earn yield on that ETH, ideally, versus trying to convince people that, hey, the metaverse is going to be the next big thing, or DeFi is going to be hard to invest in this index fund itself on. But I do want to transition away from just talking about the options vaults because it seems like the vision for ribbon is larger than these faults. So you guys pushed forward products called ribbon earn and ribbon lend, and then by the time this comes out, you will also announce your exchange plans. And then before that, there was also an initiative to sell bonds to for daos to issue bonds. So I'd love to touch on all of those. Let's start with ribbon earn and ribbon lend first.
00:23:55.058 - 00:23:59.654, Speaker A: So what exactly are these ideas and how do they tie into the original kind of ribbon vision?
00:24:00.874 - 00:24:53.082, Speaker E: Yeah, so I think if we started off by us taking a step back and saying, okay, there were all these new entrants into like the Defi option vault space, all of us were sort of doing some flavor of the same thing realistically. And it was really difficult for any of these players to have like a strong vote because all of us ran similar strategies. There's no alpha there. It's just a systematic strategy. All of us traded against the same big trading firms, so there's no long term pricing advantage there. The only main differentiators were maybe small tweaks in strategy or fee structure or branding, which is really, I think that wasn't like an era that we wanted to play in necessarily. So we started looking at a bunch of different ideas.
00:24:53.082 - 00:26:08.614, Speaker E: And I think one exercise that we did was like, let's go speak to some of these structured product brokers in Asia. Like, who are the biggest ones? Like, Amber Babel used to be really big and we just tried to understand, like, what is their business model? What kinds of products do they sell? And I think what stood out for us very clearly is like, most of these guys run two types of businesses. One of them is like a borrow lend desk, where they basically run like a very big borrower and lending business. And the second part is they run like this sort of structured product business, where these two businesses are very synergistic because they could use structured products as like an interesting payoff for users to come and bring on their assets onto the platform. But they also have a huge borrow land business to create these yields for some of the products, the structured products that they are selling. So I really do think these two things go hand in hand. So we looked at that very closely and we thought maybe we should just sort of decompose what Babel is and do it on chain or something.
00:26:08.614 - 00:27:27.690, Speaker E: What does that actually look like? So first we started out, we launched this product called Riven Earn, which is basically our current products are these dovs. You are taking some market risk by selling a put or a call. These are not risk free strategies. You can lose your principle of the market, like goes up or down a lot. And I think a second big type of structured product category that we thought were very interesting is what people call, you know, like principal protected products or like capital protected products, where basically, even if like the market goes up or goes down by, I don't know, two x or three x, like, you're not sort of exposed to market risk, but you are slightly more like maybe delta neutral or your worst case outcome is you get your money back. So we think those types of products are very compelling to retail and that's sort of what ribbon earn is, where basically it has two components. First, we generate yield through lending and we take some of that interest and we help you buy options.
00:27:27.690 - 00:28:15.896, Speaker E: The reason why that is interesting is because we all know crypto is really really volatile on a week to week basis. So if you are just earning interest, you get a flat payoff. Like at the end of the year, you park your money in, you lend your money to someone, you get a fixed rate over a year. Nothing interesting there. But if you maybe take some of those interest payments and you actually buy some options, you have a chance of multiplying your final payoff by a lot if the market is volatile on a week to week basis. So we thought that structure would be very interesting in Defi, and we launched that as a product called Ribbon Earn. So we launched that a few weeks ago.
00:28:15.896 - 00:28:52.144, Speaker E: I think we had like a $5 million cap, and it is really like a brand new product. We still don't know if people want it. But so far, I think there has been quite a lot of interest. Like there were like five mil of deposits in the first day or two. So even in a bear market, we think this kind of thing is interesting. So that's sort of how ribbon earn works. And on the flip side of that, I think, as I mentioned before, how ribbon earn works is it has a lending component, and this lending component is basically an uncollateralized loan to one of the big trading firms.
00:28:52.144 - 00:29:50.584, Speaker E: So some options that we were considering is like, okay, what if we compose ribbon earn with maple finance? Or we compose ribbon earn with one of these other uncollectorized lending platforms where we use maple for the lending component, and then we use our own ribbon stuff for the option component. We thought that could be quite interesting, but eventually we came to the conclusion of like, yeah, why don't we just own our own lending platform as well? What if we own the whole stack where we don't send our flow to someone else, but we really just own the entire product stack? So that's the core idea of ribbon lend. We think we are just productizing something that we may have chosen to, like, compose with someone else instead. So, yeah, I know that's like a very long mouthful, but I'll sort of leave it there for you to ask questions.
00:29:53.204 - 00:30:28.900, Speaker B: Hey, guys, I'm really excited to tell you more about one of my favorite products in crypto right now, DyDX. This is a team I've known since 2018, and they've built one of the best exchange venues out there that also happens to be decentralized and mobile friendly. Now, listen until the end, because there's an opportunity for savvy traders out there as well. And here are just a few reasons why I like DyDx over other exchanges. First, it's very liquid. It processes two to $3 billion every day in volume and has 35 perpetual swaps as of this recording. Which means you can trade things like ethereum, bitcoin, doge Solana and most of the most popular assets with up to 20 x leverage in the venue today.
00:30:28.900 - 00:31:08.226, Speaker B: Second, it's also a extremely cheap and if you're down bad from the bear market, you don't have to worry about gas fees at all because there is no gas fee on starkware L2, where DyDx is built on. Now that brings me to my next point as well. It's incredibly fast. Unlike other L2 and high speed dexs, you don't actually have to wait to withdraw your assets anymore. And as an additional point, by using starkware, DyDX also provides users with increased security and privacy. And my personal favorite feature is to cross margin feature, which means I can seed one account with USDC and trade across multiple markets from there without needing to start sub accounts because I really hate managing so many different sub accounts. And their iOS mobile app is also live right now.
00:31:08.226 - 00:31:44.214, Speaker B: And it's amazing because it's compatible with Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Coin 98, Huawei Wallet, and a lot of the most popular mobile wallets out there. And it's available for people outside of the US or sanctioned countries today. And one last thing, one exciting opportunity is their competitions, the most recent tier in the $10,000 equity tier, have won over $95,000 in rewards. And you can get started with as low as $500 in equity to compete for prizes. So if you're already trading, might as well get paid to do it. So if any of that sounds interesting to you, I highly recommend that you head on over to DyDx exchange to learn more. And I thank them for sponsoring this episode.
00:31:45.714 - 00:31:47.402, Speaker E: Yeah, I'd love to dive into, you.
00:31:47.418 - 00:32:24.130, Speaker A: Know, the kind of risk management side, considering that there's a lot of huge landing desks that kind of blew up. And also the situation with like three arrows. And actually one week before this episode would have come out, Winter Mutant was also hacked a large market maker. But before I touch on that, I want to make sure we double click on this point. You mentioned wanting to verticalize and capture all layers of a stack instead of composing with protocols that already exist. And that's the similar philosophy that you've carried in the other arm of the business, which we'll talk about later, which is the exchange arm. So that seems to be a general trend that I see in projects that get successful.
00:32:24.130 - 00:32:43.134, Speaker A: They want to verticalize. We saw this with DYDX as well, verticalizing into their own kind of layer one. But that seems to be very much against the idea of composability, of plugging into different protocols in crypto. So how do you reconcile the two? Is composability just a meme? At the end of the day, everyone just wants to capture as much value as possible in their own protocol.
00:32:45.834 - 00:33:48.824, Speaker E: I mean, I don't think composability is like a meme for like a small, I mean if you think about any large tech company, I don't know, Google or Amazon, they start off by Ren. Oh yeah, I don't know, any tech company maybe starts off by renting their own like renting servers from AWS. And then once they get big enough like Google, maybe they realize, but why don't we just like own that part of the stack as well? So I think it's just like a natural shift of when projects get smaller, they literally don't have the resources to build multiple parts of the stack. They just need to own a very specific niche. But once they get bigger and bigger, it becomes more and more interesting to just own deeper parts of the stack. So yeah, I don't think this is particularly a crypto specific thing. And yeah, I think we generally ribbon generally has a preference for why can't we do this ourselves? Kind of mentality.
00:33:48.824 - 00:34:39.756, Speaker E: We don't think. I think if we are trying to compete against someone like Lido or Uniswap, we think those products have really have an extremely big head start and they have a huge market share. So it really doesn't make sense to compete with those guys. But maybe for smaller projects where we have maybe an equal shot or slightly less than equal shot at winning the market, we think it's worth doing. So yeah, that's how I think about in which cases do we compose, in which cases do we just try to own the whole stack. So for example, maybe we work with this company called Paradigm Trade paradigm. They are like this RFQ system that helps, that basically helps us improve our execution.
00:34:39.756 - 00:35:17.144, Speaker E: And maybe you could ask the question of like why don't we just build our own version of paradigm, which is possible in some case, but I think we have seen like paradigm has built their business over five years or something. They have plugged in like 1000 professional trading firms. At this point it really doesn't make sense at all to compete with them. They're too huge and too entrenched, we think, to compete. So in those cases we are more than happy to just partner with them and quote, unquote, compose with them. So, yeah, that's how I think about composition versus sort of doing it yourself.
00:35:18.524 - 00:35:56.654, Speaker A: That makes a lot of sense. I love the nuance that composability is almost like a bootstrapping mechanism versus the end state of things for Defi. And really think about that. I guess going back to this idea of creating a product on ribbon that allows retailers to lend money to centralized market making desk or a huge credit debt and so on, how do you underwrite the risk for these things? Because, you know, historically, they've been having a pretty spotty history with the whole kind of three arrows thing that happened recently. So how do you ensure that users, you know, are not going to just lose their funds if one of these firms blow up?
00:35:58.434 - 00:37:31.294, Speaker E: Yeah, so we actually do think ribbon lend is a bit more of a sophisticated product. So how it works is let's take a step back and look at another person who's in this space, which is Maple finance. How their product works is they have this idea of a pool delegate. So, for example, if I'm like an expert at underwriting credit risk, I can create a pool on Maple finance, and retail users can basically deposit with me, and I basically decide, okay, I have 100 mil of deposits, I'm going to lend it out to XYZ firm because I know XYZ firm is, like, good financial standing and so on. So Maple really relies on these delegates to decide who these loans go out to and so on, which is like a fantastic model. But I think we have seen that for some more sophisticated defi users, for example, maybe like yourself or myself, we know these firms, we know who Alameda is, we know who Wintermute is. Instead of you letting the delegate choose who the money goes to, what if you just want to lend money to Alameda directly? If you hit up the OTC desk and you work with them and figure out how to lend to them, you probably need like a $10 million minimum.
00:37:31.294 - 00:38:11.104, Speaker E: So we think that's, like, way too high for your regular crypto whale. But if Alameda could spin up their own pool and you as a market participant, you decide yourself that, okay, I think Alameda is good. I want to lend to them directly. You can do that. So this obviously puts a lot more of, like, the quote unquote, credit underwriting responsibility to the user itself. I think we see it somewhat like p two p loans to institutional trading firms. But obviously, I think we are going to try our best to surface as much information as possible about these trading firms.
00:38:11.104 - 00:38:55.484, Speaker E: For example, there's this company called Credora who does, like, these credit underwriting scores for trading firms. So we are working with Credora to surface like a credit score on our platform, and we are going to be trying more and more things to make it as to try and let retail users like ourselves have as much information as possible before we make the decision of who we want to lend to. So, yeah, that's how we think about the difference between us and maple. I actually personally think, oh, yeah, I trust my own judgment. I know winter means, like, a really reputable firm. I want to lend to them. So I don't think this product really exists in crypto yet.
00:38:55.484 - 00:39:18.054, Speaker E: And I think the whole platform is really, like, centered around who these borrowers are. This is like the wintermute pool. If you trust intermute, maybe you want to lend to them directly. There's none of this, like, middleman who's helping you make your decision. So, yeah, that's how the platform works. And we think that's, like, quite a big market for it.
00:39:18.954 - 00:39:53.304, Speaker A: Yeah, that's quite interesting. And we actually just had Maple on the podcast as well, and we wrote about a 15 page report on what maple is and how it works and the token and so on for our vip. So, listeners, if you want to check that out, feel free to do that. I'd love to talk a little bit about the exchange plans as well, because, so I know to date, Ribbon has been integrated with Open opyn, which is the Defi options exchange, where you settle a lot of your options, but by the time this comes out, I think you would have announced your exchange plans and you guys basically decided to move.
00:39:53.344 - 00:39:55.096, Speaker D: Away from open and build your own.
00:39:55.120 - 00:40:08.004, Speaker A: Exchange, which is a huge endeavor in and of itself. So what prompted this decision, and how important is it for the ribbon vision?
00:40:10.104 - 00:41:06.174, Speaker E: Yeah, yeah. Stepping back from, like, the whole structured product set of stuff, I think we saw that. I think in the introduction, you said, like, we have done $7 billion of option volume. It's actually closer to ten. And we've created like 40 mil, 40 something million dollars of, like, premium. So we have actually processed, like, pretty big size on, like, in terms of how many options we trade on our platform. And I think one, going back to the idea of, like, composability or vertical integration, one idea that we thought was very interesting was what if, like, an exchange and, like a dov were like the same thing? What if, like, if you are like a sort of less sophisticated user, you come to the platform, you just put your money in these vaults and they help you run a strategy.
00:41:06.174 - 00:42:12.696, Speaker E: But if you're a pro trader, really, in crypto right now, in the Defi landscape, there doesn't exist like a good options trading platform. If you want to buy anything in the size of 100 to 1000 ETH notional, you wouldn't find that liquidity anywhere on any chain. We think that's just ridiculous because 1000 ETH notional is not a lot for any serious trader. So we started out with the mindset of can we build the best options trading experience in crypto in DeFi, period? And can we use our existing Dov flow to actually make our business successful? We think the answer to that is yes. And we have seen basically a lot of people have tried to build options exchanges in Defi. There have been basically many, many, many attempts, many dead bodies, I would say. And the main reason for this, we think, is because it's really difficult to bootstrap an exchange.
00:42:12.696 - 00:43:38.054, Speaker E: To bootstrap an exchange, it's like bootstrapping any marketplace. You need to get the market makers on the platform, and then you need to get the retail trader, the retail flow on the other side. But if the retail flow doesn't exist, no market maker wants to integrate and vice versa. So there's like this cold start problem of like, where's the flow going to come from? And I think if you talk to any of the largest options trading firms in the world and you say, hey, guys, I've like a new options exchange idea, like, can you guys market make for us? If it's like a very involved, like, API driven business where they have to, like, quote, many, many markets 24/7 that's going to take them a few months for them to build that integration. If you don't have any track record of bringing in any flow, if you have zero users, they're just going to tell you, where are your users? Why are we going to spend three months of integration if you don't even have a single trader on your platform? We think that's generally why it's difficult to bootstrap when you exchange. But if we already have these dov businesses that are every single week they're selling 100 mil of options. If you connect these two products, the dov is basically a source of flow, a constant source of flow, and we think that's one very easy way for us to bootstrap the market.
00:43:38.054 - 00:44:22.708, Speaker E: If we tell the market makers, hey, guys, we're actually going to integrate our vaults into our exchange. If you want to continue participating in our vaults, which you do because you built all these processes and you build your business around our vaults, you actually have to integrate our exchange. We think that's a very strong, compelling reason for them to do it. I think combining the dovs with an exchange is also really good for the market makers. For example, right now, if you're a market maker, you buy these like, I buy a thousand call options from ribbon. I buy like 10,000 call options from ribbon right now. These things get represented as like useless o tokens in your wallet.
00:44:22.708 - 00:45:09.122, Speaker E: Like, there's no secondary market for it. It's really just like a bilateral trade that you can't exit out of. But what if, like when you go and buy the options from the dov, these actually like appear in your account as like a real position that you can, like, trade over the course of the week, if the position's going in your favor, you actually get margin to do more things that really incentivizes you to use the platform more. If I'm really bidding these options every week from the vaults, maybe I want to trade other things against it. I want to hedge it on the same venue. We think these are the characteristics we need to just bootstrap the exchange and bootstrap trading. So, yeah, that was like the vision here.
00:45:09.122 - 00:45:41.484, Speaker E: And I think we are launching this in q four of this year. And I think, yeah, our goal is just like, let's build the best options trading experience in Defi. We're going to have deep liquidity on day one. We're going to have over 100 instruments across multiple, like, strikes and expiries. We are only going to start off with ETH options for now. And, yeah, I think onboarding should be extremely trivial. Anyone with a metamask wallet can just bring on USDC and start trading immediately.
00:45:41.484 - 00:45:53.264, Speaker E: So we think those are like the three key factors of differentiation, and that's at least how we think we can win the options trading side as well.
00:45:54.324 - 00:46:12.834, Speaker A: Yeah, that's fascinating. And I'm sure a question that a lot of the listeners probably asking is how does this tie into the existing ribbon token? Is this a separate token or separate business? Or how do you make sure that this doesn't fragment or confuse the value of what RBN does?
00:46:13.974 - 00:47:06.880, Speaker E: Yeah, so the exchange is going to have its own separate brand, but it will still definitely be within the ribbon ecosystem. It's still like TBD on token plan. So I don't want to jump the gun there, but, yeah, I mean, we are not launching this as like a non like side project, you know, like, this is part of the ribbon product suite. And we think, for example, there can be a lot of very nice synergies. For example, like, yeah, what if we own the Dov and exchange? We can just like set our Dov fees to zero forever and just like starve all our other competitors because that is like their core business. That's the only thing that generates revenue for them. But now we have so many other sources of revenue from the lending business, from the exchange, we can just set like, these things to be lost leaders.
00:47:06.880 - 00:47:28.762, Speaker E: So, yeah, I think, we think the ribbon suite of products actually work well together in a business setting. So, yeah, we are not trying to spin these out as, you know, new shit cloud projects. Just like launch every business is on that side project.
00:47:28.818 - 00:47:58.954, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, that makes sense. And speaking of kind of different initiatives, that the final one I wanted to touch on is one that I thought was really, really interesting. So it was a shame that their project actually shut down. So to give some context, this is your integration with port of finance, where you allowed daos to issue their bonds. So far, daos have pretty much been raising pseudo equity by issuing tokens for people to buy their tokens, but you guys allow them a new way of financing just issuing dot bonds. And I believe you did this through a project called Porter. Porter finance.
00:47:58.954 - 00:48:11.174, Speaker A: But then recently the project shut down because of having regulatory concerns, which we'll touch on later. But tell us a little bit about what was the genesis for that idea and kind of any interesting lessons and takeaways from that.
00:48:12.314 - 00:49:12.644, Speaker E: Yeah, so, I mean, we have seen like a lot of daos, they own a lot of their own token, and some people consider it like treasury, but really the market is too liquid for them to sell it or something. So realistically, it is very difficult for them to convert their treasury into cash. So people are looking for alternative ways of daos to raise money effectively, cash. And we think bonds are actually quite an interesting space. If you see protocol x has been generating revenue every single week. Protocol revenue. Why wouldn't you extend some credit to them via some sort of bond? If you think the business won't materially change the next six months, if you don't think revenue would disappear, it really does make sense that the Dow probably pay it back.
00:49:12.644 - 00:50:02.256, Speaker E: So from the DAO perspective, this sort of opens up a new way for them to raise money. From a user perspective, this opens up like a new type of yield opportunity for users. And generally these bonds would probably have a much higher yield than a money market, for example. So yeah, we thought that was an interesting problem space in crypto. And I think for us we also had the same issue, like we wanted to bootstrap, maybe a very simple use cases. Maybe the DAO wants to increase some protocol on liquidity for their own token. If it owns a lot of their own native token, they need to pair it in the amm with like stables or ETH.
00:50:02.256 - 00:50:53.422, Speaker E: Where does it get that ethnic? So yeah, I think selling a bond is a very interesting way of getting, of obtaining that ETH dollars. And it actually sort of allows the DAO to lpd on token, for example. So yeah, we think that's like a pretty interesting use case. So we did raise a few million dollars as like our first customer of the porter platform. We had a bunch of initiatives which are sort of now a bit dead because of like some rari hack situation, but we had some ideas of using the fuse protocol for some stuff. So we did raise some money via the bond for that. But yeah, I think it's a bit of a shame that they sort of decided not to proceed.
00:50:53.422 - 00:51:01.444, Speaker E: I think we were considering maybe just like absorbing that part of the business and like doing it ourselves, but.
00:51:03.304 - 00:51:03.616, Speaker A: We.
00:51:03.640 - 00:51:40.454, Speaker E: Just thought that there'll be higher leverage opportunities like doing the lending platform. So, yeah, I think once they shut down, we sort of thought, okay, maybe it was an interesting experiment, but we don't really want to like continue pushing out this, this business line. So, yeah, we actually facilitated some early redemption sort of bond and so on. So it was a very cool defi experiment, but it hadn't really like yielded anything materially useful in practice.
00:51:41.594 - 00:52:32.604, Speaker A: Yeah, and I love how as a founder, how cognizant you are of like the size of the market, like each of the markets you tap into as well. It was clear that the Dow idea is interesting, but the Dow market is still really immature. The opportunity is much smaller than what you're doing with ribbon earned lend and also the exchange plans. So I'd love to kind of tie it all up together. So it sounds like all of these initiatives within the ribbon ecosystem, you know, the vaults earn land to a certain extent, exchange as an extension of dob. These all have to do with sustainable yield in DeFi, which is a refreshing idea given that a lot of yield is just unsustainable inflationary rewards. Do you think that is what is going to be the main driver of growth for DeFi in the coming two, three years? Just people finding ways to abstract sustainable yield to retails?
00:52:33.544 - 00:53:31.854, Speaker E: Yeah, I definitely think so. Obviously the dark side to this is basically platforms like Celsius and others who market some sort of yield thing. And under the hood they do all sorts of. I mean, no one really knows what they do, right? So, yeah, I think definitely this is an area of growth that we see, but we are also very aware that these things can be exploited very heavily. I mean, if a project says that they deliver sustainable yield, like, you actually need to understand what their business does. Not all sustainable yield is equal, I would say. I think for us, at least for our option vaults and a bunch of other stuff, we know for sure, as long as crypto options exist, we can create these products.
00:53:31.854 - 00:54:22.268, Speaker E: You are selling risk, you're getting paid to sell risk, you're not getting free money from the air. So we think the products that we are all building are all like, really. It really sort of facilitates, like, a yield product through selling some sort of risk. So these are real things that will exist in any market environment. Like, even in the depths of a bear market, people want to sell options. So, yeah, I think we, our focus is just on this kind of idea where, like, we don't only want to create stuff that works in bull markets and doesn't work in other market environments. If option markets persist, if, like, financial engineering is real, if people want to transfer risk to each other, which we think people do, our products will still exist.
00:54:22.268 - 00:54:34.204, Speaker E: So, yeah, I think that's like the core thesis of the business, and that's how we think we will sort of persistent for the next five to ten years.
00:54:34.944 - 00:54:36.768, Speaker A: And speaking of kind of sustainable yield.
00:54:36.816 - 00:54:38.400, Speaker E: Which I agree is probably what is.
00:54:38.432 - 00:55:06.964, Speaker A: Going to keep DeFi relevant, because clearly anchor type yields are not sustainable. There are two big ideas that I think we haven't talked about, which is staking yield. We're going to have an actual yield on ethereum now that we're proof of stake, and also tranche products, where you can create a relatively high yield on a fixed yield product by just tranching the yield into two. Have you guys thought about doing things in either of those arenas? You know, why didn't you guys prioritize those over what you guys ended up doing?
00:55:08.024 - 00:56:26.344, Speaker E: Yeah, I think I've recently been very fascinated with, like, this, like, funny to say, but like, the original idea of anchor, which was, like, the original idea of anchor was really interesting. It was, what if you could create a money market where, like, the core driver of these yields in the money market come from proof of stake yields? So, like, native crypto yield that's sort of paid by the blockchains itself? I think that's a very, very interesting idea. We don't think we have any edge in that market, so it's like really difficult for us to do anything competitive there. But yeah, I mean I think in terms of like what is sustainable, that is obviously like one of like the core axioms of crypto is just like block rewards. So I mean there are some other projects that are doing some sort of derivatives around like block rewards and stuff. So I mean, you know, all like the proof of stake mev related stuff or like block space like futures and all these, these are still like a very nascent area. So I think we're not sure how we can compete in that yet, but we'll just.
00:56:26.344 - 00:56:36.496, Speaker E: I just find it very, very interesting intellectually. And I forgot what your second point was. Yeah, no, I'm just generally curious if.
00:56:36.520 - 00:56:55.374, Speaker A: You'Ve looked into like. So state was one of them entrance products at one point? There were a lot of these projects like Barnbridge. Oh yes, I think Saffron working on these ideas and I think we talked a little bit about that as well when we first chatted. So curious if you thought about that for ribbon. And what do you think of that as another driver of maybe sustainable yield for Defi?
00:56:56.394 - 00:57:53.726, Speaker E: Yeah, I think it definitely fits into the core thesis of tranches are really nothing more than just risk transfer. So there are naturally people in the world who want to take more risk than others on the same type of opportunity. So that naturally leads itself to some sort of splitting of risk between two types of people. So I definitely do think that that idea has some legs, but we just really haven't seen that working at any scale in Defi yet. I think we are not sure if we want to be like first movers and trying to do that ourselves. But yeah, I mean I'm very plugged into the space so I just like, I just try and keep my ears as close as the ground as possible. So if any of these things, I get any meaningful traction, I think I'm paying a lot of attention.
00:57:53.726 - 00:58:16.374, Speaker E: But for now it seems like there's just naturally not that much interest. But some of these things may just be a timing thing, like these things could suddenly kick off maybe. I don't know. I think you do raise good points. Those are very, two very interesting categories that we could look at. We just haven't really considered it yet.
00:58:17.594 - 00:58:52.834, Speaker A: Got it. And I think, Julie, my final question for you is probably the biggest one here because, you know, in recent conversations, especially with newer founders in this space, right, people who came in in the past 612 months. A lot of them are really scared about regulation after the tornado cache thing, and they don't know what they can build and what regulations they have to pay attention to. A lot of the OGS people have been in this space for a long time. They're kind of just still trudging forward. So it's really reassuring to see founders like yourself still pushing for all these new products. But how do you think about regulations? Are you worried that you get shut down one day or what is the solution to something like that?
00:58:54.094 - 01:00:09.764, Speaker E: Yeah, I think I also do some angel investments. So some of the other founders I talk to about this kind of stuff quite a lot, and I think there are some, like, one way doors that if you do it, like, you can't ever take it back. For example, if you do a token sale, you can't unwind that in two years like you did it in the past, you can't take that back from the market. So that kind of thing, we think, is quite scary, because if some sort of regulators consider whatever token you launch as a security, you effectively did, like, unregistered security sale, and you can't walk it back. But, so that's the kind of thing that we generally try to avoid as a company, just trying to figure out which are the one way doors that we can never come back from. Whereas other things, like, what is your Kyc AMl policy? What kind of terms and conditions do you show on your website? How do you enforce geo blocking? How do you enforce these types of restrictions on your front end? We think these are things that if a regulator tells you that this is bad, you can change. These are things you can fix.
01:00:09.764 - 01:01:18.654, Speaker E: You can say, okay, sorry, we did a few, we sort of didn't enforce this back then, but we are enforcing it now. We have seen every major crypto exchange go from non KYC exchange to a KYC exchange. If they can do it, I think Defi protocols can do it, too. So, yeah, I would say I just pay much more attention to, like, the things that we cannot take back and then don't really sweat the rest. And I think I forgot who told me this in the past, but he was like, I think it was Kane or something, where I think when we were just studying our c round, Kane told me something like, they're gonna go for synthetics before they go for me, right. So I think as very small startups, you shouldn't be that worried because you have no users anyway. So maybe these are things that you can think about a bit later on, especially if you launch your product and you get meaningful scale, then you start thinking about these things.
01:01:18.654 - 01:01:45.978, Speaker E: But yeah, I mean, generally all crypto companies operate like that, even like FTX, right? Which is almost like the poster boy of like crypto regulation these days in the US. They also started out as like non KYC exchange or something, or like a low KYC exchange. So yeah, that's sort of how I think about the regulations.
01:01:46.026 - 01:02:15.054, Speaker A: Yeah, it's definitely a very nuanced and delicate topic as well. I think a lot of the newer founders are just scared off by unclear regulation, but I do think it will clear up in the long term. So I do think things look brighter in the days ahead. Well, Julian, I've taken a lot of your time already. I want to give some back to you. So for people who want to continue learning more about ribbon and follow you and try out different ribbon products, what are some of the best channels for them to do this?
01:02:16.274 - 01:02:39.322, Speaker E: Yeah, I think just go to ribbon finance. You'll see links to everything we do there or follow us on twitter. Twitter.com ribbonfinance. We post all product announcements and everything there. So yeah, I would say those are like the two best places to follow what the project's up to. Yeah, definitely.
01:02:39.378 - 01:02:43.134, Speaker A: And thank you so much once again for coming on the show. This has been really fun.
01:02:44.734 - 01:02:47.634, Speaker E: Thank you. See ya. See ya.
01:02:48.174 - 01:03:02.766, Speaker C: Alright, that's it for this week's episode of the Blockchain podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didn't know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what.
01:03:02.790 - 01:03:04.422, Speaker E: You liked about this episode, I'll be.
01:03:04.438 - 01:03:30.506, Speaker C: Sure to respond to you as well. Now if you'd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and we'll have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers. So if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theblockcrunch.com vip to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the.
01:03:30.530 - 01:03:31.514, Speaker E: Show and I'll see you next week.
