00:00:00.330 - 00:00:56.560, Speaker A: You. So the way economists look at any new technology is they look at its progression over time, and they try to reduce that technology to a reduction in the cost of something. So when you at semiconductors, you have this sort of curve in terms of the reduction in cost for semiconductors. And the issue is, what is on the y axis? And actually, when you think about it, what's on the y axis is the cost of arithmetic. What semiconductors have been able to do by progressing is to dramatically reduce the cost of arithmetic. And that's all that computers really do. It's just that we can do a lot of arithmetic now, many orders of magnitude that could be achieved without a computer.
00:00:56.560 - 00:02:13.560, Speaker A: And so you tend to therefore have more of the thing that you reduce the cost of being done. So it wasn't surprising that some of the initial applications for computers were to compute things we were already computing by hand, such as artillery tables, or to use it in accounting. And then we started to get more sophisticated uses based on the fact that we could do a lot of arithmetic. We could now do new things that we weren't doing before, such as computer games, or electronic mail, or digital music or digital pictures, all versions of arithmetic. But the latter set of them not really seen as traditional arithmetic problems until we have very cheap arithmetic to deal with them. And we played the same trick in a book that I wrote with Jayagawal and Avi Goldfab called prediction machines. When we looked at the economics of artificial intelligence, and we asked the same question is, you take one of these new neural networks, deep learning artificial intelligence algorithms, and you say, well, what does this look like to an economist? And what it looks like is a reduction in the cost of something.
00:02:13.560 - 00:03:16.970, Speaker A: And that reductions are all occurring right at the moment in terms of that. And what is the cost of the thing being reduced? Well, it turns out that it's prediction. Artificial intelligence has had great strides in its applicability in recent years, but essentially, AI algorithms, as they currently exist in all of their forms, are doing only one thing, and that is they're doing cheaper prediction. They'll be able to predict things more cheaply. And so you can use that to say, well, we're going to get a lot more prediction, and we're going to get prediction applied to different problems. So that's what it is. So the question we'd ask with respect to the blockchain is, what's it reducing the cost of? And the answer that myself and Christian Catalini, who's a professor at MIT and is now chief economist of the DM association was that it was reducing the cost of verification.
00:03:16.970 - 00:04:08.070, Speaker A: Now, what are we, or potentially reducing that cost, what do we mean by that? Well, if you think about things that are transaction level, transactions have stages. They're born, their actions are performed on the basis of that transaction. And then in the future, some problem may arise. So you have give birth to a transaction. It has certain attributes that it exists, two of the parties, timestamp, conflict resolution rules, consideration, so forth. Then people taking into account that agreement that was reached will perform certain actions, and they'll perform actions in expectation that other people to the agreement will also perform those actions. So that's the whole point of a contract.
00:04:08.070 - 00:05:17.140, Speaker A: And then you have a problem that might arise, because no contract is perfect. And in that case, when there's a problem or conflict, you have to go back and you have to say, well, what did we agree to and who's in violation of it? And has people done what they said they'd do? And that's the process of verification. Now, prior to a blockchain, you generally have to do verification through an intermediary, some sort of audit, some sort of judicial process, et cetera. And this was costly. The potential of a blockchain is to make this costless by inscribing the attributes of the transaction on the blockchain, as well as the performance of any actions, you can make verification of cinch, because all of those things are already embedded. And this is important because if you think about problems of manipulation of information, disagreements and so forth, it's really that immutability of the blockchain that takes that out of the hands of people and makes it more reliable. And that's what really a reduction in the cost of verification is going to do.
00:05:17.140 - 00:05:47.210, Speaker A: So, just to give you an example, imagine you had a simple contract like this. Acme Core agrees to pay Wiley Coyote $100 to catch the road Runner by April 1, 2019. And that signed on the 1 January 2018, the road runner is caught. Wally Coyote goes back to Acme Corp. And says, this was our contract. You agreed to pay me $200. Right? So you can see here that there are now a dispute.
00:05:47.210 - 00:06:54.990, Speaker A: There's one contract and there's another contract. So how do you resolve that particular dispute, which is the contract that was actually agreed upon is going to be an important thing to be able to determine. This was already fine in the physical paper world. Maybe you'd each have a piece of paper and you'd have to match it up, although you can imagine situations where even that is imperfect, but it certainly was going to be a big issue in the digital realm, where it's very easy to adjust some of the parameters involved. And just to tell you how easy it is, I mean, there was this article from a couple of years ago about somebody who was literally sending invoices to Google and Facebook. You'd think very sophisticated, technologically sophisticated companies and invoicing them for stuff that there was never an agreement and never done, and then getting paid up to 121,000,000 in total before getting caught. One suspects that could have done half that amount and not being caught.
00:06:54.990 - 00:07:15.060, Speaker A: But the point is, at some level, Facebook and Google found it cheaper to pay out these invoices than to have internal checking procedures to verify that there was an agreement in place, that the thing had been performed, and that the payment was legitimate. So if Facebook and Google can be subject to this, imagine the rest of the world.
