00:00:00.120 - 00:00:28.073, Speaker A: I, I do want to talk about my greatest fear of the cycle, actually. And this kind of relates to, you know, what we just talked about. But literally my greatest fear of the cycle is that I'm simply not stupid enough. Because last cycle I, like, literally no, like, I think September of 2021, I just bridged the harmony. I joined the Defi Kingdom's discord and I asked them, they're going to rug me. And they told me, oh, like, Ty, we are not going to rug you. And I'm like, okay, then I bought it.
00:00:28.073 - 00:00:59.887, Speaker A: So obviously, like, I, I do want to make money to cycle. I mean, I am making money to cycle. I'm obviously underperforming like the apes, but I feel like I can never get there again. You know, Like, I just, like, know too much. I have ptsd. I'm slightly more cynical about the space and I just feel like I might end up just buying boomer coins that just maybe go up 3x and, you know, it's like, it's, it's over. How do you think about this? Like, how do you get over this mid curve boomer mentality?
00:00:59.991 - 00:01:49.263, Speaker B: You think it's interesting because as you said, I'm a second cyclist similar to yourself. And I found that over the bear market, I have instinctively become a lot more conservative as an investor. And I think that's just as a function of, it allows me to survive. Right? And now in this euphoria, euphoric stage or accelerative stage of the cycle, I do agree that I share a lot of sentiments where I'm in positions that, you know, either the institutions are not buying or retail is not buying. And I feel like I'm, you know, coping on the sidelines or like coping in banks that are not bumping a lot. I think that there are two things to keep in mind here. I think the first one is a very old adage from our dear legendary trader gcr.
00:01:49.263 - 00:02:45.175, Speaker B: And he says something along the lines of, he who chases two rabbits will catch none. And so I think you just have to have a very clear idea of what you want to denominate in for the cycle and then stick to that game plan regardless of what you see, right? It could be bdc, it could be eth, it could be sol. If you want to be very simple about it. I think BTC is like your clearest PvE coin because you're not even counting on like retail to buy your bags. This is just the infinite latent bid from Tradfi that is coming in, right? So if, like I, you know, I say this and I should be doing it myself, but I'm not at the moment. But if you're ever uncertain or you want to risk off and. But you still don't think the cycle is topped just denominate in bdc, right? I think that's one way to save yourself from underperforming the market, which is one of the concerns.
00:02:45.175 - 00:03:54.115, Speaker B: And the second one is don't lose the ability to dream. I think when you are too focused on trying to survive, you forget how wonderful the dream is. Right? You speak to first cyclists or I guess when they do come, you'll realize that you look at their innocence and their naiveness and you're like, oh, these guys are going to get fucked. But actually, no, it is that naiveness and stupidity that allows them to 50x their net worth as you cope on the sidelines with a measly 3x. So that is, that is what I always tell myself and I always try and dream as big as I can because I know that was what, what allowed me to be successful in the first cycle. I think the challenge is being able to remember that when all is said and done and when the music stops, this is all speculative garbage for the most part. And you're supposed to take your money and run.
00:03:54.115 - 00:04:49.985, Speaker B: No, I was just going to say, I think it's. Especially if this is your second cycle, I think it's really important to remember if you did have any big wins in the first cycle, to remember how you made those wins. What train of thought allowed you to take those to make those decisions? And how can you position yourself now such that you are able to make those decisions again if the opportunity presents itself? And I think this is really important because if you're in the mindset of like, for example, just for a personal example, last cycle there was a point in time I had 80% of my net worth denominated in Avax tokens. And that is absolutely ludicrous if you think about it from a net neutral basis. Like, I would sell things into Avax as the store of value. That's how, that's how ridiculous it is. But that was what allowed me to compound at such a ridiculous rate in certain parts of the cycle.
00:04:49.985 - 00:05:48.891, Speaker B: And I look back at that and I say now because I think the cycle, the market is pretty similar. Can I today be able to do that again? I think it's really important. Maybe because of size constraints or whatever, you find a different asset, but can I do that again? And if you are currently in the Mental state of like, okay, I'm going to ape 5% of my net worth into Avax or 5% of my net worth into APT, then you're never really going to make the same amount of money that you made in the last cycle because you're never really. You're not really taking the same amount of risk that you did. Right? It's just that the risk now is so much more pronounced to you because you're a second cycler. So it's just constant internal struggle of like, how do I make the same decisions as I did when I was naive and stupid in order to receive, to achieve those supernormal returns?
00:05:49.063 - 00:06:24.101, Speaker A: The takeaway here is that back then when you just. I'm assuming this is like the Latter Half of 2021, but you were like, wow, like, Avax is the future of finance. Suzu is going to pump my bags. But now we think back to that and say, well, that was ridiculous. But I think we have to be able to study our past and say that, you know what, this is ridiculous and I'm so stupid for doing this, but I am going to put 80% of my portfolio into XYZ Coin this cycle just because I think the risk reward is favorable. If you study the Kelly Criterion, if you like.
00:06:24.133 - 00:06:25.581, Speaker B: Oh, that's a dangerous one, man.
00:06:25.653 - 00:06:36.357, Speaker A: I know, I know, I know you can't apply this to crypto and investing, but the most optimal bet sizing tends to be really big, right? As long as you have an edge. How do you think about bet sizing, by the way?
00:06:36.501 - 00:07:28.845, Speaker B: I'm always a fan of concentrated bet sizes. Um, I think one of the things that we've been trying to do, as PM said tangent, is really allow the book to express our conviction in certain names. So, like, for example, I could be hugely bullish eth, right? And the book can be long, 15% of eth. Right? And every day I have to ask myself, is that commensurate with my conviction of eth? So a lot of it is a tug of war of fine tuning or perfecting how much of my conviction is correctly translated into sizing on the book, right? So, for example, right now the top three positions of tangent constitute 80% of the book. So right now we're very concentrated in very specific assets and we're just waiting for the thesis to play out.
