00:00:11.840 - 00:00:42.534, Speaker A: Generally, there's like three different types. You can do self custody, you can entrust a professional custodian like bitcoin Swiss, or you can indirectly participate by buying an exchange rated product like an ETF. Many people do sell custody, but it doesn't come without risks. While you don't have the counterparty risk, you actually have operational risks. You could lose your keys or you could get hacked. And that's actually something that happens quite frequently. About 20% of all bitcoins have been lost by people losing their keys.
00:00:42.534 - 00:01:54.782, Speaker A: Bitcoin Swiss uses mainly its hyper secure institutional bitcoinswault solution to store the assets of their clients. We use state of the art HSM technology and the technical solution, as well as all operational processes are annually audited by a big four company and pen tested. The bitcoin Swiss vault has been battle tested for more than six years and has never been compromised. At bitcoin Swiss, we generally separate the assets of our clients and hold them on individual blockchain addresses like this. They are not part of the bankruptcy estate, and in the unlikely event that bitcoin Swiss would go out of business, they could be requested by the clients to be handed over. As such, the counterparty risk is very low. Proof of reserves is a way for custodians to demonstrate that they actually possess the assets and that they are still able to access them.
00:01:54.782 - 00:02:56.424, Speaker A: It is done through cryptographic verification and creates the necessary trust and transparency into their operations. Clients of a bitcoin Swiss vault account can at any time verify this themselves. Yes, everyone who is concerned about the security of their assets. The bitcoin Swiss vault is used by private clients, high net worth individuals, family offices, funds, banks, and any type of companies dealing with crypto assets. We have one of the broadest offerings of institutional crypto custodians. Currently, we support hundreds of tokens on 22 blockchain protocols, and we're continuously expanding protocol coverage. The Bitcoin Swiss vault solution was designed in Switzerland, and the system is hosted in several high security data centers in Switzerland.
00:02:56.424 - 00:03:03.004, Speaker A: No single person, not even me, knows all these locations, and that's part of our security concept.
