00:00:00.250 - 00:00:22.270, Speaker A: Me. Okay, so let's just start with announcements. So exercise set three due today. There is gonna, there's gonna keep being exercise sets, and they'll still keep having a decent chunk of questions on them. But I'm going to start making almost all of the questions optional. So because I want people to be focusing on projects instead. So, for example, on number four, I think the number of non optional problems is a total of either like two or three problems.
00:00:22.270 - 00:00:41.266, Speaker A: Okay. So that's really going to be tailing off now. Ah, speaking of the projects, so I did finally post an initial batch. You should have an email with that link it's not linked to from the course page. So if you didn't get an email from me, tell me. Okay. And you can go to the list of the projects.
00:00:41.266 - 00:01:14.750, Speaker A: I've posted ten from this first part of the class. The first three weeks, I've posted close to ten more for this week and next week, and I'll post a few more for the last three parts soon as well. There's no hurry. It's not first come, first serve or something like that. So what I want is from everybody a week from Friday, which is February 7, I would like your top two choices. And then I'll make some kind of centralized matching of who gets which project. And again, one of the things that this is the smallest class I've taught in a while, and so I'm really looking forward to the opportunity to actually talk to students individually.
00:01:14.750 - 00:01:42.186, Speaker A: So feel free to involve me in the process. If you want questions about you're wondering whether paper A is too difficult or paper B is too boring, definitely feel free to ping me by email for some advice. Okay, final announcement. By sort of semi popular demand, I'm going to say there's going to be a bonus lecture. Maybe there'll be two, probably over the quarter. So the first one, which will be more about theory of gross substitutes valuations, that's going to be a week from Friday. So February 7, 1215 to two five.
00:01:42.186 - 00:02:26.906, Speaker A: It will not be videotaped, so really come if you want to see it. And it's going to be engaged 315 on. So any questions before we get started? 7th? Yeah, Friday. Sorry. Yeah, that was the time slot that most people could make. Okay, so where did we leave off last lecture? So we're almost so the first part of this class was about tractable special cases where you could maximize welfare in polynomial time, implement the VCG mechanism in polynomial time, and ideally even get ascending implementations in all of those cases, in some sense a strictly more difficult goal. So let me just close the loop on that.
00:02:26.906 - 00:03:24.734, Speaker A: I didn't actually talk about ascending implementations for gross substitutes valuation, so I just want to have a few comments about that before we move on to less tractable cases. So recall gross substitutes, that was what, last week was all about that's this condition where if you're a bidder and you lose some of the items, but the items that you're still retaining still have the old prices, you don't want to relinquish them, okay? So in an ascending auction, you still want what you've got at any point in time, even as prices have gone up on the other objects. And we proved a bunch of stuff about that last week. The second lecture last week was about welfare maximization, and we worked pretty hard to prove that you could actually do it in polynomial time. And that took some work, took some assumptions. We needed to assume you could use demand queries so that we interact with these black box valuations. You give them a price vector, they tell you back the preferred bundle, and we use the Ellipsoid algorithm, which is this sort of heavy machinery linear programming algorithm, which says, oh, as long as there's a polynomial time separation oracle, you can solve the linear program in polynomial time.
00:03:24.734 - 00:04:27.698, Speaker A: So there are some bells and whistles on those results. You can get away with just value queries. There are some complicated combinatorial algorithms that don't use the Ellipsoid method, but anyways, the main point is polytime with gross substitutes valuations, so at least we can get a d six solution VCG. So what about the more ambitious goal of getting an ascending implementation? So this is actually a tricky question. So first of all, let's remember what that means or a necessary condition, as we've discussed by a combination of the revelation principle and uniqueness of prices at minimum, for an ascending auction to be X post incentive compatible, it better be the case that if bidders bid sincerely, the end result is the VCG outcome both the allocation and the payments. So we've mentioned this a few times. If all we wanted was the VCG allocation, meaning a welfare maximizing allocation, we know how to do it.
00:04:27.698 - 00:05:03.414, Speaker A: The Kelso Crawford auction converged to a wise inequilibrium in particular. It's an efficient allocation. So the hard part is the prices, and in fact, you actually can't do it. Okay? So one of the results in this Gulsteketti paper say that actually there does not exist ascending auction for GS that always terminates at the VCG outcome. Okay? And it's really quite a nice example on the optional exercises. I'll just sort of sketch how the example goes. It's three bidders and four items.
00:05:03.414 - 00:05:39.878, Speaker A: And the thing I want to emphasize is this is not a computational impossibility result. It doesn't say there's no polynomial time algorithm or something like that. It says it's information theoretic. So it says if you restrict attention to just having an increasing price trajectory and interacting with bidders only through demand queries, you simply cannot learn enough about what they want to be guaranteed to compute the VCG payments when you terminate. So it's purely information theoretically. You just don't get enough info if you restrict prices to be ascending. So this is a sense in which while gross substitutes are sort of the limit of tractability, this was a sense in which it's actually strictly harder than the first four scenarios that we studied.
00:05:39.878 - 00:06:27.622, Speaker A: So that's good to know, interesting to know. Now, there have been a couple proposals and sort of the ascending auction sort of flavor know, expand what we allow as an ascending auction and therefore elude this impossibility result. So the first thing is a paper by Ozebel, the same Ozabel from the Clinching Auction for scenario Four from Multi Unit Auctions. And Ozebel proposed allowing more than one ascending price trajectory. So in some know, the prices go up and you ask a bunch of demand queries, learn some stuff, and then you kind of restart somewhere and do it again. And you do that a bunch of times. And he showed that if you're allowed to sort of have N plus one ascending price trajectories, then you can get enough information to compute all the VCG payments at the end of the day.
00:06:27.622 - 00:07:08.790, Speaker A: Then you do get an expost incentive compatible welfare maximizing mechanism for gross substitutes. So can compute the VCG outcome using N plus one. Here, N is the number of bidders ascending price trajectories. And in some sense this is in the same spirit of how to implement the VCG mechanism. You solve N plus one welfare allocation problems. So in the same thing here, you're going to have one price trajectory where in effect, you're asking demand queries from all N of the bidders, and then you're going to have N different other trajectories where one of the N bidders is excluded. And at the end of the day, you stitch all that information together to compute the VCG payments.
00:07:08.790 - 00:07:53.620, Speaker A: Okay, so this algorithm is quite interesting, sort of as a proof of concept. It really says you can take these just simple ascending auctions like Kelso Crawford, which only get you a Walrazian equilibrium and don't get you VCG payments and somehow build on them in a clever way and actually get enough information to get the VCG outcome. And you only use item prices the entire time. So that's interesting, but it is pretty complicated, so I'm not going to talk about it more in class. It is one of the projects, if you're interested, to read about this auction. And because of all these ascending price trajectories, I don't really know of real world auctions that resemble this particularly. So it's a cool theoretical construct, but I'm not sure it's more than that.
00:07:53.620 - 00:08:34.786, Speaker A: It can also be thought of as an extension of the quenching auction for identical items that we talked about for scenario four. The tricky thing here when you have multiple goods is as the prices go up, the demand for a good need not only go down. So if it's identical goods, if everything's the same, the higher the price, the lower the demand. If you have a bunch of different goods and you fixate on just one item, it may be that the demand shifts from going up and down because prices on all the different goods are sort of simultaneously going up. So you have to extend the clinching auction to deal with not just clinching, but also unclinching in some sense refunding bidders as you take items back away from them. So that's sort of the high level gist of how this works. And that's all I'm going to say in class.
00:08:34.786 - 00:09:38.680, Speaker A: So the second way that people have expanded what's allowed as far as ascending auctions and dodged the gold sticketti impossibility result, and it's more sort of closely connected to what people do in practice is to allow bundle or package bidding. So some early suggestions of how this might be done were Parks and Unger and Ozobo and Milgram and again, the latter paper here is one of the project topics if you're interested. And so this is sort of related enough to things we've already said that I'll give you a few more details right now. So the idea is our auctions are going to be more powerful than before. Rather than just maintaining a price for each item the way we've been doing all along, for every possible subset S of goods, and even for every possible bidder I, we're going to keep track of a different candidate price. So bundle prices, PiS for all bidders I, and for all bundles of goods S. So let me show you how this one way this could work.
00:09:38.680 - 00:10:39.554, Speaker A: There's many ways you can do these auctions, but let me just give you a very simple one and this is going to be very similar to the Crawford Noer auction. So that was that one with unit demand bidders where we just had people continually bidding on their favorite good over and over again. So we're going to do basically that same thing, except instead of bidders bidding on items, they're going to be able to bid on bundles. And instead of just one item having one price, we're going to allow different prices for different people. So each iteration it as long as nobody, as long as we're getting new bids, here's what we do. So at any given time, there'll be these PiS, okay? A price for each bundle in each bidder I. Now in general, these PiS might overlap, okay? It might be that at different parts in time, different bidders have bid for overlapping bundles.
00:10:39.554 - 00:11:44.098, Speaker A: So we can't just regard all of these as being sold. So the seller has to somehow figure out which of these bundles it's going to actually tentatively accept at the moment. And so the seller just picks the allocation of items to bidders that maximizes the seller's revenue with respect to the current prices, the current PiS. So the seller computes the allocation S one through SN maximizing its revenue and all the pi of S's started zero. Now, so if you're one of these bidders and you're not chosen, so you wind up getting nothing. You're given an opportunity to bid again, bid on some bundle. So for each I with nothing, the bidder I picks one of its favorite bundles at the current prices.
00:11:44.098 - 00:12:43.786, Speaker A: And now remember, the current prices actually they're personalized, right? They're pi of s's. So bidder I says, well, given the current price for me for any bundle, and given my values, which one gives me the highest utility? So pick si in argmax of its value for a bundle minus its current price at that bundle, and it's allowed to increment the price for that bundle by epsilon. Okay? And so notice bundles are chosen to maximize revenue. So by increasing the price on a bundle that has your name on it, you're more likely to get allocated in the next round by the seller. Okay? So, so if you think about this auction initially, sort of, this is weird, all the prices are zero. So basically, if I'm a bidder, if all the prices are zero, I may as well just ask for everything. So in the first round, everybody asks for everything, and then the seller is just going to pick sort of one person arbitrarily, everyone else will lose.
00:12:43.786 - 00:13:18.214, Speaker A: And then they'll have to pick bundles that they want. And then slowly prices will be going up and then eventually these will be sort of meaningful maximization problems. So basically you'll have bidders focusing in on the bundles that give them the most utility at the current prices. And the seller is always just picking the highest revenue bundles. Okay? And you just let this go. All right? Again, so I would really just think of this as like that unit demand auction, except where we used to have, it used to be that the fundamental things were items that people were bidding on. Now it's like the goods are bidder bundle pairs.
00:13:18.214 - 00:14:01.450, Speaker A: I comma s so that's what gets incremented in a given round, something corresponding to a bidder I and a bundle. And just like the Crawford Noer auction has certain properties at termination, so does this one. Proofs are pretty much the same. So properties. So if bidders bid sincerely, and that just means that they report a bona fide element of this maximizer. So if you have sincere bidding, then you terminate at the sort of suitable analog of a Walrazian equilibrium where you have bundle pricing. Okay? So that's called a competitive equilibrium in this context.
00:14:01.450 - 00:14:40.360, Speaker A: And this first property is true with absolutely no assumptions at all about the valuations. Okay? So gross substitutes or not, doesn't matter. Okay? And the proof is exactly the same as the proof that the or Crawford Noer auction converges to a rise in equilibrium. It's like basically word for word the same as far as what's the definition? The definition here just says the seller should be maximizing their revenue at the current prices. Obviously, that's going to be true of termination and then furthermore, from each bidder, they should be getting their favorite bundle at the current prices. And again, remember, the prices are personalized and are bundle specific. And that's also sort of clear.
00:14:40.360 - 00:15:07.434, Speaker A: So a bidder is going to wind up at the end of the day getting some bundle that they Bid on. And then what's happened? Since then, the prices of other bundles have gone up. Okay, so you only bid on a favorite bundle, and then if you get it, it only looks better as time proceeds. So it's the same proof as before. The first welfare theorem still holds. It's still the case that at a competitive Equilibrium, it Has To Be a Welfare maximizing allocation. Now, Just to be Clear, full Disclosure, I mean, this could take Forever to terminate.
00:15:07.434 - 00:15:39.494, Speaker A: It's finite, but it could take a long, long, long time. Okay, two reasons. First reason is there's just a lot of prices you have to Maintain, right? So, for each Bidder, there's N Bidders, there's two to the M possible Bundles, S, and you're only incrementing one at a time. So it could take Forever to get these high enough for it to be meaningful. In practice, of course, you'd increment Lots of Bundles at the same time. The second reason why there's no guarantee of Quick Convergence is that in General, this could be an NB hard problem asking the seller to find the Revenue maximizing allocation. Okay, but whatever.
00:15:39.494 - 00:16:16.418, Speaker A: I Mean, we're doing this as sort of a proof of concept at the moment. So it's going to converge to a Welfare maximizing Allocation that doesn't contradict any NB hardness results we know for that problem because this need not be efficient. So it converges to a Welfare maximizing allocation. But we've now seen many cases where getting the allocation right within ascending Auction isn't necessarily the hard part. It's really getting the payments right. And Again, we need that if we want to expose set A compatible implementation. So what about the payments? And here we will say something only under the Gross Substitutes condition.
00:16:16.418 - 00:17:18.470, Speaker A: Okay? So if the Vis so remember this thing, property One is true, whatever the VI's, if the VI's satisfy the Gross Substitute condition, then in exactly the same Way that in our unit Demand. Okay, okay, so what's going on in general? So Crawford noer, just to remind you, not Only Did It Converge To a Walrazian Equilibrium, but it converged the lowest Walrazian Equilibrium, again, under the unit demand Assumption that coincided with the VCG payments. And so in the same Way that Unit demand was the magic condition that allowed the coincidence of the lowest Wall rising equilibrium. And the VCG payments for these bundle pricing auctions, not Unit Demand, but Gross Substitutes is the magic condition that has there's a notion of a lowest competitive Equilibrium with Gross substitutes valuations. And that again coincides with the VCG payments. And this auctions like this will converge to the lowest competitive equilibrium. So under this assumption you do actually get the VCG payments.
00:17:18.470 - 00:18:31.338, Speaker A: So a picture you might want to think about it, is so you can imagine the world that we had the entire last three lectures on, which is the item pricing world, okay, which is for each item you maintain a price. If somebody gets a bundle of items, you just add up the prices in the bundle. That was the last three weeks item pricing, also called linear pricing. And so, what do we see? We saw well, if you just want equilibrium to exist at all, then you have to restrict newly a well rising equilibrium, then you have to restrict attention to gross substitutes valuations. And if you want a coincidence between wall rise in equilibrium and VCG payments, you have to restrict further to the unit demand case. So here we have existence of wall rise in equilibrium, we proved this last week. And then here we actually have the lowest wall rising equilibrium equals VCG.
00:18:31.338 - 00:19:35.262, Speaker A: This was a pretty hard proof that we did in week two. And so what I'm saying is that if you enlarge the space of auctions from just item pricing to these bundle prices, you get the same picture but sort of zoomed out. So with bundle pricing now, existence is no longer a problem, existence of this competitive equilibrium. But if you want to converge to a VCG outcome, then you want gross substitutes. So lowest competitive equilibrium equals VCG. So for item pricing, gross substitutes is sort of the threshold of equilibrium existence, but it's actually too far to make it easy to compute the VCG outcome in an ascending way. With bundle pricing, gross substitutes is the frontier of attainability of conversion of VCG outcome with simple ascending bundle price auctions.
00:19:35.262 - 00:20:09.710, Speaker A: So again, as I've said, it's amazing how many different properties simultaneously. Gross substitutes is really kind of the limit of where you can get nice properties. So here we're seeing yet another one. So I should say so you could ask about the converse. So we talked about last week how in some sense gross substitutes is the maximal class so that you get existence of a laws in equilibrium. So you could ask the same question is it the maximal class where you can get VCG payments with an ascending auction? Almost morally, basically, yes. Although strictly speaking, a slightly weaker condition is the one that's necessary.
00:20:09.710 - 00:21:00.314, Speaker A: So let me just say an almost only if, okay, as far as how to approach people. So theory starts breaking down at a certain point, but of course the problems don't go away, okay? We do have commentary options, we want to solve them with ascending implementations. Maybe, hopefully gross substitute sort of holds, but it's not totally clear. So you might ask what parts of this theory do people build on? And so we talked about this last quarter. You can go read the notes if you want to review it, but just a couple points so first of all, one thing you can do is you can just stick with basically the Crawford Nowhere auction in effect, okay. Or just assume there are substitutes or I guess the Kelso Crawford Auction. And even if there are gross substitutes valuations, we know it's not incentive compatible.
00:21:00.314 - 00:21:34.410, Speaker A: We know there's incentives for demand reduction, but you could hope that it works good enough. And really for the 90s, that's what people were doing, okay, so they knew it wasn't perfect. Empirically, you'd see evidence of demand reduction, but it wasn't a disaster. And with billions of dollars, not a disaster was kind of a pretty good baseline. So people were okay with that. And conservative, in the honestly, the last ten to 15 years, there's been an enormous number of competing proposals and designs about how to incorporate this package or bundle biding into commonshole auctions. And it's been done in a limited way and in different ways in different countries.
00:21:34.410 - 00:22:17.800, Speaker A: So there's two reasons. There's two main drivers for why people are trying to incorporate, bundle or package bidding. The first is actually, if you just don't have substitutes at all, if you have complements or synergies between different items, then there's this exposure problem we've talked about on occasion. So you really want to help people vulnerable to the exposure problem. The second thing, although I think this is a less important point, is you might hope to reduce incentives for demand reduction also by allowing package bidding, say, even if people had substitutes valuations. But I think the kind of arguments the debates continue about the right way to do this, and there's no consensus, and I'm not seeing that there'll be a consensus soon. So this is very much the kind of stuff people who design auctions for a living struggle with.
00:22:17.800 - 00:23:01.474, Speaker A: So that concludes everything I want to say about ascending implementations and for now at least, substitutes. Any questions about any of that? Okay, so I want to warn you, I'm pretty sure we're not going to see another ascending implementation for the rest of the course because now we're going to look at slightly harder problems where essentially no ascending auctions with any kind of guarantees are known. That's basically an open question for the rest of the scenarios we'll talk about, it's sort of open other reasonable ascending auctions from them. Okay, so that's something to keep in mind. Okay, so that concludes part One of the class. Part Two. We're going to go a little bit beyond these Tractable special cases and Tractable means, at the very least, polynomial time, welfare maximization.
00:23:01.474 - 00:23:53.750, Speaker A: So now we're going to look at scenarios where we lose that property, where it's NP hard to do welfare maximization. As we'll see as soon as that happens, there's a host of problems that arise for the mechanism designer. So let me take you one step, what would seem to be one small step beyond gross substitutes valuations, sort of the next level of generality so it's going to be sub modular valuations. So this will be our scenario. 16. It so evaluation. So again, it's a set function, so it's submoduular.
00:23:53.750 - 00:24:02.050, Speaker A: And I think everyone's seen this definition last quarter at some point, at least on the homeworks, if nowhere else. Um.
