00:00:01.840 - 00:00:30.088, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Thanks for attending today with me. And we just have ten minutes. They didn't give me more, so I'm gonna go really quickly, and if I speak too fast, sorry, apologies about that. So today I'm gonna talk about the pie voting in the Bear market, how to go from play to earn games to the real game, the real users. Let's start with that. So before we go to the, like, what we did and what are we doing? We have to kind of look at what we did and where are we coming from.
00:00:30.088 - 00:01:01.028, Speaker A: So we started in 2021. We were actually the first ever game to launch on Solana, and we raised 4.5 million. Back in 2021, we won Solana Hackathon, and we did a bunch of different stuff with Aztecs and Alameda, unfortunately. Then we launched the token because the hype was pretty big, so we had to rush, and like, everyone was telling us to launch the token as soon as possible, we reached 4.5 billion in valuation, which is pretty crazy when you think about that right now. Then, like, we had 10% of entire Solana user base playing our game.
00:01:01.028 - 00:01:46.266, Speaker A: We had 200,000 active, unique players coming into our game. We were doing some amazing numbers, and then we even managed to crash the FTX because we had so many people want to trade DFL. Even SPF was tweeting about that and stuff. So then this FTX thing happened. Our users base kind of tanked because of that. And then currently we rendered, we restructured, and we rebuilt our team, and currently we are here and we're doing the scanner presentation now. So what was defile land? So defile land is not something that it was, or one years ago, it was actually the game to gamify yield farming and gamify defi overall.
00:01:46.266 - 00:02:25.118, Speaker A: And the thing is that it's like a farming game where you do all the different yield farming activities, but you actually playing the farming game. You could do crypto native stuff like trading, you could do portfolio management, you could do nft stuff, but it was not really feeling like a game. So we had several different problems within the default. So, first of all, the game was like that. We were trying to get everything into it. We were trying to have a bunch of different lending and borrowing protocols. We were trying to have yield farming, we were trying to have the governance, we were trying to create all in one defi game where every single protocol will be in NAS.
00:02:25.118 - 00:03:02.424, Speaker A: But the problem with that is that you have so many SDKs, APIs, integrations happening, plus you have to build the UI and UX with 3d assets for that. It's not really easy to do that. Plus you don't generate any revenue from that. Plus we were going play to earn way within additional gameplay as there was a trend and hype in 2021 that launching play to earn game was a thing. So we just also kind of went there and we launched the play to earn game. It was not sustainable, so it was not really great as a kind of gameplay perspective. But also the thing was that we were listening to everyone who, whatever they were telling us, we were trying to build that.
00:03:02.424 - 00:03:45.520, Speaker A: And as we really worked really hard to deliver some kind of things, people were just expecting us to do the same kind of things again in the same kind of shorter time. So it was really always the problem for us. The thing is that we were listening to the bad actors and building some stuff that was not really cool or even like needed for our game. So we decided that when the bear market hit in 2022, that we have to think and just really decide what we want to build. And the bear market has like a lot of problems. But the thing is that bear market brings you the time to think and also the pressure is off. Like, you don't have to kind of stress every single day of hundreds of DM's kind of coming your way.
00:03:45.520 - 00:04:20.364, Speaker A: If you guys have not built in the bull market, trust me, building in the bull market, if your project is really hyped, is super hard. There are so many kind of expectations what you're going to do every single day. You are really stressing that out. So in the bear market, we really sat down and thought about, hey, what? We want to build the games. We want to build really cool experiences and fun experiences that are really cool. And we had so many ideas. So we shifted our vision in a way that instead of just chasing the hype, chasing the trends, we just said we don't care that anymore and let's just build the games that we always want to build.
00:04:20.364 - 00:04:52.634, Speaker A: But that's what we're doing right now. So with that being said, I want to introduce the kind Knight studios. It's actually our new studio, which is actually building DeFileland, but we also have some new kind of games, new title ips that are coming. So I want to just spend more minutes about that. Unfortunately, I just had ten minutes, so I cannot do any demos. But the thing is that if you guys want to, if you find me at the conference, I will show you the demos at the mobile, web and desktop versions as well. So first product that I want to present to you guys, is the defile and mobile.
00:04:52.634 - 00:05:31.722, Speaker A: Defile and mobile is like the screens that you see, guys, here is actually the screenshots from the game. It's not the renders or whatsoever. The thing is that it's actually, I do believe strongly that it's the best way to make retail fall in love with the crypto. It's a farming game, like on the mobile in your pockets, you can just open that anytime and you can play the farming game, unlock different lands, like have pets, have different farms, but also you can do the defi and crypto. Like you can swap, you can manage portfolios, send receive coins and do everything that you do with your own wallets, but with a gamified interface. And that's pretty cool because we are launching on Android and iOS. But also if you are as Solana phone holder, you're going to be getting.
00:05:31.722 - 00:06:00.776, Speaker A: You will be first guys to ever test this game out with some really nice perks as well. So stay tuned. Then we have the almighty Abacus, which is additional title IP games from our studio. It is three different hyper casual and casual games coming on mobile, but also the web versions as well. The idle racing game, the hyper casual racing game and the survivor games that are going to be launching in pre alpha version in November as well. So stay tuned. We are going to be having a bunch of different nfts and airdrops to that as well.
00:06:00.776 - 00:06:35.732, Speaker A: So you want to just try your luck there. Just definitely make sure you follow us. So the additional thing is like why we went with the mobile. So mobile is the thing that we believe is the number one priority for us. Even though there are like many different mobile companies and mobile gaming, especially gaming as well, coming now in 2021 and 2022, there were not really any mobile gaming studios coming or whatsoever. Everyone was focusing on building AAA games, like PvP kind of games that are not really sustainable. Like everyone was trying to build like next League of Legends or next CSGO or whatsoever.
00:06:35.732 - 00:07:08.256, Speaker A: And the problem with that is that people do not realize that building games takes a lot of time, a lot of energy, a lot of resources. So like whenever they start building those games, then they realize like down one year or two years that hey, we have like more than years to go. So it's like a nutritional thing and like we didn't want to go the same path, so we chose that. Let's go. We have been building, our team has been building on the mobile previously as well, and we know how to deliver the mobile games. Our team has developed the mobile games that has 20 million plus downloads as well on the Android and iOS. So we know how to actually deliver these things that scale.
00:07:08.256 - 00:07:43.580, Speaker A: So we're going to be going on mobile and our entire region is changing to the mobile. And the goal is that the onboarding customers is way, way easier on mobile. But also the thing is that retaining is the most important thing because retaining the users on the web is pretty hard. I'm not sure if you guys are building any web applications, especially web gaming, but can I. Onboarding user to the web game is one thing, but then making them come in every single day to the web is really hard. Especially whenever you have updates, you have this loading times really big. It's really hard to actually make them do that every day.
00:07:43.580 - 00:08:37.970, Speaker A: So the reason why we're going mobile is that we think that it's like the future of the gaming. We think that it doesn't really take much time as like AAA games on a desktop, let's say League of Legends, to deliver. And we think that we have really nice edge on that. Especially we're going to be partnering up with Solana saga phone. And like this is something that we found really well, that before you launch the game on mobile, on Android and iOS and you don't know how to actually market that, you have a really, really amazing target audience, which are the Solana saga phone holders because they are the people who are passionate, they are the people who have the phones and they will test the game out really well. And plus you can have really nice targeting stuff as well on them, so they will get the feedback that you need and then you can launch an Android and iOS. So this kind of goal that we're doing here with the mobile and so one more thing is also to we decided to reimagine the marketing as well.
00:08:37.970 - 00:09:28.996, Speaker A: Previously what we did as well and every other game is doing on Solana, but in web3 is that everyone is like, let's say whenever you have a new things coming, you do the prs, you do the influencers, the shillers, and like bunch of different stuff that are not really worth it. Yes, you might get the reach, you might get the likes, but the thing is that not really any new users or new retail people are coming within stuff. So the goal with our new marketing strategy is to kind of go with more content way where like we are going currently starting. I'm not sure if you guys following us on Twitter, but we have totally new content coming with short videos, cute videos, fun videos of the our characters. Like we are going with TikTok YouTube shorts and so different many platforms. And we're getting already like tens of thousands of the views just like randomly with just a random short five second videos as well. Additional thing that is that we're going for toys.
00:09:28.996 - 00:10:01.098, Speaker A: I believe toys is pretty cool thing. Like you can see right corner of the screen, there's the flashy that is coming in December as well. And we believe that action figures and the toys are something that will have a pretty huge effect on the gaming. So as long as you have a nice characters and you can just build around them, that's pretty cool. So we're going more like content way like the IRL marketing things than just going and spending our money on prs or site events or whatsoever. Because we believe that's how you actually get the users. So thanks for joining me today.
00:10:01.098 - 00:10:14.434, Speaker A: Unfortunately, we don't have much time. The ten minutes is already up. So if you want to play the game, play. Test the games that I just mentioned. If you want to just actually maybe get the NFTs from me, find me at the conference and yeah, we'll redfield you to the gaming of Solana. Thanks guys.
