00:00:00.090 - 00:00:30.402, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. It hey, guys, before we get into it, I actually wanted to just issue a quick correction.
00:00:30.402 - 00:00:50.246, Speaker A: So during last week's episodes when we were talking about research and price predictions, I think we got something wrong. So we'll just put our hands up and say that we talked about Vanak having an ETH price prediction of 118k. It was a much more modest 11.8K, which makes sense. The folks at Vanak put out very thoughtful research. They've been in the space for a long time. Great actors.
00:00:50.246 - 00:01:03.946, Speaker A: So I just want to say sorry about the confusion there. We'll actually link the research in the show notes. It's really good. So highly recommend you go read that and check it out. And sorry again to Vanek for the confusion. So all right, on with the show. All right, everyone, welcome back to another roundup of Bell Curve.
00:01:03.946 - 00:01:10.254, Speaker A: You got Michael's one and two holding down the fort. Michael, you're in Denver right now, man, for a wedding.
00:01:10.302 - 00:01:21.014, Speaker B: That is true. Yes, I'm in Denver. Got a different backdrop, excited for what's coming up in a couple of days here in Austin and get to see you in person again.
00:01:21.052 - 00:01:37.738, Speaker A: Me too. I'm actually excited for what's coming up right now because just having the two of us on the podcast, usually we don't reveal ratings and specific numbers, but the time you and I held down the fort a couple of weeks ago is the highest ever viewed roundup. So take away from that what you will. I mean, the numbers, they kind of speak for themselves.
00:01:37.824 - 00:01:46.618, Speaker B: I think the powers that be decided to drop the dead weight and stick with what's working, and I'm just happy that they made that decision.
00:01:46.714 - 00:02:01.762, Speaker A: It was really self sacrifice is what it was. It was for the good of the I think so, yeah. Boy went out for Vance and Yano this morning, but all the boys will be together and we might even be able to string together a live episode in permissionless, which would be a ton of fun.
00:02:01.816 - 00:02:04.978, Speaker B: That'd be great. I hope we can make that happen. That'd be great.
00:02:05.144 - 00:02:49.774, Speaker A: Me too. Me too. All right, let's get into it because it's been a pretty big week for stories and we're going to run the gamut on a whole bunch of different types of things. So maybe to kick things off, I actually want to start with this idea of a little bit of a resurgence in DFI 1.0. And just to get the caveat out there, this is not financial advice. Podcast we're not necessarily talking token prices here, but we're talking about sort of a shift in momentum and activity that feels very promising over in that side of the ecosystem. Cain Warwick, who's the founder of Synthetics Protocol, put something out this week which was a new hope, and he's a very good writer, actually, in addition to being a good, benevolent dictator of the Dao.
00:02:49.774 - 00:03:34.890, Speaker A: And he sort of addressed and laid out this multi chain vision for synthetics which sort of relies on their shared liquidity layer, which is infinex. It was an interesting post for a number of reasons. One. And I thought this was super interesting and pretty encouraging overall for how Kane and the entire ecosystem is thinking. But they actually questioned a bit of a sacred cow, I would say, for the synthetics community, which is only allowing staking of SNX and actually allowing ETH collateral onto the platform, which would enable a much easier expansion onto base, which they're sort of viewing as a little bit of a ring fence test. Right. So overall, I thought it was a very compelling vision for how to expand multi chain.
00:03:34.890 - 00:03:41.522, Speaker A: I thought it was really healthy about sort of questioning things that they had held dear. I mean, what did you make of.
00:03:41.576 - 00:04:33.890, Speaker B: The entire post to level set context here? Yes, Tain was the founder. And the way that the governance structure, at least as far as I understand, of synthetix works now, is there's a council of people who make decisions for the protocol? There's a council of people who make decisions for the treasury. There's a grants council, an ambassador's council. There's all these councils, and the governance model is very much decentralized. And so maybe an analogy here is like when Kane puts out an article or a think piece on synthetics itself, it's something akin to Vitalik putting out something on ethereum. So this is not necessarily the direction or what will be happening. This is all just kind of one person's ideas and one person who's really knowledgeable about the protocol and everything else that's going on.
00:04:33.890 - 00:05:48.550, Speaker B: So that's just like context. But I think the synthetics community, especially in the discord, has been talking about a lot of these things and frankly, debating a lot of these things over the last couple of weeks and months, whether or not to allow MultiChain. And that has always been sort of MultiChain in the sense of where are we going to put these assets, where are we going to allow this functionality to exist? Are we going to do cross chain margining? How would we get SNX over? But the fact of the matter is, they were also the first one to go multi chain in that they were the first to have a fully functioning product on optimism as well as ETH l one. So I don't actually think moving to base is going to be or having native functionality on base is too far afield of what they already have. It's more just a continuation of wanting to be in the venues where people are transacting, where people are playing around with DeFi. So I don't think that it's funny. Kane had a tweet after he wrote that, and he's like, yeah, everybody just loves to latch onto one thing that I write, one little component of what I write and focus on that, and that becomes the tagline narrative.
00:05:48.630 - 00:06:04.506, Speaker A: I think that was the subtweet at me, by the way, I was going to own myself here because I did exactly that. I literally took a photo and I highlighted because he said at the end, we might be building towards an app chain. And I tagged Kane in it. No response. But then the next thing he tweeted.
00:06:04.538 - 00:06:05.120, Speaker B: Was.
00:06:07.170 - 00:06:11.442, Speaker A: Someone always latches onto a really small thing. I was like, oh shit, that's definitely me.
00:06:11.496 - 00:07:11.080, Speaker B: But I was going to say the one thing that would be a pretty distinct direction change would be their own app chain. Why you would need that, what it be used for? What would be the advantages of having that versus being across base L One optimism, maybe even Arbitrum, et cetera. I think all of that needs to be shaken out a little bit. But expanding into other venues, having native minting and burning of SNX on other L two S is really kind of what they're doing so far. So I actually read it and thought this is a continuation of a lot of the same strategy that at least I've kind of assessed by being in the discord and watching the conversation. The one that I think is really interesting is what happens when you expand past other types of collateral. And that's another kind of sacred cow that I think, frankly, in the next couple of months with this newly elected set of councils is going to get deliberated and figured out.
00:07:11.080 - 00:07:51.940, Speaker B: To go back to kind of the original point, D Five 1.0, there's a lot of stuff that's working, there's a lot of stuff that definitely still needs to get figured out. But I think you just think about the comparison between DFI 1.0 and that flash in the pan moment that we used to call DFI 2.0. There really isn't that much of a comparison. And I think a lot of this stems from we got to know Kane and the Synthetics team in 2019, frankly, just as we were starting framework. But they had just been through the 2017, through 2018, through 2019 bear market.
00:07:51.940 - 00:08:29.806, Speaker B: They and the core contributors at that point in time had made themselves antifragile in so many different ways. And I think that continuation is what's making these D Five 1.0 protocols, who have at least the liquidity, the notoriety, the brand, sort of the momentum, live through this bear Market and continue to thrive. So I think that's one of the other takeaways here is like they're continuing to test things while also doing very well but also being one of the originals. So it's exciting to see.
00:08:29.908 - 00:08:53.890, Speaker A: I just wanted to give a quick shout out to Permissionless. This is the biggest and best conference in all of DFI. It's the one that we do with Bankless, who's a great partner for us. Last year we had almost 7000 people there in West Palm Beach. We are moving this year to Austin, Texas from September 11 through the 13th. And if you are a listener of Bell Curve, any of these last five seasons, this conference is basically custom made for you. We're going to be talking about Liquid Staking, the theme of this season.
00:08:53.890 - 00:09:14.966, Speaker A: We've got a bunch of great panels on mev. If you listen to the Appchain thesis. We've got a bunch of Cosmos folks out there in full force. We're talking about the converging architecture of Solana, the roll up space in ETH and Cosmos. So I would love to see all of you there and to reward you for being such great listeners. To Bell Curve, you get a special 30% off code. It's Bell Curve 30 that'll get you 30% off tickets.
00:09:14.966 - 00:09:49.686, Speaker A: Click the link in the show notes and then head over to the permissionless site and make sure that you get your ticket today. Again. That is Bell curve 30. Click the link in the show notes. One of the things that I think what we broadly call is sort of DFI 1.0, which was some of the original protocols which had the synthetics, the compounds, the ave's, the uniswaps, this sort of group. There was not to say that new protocols won't come in and flourish, but I think one of the things that separates finance from other sectors is that what really rewards you over a long period of time is being a little bit more actually on the conservative side of things, right.
00:09:49.686 - 00:10:15.294, Speaker A: That's not to say don't innovate, that's not to say don't take risks. But security is an enormous value proposition when it comes to anything with finance for kind of obvious reasons. Right. It's your money. You don't want the people that are sometimes custodying your assets or whatever to I mean, a lot of DeFi is non custodial, but you get my meaning. And it's very easy to blow up in finance, which we saw with a lot of CFI during this last cycle. And I think the DFI 1.0
00:10:15.294 - 00:10:39.442, Speaker A: teams, to your point yeah, when they were just getting started, they had just gone through this horrible washout bear market. And the mentality of a lot of these teams was you see this with Maker as well, which we're going to talk about during this podcast. Maintaining the peg at all costs. Right? They were laser focused on that one thing. That was the most important thing. Or maintaining the peg of die, so to speak. So, yeah, I think that is just baked into the DNA of a lot of these teams.
00:10:39.506 - 00:10:51.610, Speaker B: Yeah. I'm even hard pressed right now to think of someone who truly started in 2021 and is gaining the same momentum and share as the DFI 1.0s from prior years.
00:10:51.680 - 00:11:51.642, Speaker A: And just to put some metrics on this, I'm about to share my screen here and show a chart from DeFi llama of synthetics, and I've got a couple of different metrics pulled up. So there's TVL, token price and fees, and I could show you this chart for a couple of the different DFI protocols. But it's very interesting, right? There's a very similar pattern. So obviously token price and TVL zoom up and peak around 2021, 2022, then it's sort of down only. But then there's this very interesting trend starting midway through 2022 and 2023 of fees just skyrocketing going up. And Kane has been extremely vocal about his idea that what is going to differentiate DeFi protocols moving into the future is sustainable fees. And I think there's a lot of different words to describe that, but it's basically revenue minus mostly token emissions, right? Because if your revenue just exists because you're giving away essentially free tokens in the project, that's not really sustainable revenue.
00:11:51.642 - 00:12:14.262, Speaker A: So you could see this with, again, not financial advice. And it's very unclear at this point how this is even correlated with something like token price. But it is just interesting to see, I think the discipline of these D Five 1.0 teams, they're focusing on the thing that they think is going to create value, which is fees over a period of time. And I can pull up a very similar chart for Maker as well.
00:12:14.396 - 00:12:59.720, Speaker B: You could do Maker, you could do Uniswap, you could do so many different application protocols or just protocols themselves. And I agree with the sentiment that in this next wave, in this next cycle, value cruel is going to be the make or break it for all these different protocols. And that comes in many different ways, right? Obviously MakerDAO is doing something very different from Uniswap, very different from Aave, very different from synthetics, but they all have the same sort of benchmarks in that they may be buying up real world assets versus swapping spot crypto, but you have to be accruing value in some way, shape or form.
00:13:00.250 - 00:13:56.390, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with that. And just I've got the Maker chart pulled up here now and their monthly fees is actually approaching the highs from 2022 or 2021. So quite a feat during an absolutely brutal bear market. Last thing on the DFI 1.0 stuff, before we move on to talk about Maker and Rune's post about potentially adopting the SVM in phase five of their end game, one thing I'd love to get your thoughts on, if there are actual operators in the DFI ecosystem out there listening, how do you think about expanding MultiChain? Because I feel like during 2021 there was this enormous push that, hey, the future is MultiChain. And we saw many of the DFI DApps that got built on Ethereum say the future is MultiChain. I'm going to deploy over on all of these different chains and I think you saw pretty mixed results to that because it was an enormous engineering lift to do that.
00:13:56.390 - 00:14:25.774, Speaker A: It seemed to actually fragment liquidity in a lot of instances and I think there was a phase maybe during 2022 and people said okay, we are going to actually withdraw deployments across other chains, et cetera. And now you're starting to see maybe a healthy mix which is okay, the future is MultiChain but maybe we're going to pick our battles here and be a little bit more strategic about where we expand. That's what it seems like teams are doing to me. But how do you think about from the perspective of a DeFi builder how they should be thinking about multi chain?
00:14:25.822 - 00:15:30.050, Speaker B: The visceral reaction is it depends. But maybe the really simple framework to think about it is it comes down to two variables. The first is user growth and the second is technical capabilities where user growth really refers to where are people aggregating right now. And I would say most of DFI TVL is on ETH l One ETH main net you've got some activity spread across optimism and Arbitrum but the TVL, the volume is still not really comparable. Base seems to be moving very rapidly in an L two perspective as to where people and once again, this is just like transaction volume, total value, kind of all the top line metrics that you would be tracking. And if you want to expand into those new areas, those new geographies, it's kind of like the same question you would have if you were a traditional company selling just to the United States versus like, oh, let's expand to Europe, because there's customers over there too. So that's kind of like the first variable.
00:15:30.050 - 00:16:42.826, Speaker B: The second is and we've talked to a number of companies who are working on more complex applications. We've got actually a portfolio company who is doing reinsurance and they're building a protocol where they have to keep some of the information completely private and it's verifiable by third party auditors if questioned because they're a regulated reinsurance company. And so part of their protocol requires them to be on avalanche just because of the technical capabilities that avalanche has. And then there's also components of it that are on e and some of the L2 s and so it's kind of like the diaspora of different blockchains based on use cases of what your application requires. And we also have a couple of other we have at least one other protocol who same kind of thing. They're doing an interesting new model for spot exchange and that requires a pseudo off chain on chain element and that order matching just isn't feasible on ETH l One or L2. So it has to be something that happens pseudo off chain via avalanche but also connected to all of the other chains where the liquidity is via chain link CCIP.
00:16:42.826 - 00:17:22.010, Speaker B: And so it's one of those where I think we're going to start to see just more infrastructure enable the ease of having your application be built by multiple blockchains. And it's not going to be just ton of smart contracts on the same chain. And when you want to expand, you have to rebuild all those same contracts on another chain. This is where cross chain communication technology is going to be really important. But then, like I said at the start, there's just a question of where people are and that's going to be more of user growth.
00:17:22.510 - 00:18:20.266, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with you as well. What about maybe to touch a little bit on? And I don't want to speak for Kane here and get dunked on again, but the idea of being an app chain so obviously I've been pretty vocal on this, did a whole season on appchains, been a very big fan of the appchain thesis in Cosmos and been excited to see it roll out onto Ethereum. It's starting to feel like people feel like I should just launch an app chain without really thinking about whether or not it makes sense for them. And I do wonder if we're going to start to get because stack architectures like Op Stack or ZKsync is making it really easy to do. And then there are Rasp providers that are standing on top and making it super easy. Like one click easy to do that. We're going to get this diaspora of app chains without a lot of these builders really thinking about whether or not it makes sense for them.
00:18:20.266 - 00:19:07.530, Speaker A: And then I think, from my perspective, if I was op the optimism framework and I was trying to think about my business model, kind of what you're doing is some form of bundling, right, where you're hoping that, hey. I hope the people that build using this architecture. And if your optimism opt into my law of chains, I hope that I get valuable apps like Base and Friendtech. Right? And I think what you might end up seeing pretty soon is a whole, like a million different app chains that launch and a lot of them that don't make sense, and there might be some sort of reversion, actually, and say, yeah, maybe actually we could just be sort of an app and we don't actually need our own app chains. For instance, X, Y and Z. Do you also sense that maybe it's starting to become a little bit overdone or people aren't being as thoughtful about it as they should be?
00:19:07.600 - 00:20:30.790, Speaker B: I think when you're going to have things like Conduit XYZ, I think that's one of the roll up as a service applications, it's like one click point shoot to start your own l two. Rajiv on our team went through the process and he was like, yeah, it literally took me three minutes. When you bring it down to that level. I think there's an element that's really kind of exciting because that change in infrastructure services kind of reminds me of what it was like when you went from having to build out your own data center based server to just start your website versus just oh, one click, shoot five minutes to get something running on AWS. Even that was hard because you had to often get an S three instance, EC two instance you got to go and actually build out your server. It's just like you don't have to physically own your server, but then there's all these netlifies and these super simple there was Heroku back in the day where it was just like, oh, you know, put whatever HTML page you want together and just run it instantaneously. So I think there's an element of like bringing it down in order or multiple orders of magnitude in terms of cost and time is something that will have really strong effects in terms of innovation and just creativity.
00:20:30.790 - 00:21:32.570, Speaker B: The thing that you touched on though is sort of like why? And I think what we're starting to get to, and this is the same thing that happened with entrepreneurship and innovation over the last 20 years, is you had these different changes in terms of, okay, how much would it cost you to get going? In 2000, it would probably cost you a couple of million dollars to get any sort of product out the door, let alone just building it and figuring out what the product is. Then into 2010 it would probably cost you a couple of hundred thousand dollars and that would be like pretty sizable expense. But for people who wanted to give it a shot, it wouldn't be insane to raise a million dollars and go off and try to build a product. Then in 2020 it cost you a couple of couple of bucks to get going other than time. And so it's hard to point and say, okay, this is the direction that we're definitely going. But this is kind of what it reminds me of. So that, I think, is just inherently valuable.
00:21:32.570 - 00:22:17.074, Speaker B: But you still have to take a step back and say, okay, well, just because I put up my Rain Heat Tank Netlify app doesn't mean that I can go off and sell a million dollars. Arr. I still have to be able to build a business, build a product, and eventually you just work your way back up the stack where you're like, okay, now I just got to run my own servers because AWS is too expensive. Ultimately you scale with the infrastructure. I kind of wonder if we'll see that as well, where maybe somebody comes out and says, hey, I'm going to build this application. It's going to be really easy for me to just launch it on base, see if I can build the user base, see if I can find product market fit. Then maybe I want to actually run my own L two once I hit scale.
00:22:17.074 - 00:22:50.862, Speaker B: And that's maybe the question that Cain is provoking in his new post. I think one of the questions that I would have is, know, does it make sense to build, your, know, shared security layer, kind of like the Cosmos model? I think that's kind of an infrastructure question that hasn't been completely answered yet. But yeah, all of this to say, I think there are some interesting congruencies between how technology, especially web servicing, has changed over the last 20 years with what is going on now with chains.
00:22:50.926 - 00:23:45.026, Speaker A: What I'm starting to see is a little bit of a spectrum here. And the two open questions for me in Optimism world is, and this is what the Law of Chains is doing, right? Which is interoperability. Interoperability is still a little bit of a fuzzy question in, I think, optimism, ZK Sync and their sort of HyperChain architecture seems like they have more of an idea about it, although a lot of it is probably pretty untested at this point. So interoperability is this thing which is pretty tough, but I feel like is going to be solved. The other thing is just a this is an issue that Cosmos dealt with a long time ago. How do you coordinate things like upgrades and standards across these chains, right? Just a really difficult thing to do other than to say, everyone if you want to be here. It seems like the approach that I don't want to speak for them, that Law of Chains is taking is if you want to be a part of this Law of Chains and the benefits that you get from a shared set of standards is you have to make these upgrades.
00:23:45.026 - 00:24:28.754, Speaker A: So you're surrendering a little bit of sovereignty with your block space and accepting more homogeneous block space. And there's kind of a spectrum here of Cosmos, which is you have all the value, capture all the sovereignty you want on your own specific app chain, but you have no distribution. Right? You're kind of just building this island out there in the middle of nowhere, and you hope that people might come and use your product, but it's limited. Then there's something in the middle, which is like the Op Stack Law of Chains, which is, okay, you still have your own app chain, but you got to conform to this set of standards and you can't be as heterogeneous as you want. And you need to upgrade when the Law of Chains tells you. And you get easy plugins with custodians like Fireblocks, for instance. I keep using that example.
00:24:28.754 - 00:25:11.290, Speaker A: So there's like a little bit of a middle ground then. Actually, I think Solana is going to be on this spectrum as well because what they have decided to do is have generalized block space, but local hotspot fee markets. So the problem that we're all trying to solve here is like how customizable is your block space and how do you deal with fees? Like how do you have sort of sovereignty over your own economics and fees? And the solana thing is to say we're going to make this all extremely performant block space. You can't change things like block times. But don't worry if someone just like in Ethereum right now, if there's a really hot NFT mint, it affects gas fees across the entire chain. Don't worry, we've got local fee markets so that that won't happen to you. And there's just going to be this broad spectrum.
00:25:11.290 - 00:25:35.990, Speaker A: And I listened to a great debate with Nick White and Kyle Simani and each side right now is battling with this like it's going to be this way or it's going to be this way. And it's like it could be both. It could be both. There's just so much room here. There probably will be a more dominant model. But come mean it just really makes sense. It really depends on what these applications are going to need.
00:25:35.990 - 00:25:41.066, Speaker A: What are the dominant applications going to be and what do they need. And we're all just guessing because none of us know.
00:25:41.168 - 00:26:00.110, Speaker B: So what I will say is 100% agree with the infrastructure perspective. I think we are 100% in the like this is what infrastructure build out looks like prior to application readiness. I think we know what the application categories are going to be, they just aren't here yet.
00:26:00.180 - 00:26:04.334, Speaker A: Yeah, you might be right about that. So how would you stack rank?
00:26:04.382 - 00:26:51.470, Speaker B: DeFi is going to be more along the security vector with Cost not being as important. Games is going to be literally the opposite. Well, maybe games will be in the middle and then sort of like consumer crypto. Maybe the friend techs of the world will be on the opposite end of DeFi where it's ease of use, onboarding abstraction, no blockchain elements until users want it. But Cost is going to be one of the variables that people really care about for a chat application. Being able to mint something I posted and being able to have ownership over my handle is stuff that I really care about. But I don't care about that as much as the ETH or the assets that I have in DeFi making sure that they're secure.
00:26:51.470 - 00:27:00.514, Speaker B: So I think it will depend on the application category. But to your point, the best part is we're going to have the infrastructure to support it all.
00:27:00.552 - 00:27:36.106, Speaker A: I agree with that. It's going to be interesting to see how it all plays out, man. And I think those lines also are going to blur a little bit as we go forward. And a good example of that maybe to transition this into our next story is so Rune posted that and I want to just caveat that this is not a done deal. This is similarly to Kane, right? This is a dao and there's a lot of governance infrastructure in place. So. Just because Rune posted this doesn't mean it's going to happen, but he posted about the title of this post on the MakerDAO forum is explore a fork of the Solana code base for new chain.
00:27:36.106 - 00:28:04.390, Speaker A: So the fifth and final phase of endgame is the complete re implementation of the entire Maker protocol built natively on a new standalone blockchain codename new chain. So, in case you forgot about the five phases of the endgame, phase one is the beta launch. And this is pretty interesting. It was actually just interesting going back and reading this. But the idea is that right now there are two different brands within Maker. There's the Maker brand and then there's the Dai brand. So this would be an attempt to make one brand instead of having two separate brands.
00:28:04.390 - 00:28:22.342, Speaker A: Then the second phase of the end game is the subdow launch. So these are sort of like decentralized and specialized divisions within MakerDAO that can run parallel. And I think part of the idea here is to isolate some of the risk from kind of the core protocol itself to be efficient.
00:28:22.486 - 00:29:06.662, Speaker B: The only thing I'd add, Lucas and I'm forgetting his last name, had actually a really good talk on this. It was like a 30 minutes talk. And that was kind of the one where it clicked for me the understanding of the relationship between the subdows and Maker core. It's really think of Maker core as sort of the central entity that is helping to facilitate all of this. And subdos are competitive in nature with other subdows, but they're the front line of defense of innovation and risk taking. So if you want to go off and try a new real world asset concept, you want to go off and do something like Spark, which is a fork of Ava V three, those types of things would happen not in the core itself, but they would happen at the edges, which would be the subdows.
00:29:06.726 - 00:29:44.198, Speaker A: Got it? Okay, that makes a lot of sense. And each of these subdows will have Tokens as well, by the way, for what it's worth. Phase three governance AI tools launch. So that's basically there's a lot of governance actual mechanisms and infrastructure that help power Maker. So this would be sort of an integration of AI to make that more efficient and putting some of those AI mechanisms on chain. The phase four is the Governance Participation incentive launch and phase five is the new chain launch and the final End game state. So new Chain will be a blockchain that houses all backend logic for Subdow, Tokenomics and Makerdow governance security.
00:29:44.198 - 00:30:22.386, Speaker A: That means that on Ethereum new stable and new gov Token as well as Dai and Maker will continue to function as normal. And the only change will be that they'll be protected by a governance backend that operates through a secure state of the art bridge using a two stage bridge design. So Rune also said that this is the final state. Once this is launched, it's immutable and it's going to be in place forever. And what they're looking at, essentially is a new code base for what this would be. And they're exploring a fork of the Solana code base. They're also exploring being a Cosmos app chain as well.
00:30:22.386 - 00:30:41.098, Speaker A: And the reasons that he gave are there are a lot of properties of Solana's code base and the SVM that make it very performant and optimized. And also he's really interested in eliminating some of the technical debt that has gotten built up over the course of the last. Do you what do you make of.
00:30:41.104 - 00:31:51.706, Speaker B: This endgame in and of itself, as you just highlighted or ran through, is a gargantuan undertaking. Yes, it is a huge undertaking that involves changes to probably one of the best or some of the best known assets d five 1.0 protocols in the space right now, a total rewrite of the governance module. And I think he kind of gets a bad rep for even suggesting the AI integration. Really, AI is just going to be a tool for taking all of this complex governance structure and breaking it down into what is effectively like human readable and reasonable information. So ultimately, my take, especially on stages three and five, which I think are pretty intrinsically related, and that is integration of the AI tooling plus the governance module being built on a new chain. I think the biggest point here is kind of what we were talking about earlier, with applications that require functionality to exist on other chains just based on technical requirements.
00:31:51.706 - 00:32:34.574, Speaker B: And I would imagine that obviously, running the current governance model on ETH l one is limiting, costly, and probably overbearing just based off of the tech debt that you referenced. So starting fresh makes a ton of sense. I also think Rune in a similar way, and I don't know him super well, but I think that he is just trying to test different ideas and poke at sacred cows to see if there's anything that makes more sense. And that, I think, is the right thing to be doing. It wasn't him saying, this is what we're doing, this is where we're going. I'm building this right now. It's more just like, hey, we got to start thinking about phase five.
00:32:34.574 - 00:33:27.038, Speaker B: And there are some pretty interesting concepts that exist outside of everything that we know, so maybe we should take a step back. And I think he also kind of sort of walked it back, but not totally in that he just said, hey, Cosmos could be great. Solana could be like, we should be exploring all of these things. So ultimately, I think the ETH masters are obviously going to be questioning the perspective, but ultimately it'll be good for Maker because you will have tested all the different concepts and found the one that works the best. But I'm definitely excited to see how all this plays out, I think big risk and big opportunity coincide. So I think this will move DeFi forward in a lot of ways.
00:33:27.124 - 00:33:58.406, Speaker A: Yeah, me as well. And for me, it's interesting to hear him. I didn't really make the connection about why SVM or why the Solana code base and the AI sort of connection. That was helpful. That was good insight from you. I was originally sort of like, well, why does it have to be Solana? Just looking at MakerDAO's business model, I'm kind of like, why does it need to be super performant? But I do think there are just these converging architectures and these different blockchains. So Ethereum and Cosmos and Solana, they started from very different points and things that they were optimizing for.
00:33:58.406 - 00:34:45.218, Speaker A: And there's a bit of a sequencing where there's really visible overlap right now between the Cosmos and Ethereum roadmaps, right? Like this app chain stuff. It started in Cosmos and Ethereum said, hey, this actually makes a lot of sense, and roll ups are a good way to not compromise on things like hardware requirements for validators in the main chain. So that'll still be very slow and secure. But a lot of the computation and execution will go on up here in these roll ups. And similarly, I think what's going to happen with Solana is even at the roll up layer, there's still going to be these costs in the form of DA, right. The proto dank sharding is a good first step. Eventually we'll get data availability sampling, but even then, I think what's going to end up happening is that applications are going to say, hey, we really need something that's super low latency right, and extremely performant.
00:34:45.218 - 00:35:16.650, Speaker A: And Solana is going to be like, hey, guys, I've spent the last three years actually thinking through exactly how to solve that problem. And we've engineered our virtual machine to deal with this by incorporating things like local fee markets and parallelization. And I don't know, I think we're still a little ways out from this and maybe we'll never fully solve the tribalism thing. I keep waffling back and forth, but I do think there will be smart, pragmatic people from each ecosystem that will say, all right, this is a problem set. I'm going to have to eventually deal with what have you guys done? And there'll be cool, interesting combinations.
00:35:16.730 - 00:35:29.330, Speaker B: I think you said it a little while ago, but I think convergence is going to be the thing that happens, maybe not in terms of the tribalism, but definitely in terms of the concepts and philosophies that each of these ecosystems starts to represent.
00:35:29.830 - 00:35:53.850, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. So kudos to, again, just to maybe bookend this. This doesn't mean that this is going to happen. It just means that they're looking at it. It also the exact quote was that Solana is the most promising code base, but Cosmos is the other main. You know, none of this is said and done and sam Hart actually wrote up a really great post. We can link in the show notes about why Cosmos would make sense for this.
00:35:53.850 - 00:35:59.934, Speaker A: Sam's a great you've ever bumped into him? He's a great Cosmos guy. So highly recommend you take a look and read it.
00:35:59.972 - 00:36:20.966, Speaker B: Exactly. Yeah. And just to also book in it, this is also just a concept of potentially forking the code. So there's so many different questions as to how the technology will actually work out as opposed to, oh, we're going to move over into one of these ecosystems, because those are two very different things.
00:36:21.148 - 00:37:07.714, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, thank you for bringing that up. So obviously sort of a win for Solana, but makers not talking about launching on Solana, they're talking about forking the actual code mean. What do you make of that in terms of value accrual here? And does this that's a very open question for me. And what it made me think of is all L1s like avalanche are EVM compatible. Right. Obviously a lot of the value accrues to avalanche, but also it's sort of beneficial for ethereum because it lends credibility to network effects at the execution layer. And some of that kind of flows back into ETH a little bit, but it's hard, you know what I mean? So these are just really unanswered questions.
00:37:07.714 - 00:37:17.538, Speaker A: I don't know what you made of the decision to fork the code base and how much that directly benefits Solana versus more indirect benefits, but that was an open question for me. I just don't even know how to think about that.
00:37:17.724 - 00:37:46.302, Speaker B: Honestly. I don't think anybody really knows yet. And if there is any value accrual back to Solana itself, I don't know. Yeah, the proof will be in the pudding. It's sort of the expanding the philosophical perspective of EVM versus SVM I think is the advantage here or the value that you would ascribe to it. And that's just nebulous. It's not tangible.
00:37:46.366 - 00:38:15.194, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with that. So, next story. This is actually a win for Solana. It's been kind of a big week for Solana. So Visa stablecoin settlement is expanding to now. And by the way, I think I got to put my hand up here a second time and eat crow, because a couple weeks ago we had a debate about payments being big, and I was like, no, I'm not really sold on it. I think I'm getting ready to be proven wrong about that.
00:38:15.194 - 00:38:55.094, Speaker A: So Visa can now send USDC denominated payouts to Worldpay and Nuve through Visa's Circle account. So basically it's kind of exactly what you were describing, actually, is that there are a lot of hops in traditional systems which are just over the years, some for good reasons, some for rent seeking reasons. There are just many different intermediaries when it comes to aggregating, collecting and executing global payments. And ultimately blockchains do provide a better way. One of the requirements of payment networks are very low cost, right? It has to be low cost for a really small payment. You can't be charging ETH gas fees. So it looks like Visa has chosen to expand onto Solana here.
00:38:55.094 - 00:38:58.246, Speaker A: Pretty big win for the ecosystem. What do you make of this news?
00:38:58.428 - 00:39:37.346, Speaker B: So I think it's maybe helpful just to go back real fast and kind of describe who the players are. So Visa, everybody thinks of Visa as being a payments company. Visa is not a payments company. Visa is a data company and what they do is they create standards and networks and basically rule sets that if you are a participant in one of these ecosystems in the Visa network you have to pay a small fee. It's actually very small. People talk about the three and a half to four and a half percent that these card networks charge. The bulk of that actually goes to the issuing bank because they're the ones who are taking on the customer risk and the chargeback risk.
00:39:37.346 - 00:40:22.814, Speaker B: And this is all in credit card payments. Debit is a slightly different model, but let's just stick with credit cards for now. And Visa takes a very small percentage of that. And that's really just to know that all the different counterparties that you're going to be. Interfacing with, are talking the same talk and basically have the same data standards but also have the same rule sets being applied to them that you would expect of all other counterparties. So that's Visa's playing in this and Worldpay is one of the largest payments companies and they're huge. It's kind of like a chase payment tech or people may have heard of Braintree which is owned by PayPal.
00:40:22.814 - 00:41:20.920, Speaker B: These are all sort of payments companies. Stripe is in a certain way similar and really kind of the other core component here is well there's two, there's an issuing bank and there's a merchant bank. An issuing bank is effectively when you go to a bank and you want to sign up for a credit card, they assess your credit worthiness. They assess sort of your history with the bank. And then they are the ones who are issuing you the line of credit that you can use to charge against the merchant bank, which is the receiving side when you go to make a purchase is the bank that is taking on the merchant. Risk of you go to the store and swipe your credit card or use Apple Pay, whatever, making sure that the merchant itself is not making fraudulent charges. And all the things you would expect when you have your credit card stolen and somebody goes off and charges $1,000 to it.
00:41:20.920 - 00:42:29.766, Speaker B: The chargeback actually is something that's assessed by the issuing bank and it's sort of like an insurance process where the issuing bank says, hey merchant bank, did you guys actually charge this? And the merchant bank goes, yeah, here's the receipt, here's the signature, et cetera, et cetera. And it wasn't our fault. We had no idea that this person wasn't actually the person who owns the card. Or there's a process, but the chargeback will come out of the issuing bank's side in most cases. And that's the reason why they take the bulk of whatever percent is the interchange, really simple way of describing it. The interesting part here is when you're using a blockchain and the elements of so much of that payment stack, that charge, that three and a half percent, let's call it, is really what happens when someone makes a charge and says, I didn't actually do that, and it's over a network that is reversible. Well, what happens when you have an element of irreversibility one of two things, person to person payments and point of sale transactions.
00:42:29.766 - 00:43:27.120, Speaker B: It's going to get really interesting to see how chargebacks get processed. I didn't actually send you $100. I didn't actually pay for that. Is it going to be the same process? Well, how does the irreversibility of USDC actually work? And are there sort of like accounts that get charged and debited to? But I think one of the nice parts about this is I think it's going to ultimately involving a blockchain with USDC is ultimately going to reduce so much of that interchange fee because you're going to have more security in the chargeback process itself. So very early days for the payment side of USDC and integrating a blockchain into that. But just think about it from like a data standards and security perspective. I think ultimately this is going to be what banks want because of the protections that they'll get by incorporating a blockchain into this payment transaction process.
00:43:27.120 - 00:43:43.502, Speaker B: So, long winded explanation of the payment stack, but I think ultimately this is going to be really interesting and that three and a half percent is something that may be up for grabs.
00:43:43.566 - 00:44:31.090, Speaker A: Yeah, okay, so I really like the way that you describe that. So on the one hand, if we just took a look from a very high level at the amount of intermediaries that are involved, some of them are necessary, some of them probably less. So especially when it comes to cross border international payments and in general, getting rid less, fewer intermediaries means fewer people need to make margin. It'll generally be cheaper. But this dynamic I think, is really the key one to understand because it's sort of about who bears risk and what could be interesting. Tell me if I interpreted this correctly, but right now you pay relative like payments are relatively high, but that's because of who bears the risk, which in this case is primarily the issuing bank. So that also is a good experience for you as a consumer, right? Because if you complain to your credit card company, they're going to reverse payments on your behalf.
00:44:31.090 - 00:45:04.026, Speaker A: In a blockchain world, then that dynamic could actually be reversed because of the settlement properties of a blockchain. Banks actually might like that. They might charge less, but they have to bear less risk. And then the question is going to be for you as the consumer, what is escrow services and chargeback end up looking like? And that is the question. So I guess we'll have to see how that ultimately ends up playing out. But I do got to give props to both Salana and also to Visa. Visa, man, Visa is I keep using them as the example of the go to.
00:45:04.026 - 00:45:27.554, Speaker A: You used to see all these proof of concept things from bank of America back in 2017 that made no sense and you knew it was just a PR thing. They're experimenting with account abstraction on Ethereum. They're acting as a paymaster in 4337, which is cutting edge stuff for Ethereum. They're leaning in and looking at payments on Salana. I mean, so cool, man. Very props to the Visa team. They're crushing it.
00:45:27.592 - 00:45:59.566, Speaker B: Props to them. I would also say think about their business model and what is potentially at risk if they get disintermediated by a blockchain, where if they're the data standard and you have Circle creating USDC, you've got Ethereum creating the standards and the safeguards of transferring properties. And smart contracts are basically setting the rule sets in the same way that Visa is setting them for all counterparties involved in these mean, in a way it's almost existential for them not to be participating in this way.
00:45:59.668 - 00:46:33.674, Speaker A: Really good point. All right, we've got a couple more stories here that I want to make sure that we get talk about. Actually, I want to ask you about the Socket investment that you guys made because I saw you co led that investment and that Coinbase. But Socket honestly is a company that I had heard of, but I don't know a lot about what they do. I know the tagline is sort of enhancing communication between blockchains. They're an interop thing. But what exactly does Socket do and what is as much as you can share.
00:46:33.674 - 00:46:44.286, Speaker A: I saw Vance tweeted something out, but what's sort of the I guess the investment thesis, but more broadly, how you see interop playing out and who benefits in an interop sort of world.
00:46:44.388 - 00:47:52.190, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, this goes back to a lot of the same theses that we were just talking about, which is when you have an application that requires multiple blockchains or let's say you don't have the interop capabilities, therefore you can't have an application that requires multiple blockchains or multiple execution environments to function the full fledged application. So these interop protocols become the necessary component to enable that. And I know Chainlink has CCIP, you've got layer zero, you've got all these different examples of interop protocols. There's so many more. But what we really got excited about with Socket and they're a great team, they're really smart, they're moving super fast. Is also the ability to partner with Coinbase and have that be the preferred layer for coinbase. And yeah, it is something that we see as an important it's a necessary component in the infrastructure stack.
00:47:52.190 - 00:48:14.122, Speaker B: Is it going to be the only interop protocol? Absolutely not. Is it going to be the thing that people choose for certain categories in certain situations? Absolutely. But yeah, we've been talking about it, maybe just haven't identified it specifically. But interop is the thing that enables so much of what we've been talking about with the infrastructure stack how does.
00:48:14.176 - 00:48:24.874, Speaker A: Not necessarily reveal nothing that you can't with Socket, but in general for any of these interop protocols. So maybe layer zero or whatever, what's the monetization? How do these companies monetize?
00:48:25.002 - 00:48:55.958, Speaker B: So I know chainlink and layer zero have come out or at least proposed different models of depending on what you're doing and how you're moving information or value. I think those two protocols themselves have a small fee that's associated with it. I think there's questions as to how do you pay the fee, what is the fee, how do you calculate like but think of these as network services and there will yeah, fees associated with it.
00:48:56.124 - 00:49:44.722, Speaker A: Cool, that makes sense. Last two stories. So there was a little bit of a setback just in terms of regulation, and this actually comes on the CFTC side of things. So for those many people listening to this podcast, probably had a little bit of a mental framework that the SEC definitely under the administration of Gary Gensler. But even previous to Jay Clayton, by the way, how funny is it to remember that when we had Jay Clayton, it was like, we got to get this guy out of here. Thank God we've got Gary Gensler coming in, someone who knows blockchains man, that wasn't exactly correct, was it? But the SEC has always been has come down a little bit more harshly on crypto. The CFTC has broadly, which is in charge of regulating commodities and derivatives and things of that nature, has always had a little bit more of a benign or open minded attitude towards regulating crypto.
00:49:44.722 - 00:50:05.230, Speaker A: And frankly, a lot of the lack of clarity in the US. I've always thought of as jockeying in between many different regulatory bodies. But certainly the CFTC and SEC, they're sort of staking out territory for who gets to regulate what in this new ecosystem. Can you just give this story what was it again? It was like an enforcement action or something like that against three different DeFi protocols.
00:50:05.810 - 00:51:07.810, Speaker B: So it was more than that. It was a settlement against three D five protocols. And I can't remember exactly the settlements were in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. And really kind of, I think, what the main rub was, and I'm obviously not a lawyer, I have been piecing together the information via Twitter and actual lawyers on Twitter as well as people that we know, that we talk to. So maybe this is not completely 100% correct, but close the main rub was that the protocols and the interfaces sorry, the interfaces and the protocols that were created by these companies and it was three different companies that were part of the settlement. They failed to do proper KYC AML procedures for accessing these protocols. And I think there's a couple of things that are interesting.
00:51:07.810 - 00:52:20.410, Speaker B: So CFTC is in charge of the regulation of futures products as it relates to commodities. If you assume crypto products are at least in part commodities, basically what a futures product would involve is not the regulation of spot markets. So if you want to trade one ETH for one ETH or one E for USDC, that's one thing. If you want to trade levered ETH, or if you want to trade other types of levered products or futures products related to ETH, that is something that would pretty clearly fall within the CFTC regulatory envelope. And so I think that's kind of where they went. And so I think it was open derividex, which are actually two leverage trading protocols and then Zero X as well. I think actually what becomes interesting is Zero X is not actually anything other than a spot exchange, but just because the protocol itself enabled trading of products that were levered, that's where it fell within the confines of the CFTC.
00:52:20.410 - 00:53:29.130, Speaker B: So there's a lot of really interesting nuance here. One thing I think from a more meta point is this feels like a ping pong battle with multiple players on each side where you've got the regulators and they're trying to lob different shots over you've got the courts that are going through the process. And this very clearly kind of runs counter to the perspective of the uniswap dismissal that was a couple of weeks ago, where the judge in that very clearly said the creators of these protocols are not liable for the actions of people using the protocols. This could be misconstrued to be part of that or not. It depends on kind of the layer because once again, these were settlements with the companies and I think most of the companies were actually operating UIs to access the protocols. So there isn't a different element here or maybe like a different layer that people are talking about. So I think once again this pushes the need for regulatory clarity.
00:53:29.130 - 00:54:12.570, Speaker B: This ping pong game can go on for a really long time, I would imagine, but it just creates more and more confusion as to who is in the right, who is in the wrong. How do we do this? The big loser here I would say, is US based DeFi, where it is so abundantly clear that for the time being, it's very clear that it is totally unclear as to how to operate US DeFi in the US. And I think until we have that clarity and that will probably have to come from an act of Congress, we won't know how to continue forward. So I think that's kind of like the biggest takeaway that I have from all of this.
00:54:12.640 - 00:54:49.910, Speaker A: Yeah, it's definitely a little disheartening if you're on the crypto side of it and all you want is some amount of clarity. And it's like I'm getting mixed signals for within the same regulatory body. How am I supposed to have a clear path? And you and I have talked about how the developers and the entrepreneurs that are building these products need to have surety that they're not going to go to prison for making these products. And I agree with you. I think the other thing that I'll say, though, is, similarly to the SEC, the courts are the ultimate decider here. Jake Trevinsky had a great quote on this. So, again, the legal system has been knock on wood, pretty good so far.
00:54:49.910 - 00:55:19.794, Speaker A: Makes you really thankful for checks and balances. I actually had a history teacher in 7th grade who was a big fan of John Marshall. Have you ever heard of that judge in the US? Yeah, John Marshall. We should do a little history segment on old John Marshall and how he wielded the power of the justice system. But, yeah, look, there's a reason why we have checks and balances. The judicial system is pretty good over here. Property rights are strong and I don't know, I still have faith that this is going to play out the right way.
00:55:19.794 - 00:55:25.250, Speaker A: So if you're building something DeFi out there and you're living in the US, keep the faith. Keep the faith.
00:55:25.750 - 00:55:47.660, Speaker B: I totally agree. It's definitely not over. I think just reading the tea leaves and seeing kind of the wins that are playing out in the court system, it's going to take time, but I think we will be on the right side of regulatory history. Ultimately. It's just fraught with confusion and shades of gray for the time being.
00:55:48.030 - 00:56:21.490, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree with that. I'm not sure how much really there is to dig into here, but there is. Arc Invest and 21 shares announced that they are pursuing an ETH spot ETF. So this was probably always inevitable after the Bitcoin spot ETF picked up some amount of traction. I actually did see from an it's just an account I follow. I don't know, but I saw yesterday thicky thought of Simitar Capital posted. I know, posted something about how there was sort of an Idiosyncratic bid for Bitcoin yesterday.
00:56:21.490 - 00:57:01.618, Speaker A: GBTC shares were trading up 5%. Maybe this is someone who knows something and is front running news at the same time that ETH was down. Not a typical move, but anyway, for whatever it is, all the analysts at Bloomberg's, Eric Balconis and James Safehart have picked up and are very bullish on a Bitcoin spot ETF being approved. And now you've got Arc and 21 shares piling in and filing for an ETH ETF. And to be honest, I haven't really dug into it and don't know the intricacies or the probability of ETH getting approved. Over Bitcoin. It certainly looks like we're getting an ETH futures ETF, but hey, at least this is step number one, right?
00:57:01.704 - 00:58:17.542, Speaker B: So there was a Bloomberg art, what you just referenced, there was a Bloomberg article that said according to sources, or maybe even according to multiple sources, the SEC is open to a futures based ETH ETF. I personally haven't seen that substantiated anywhere else. I hope obviously that that is the case because that signals a number of different things. Obviously the creation of that ETF I think would be an important step, but also it probably would provide clarity as to the SEC's perspective on ETH, the asset. So we'll be definitely watching that, but we'll see if that actually is real. But if we take it a step further and say, okay, Bitcoin spot is not a question of if now, it's more of a question of when, then futures ETH would pretend to assume that ETH spot would be at some point later down the road. The one clarification though is I think the filing that Arc put out is technically an S one, and I don't know the nuances of all of this, but I did see someone who kind of explained the nuances.
00:58:17.542 - 00:59:06.650, Speaker B: This is an S one which doesn't have the similar timelines of what you would get with, I think it's called like a 19 B four filing or something along those lines, which is all of the existing ETF applications that are in the process. So there is no timeline for this. And I think Van AC actually filed an ETH S one sometime in March or April. So more people around the table I think is a good thing. This doesn't mean that we are now in a timeline of like January or March to decide the ETH spot ETF, but ultimately positive that I think people are starting to recognize that these financial products are going to become live, most likely in the next twelve months. And it'll be exciting to see that play out.
00:59:06.800 - 00:59:37.910, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm in a complete agreement with you there. I think obviously these things take time and never assume that it's going to happen tomorrow. The Bitcoin ETF definitely seems look, I have no special information. I just read the same thing everyone else reads. But it does look like, and I think the final deadline, as we talked about on last shows, it's just very interesting that it's all lining up around the same time as the having and potential rate cuts. So we'll have to see if that ends up playing out. But let's just remind ourselves here, maybe this is transitioning into the Last.
00:59:37.910 - 01:00:14.178, Speaker A: We're deep into a bear market here. This is as deep as she goes, really. And I don't know, it's talking to people who've been around for multiple cycles, everyone's kind of like, okay, this is how it goes. And I've sort of been here before, but there are definitely a lot of people on their first cycle that are struggling right now. And you can see it actually on Twitter. I mean, Jesus, people are tearing each other apart on Twitter over really benign, silly things, right? And whenever I see someone tear someone apart online, I'm like, you must be going through something, my man. I hope it's all good.
01:00:14.178 - 01:00:15.940, Speaker A: Don't worry, it'll be okay.
01:00:16.390 - 01:00:18.130, Speaker B: Blink twice if you need help.
01:00:18.280 - 01:00:19.730, Speaker A: Yeah, seriously.
01:00:20.710 - 01:00:21.186, Speaker B: I don't know.
01:00:21.208 - 01:00:26.180, Speaker A: How are your mental? What are you sort of feeling at the current?
01:00:27.050 - 01:01:37.754, Speaker B: So I think we've talked about this, or you've mentioned it before. We've definitely talked about this before, but Kobe's tweet way back when of the way to survive cycles is to get really excited or dig into something during this period of time. Frankly, what that was for, at least Vance and myself in 2017, 2018 in particular, is we were building Hash Leads, which was an NFT platform for professional athletes. Prior to us starting Framework, it was really easy to put your head down and work on a startup. I think just personally, it's harder to have your eyes or your head on a swivel and trying to assess the market constantly during a bear market this cycle. But I think the nice part is it's good to have a recognition of where we are in the cycle and have that feeling to know that it will ultimately turn and there will be things that change. And weeks like this make me feel like, oh, well, it could actually be next week where things start to look up.
01:01:37.754 - 01:02:23.740, Speaker B: Because to your point, bearish timeline is an understatement or maybe just quiet timeline, which most people relate to being bearish. I think it's also sort of just people decided to take some time off this summer and go touch some grass, go out, do something. And I think September and October we'll start to see some of the initiatives that were talked about or lined up for launch for the fall. Those will start to happen. I'm actually really excited. I think by the end of the year or January we're going to actually have some fun to play games, full global availability. So that's going to be a fun thing to at least test out and play.
01:02:23.740 - 01:03:10.474, Speaker B: I think we're going to see some of the stuff move on. We talked about D Five 1.0 hitting New Strides and some of the launches that they'll have around those protocols. And yeah, I'm always excited to be surprised on something like a friend tech because personally I didn't see that one coming. But I think there will be new shots on goal on that respect as well. All that's to say, things are definitely not fun right now, but I think this is also the time when you build the calluses and the muscle memory to know how to operate during this time. But yeah, I'm very excited about the future.
01:03:10.474 - 01:03:18.262, Speaker B: Ultimately, it's just being able to stay engaged and excited and know that we're.
01:03:18.326 - 01:03:56.600, Speaker A: On the right path 100%. I've actually never been more interested purely I know it's like a meme in the tech than I am right now. It's actually much easier to discern during this period of time than when everything's working. Because when everything's working, there's going to be a new narrative every week and you actually get this sort of exhaust and I don't know about you, but I've found that the issues in bull versus bear markets mirror each other a little bit or sort of inverses of each other rather. And right now what you're dealing with if you're slogging through a bear market is a lot of stuff isn't working right. If you're the operator of a company, your revenues are probably down. We just checked in with a company.
01:03:56.600 - 01:04:38.514, Speaker A: It used to be sort of a darling of last cycle and it's like, hey, I haven't heard in a while revenues down 80% after people got fired. I mean, there's the same story everywhere, right? So if you're going through that, just know you're not alone. But the upside of that is that by sheer necessity you have had to take a very hard look at your business. You've had to take a very hard look at what makes sense. You've had to isolate and pick which problems you want to solve. And if you do that, if you go through that really tough, like shiatsu massage process successfully, you will emerge stronger for it on the other side when the market does come back and turn around. At least when crypto is as cyclical as it is today, the opposite problem will happen.
01:04:38.514 - 01:05:06.586, Speaker A: Everything will work, everything will be all good, it'll move really fast. Hiring will be your biggest problem. None of the salaries will make sense and you sort of get this weird delirium. It's like you're punch drunk or something like that. You know, the world isn't exactly as you're seeing it and perceiving it, but you're getting all these weird signals and they're just sort of inverse problems of one another. And we talked about last week that crypto is a cyclical industry. It's going to continue to be a cyclical industry.
01:05:06.586 - 01:05:28.310, Speaker A: The people that make it in cyclical industries actually are really disciplined. It's people that have a good sense of not building into something that makes no sense. Keeping a level head, leaving some growth on the table, being conservative with your finances. That shit doesn't seem like it plays out on even like a two year time frame, but I think it does. Over a ten or 20 year time frame.
01:05:30.250 - 01:06:57.198, Speaker B: We talk about how fast are crypto years to relative years and maybe the 1012 year business cycle is actually the three four year crypto cycle. And I go back to it every once in a while and just think about who are the great people who have stayed their ground? And it's really easy, I think, mostly to point to investors as to how they have performed over long duration. You've got the Stan Druckenmillers of the world, you've got the Warren Buffets of the world, and even like the Jeff Dunlock's of the world who have been working all in different markets and in different ways, but have outstanding successful records throughout all of those business cycles, throughout their entire careers. And to your point exactly, I think these are inferse problems. You're going to have to know when things are so bearish that it's going to be time to either you're going to know to cut, you're going to know how to react, you're going to know how to motivate at the lows, and then it's going to be the opposite at the highs. It's harder to recognize the highs, I think, than it is the lows, because you think the highs are going to keep on getting higher, and the people who survive this cycle are going to understand a lot better how to recognize the highs and how to operate more efficiently at the highs. So know that that's awaiting all those who make it.
01:06:57.364 - 01:07:10.070, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree. All right, partner. Well, maybe this is a good place to end it. And I will see you very soon in person, live permission on this. It's going to be a blast. And fingers crossed we get a full roundup together in person.
01:07:10.140 - 01:07:11.222, Speaker B: That'd be so much fun.
01:07:11.276 - 01:07:15.060, Speaker A: That'd be a blast, man, I can't wait, can't wait. Ivan, I'll see you soon.
