00:00:02.280 - 00:00:12.790, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets.
00:00:12.902 - 00:00:18.038, Speaker B: I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself.
00:00:18.126 - 00:00:20.006, Speaker A: And my employer may hold positions and.
00:00:20.030 - 00:00:21.438, Speaker B: Assets discussed on the show.
00:00:21.566 - 00:00:41.388, Speaker A: Today's episode is brought to you by the good folks from Nexo. In this crisis, many investors aim to keep and grow their digital assets. Others seek to maximize the yield on their cash. Nexo allows you to achieve exactly these two goals. The company offers instant crypto credit lines against all major cryptocurrencies, with interest rates starting from only 5.9% APR.
00:00:41.556 - 00:00:43.100, Speaker B: Nexo also lets you earn up to.
00:00:43.132 - 00:01:23.134, Speaker A: 8% annually on your fiat and digital assets. What's more, interest is paid out daily. That means you can add or withdraw your funds at any time. So get started today at Nexo IO. If youre listening to this show, chances are youve used some DeFi products before. Maybe youve traded on Uniswap, and you probably are no stranger to paying fees ranging from $10 to even $100 per transaction whenever the network is congested on Ethereum. So to overcome this scalability issue, some projects are choosing to use L2 innovations, like optimistic rollups, whereas some are deciding to build on non Ethereum chains that offer faster speeds but potentially with other tradeoffs, like Solana.
00:01:23.134 - 00:01:47.052, Speaker A: This is one of the most hotly debated questions today in all of crypto, especially in Defi. And with the launch of the Solana based exchange serum and launch of optimistic rollups on top of Synthetix, I thought it'd be a great time to bring on board two of the most forward thinking founders in all of crypto, Sam Bankman Fried and Kane Warwick, to debate scaling Defi on layer one versus L2.
00:01:47.218 - 00:01:48.456, Speaker B: Now, fans of the show will know.
00:01:48.480 - 00:02:05.800, Speaker A: Sam as the founder of FTX Alameda, which is a crypto exchange and a quant trading fund, respectively. And recently he's also started serum. And you also remember Kane from a previous episode where we discussed Synthetix, the ethereum based exchange that he founded. So I'm extremely honored to have these.
00:02:05.832 - 00:02:07.000, Speaker B: Two people on the show, and I've.
00:02:07.032 - 00:02:32.104, Speaker A: Admired the work for a long time, finally to debate this very important topic, and there are so many rabbit holes that we went deep into too much for me to summarize here. So whether you're an investor looking to deploy into layer one or L2 solutions. Or maybe you're a founder or developer thinking about where you should be spending more of your time. I hope this podcast can at least start to answer some of those questions for you. So that's enough from me. Let's dive right into the debate.
00:02:32.444 - 00:03:11.822, Speaker B: Yeah, so both of you have been on the show before, so I don't think either of you need any intros, given that we've done separate episodes before. So let's get started right here. So both of you today are building scalable, non custodial, or decentralized exchanges. But Kane, you're choosing to go with the L2 scaling route via optimistic rollups and Ethereum. And Sam, you're choosing to go with layer one by building on Solana, a different chain. So we've done separate episodes on your respective projects. So before we dive into that, I'd love to kind of get some definition here, because the term scaling is so multifaceted, and it's differently defined depending on what you're trying to optimize for.
00:03:11.822 - 00:03:25.374, Speaker B: So just to start the conversation off, I would love for you guys to define kind of what are the most important trade offs you think of when you kind of think about scaling, when you compare layer one to L2 scaling, for instance. So, Sam, maybe, would you like to go first?
00:03:25.534 - 00:04:10.644, Speaker C: Yeah. And I completely agree with the premise of the question that there's a lot of blurred lines here, and something could be serving simultaneously as a layer one in some roles and L2 in other roles. It doesn't need to be the case that the world is divided into those two. But the way I think about it is, if all other chains ceased to exist, would things be okay? Something is acting as a layer one. If it's not reliant on any other chains, maybe it's still interacting with them. You might still have roll ups between it and another chain. You might still have various cross chain bridges.
00:04:10.644 - 00:04:56.434, Speaker C: But if all of that went away and all the other chains went away, the ecosystem that lives on that one chain would still be there and sort of closely related to that. I think of it as, you know, something sort of acting as layer one if sort of the kind of key pieces are natively composing on it, if most of the value is coming from things that are kind of composing directly on that chain. And again, sort of not reliant on another one. And again, you could have something which is sort of both with, you know, some important functions happening natively on that chain and composing, but other ones just sort of transient and serve with the hard copies on another chain.
00:04:57.974 - 00:05:07.994, Speaker B: And Kane, do you agree with that kind of definition or that framework that Sam is using to think about scaling? Or how would you think about what are the most important trade offs to you when you try to scale synthetix?
00:05:08.854 - 00:05:46.896, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, every project has different things that it's trying to optimize for. Right. And I think when you're building some. Something that's like a limit book style exchange, throughput becomes really important. Whereas if you're building an amm style exchange where there's a pool of collateral and you need the collateral to be as accessible as possible, and liquidity be as accessible as possible, composability is pretty critical. And then I think there's another component as well. I'm a big advocate for experimentation.
00:05:46.896 - 00:06:11.422, Speaker D: I think experimentation is. Is huge. But I also think we need to be mindful of the trade off of things that have not yet been kind of well bedded down. And I think that's the environment that we're in for almost everything. Almost every smart contract platform is still in very early stages. I mean, even ethereum is. But there's a level of security, I think, that you have if you're on l one ethereum right now.
00:06:11.422 - 00:06:19.474, Speaker D: And I think as soon as you go off that, you go into a place that's know, much more experimental and higher risk.
00:06:20.654 - 00:07:13.486, Speaker C: I don't necessarily disagree with that. I think probably would disagree with you a bit on the magnitude of that difference. But I mean, I think it's certainly true directionally, and it's not going to change tomorrow. If that does change, it's going to be a process. I think the thing I would say, though, is that it's certainly the case that right now, if you want to have an on chain order book, which serum does that sort of needs to be. It basically needs to be natively on a fast l one without defeating most of the purpose of it, especially if you want to be able to have composability with it, which I think is super important for any defi ecosystem. What I would say, though, is that there are a bunch of things which right now are not necessarily viewed as things that need to be on a super fast l one.
00:07:13.486 - 00:08:43.274, Speaker C: But I think that that changes when you think about the future. And I think that in particular, if you're trying to ask the question of, like, you want to launch a product right now, what's the best place to do it? I think there are really compelling arguments to just put it on ethereum and not bother with any of this and just suck up the fact that it's extremely slow and expensive because the composability, the security, the community, the sort of like built up knowledge of how to interface with things there, the tooling, those are so important. I think when you project, you project yourself 15 years into the future, and not just into a random future, but into a future where sort of a lot of the expected value lies, where a lot of the upside lies. I think, first of all, you're projecting forward a lot of built up tooling and security and reliability around all of these other chains. But I also think that you're projecting extremely large explosion in usage. And that when you start to think about how big can defi get, like even things that right now seem like they're not that taxing, you know, you end up using 2% of a network for some extremely simplified protocol in terms of computation, and all of a sudden with 100 users, and all of a sudden you project that to an explosive Defi ecosystem in the future. And what was sort of tenable right now becomes quickly untenable.
00:08:45.654 - 00:09:05.776, Speaker D: Yeah, I agree with that. I think that's a fair point, that it's easy to sit here now and say, oh, well, we did this. We literally did this 18 months ago, where we're all like, yeah, this is all fine. I sat here and said the same thing. You're probably fine. Quotes of me being like, no, no, it's totally fine. Like, you know, Defi will work and, you know, it's large value transactions.
00:09:05.776 - 00:09:13.284, Speaker D: And then we had like, you know, instead of five protocols, like 15, and, you know, basically ground to a halt, which is not ideal.
00:09:16.104 - 00:09:47.484, Speaker B: Yeah. And speaking of kind of looking into the future, Kane, I know in a recent tweet you mentioned that optimistic ethereum, or in other words ethereum that's built on or reliant on optimistic rollups to scale, will be the Defi chain over the next twelve to 24 months. So this is obviously a really bold claim, given that twelve to 24 months is a huge long time in DeFi and crypto. So can you maybe start us off by briefly explaining what optimistic roll ups are and what gives you the conviction that DeFi could scale meaningfully with something like this?
00:09:48.304 - 00:11:08.802, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I think I only make bold and somewhat crazy claims, right. But my viewers really comes down to the fact that talking about other l one s that are going to be EVM compatible as a project, and seeing how hard it is for us to maintain just our current code base, the idea that you're going to be able to get people to make modifications or handle multiple different instances, instances of their protocols is really hard. And so I think there's like a lazy factor here where if the optimism team can kind of get the optimistic ethereum chain up to a point where a couple of early movers like synthetix, like potentially Uniswap go along for the ride, that it'll just become kind of the default. Like defaults are so powerful, right. And when people start looking at different options, I think there's a really strong chance that it'll be kind of a de risking exercise to say, let's actually just go with this. There's already stuff there, so we've got some composability. Uniswap is kind of the linchpin of all of this, and that's a big part of it.
00:11:08.802 - 00:12:21.634, Speaker D: And so I think if Uniswap's on there and it's working and there's decent liquidity, all of which are definitely open questions, but if those three conditions are met, I think a lot of the projects that we are seeing pop up will default to that kind of being the choice, unless there's some reason why they're excluded from being able to participate on that chain. And I just don't think that they will. And so the reason why I said twelve to 24 months is I think the default kind of momentum is heading in that direction. And I think that that's a short enough time period where a lot of the projects will see it as a kind of small move, but it's not enough time for some of the stuff that Sam's talking about to play out where it's really opaque. What's going to happen with competing l one s? Can they get the tooling up? Can they get enough momentum behind them, enough projects, enough composability in their own ecosystems? And I think once you look out past 18 to 24 months, that's really opaque to me because then you're in eight 2.0 range. And so I think for me, yes, it is a long time in Defi, but it's also a reasonable timeframe where we can kind of make some assumptions about what's going to play out.
00:12:23.454 - 00:13:24.272, Speaker C: That's definitely a possibility. I mean, I don't disagree with that being a real possibility and that sort of vision of what's going to happen, exactly that could happen, I think I don't see it as inevitable. I see it as one of a few plausible scenarios. I do in particular agree, though, that there's a pretty decent chance of lock in effect that after, say, six months, in, say, six months from now, a lot of, like, right now, I think there are a lot of project kind of sitting there, you know, looking around, trying to decide what to do about scaling, and kind of feeling like, we can't keep paying this gas, like we got to do something, but, like, you honestly don't know what to do. And I think that that state is only going to last so long because at some point, if there just becomes sort of this sense, this notion, this meme that, yeah, okay, everyone's making the same choice here. Everyone's going to optimism. I think that's going to create really powerful lock in effects, like what you see with the theorem right now.
00:13:24.272 - 00:13:54.458, Speaker C: And if I do think this is another if. If optimism is ready for that and the user experience is what people are hoping for, then I think it has a chance of just winning in the next six months or so and then that playing out over the next few years. But I also think that there are sort of, like, plausible other paths there. And obviously, I think that Solana is one of them. Where a few projects start dipping their toes in, it seems to go well. Like, the infrastructure works for them, and a few more do it. You get composability.
00:13:54.458 - 00:14:26.974, Speaker C: And then Evan sort of feels like, okay, like, if you need scaling, it seems like the thing you do is you extend onto Solana. And I think that both of those are plausible, and it's going to be, like, partially. Partially, we're going to look and be like, oh, yeah, of course that ₩1 made all these good decisions. The other half made all these bad decisions. But of course, they both made good decisions and bad decisions. And there's going to be a little bit of jitteriness and randomness about exactly what happens and what sort of ends up being viewed as the winning, you know, as there's a winning move there.
00:14:27.754 - 00:14:36.306, Speaker D: I totally agree. And, you know, it's. Sorry. Sorry. Like, I think the critical thing is, like, it's not inevitable. Right? Like, this is not.
00:14:36.370 - 00:14:36.826, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:14:36.930 - 00:14:41.786, Speaker D: There's not, like, some inevitability that, you know, even these two scenarios we're talking about play out.
00:14:41.810 - 00:14:42.514, Speaker C: Right, exactly.
00:14:42.554 - 00:14:46.106, Speaker D: There's a lot of uncertainty here. Like, I think that's why this conversation.
00:14:46.290 - 00:14:49.834, Speaker C: Like, no one would be like, what the fuck? How could that possibly happen?
00:14:49.914 - 00:15:14.768, Speaker D: You know? Yeah, yeah, it's possible. Like, it's 100% possible. I mean, you know, even, like, when I look at, like, you know, like, cosmos is obviously out there, you know, Solana you've got Nier, you've got, you know, avalanche. I think that there are like maybe four or five options that, like, have a level of credibility. Like if someone said, like, tron one, okay, then I'm a bit surprised. I'm not gonna lie. I'd be like, well, that, didn't see that coming.
00:15:14.768 - 00:15:19.896, Speaker D: Like, that definitely feels like it's on the edge of the probability spectrum. But, you know, who knows?
00:15:20.080 - 00:15:58.024, Speaker C: I think you could tell a story for that one, but it's gonna kind of different than the other stories be like that. I think Eos winning at this point is pretty hard to tell a story for even. It's just like, there's just nothing pointing that direction. I think with Tron you're like, oh, wow. Through Bittorrent and a few other things, all of a sudden everyone sort of woke up and realized with everyone in crypto completely refusing to work with it for a while, it still somehow got bigger than all the other defi. I think it sort of looks a little bit like that. But I agree it's got a pretty, pretty strong bout of resistance to get through to get any, any big projects, or at least many moving to it.
00:15:59.004 - 00:17:15.800, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a great point about kind of the types of improvements you'll need in order to port over developers and users. Because in my view, if you're offering, you know, marginal improvements on a separate ecosystem without kind of composability, without easy composability with the existing dapps, it's going to be a hard sell. But if you're improving literally to the orders of, you know, tens or hundreds of magnitude in terms of transaction per second, just like what Solana is doing, there might be a compelling narrative there. And I love to kind of dive into that point because, Sam, you mentioned the point about user experience, and currently, obviously, Solana is offering hundreds of thousands of transactions per second compared to, say, optimistic roll ups, which is probably offering closer to 100 to 400 transactions per second. But at the same time, there are concerns that users will have to trust the chain validators a bit more compared to Ethereum, given how many transactions there are processed per second, the blockchain state can blow up quite quickly and it will become kind of almost cost prohibitive to validate for the chain in the future, which means there will be very few validators. So do you think that's a valid concern? Do users have to trust validators or fewer validators in Solana when they use serum, or is there a path out of that?
00:17:15.952 - 00:17:53.480, Speaker C: It's a good question. And, I mean, a lot of people bring that up. My honest take on that is that it's a concern, but not a very big one. I know a lot of people disagree with me on the magnitude of it. Here's my sense of why. And it's like something we thought about when, you know, when you're looking at chains to start building serum on. And sort of one of the big questions is like, you know, it's often posed as this series of trade offs, like, what are you going to sacrifice to get the speed? And sort of, you know, our sense was that really, it's the sacrifice isn't that big, that it's more.
00:17:53.480 - 00:18:45.250, Speaker C: We're just like, not at you, just like we're not at an optimal point, not an equilibrium. So here's my sense of why I think it's, it's not a huge deal. So first of all, just sort of going point by point there you look at, like, validator, like, sort of, you know, distribution of stake weight across tsalanomi net validators right now. So, you know, the things that are actually determining the blocks. And it looks very close to the distribution of hashrate across Ethereum mining pools and which is sort of the analogous structure in Ethereum. And I'm sort of not trying to make very strong points about whether that's enough long term. I think I'm more trying to make points about whether it's horrifically little or whether it's okay for now.
00:18:45.250 - 00:19:39.354, Speaker C: And I think it's clearly okay for now in that sense, in that we seem to think that Ethereum won with the mine distribution is okay for now. No one's sort of, like, really running around screaming about hashrate distribution on Ethereum. So I think on that point, it's more is better, and it's like doubling every couple of months because it's in the newer phase. And so you are seeing a lot of growth in the number of block producers on Solana, but it's not in sort of like a unpalatable state right now. It's in an okay state, and it's getting better. And then the second thing that I'd say is, which is another thing people bring up a lot, is, like, the cost prohibitiveness. Like, is anyone, you know, is it the case that, like, sure, there's, like, some validators right now, but, like, that's all, that's all there's basically ever going to be able to be.
00:19:39.354 - 00:20:31.784, Speaker C: Like, maybe there will be a little growth, but, like, certainly, like, you can't run one. At least right now that's mostly not true. You know, right now, like most computers can run one, it's not the case that you need a supercomputer to run a Solana node right now. And I think it's the kind of thing where basically all desktops and most laptops could run one. And it certainly is massively more intense than running an Ethereum node, or at least an Ethereum node that doesn't have to ping anyone or deal with any requests. But that's because it's scaling with computer speed. As computers get faster, so does Solana network capacity, but sort of in line with that.
00:20:31.784 - 00:21:19.404, Speaker C: So I think it is the case that basically anyone in crypto could be running their own Solana node right now. And again, these aren't to say that this is not at all a problem. These aren't to say that this is sort of drawback lists, but it's just to say that I don't see these as fatal. I see these as relatively small ones. I think especially it's in not that bad of a place for a relatively young chain, which is seeing pretty substantial growth in validator base and things like that. So I think that it's, practically speaking, I think it's okay.
00:21:19.744 - 00:22:00.070, Speaker A: And this 32nd intermission is brought to you by our sponsor, Nexo. Depending on what type of company you're operating, Nexo can help you in different ways. As an exchange, they can be a strategic partner. As a miner, they will offer you OTC credit lines to help cover expenses. And as a crypto fund or any type of institutional counterparties, they can offer you a portfolio of structured financial products and up to 8% annual interest on your idle stablecoins. As well as asset swap agreements or direct borrowing off crypto individuals can also park their cash and stablecoins at Nexo's interest earning account to get an annual rate of 8%. And what's more is that you can actually claim this interest every single day, and you can add or withdraw funds at any time as well.
00:22:00.070 - 00:22:03.894, Speaker A: So if this sounds interesting to you, get started at Nexo IO.
00:22:04.874 - 00:22:51.954, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think that question about whether Solana can scale its validator set really comes down to, as you said, Moore's law, and we can get into the quantum tunneling effect with the transistor density and all that stuff. But I don't think we have time for that. But I'd love to kind of take that discussion about user experience to you as well, Cain, because for optimistic rollups, I think one of the key critiques for it is that the exit games, for people to enter or exit from these roll ups can take quite a long time because of the optimistic guarantees that you're making. So it could maybe take a week or longer for people to extract their funds from, say, the synthetix roll up. So contrast this, obviously with serum where you don't have those economic exit games, you can settle right away. Do you think that's a reasonable trade off, or how should we think about that?
00:22:52.334 - 00:24:34.704, Speaker D: I think, like anything, right? It's a point of complexity that needs to be abstracted away. And until you can abstract that complexity away from the user, then it's going to be a point of friction, but it certainly won't be the only point of friction that we have. And I think that there's already pretty credible proposals to allow market makers or liquidity providers to essentially provide a bridge across that and take the risk that they're inspecting the state of both l one and l two simultaneously, and be able to allow people to exit faster for some kind of a fee. And even in the case of synthetix, if you think about how much is being paid across the synthetix network per week, it's in the hundreds of thousands of dollars in gas and gas fees every single week. If you can reduce that by migrating to L2 to thousands of dollars even, or tens of thousands of dollars, which you should be able to do, then there's a huge market opportunity for someone to step in and capture some of that value by providing that service and making it less, less frictionful. And so I think that those things will be solved. I don't think they'll be solved immediately, but certainly we're lucky in synthetix to be kind of in a position where it is somewhat of a self contained ecosystem, and you can migrate to l two, you can do all your staking and everything and interact there, and not need to be constantly going back and forth between l one and l two.
00:24:36.004 - 00:25:14.224, Speaker B: That makes a lot of sense. And I'd love to pivot a little bit to talk about something that I'm generally really curious about, which is minor extractable value. So it is a pretty big point, often brought out about dexs, regardless of whether it's scaling on layer one or L2. And for listeners, essentially, it states that miners and validators have the ability to see trades before they are finalized, since they need to be broadcasted to them. So this gives them the ability to frontrun traders, to reorder transactions and so on. And more importantly, I think this paper titled Flashboys 2.0 did this study that showed that if defi markets get large enough, the minor extractable value gets higher than block rewards.
00:25:14.224 - 00:25:36.240, Speaker B: It can actually incentivize forking attacks. So I'm not sure if this is something that is solvable by layer one or L2 scaling, or whether it's even right to think about it that way. But Sam, I know that you have an extensive HFT background, so I'm really curious about what your take is on this. Is this a big issue? If so, can Solana solve something like this?
00:25:36.432 - 00:26:23.434, Speaker C: Yeah, so I mean, in general, obviously latency is important in trading, and no one is going to say it isn't. I think that people sort of like too quickly jump to a generalized version of that, though. And like in particular, if you look at the actual Flashboys book, it's mostly bullshit. I mean, it's just like one giant advertisement for a product that was about to launch. And it's a fantastic advertisement. Like it did very well for the founders, did very poorly for the economy, but very well for the founders, and probably fucked Wall street for a very long time regulatorily because now everyone has to pretend they're worried about the predatory HFT firms, even in places where it makes no sense. But yeah, I mean, speed does matter.
00:26:23.434 - 00:27:06.900, Speaker C: And what I would say is that it's going to be hard in any decentralized ecosystem ever to completely get rid of Mev. But there are a lot of things you can do to really significantly decrease its impact. And by far the biggest is just cut down block times. One way to think of this is like, so the worry here is some version of the following. There's a miner and there's a trader, and the trader submits an order to buy on some sort of whatever decentralized trading venue. And it goes, it goes that miner or block producer or leader or staker or whatever. And then they're like, uh huh, order to buy.
00:27:06.900 - 00:27:51.848, Speaker C: You say, let's push that to the back of the queue. And then they put like their order to buy in front of it, or like, and there are a million variants on it, but they all sort of look like that. And one of the key things about this is that, you know, in general, the longer that you have that, the miner has to delay deciding what to do, the bigger and bigger this problem becomes. Because then they can sort of just sit there waiting for the market to move, see which way things go, and then sort of like position things based on that. If they only have a split second to decide everything. You still have these ordering issues, but at least you don't have to like wait for markets to go down and submit their buy order at too high of a price type issues. And so one thing that really does make it a lot less bad is if you get latency down.
00:27:51.848 - 00:29:27.484, Speaker C: And so I think like when you're talking about something like serum, where you're talking about a fraction of a second and everything's getting into the next block, the scale of MeV is a lot lower as compared to Ethereum right now, where it's practically speaking, minutes for lots of transactions to be dealt with. That's one key thing that you can use to significantly cut down on it, although not remove it altogether. And then another type of thing that you can imagine, and this works for various proof of stake type chains, although it doesn't, it's sort of more finicky for proof of work, is that you could imagine having, for instance, some block producers basically state, look, I'm not going to do this. Here's some dumb algorithm for how I'm going to decide how to order things and shit like that. I'm just going to use this algorithm and it's going to be kind of semi publicly provable that they're not cheating on this and that they're not in fact inserting shit before stuff that they see coming across their sites. And first of all, I would guess that you would actually get many blog producers giving this guarantee, maybe all of them. But even if you don't, if you had a particularly sensitive transaction, you could choose to send it to one of these, one of these block producers that has promised and obviously has a long track record of following that promise and then sort of not worry about it as much.
00:29:27.484 - 00:30:10.944, Speaker C: That's sort of like another approach that you could take to trying to combat it. And there are a lot of other things you can do as well, like some types of transactions you can try to shield. It's a little bit tricky. There's some stuff you can do there. Basically, I think there's a big toolkit of things that you can use to make this a less big problem. It doesn't get rid of it entirely, but you should think of it as reducing this from you lose half a percent on all your trades to this down to you lose half a bip on all of your trades about this, reducing it down to the point where it's only preventing a small fraction of all the possible activity from happening.
00:30:13.344 - 00:30:33.284, Speaker B: That's really interesting. And I know in the context of synthetix. Kane, you had your experience with tackling some of the front running issues on synthetix very early on. So in your opinion, can using something like optimistic rollups or any type of L2 scaling, will that make the problem of minor extractable value or front running better or worse?
00:30:33.824 - 00:31:38.694, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, Sam's 100% right. Like the lower latency, the lower, lower the magnitude of the opportunity. Anything you can do to speed things up, I think will significantly increase it. We're in this inflection point now where there's enough stuff going on in Defi, there's large enough transactions where the incentive to start doing these things has become real on l one. And I think that, like, if we can just get over to l two and reduce that latency over the next like six months, then maybe it doesn't kind of escalate into like a genuine practical problem. Like, I think there's certain classes of transactions right now where weird stuff's happening, right? And we've seen some of the, you know, the ethereum is a dark forest post, you know, where there are these like generalized front running bots that are, that are out there, but it's not yet clear that those types of bots are being run by miners themselves. You can still do it by reading the mempool.
00:31:38.694 - 00:32:22.924, Speaker D: And so I don't think we've yet got to this point of miners actually doing this on a large scale. But I think that we will get, if we don't address the problem, we will get there. And so I think it's really critical that we do reduce the latency and reduce that problem. And so for us, things like Oracle latency obviously is a huge deal. Right. If we can reduce the oracle latency from, you know, minutes, or in some cases like tens of minutes down to, you know, sub second, most of the, the challenging issues we've been dealing with with synthetics just kind of disappear because it just becomes much harder to kind of deterministically, you know, snipe those, those changes in oracle updates and profit from it.
00:32:24.704 - 00:33:39.934, Speaker C: Yeah, I do agree with that. One thing I'll note is that, and this is not an unsolvable problem, but like, one pain with using a L2 approach is that you could end up in a situation where you sort of feel like the L2 has removed most of these issues, but you still have them with respect to the interface between layer one and L2. And you sort of not only have to resolve them for that, but you have to resolve them where one of the sides is really slow again, and it's only for sort of like some types of things that this matters. Because to the extent that everything is happening in L2 in the same L2, then you don't even need to go back to the layer one. And as long as you have a sufficiently trusted setup in L2, that you're not worried about things being dropped when being written to layer one, although that is a real worry, then you can ignore this. But in that case you're back to the L2 just being a layer one. And if instead you're living in a world where there's expected to be lots of L2s that are non overlapping, or there's expected to be some things on L2 and some things on layer one or something like that, you sort of do have this issue when you're interfacing between them.
00:33:40.954 - 00:34:27.524, Speaker D: Yeah, I agree. And I think I'm not even necessarily convinced that something like serum running on optimistic ethereum or the OVM would necessarily even not have some of these issues present. So I totally agree. I just think most of defi at the moment is not, doesn't require that level of throughput in terms of limit orders and stuff. So I think we can kind of dance around the issue for a little while and not address it like we do for so many other things, and just get away with it for a little bit longer and then see if we can increase throughput in maybe the one to three year time horizon rather than six to twelve month time horizon.
00:34:28.064 - 00:34:31.880, Speaker C: Yeah. And I do think that my extracted value is not the biggest problem right now.
00:34:31.912 - 00:34:34.368, Speaker D: And if you progress on it, you.
00:34:34.376 - 00:35:24.234, Speaker C: Can live with a suboptimal solution for your. That's totally fine. The thing I'd be worried about is just like what's the long term view? If the long term view is like massively increase throughput on, on OVM or something, so that everyone is in the same OVM instance, then you're sort of back to just like, oh, there's a new layer one. And it was sort of like, you know, it was phrased differently, like sort of the appetizer was as a L2, but sort of the entree is the L2 becomes a layer one. And to be clear, I think that's a totally reasonable way to do this. I think like there's a lot of advantages to picking a new chain saying that's going to be the l two, and also maybe eventually it'll become the l one. But if you're doing that, then I think you're sort of like filtering for a different set of things for that new chain than you are if you're sort of envisioning it as only ever being sort of like a fragmented l two.
00:35:25.254 - 00:35:53.134, Speaker D: Yeah, I agree. And I do think that it's a huge advantage. This goes back to my kind of default point earlier. There's a huge advantage in being a transitionary technology if you don't have to have a breakpoint, like a sharp breakpoint where everyone has to collectively agree, okay, we're all going to jump at the same time. Like, no one. You all have to jump. Right? If anyone doesn't jump, then we're fucked.
00:35:53.134 - 00:36:26.908, Speaker D: So trying to coordinate that type of behavior, I think, is really hard. Whereas if you can get a couple of people that can do it with fairly low risk, in the case of synthetix and OVM, if you can get a few people to make that jump, and then other people can. Can kind of see that that worked and then have that transition kind of gain momentum, I think it's really powerful, but, yeah, it doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to be, you know, the solution that we can kind of stick with forever after that. Right. Like, there needs to be something that comes after it to kind of follow.
00:36:26.996 - 00:36:27.340, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:36:27.412 - 00:36:30.772, Speaker D: Follow through with the opportunity, the potential.
00:36:30.868 - 00:36:32.824, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, I agreed on both points.
00:36:33.644 - 00:36:53.414, Speaker B: So how do you guys think about the relationship between Solana, which is a layer one scalable solution, versus Ethereum today? Is it safe to kind of think of Solana potentially as a sidechain for Ethereum? Or maybe Ethereum is a side chain for Solana. What is the kind of correct framework that you guys use to think about the relationship between the two?
00:36:53.754 - 00:37:36.606, Speaker C: I think what I would say is, like, one of the advantages to using as your fast thing, whatever you want, your fast, whatever you want to call your fast thing. One of the advantages to using something that's being natively built out as a layer one is that it has that option, and you can still use it as a layer too. If you want. You can still run things on Solana, but consider this Solana to be your scratch pad and the hard copy to be whatever. You've write back to Ethereum and build some like, clients to do that. And I think that works. And I think that it's a little bit clunkier than doing it with OVM because OVM is just designed sort of like, for that purpose, and that's the thing it's built for.
00:37:36.606 - 00:38:20.720, Speaker C: And so all the syntax is built around that. But also the cost of doing that is that it has all the limitations of having been designed to do that, including using the EVM. Like it's. Her scalability is massively less not being built with being an l one in mind. And so you sort of can't use it as an l one, or at least is not going to be that good at that. And so the way I see Solana is that it, you know, you can use it as either, right? You can build natively on it as an l one, or you can build using it as an l two. Or as you said, you could go the other way and say, look, like, you know, we're building natively on Solana, but obviously we want people who have, you know, who have ETH to be able to access it.
00:38:20.720 - 00:39:07.428, Speaker C: And so you build an outpost on Ethereum, where Ethereum is sort of your l two in that case, and Solana's the l one, so that it's sort of easier to interface with for people who are, you know, who just have metamask. And I think that, like, you know, any of those visions can make sense. It just depends on where you are in your business and where your customers are and what your product is. I think that, like, serum is sort of seeing Solana Zl one and ethos. It's sort of that last vision. I think that, like, you're going to see a lot of people seeing Solana as either an l two on Ethereum or sort of a parallel ecosystem. So you might see projects basically deploy on both, you know, have a Solana outpost and an Ethereum outpost and structure them such that they're like, you know, mostly non interacting.
00:39:07.428 - 00:40:18.774, Speaker C: And, like, both are kind of considered hard copies. And they're almost just like different pools. Like you'd imagine amm, which already has non interacting pools, just having like, some pools on one and some pools on the other, instead of taking the can down the road on deciding, you know, is one of these going to be, quote unquote, you know, the real and the other going to be, you know, the side chain or the l two or something like that? But I think that I've had a bit of a shift of mind of this where when serve as first thinking about serum, I was thinking about it as being starting out clearly as an l two built on with ethereum as the l one. And I think that, like, I now think of it more the other way around. And the reason that I think about the other way around is I think that in the high upside scenarios. In the scenarios where theorem really does great, and in the scenarios where it's really providing that big of a service to the world and to defi, I think those are the scenarios where it ends up taking on a huge load itself with native composability internal to it, and a lot of people are building on it. I think those are scenarios where it's really doing a lot, and I think that in those scenarios, it sort of becomes at least its own l one.
00:40:21.524 - 00:41:23.944, Speaker B: That's really interesting take, and I think it makes total sense in that I think a lot of people were talking about using highly scalable changes, L2s for Ethereum's layer one, but then some people also think about it the other way. But then functionally, I guess it doesn't really matter what the taxonomy is, as long as it achieves the low latency and the type of user experience that we described. And I think just to kind of end off the discussion here, because this is one point that both of you mentioned towards the beginning of the discussion, which is this point about composability, the importance of plugging into other projects. So obviously, synthetix right now is building its own defi ecosystem. It's plugging into other projects, and it has protocols like Dhedge built on top of it. And as I understand it, serum is also trying to be much more than a central limit order book exchange and is building an ecosystem on top of Solana. So are there any kind of composability trade offs between building on L2 on Ethereum versus building on non ethereum layer one? And how do you guys think about that?
00:41:24.364 - 00:42:06.304, Speaker D: I mean, I think as soon as you go off ethereum right now, you're out of the wilderness, right? Like, you know, I've said this a few times before, right? Like, you know, if you need to be willing to back yourself to create something that's going to bring people to you, right? Both users, liquidity traders, everything. If you go onto an l two, it's no different just because it's the OEM and it's easier. It's still a hard problem, and I think it's a problem for anyone who leaves l one, where the trade offs are very harsh between composability and scalability improvement.
00:42:09.604 - 00:42:46.114, Speaker C: Yeah, I totally agree with that. Right now, right now, if you're doing anything other than just building straight ethereum, you're losing most of the composability, and there's just no two ways around it. And sort of the world has proven that even literally the easiest composability ever is often too hard for people to bother using. The fact that no one has tied compound and uniswap up together to create margin training still baffles me like that. This isn't just what everyone does. And so then you put any hitch in the process, any big hitch, no matter what it is. And practically speaking, you've lost a lot of this composability.
00:42:46.114 - 00:43:46.252, Speaker C: I think I would say, though, is that sort of projecting further down and thinking, what's the best end state here? Or at least sort of medium term state? Where's the biggest value? I sort of think that comes from a new l one, not from an l two. And the reason is that with both of them, when you start out, there's no composability because nothing else is there. But the point of a new l one is that everything's supposed to build on that. And so if that happens, if a ton of people build on it, then you get composability on that new l one and you sort of like rediscover composability with things that have made it to the other side. Whereas if you're doing sort of an l two, you sort of don't have a great path back to composability, at least not to like strong composability. You know, you sort of have weak composability if you're kind of weaving in and out. But it's, you know, as keen said, it's a pretty big pain.
00:43:46.252 - 00:44:13.464, Speaker C: And so I think that, like, you know, if you're asking what's the goal here? I kind of don't get the goal if you're using an l two. The eventual goal for composability, it sort of seems like you have years in the wilderness before one is found, and optimistically one is found, whereas with building on new l one, I think she's totally clear what the answer is. It's like composability on that l one for sure.
00:44:13.584 - 00:45:09.814, Speaker D: I guess maybe my point was too soft at the beginning. We are very confident that we can bring everyone with us to optimistic Ethereum. I don't think there's a whole bunch of things that you do, and you just went through this process, your DD process of where are we going to build this thing? We want to build this thing. We have a specification of what we want to build, and we're going to look around and find the best possible thing that we can optimize to build that thing on ourselves, to kind of bring your existing user base to that right? Which is a huge advantage that you guys have, I think, with FTX, right. That like, there's a, there's a kind of audience there that not many people have, right. And I think if anyone else tried to do it, I would be kind of laughable to be, to be totally honest, right? Like, you know, I mean, binance has tried to do it, finance chain, but I think you guys did. Like, you were genuine about it, right? Like you actually looked around and said, like, where is this place that I can go? Right.
00:45:09.814 - 00:46:16.664, Speaker D: For us, I think that the key insight into how we're thinking about this is we truly believe we can bring most of defi that exists on Ethereum today onto optimistic Ethereum in the short term, in the next six to 24 months. If we can do that, it buys us enough time to let some of these things play out. And I think it essentially just sucks the oxygen out of the room for anyone who's trying to build this alternative reality, l one, that has composability, I think it makes it really, really hard to do that. If we don't do that, and it's very fractured and there's a bunch of l two s with different compounds on one and albeit on another, and we're on the third one, I think then it becomes hard. But if we can really build consensus and drive people, and that's my job right now, that's something that, for this to make sense for synthetix, we really have to be able to advocate for it and drive this. And if we can, and we do it, and I think we have a decent shot at it, then I think composability elsewhere just becomes much, much harder.
00:46:18.244 - 00:47:10.914, Speaker C: I do agree with that completely, and I do think you have a shot at it, and I do think that's sort of the win case for it. But I would further say that the win case for it just looks shittier to me than the win case for Solana. And maybe I'm. I'm sort of like, obviously there's some differences of opinions that are flowing through that, but I think I'm composable. Either you're sort of sharding people a lot, or splitting people between different copies of it or something like that, and really hurting posability, or you're trying to cram everything into one instance of it, but then you get back to the scaling problem, back to the point that you are limited in your scaling by, by OVM scaling, and it's just like not nearly as big as Solana's. And so you can you can kind of regain composability with the ecosystem as it is, but you can't get it with a massively bigger one.
00:47:11.254 - 00:47:33.130, Speaker D: Agreed. 100% agree. And, you know, this is like a, I think, you know, a kind of very clear eyed, like, view that like, this is not a thing that's long term. Right. There's not necessarily a long term solution. This is a solution to get us to, you know, eat 2.0 right in the next, like two to three years.
00:47:33.130 - 00:48:52.764, Speaker D: And, and so I think that when you, you know, again, when you look at that and you say, okay, we're happy and we are willing to accept the trade offs here because, you know, everything's trade offs, right? And if it turns out that, and I think this is something that people kind of maybe dismiss, or if it turns out that there is some other l one, some other consensus mechanism that is so obviously superior and there's enough time to see what the tradeoffs are, it would not surprise me at all, as we've seen with some of the side chains and stuff on Ethereum, that that's incorporated into some future version of E 2.0 or 2.1 or whatever it is, I don't think that the people who are working on the research on E 2.0 are going to discount anything else and discount other options. I think that all of these experiments that are going on with other l one s just help to provide more information for the market to decide what is the consensus model mechanism that we want for Ethereum in the future. And if it turns out that the current research is going the wrong direction, there's something that's just so obviously superior. I'd like to think that the Ethereum community would be open to adopting that.
00:48:53.584 - 00:49:29.582, Speaker C: I'd like to think that too. But there's kind of years of evidence against it because maybe you think it's been doing the right thing the whole time. But like, from someone who doesn't think that the fact that not only years of evidence of going in the wrong direction, but also failing to produce a product or even have a product that's going to be ready for release soon, the longer the timetable gets, I sort of don't take that as a sign of, like, increased security. I take that as a sign of like, decreased ability to build a product and like increased kind of chaos. But, you know, maybe I'll be wrong about that.
00:49:29.758 - 00:49:50.324, Speaker D: Yeah, I don't think that's an unfair criticism. Right. And I mean, trust me, as someone who's been living inside Ethereum for a long time. I'm not trying to pretend like there's not a level of frustration. It would have been amazing if at the end of 2018, we had a magical e 2.0 that solved all the world's problems. But it's a hard problem to solve.
00:49:50.324 - 00:50:46.684, Speaker D: And I think that it's one of those things where trying to balance the trade offs and maybe those trade offs haven't necessarily been adequately balanced, but trying to balance those, those trade offs is very hard. And that's where I think that these experiments with other l one s. If, again, someone can credibly demonstrate that there's just an obvious superior solution where the trade offs are much less harsh, et cetera, et cetera, it feels weird to assume that we're just going to drive off a cliff and not look at what the state of current research is before looking at other options. And again, maybe that's too optimistic, but I feel like that's. But I think we need to buy ourselves time. There absolutely has to be a transitionary period, and if we don't buy ourselves time now and we continue in the current l one environment, then I think we're fucked. And that's why the OVM is so critical.
00:50:46.684 - 00:51:07.634, Speaker D: Right. Optimistic theorem is so critical to get right soon, because we need to, as you pointed out it out, Sam, like, we need to alleviate this stress. Everyone's kind of looking around going, what the fuck are we going to do here? And if we don't have an answer in the next, like, you know, three to six months, I think we've got problems, but I think we will have that answer, and I think we can credibly buy ourselves the time, but we'll see.
00:51:09.454 - 00:51:52.654, Speaker B: Yeah, I absolutely love this discussion so far, because to me, it sounds like, Kane, you've been going to where the users are today and hopefully evolving the infrastructure as the entire space evolves, as the entire ethereum community evolves. Whereas, Sam, you're choosing to go to where you think the future users who aren't even probably in crypto today will be going to. So those are two kind of distinct strategies, and I'm really, really excited to see where each of them goes. And in the interest of time, there's so much more that we can get into. But in the interest of time, I'd love to kind of wrap up the discussion here. And for people who want to learn more about your respective projects, given that there have been significant launches for both of you guys recently, what are the best channels to follow you guys? Sam, why don't you go first.
00:51:53.034 - 00:52:15.414, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, obviously, like, it's a lot of places, but I think, like, you can follow me on Twitter, you can go to our discord, to our telegram group, and you can go to projectserium.com and see a bunch of cool shit that's going to be launching over the next few weeks, some of which I've been super involved with, some of which I probably have no idea about.
00:52:16.634 - 00:52:17.814, Speaker B: What about you, Kane?
00:52:18.114 - 00:52:47.494, Speaker D: Yeah. So, you know, obviously, synthetix on Twitter is a great place to kind of get the high level updates of what's going on. And then, you know, if you want a bit more craziness, you can follow me on Twitter, but, you know, that's up to you, if that's on you. And then, you know, our discord is a great place if you want to go kind of deeper, as well as our research forum, you know, in the kind of technical nuances of. And we've got. There's actually an l two channel in our discord. The OVM team, the optimism team are in there as well.
00:52:47.494 - 00:52:53.074, Speaker D: So, you know, if you have specific questions about some of these trade offs or want to go deeper, that's a great place to go.
00:52:54.334 - 00:52:58.654, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, once again, thanks so much for taking the time to come on this show, guys. This has been really fun.
