00:00:00.440 - 00:00:22.390, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 13 September 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So before I get into all the stuff that happened over the weekend, I do want to give a quick reminder here that gitcoin grants matching round is still on. So if you haven't done your donations yet, be sure to do so. It goes until September 22.
00:00:22.390 - 00:01:00.674, Speaker A: So you do have a bit of time here, but don't delay, don't forget, you know, do it after you finish listening to the refill, or maybe pause the refill and go do it now so you don't forget. I'll be giving you periodic reminders up until September 22 anyway, but better to do it sooner rather than later. But it's funny in saying that I haven't done my donations yet, but we won't talk about that. I'll be doing mine soon. But just make sure, you know, you get it done before the deadline here. So that $950,000 worth of matching funds goes to not only the projects that other people want to see funded, but the projects that you want to see funded as well. All right, so I think the biggest piece of news activity, you know, I guess what everyone was talking about over the weekend was arbitram.
00:01:00.674 - 00:01:29.708, Speaker A: Now we all know that arbitram one, the arbitrum one main net, went live about twelve or 13 days ago now after I'd been talking about it for many, many months. And really we had been teased for many, many months. But essentially the reason why it was talked about was because their growth absolutely exploded across like TVL number of unique addresses, transactions, fee, revenue. It's just absolutely insane. And you can see here that their TVL went to $2.2 billion. And really the majority of this growth happened within the last few days.
00:01:29.708 - 00:02:12.676, Speaker A: And it was because, I mean, a few different reasons, right? Like one of the biggest reasons was there was some massive kind of yield farms that got spun up, something called like Nyan Farm or something, some cat farm and a couple of other ones out there, the ones that we've seen on Ethereum's layer one before, we've all seen it right, during DeFi summer and stuff like that as well. So, you know, hundreds of thousands of ETH got bridged into it and we, we had these TvL spike up to over $2 billion, which, which is absolutely insane. Same and over. And about $700 million was deposited in just one day. So this growth has been phenomenal for arbitram, and I'm really happy to see them kind of seeing the success so far. They hit their, like, main net transaction limits that they have in place, like their training wheels, which is hilarious. They had, I think, 70,000 unique addresses so far.
00:02:12.676 - 00:02:41.684, Speaker A: Use the, use the network, which is, which is pretty good considering they've only been alive for not even two weeks so far. The fees that they're generating is actually quite amazing. If I go to here and look at their fees, crypto fees, that info has been updated to show their fear of revenue. Now, you can see over the last 24 hours, they did $168,000 worth of fear revenue, and optimism is actually doing double that as well. So there's been some on flow as well. Like optimism got a bit of growth, too. I think people are realizing that these L2 networks are now live because of arbitrum, and they're checking out optimism.
00:02:41.684 - 00:03:11.804, Speaker A: They're checking out all the other ones, like dy DX as well. Seems to be growing, too. I mean, I've personally been using Dy DX more recently for a few different reasons, but it's so quick. It's so amazing. Like, I just, these L2s are awesome, and people are just like, sleeping on them still. But, you know, I think arbitrary is now, like, I guess, ahead of optimism's growth here in terms of TVL and stuff like that. But in terms of fear of a new optimism, still making more and uniswap on arbitrum did over $30 million of volume, last time I checked, over the weekend on either Saturday or Sunday.
00:03:11.804 - 00:03:52.792, Speaker A: And optimism has done, I think, $15 million or something, which is a record for both the networks, which is just absolutely crazy, just a lot of activity going on. And there was this thread put out here from gin covering a bunch of kind of, I guess, the arbitrary metrics and stuff like that, and how you can get involved with arbitrary and how you can bridge how long it takes, what block explorers to use, you know, how to, how to chart different things and all that sort of stuff. So definitely check out this thread. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But I mean, it's just been amazing, right, to see this, to see this growth of arbitrum. And some people have criticized it or kind of tried to diminish this growth, saying, oh, it all, it all just went there because it went into like this ponzi farm or whatever you want to call it. And I kind of push back on that.
00:03:52.792 - 00:04:31.367, Speaker A: And I wrote some stuff about this in the newsletter today, but I pushed back on that because what people are just moralizing now about what's a good project, what versus what's a bad project. I mean, so what, like, I don't understand where this logic is coming from. All the liquidity mining programs on the quote unquote legit defi apps were exactly the same. They were paying out token rewards as yield, right? As they called them, in order to provide liquidity. They had, some of them had pool pool two, some of them didn't, which is, I guess the more kind of like hardcore pool where there's much higher chance of kind of like losing your money in. But you know, some of them had that. And you know, I don't, I don't really see the fundamental difference here, like, to be honest.
00:04:31.367 - 00:05:03.598, Speaker A: But in terms of like liquidity mining programs. And some people might, may say, okay, well, it's more legit because there's this actual product behind it and then there's liquidity mining on top. And yes, fine, that's fair, but the principle still remains the same. The whole point of liquidity mining is to attract liquidity. So, or not only has those kind of like, I guess you can call them Ponzi farms, whatever you want to call them. I'm just going to call them yield farms on arbitrum attracted liquidity, but it's also has it having an onflow effect into the rest of the ecosystem that's on arbitrum. Like I just mentioned, Uniswap's volumes on arbitra are exploding.
00:05:03.598 - 00:05:22.516, Speaker A: Sushiswap also did a lot of volume on there as well. I don't know the number off top of my head, but they did. Balance is on there. There's a few other stuff, a few other things on there, and there are going to be more and more apps coming. So these people are already being on boarded. They just came through like this yield farm or this Ponzi farm, whatever, and it doesn't matter. They're, they're on arbitrary and they're using it, they're experiencing the lower fees.
00:05:22.516 - 00:05:45.416, Speaker A: They're adding to the network's kind of fundamental value here. And they're actually, um, you know, it's actually real activity. So there is no point like moralizing here and saying, well, uh, I guess like uh, it was just to that Ponzi farm, it's just going to go away as quickly as it came. It may, but it may not. And a lot of people may stay there. Cause they're like, well, why would I go back to layer one when all, when all, I know that all these apps are coming. I can do it cheaper on L2.
00:05:45.416 - 00:06:33.004, Speaker A: So I'm just going to stay here. So it works as just a really great way to bootstrap a new ecosystem and basically free marketing, which I think is really, really cool. So I don't really like the fact that people are trying to moralize this sort of stuff and saying what's good or bad. But I guess on that note about fees and cost savings, Chainlink God had a really great tweet thread here, basically correcting the misconception that the transaction speed limit on arbitrum is capping the cost savings. Um, but arbitrary isn't running at capacity yet, as I've described before, uh, the costs, uh, derived, and I explained this on one of last week's refuels, but the costs of, um, L2 fees are derived from, uh, the l one security, the l one kind of, um, call data that needs to be post. Sorry, the call data that needs to be posted to l one that is kind of like a fixed fee. And I mean, the arbitrum guys went over this on the Bankless podcast.
00:06:33.004 - 00:07:06.708, Speaker A: You should, you should go check out the podcast that they did there for a full breakdown of this. But essentially I described to, to you guys last week how the fees on L2 tend to get cheaper over time for multiple reasons. But one of the reasons is that you can share the load of the fees with kind of like more use, sorry, across more users as there's more transactions and stuff like that. But that's just one part of the fee. There is a fixed fee called the call data that needs to kind of be put onto l one that doesn't get affected by the more users out there. So I should have mentioned that last week. I just forgot to, I just wanted to keep the example as simple as possible.
00:07:06.708 - 00:07:36.802, Speaker A: But, but the other, the other costs associated with transactions can be spread out across, like all the transactions on the network. And as there's more transactions, as there's more throughput, the cost should come down over time up to a certain limit. Because, you know, this is the same for every single crypto network, every single blockchain. If the blocks are full, then the fees are going to go up. It's the exact same thing. Doesn't matter if it's another layer one or a L2 or a side chain, whatever you want to call them, it's always the same thing. If the capacity is filled up, then people are going to outbeat each other to get into a block.
00:07:36.802 - 00:08:07.494, Speaker A: It's exactly the same across every network. This doesn't fundamentally change if you're a L2 or layer one. But what L2 gives us is increased capacity, more bang for our buck, because it basically allows us to do the execution off chain and do the settlement on chain, which is the long term roadmap of Ethereum anyway. So we're going down the right path. But if you want more info on this, definitely check out this thread from chain link God here. It was a really great breakdown. He does a lot of great threads, especially around Chainlink, but it's great to see him putting one together about, about arbitrary here.
00:08:07.494 - 00:08:50.319, Speaker A: And then DC investor had an interesting tweet because I had a lot of people asking me this as well. And he says the best way to play the growth of l two s on ethereum is just to buy ETH. All roll ups must pay l one fees in ETH for security, and each l two allows the ETH based economy to continue to grow, creating more reserve demand for ETH and more opportunities for collateral use. Easy. So I agree with, with DC investor here. I think, you know, I mean, I saw over the weekend that for an hour or so there, or a couple of hours, the optimism bridge and the Arbitrum bridge, I believe were burning were some of the top burners on the ultrasound money leaderboard for top burners. And on top of that, arbitrary is posting batches pretty much like every other minute at this .2
00:08:50.319 - 00:09:08.608, Speaker A: layer one, which also burns ETH, I think most of it ends up getting burned. The fees that they pay, and they pay two to $300 per batch. So you could say that just from arbitrum alone, they're burning two to $300 per minute. A minute or two, or something worth of 8th, which is pretty cool because that adds up really quickly. A minute or two is not very long. I'm not very long time. A lot of minutes in a day.
00:09:08.608 - 00:09:32.400, Speaker A: Right. But I would also add on here, I put out a tweet earlier today where I said, I mean, you guys know this, I say this all the time. Like, every crypto related project is going to have a token. Massive asterisks, except their deli Gwei. I always got to put that there. The daily guy's not going to have a token, guys. But I'm talking like, you know, protocols like arbitrary and optimism, all the other L2s that don't have one yet and stuff like that, they're all going to have a token.
00:09:32.400 - 00:09:51.536, Speaker A: It's as simple as that. And not just them. But look, all the apps that are token less, they will, I'm pretty confident about that. I mean I don't have any special knowledge. They haven't, you know, these things haven't told me if they're having a token or anything like that. But I just don't see why they wouldn't like for a number of reasons. So, but in the meantime, while they don't have a token, ETH is I mean the, the best bet I think in my eyes.
00:09:51.536 - 00:10:29.552, Speaker A: I mean I buy ETH partly because of that reason, but I mean obviously a lot of other reasons as well. But generally it's very hard to get exposure right now. I mean you could technically, I mean matic is, is a great exposure to a scalable ethereum ecosystem as well. Disclose I disclosure I'm an advisor to polygon. I'm not trying to get you to buy matic, but like I'm just thinking through my head about what tokens can you can buy or what things you can buy to get exposure to scaling. And really, I mean ETH is at the center point of everything and not just because ETH is being used to pay fees and kind of like these L2 still pay fees to layer one, but ETH is like the preferred use of as collateral within these L2s. Just as it is on layer one.
00:10:29.552 - 00:10:56.050, Speaker A: It is used as a fee token on these L2s as well. So it's just extra demand for ETH at the end of the day. So I think ETH matic, I mean there's probably a few other tokens out there that are kind of like sort of related I guess the seller network token because they've got the seller bridge. That might be something. I'm not telling you to go buy these things. I'm just running through the ones that come to my head about how to get exposure to I guess like the scaling bridge ecosystem on a theory. And there's not many plays right now, but there will be in the future.
00:10:56.050 - 00:11:28.586, Speaker A: I mean ZK sync already announced that they're going to do a token. That's not a secret, that's public knowledge stark where optimism arbitrary might expect them to do tokens. I just, you know, it's sometime in the future I don't know when it's gonna be. And I said that you should basically position yourself for an airdrop. I mean the simplest way to position yourself for these airdrops is just to use the proto, the projects. Like if you're on arbitrary them just use arbitrary use optimism, use starkware, and the way you use Star quiz, use the apps built on Stark X, like Diversify, immutable X, Dy DX, all that sort of stuff. I'm sure they will take that into considerations.
00:11:28.586 - 00:11:52.530, Speaker A: If they didn't airdrop, it's not even a guarantee that they do an airdrop, but I'm sure that they would. So if you. Yeah, if you want to be best positioned there, that's something to kind of do. But at the same time, while you wait for those kind of tokens to come to market, you can always just, I guess, like buy ETH if you want exposure. I think that you can't go wrong with ETH, really. I mean, not just for that, but just for many other reasons. At the end of the day, like, you guys know, I'm in the trenches with you buying ETH every day, no matter what the price is.
00:11:52.530 - 00:12:34.498, Speaker A: I, you know, trying to stack as much gray as I can, because long term, I, you know, ETH is probably, to me, is the. The best risk adjusted investment in the space. All right, so the Makerdao growth team put out a tweet thread saying that dai is almost ready to jump into arbitrum here. So the maker protocol engineering unit are working to connect Dai to Arbitrum's roll up solution. They will conduct a final audit of the custom Dai gateway before launch. So essentially, this thread goes through, like, what arbitram is and how it all works and everything like that, and kind of like, how dye is coming to it here. This is really cool because the way maker seems to be approaching getting die onto, I guess, L2s.
00:12:34.498 - 00:13:04.252, Speaker A: And they spoke about this with optimism as well, is that they're creating these custom kind of like, gateways in order to make sure that the dye supply is consistent across all these different kind of L2s and networks and things like that. And also if they launch on when they launch, not if. When they launch on these L2s, the supply can be consistent across the L2 and the layer one networks as well. So makes a lot of sense to do that. And they seem to be coming to arbitrum soon, and I'm sure they're going to be launching on optimism soon. If not. If not, they haven't already.
00:13:04.252 - 00:13:44.906, Speaker A: I'm not sure if they have or haven't already. I mean, there's too much going on in the L2 space to keep up with right now and on, I guess, like, this is probably the last thing about arbitrum. Ryan, Sean Adams put out a tweet that bankless has posted a guide called the what is it? A guide to Arbitrarium essentially, or the essential Guide to Arbitrary here. So this guide was written by Ben Job. I hopefully, hopefully I said your surname, right, Ben, who's a bankless writer and the chair and the president of Chatman Crypto. So essentially, if you don't know where to get started, if you don't know anything about arbitrary, me, you know, you're listening to me talk about it and telling you how great it is, you can go check out this thread. It'll give you a full breakdown of how to get in, how to bridge in, what to use, what to do, everything like that.
00:13:44.906 - 00:14:14.888, Speaker A: So this will of course be linked in the YouTube description below. I'm glad this is available because at the end of the day it's easy enough for me to say oh yeah, arbitram is awesome, just bridge in and do whatever. But like people need to be pointed of what to do. I can't just say do whatever you need to actually know what to do or what you want to do on there. Obviously that the kind of like the simplest things is kind of like using uniswap, using sushispot, but there are a bunch of other stuff on a bunch of other things on there. And of course you can go to portal dot arbitrum, um, to, to kind of like check out what's, what's on there. I can't remember exactly what the extension is for that website.
00:14:14.888 - 00:14:46.754, Speaker A: There's portal dot arbitrum dot something, um, uh, and you can kind of like check out there, I think it's IO or something like that. You can check out what's live and what's coming on there as well to see what you can, you can do. So arbitrary isn't the only L2 kind of, I guess, making waves over the last week. And I know this isn't really much, but optimism put out a tweet that said sorry, can't resist the pre announcement announcement. Big news dropping next week, get so hype. So next week being this week, there was a bit of kind of like theorizing about what this announcement would be in the daily grade discord. I said that I think they're going to remove their whitelist.
00:14:46.754 - 00:15:12.116, Speaker A: So if you remember, optimism still has a whitelisting process, whereas arbitram doesn't. That. So I think that because of the fact that arbitram doesn't have a whitelisting process, they've been able to get all that growth because of people just permissionlessly launching whatever they wanted on there. And optimism seems to be a bit stifled by this because they have to manually approve kind of projects to launch and all that sort of stuff. So I'm hoping that it is a whitelist removal. Some people said, oh, maybe it's a token. I don't think they're going to do a token now.
00:15:12.116 - 00:15:51.820, Speaker A: Like it's just way too early for that. Doesn't really make sense, especially when there's no kind of, I guess when there's still a whitelist. I don't think, don't think that would make a big deal out of the announcement of kind of increasing the capacity of optimism. They didn't make a big deal out of it last time, so my money's on them removing the whitelist, to be honest. But there might be a chance that they actually announce some significant cost savings as well because they tease that and I don't know, there's, there's a number of different ways this can go, but I really want to see the whitelist remove. Maybe they do multiple announcements, that'll be cool. But generally I would really like to see the whitelist removed because at the moment, optimism is hamstringing themselves by having a whitelist because they're just letting arbitrary their lunch and that is their main competitor.
00:15:51.820 - 00:16:20.602, Speaker A: At the end of the day, these are the two leading optimistic roll up networks and they really do. Optimism really does need to catch up here by removing that whitelist. So we'll see, we'll see what this announcement is this week. And just another thing about optimism. So Lyra, which is a optimism native options protocol, announced that they're doing a trial liquidity mining program where they're going to distribute 750,000 Lyra tokens starting at 12:00 a.m. UTC on the 13 September, which it may have started by the time you watch this. It's probably already started.
00:16:20.602 - 00:16:44.052, Speaker A: I don't know what the UTC time is right now. And this is the first chance for the community to earn Lyra and an exclusive opportunity to access the token pre launch. So you can read the full details here. Disclosure, I hold LDR. Ldr I hold Lyra tokens here. I participated in that kind of like treasury diversification kind of thing there. But I participated because I'm really excited about options on L2.
00:16:44.052 - 00:17:31.208, Speaker A: And you know, as I said, Lyra is an optimistic ethereum native protocol. So it never launched on layer one. It launched straight on L2 and it spun out of synthetix and it leverages synthetix to kind of like to do the trading of different options and stuff like that, but also as part of, like, the liquidity, I guess, mining program here, you can see that you'll be able to provide liquidity to the Uniswap SUSD Dipole and earn Lyra tokens and do a bunch of other things as well. But that's all detailed in this kind of blog post here, so definitely go check that out if you haven't already. And speaking of, I guess, like, scaling Ethereum, polygon is something that I don't see people talking about too much lately, but is still growing and is still kind of, like, very, very active. Now I get why, you know, these things come in waves. One week, people will be talking about one solution.
00:17:31.208 - 00:18:07.056, Speaker A: The next week, they'll be talking about another one. I mean, it's funny just looking over the past two to three weeks, the different kind of narratives that have been struck. Like, there was people talking about, like, avalanche and then, like, Solana and then, like, Phantom, and then it was like, arbitram. And then, I mean, before that was like, polygon and optimism. I mean, it's just funny how, like, week to week and not even week to week, like, day to day, these narratives can just shift so fast, and you'll just see, like, crypto Twitter just talking about different things. And it's just hilarious how fast the narrative changed from, I think it was Solana last week, at least earlier on in the week. And then arbitrum started getting a lot of growth, and everyone's like, oh, my God, arbitrum.
00:18:07.056 - 00:18:23.080, Speaker A: I'm going to go bridge into arbitrum now. I'm going to go do this. And then arbitram kind of took over the narrative. And, and then I think, like, the price of, of kind of like, some of these, uh, these other layer one networks went down. So people were kind of like, uh, you know, I'm not. I don't want to play with you anymore. So it's just kind of, like, funny.
00:18:23.080 - 00:18:55.928, Speaker A: And, I mean, speaking of poly, I do want to speak about the kind of, like, why that happens, but first, I just want to cover what I want to talk about with polygons, essentially. You can see here that the pos chain, which is technically not a L2, right? But, you know, you can see here that they're still experiencing some really great growth. You can see that the new, sorry, unique address growth is still climbing. I mean, it hasn't really slowed down at all, hasn't really plateaued. It's almost at 60 million unique addresses. And I mentioned before how arbitram has just 70,000 right now. So you can see the difference between these, like, 60 million compared to 70,000.
00:18:55.928 - 00:19:17.450, Speaker A: And you can see the growth just came from, like, April and May for Polygon. So I'm expecting that same kind of growth for arbitrary and optimism, all the L2 networks. But it's really cool to see that Polygon really paved the way here. And we're pioneers on the Ethereum scaling front. And you can see the active addresses. Sorry, the active polygon Pos chain addresses hasn't gone down at all. It keeps climbing.
00:19:17.450 - 00:19:32.558, Speaker A: Look at this. I mean, they peaked at, what, 200,000 active addresses and they're at 175,000, but the trend is up. Like, it's not like it's going down. And these aren't just total adjusters. These are actively on the network every day doing things on. On polygon, which I think is. Is pretty awesome.
00:19:32.558 - 00:20:17.534, Speaker A: So it's great to see that essentially, this is what all these networks are going to look like, I think. And, you know, going back to what I was saying before about, I guess, kind of the changing narratives, I've written about this a lot, and I talked about this a lot, but I think the number one thing most people suffer from in crypto is something called recency bias, which I think I've explained before. But essentially, it's. It's this kind of, like, bias where you put more weight on recent events, and then by doing so, you basically kind of, I guess, trick yourself into believing that, like, the past week's worth of events basically applies to, like, a year's worth of development or events that happen, which is. Which is stupid, right? It's dumb. It doesn't make. Doesn't make any sense, because if you just look at, like, the ecosystem as, like, one week of activity, well, then, of course you're going to be like, oh, my God, like, ethereum's dead.
00:20:17.534 - 00:20:42.474, Speaker A: Like, this platform's taking over because everyone's talking about it. But that's not the truth at all. What ends up. What ends up happening is that you hear about one topic for a week, and then the. The whole kind of, like, narrative, and everyone just changes. Everyone just gets bored of it. Like, the clearest example of this is think, to, like, the beginning of this year, I think, or maybe like, beginning to mid of this year, when BSc started kind of getting a lot of attention and taking off and things like that.
00:20:42.474 - 00:21:10.986, Speaker A: And kind of, it was. It was taking advantage of Ethereum's high gas fees, which all of these networks do, by the way. But anyway, um, they were kind of taking advantage of it, and, like, everyone was talking about it for a week or two, then it went dead silent, and you didn't hear anyone talking about it anymore. And it's not. That doesn't mean that network has kind of, like, collapsed in activity. It still has a fair bit of activity on there and everything, but it's just hilarious how it was literally all anyone could talk about for, like, one or two weeks, and then I don't see anyone talk about it at all anymore. Quite literally.
00:21:10.986 - 00:21:37.230, Speaker A: I see people talking about ethereum competitors all the time, and no one on my feed is talking about BSc anymore. It's always talking about some of these other new networks, like Solana, Avalanche or Phantom sometimes or whatever. It's never about B's anymore. So in a few months, we're probably not even going to hear about these other ones anymore. And, you know, we might not even hear about some of the L2s or whatever. Like, Polygon, for example, doesn't really get much spotlight at the moment because they got a lot early on, and now people are kind of, like, used to it. Like, okay, well, you know, Polygon's still growing.
00:21:37.230 - 00:22:24.870, Speaker A: It's still good, and I'm still using it, but, like, why would you talk about it when it's not new and fresh? So this is exactly what happens with a lot of this sort of stuff, and it's why it can get. It can be very hard to trade these markets, too, because you might be chasing a narrative, and by the time everyone's talking about something, I mean, the way I play it, and this is an investment advice, but the way I play it, when everyone's talking about something, it's a really bad idea to jump into, like, an investment. Right. We saw this play out over the last week, particularly with Solana, where everyone on my feed was talking about it, whether that was shitting on it, whether they were complimenting it, whatever. And then a day later, the price collapsed. I mean, it went from, like, 210, I think, to 150 or whatever it is now, 160. So, obviously, like, you don't want to be jumping into something that's, like, extremely crowded and everyone's talking about and everyone's trying to shill everything.
00:22:24.870 - 00:22:59.416, Speaker A: It's just amazing. And the same happened with, I think, like, a lot of these networks, like BSC with BNB, Polygon with Matic, it always happens the same way where everyone's talking about something and everyone's kind of, like, shilling it. Like, it's the best thing ever, and it's happened in a really short amount of time. Then what ends up happening is that the prices end up getting way ahead of themselves and collapsing. Because what end? Okay, so what ends up happening with, with, with the way the crypto markets work is that you'll see things increase in price a lot. But there's two things that happens when, when things increase in price. One, it causes you to fomo, but two, you know, fomo because especially if you're a newer, newer kind of like investor.
00:22:59.416 - 00:23:56.380, Speaker A: And two, it everyone else who bought in before is now sending on profits. So what do you think is going to happen? If the price just accelerates and the price just keeps going up, the people who are sitting on profits are going to start taking profits, which means that no, no longer do you need just, just the money to push the price up from the usual kind of day to day sellers. You need even more money to push the price up to get to, to, I guess, like survive the onslaught of all these people that are massively in profit. And then on top of that, you have a third thing, which is that when traders see something going up really, really quickly and has been doing it for a little while at least, like, say a couple of weeks, something, they're going to start opening shorts. So now you are contending with a lot of shorts being opened because these shorters are expecting the price to fall because all these people are going to take profits. And that's why you can, you can see fast collapses of these kind of things. And actually, during the big crash, where ETH went from four k to three k, I think some of these other platforms that have been pumping a lot, especially Solana.
00:23:56.380 - 00:24:35.972, Speaker A: I mentioned Solana a lot because that's the one that I've heard about a lot. And that's just a good example. I think it went from like, you know, 270 actually, to like 110 or something like that, then back up, 270 to 210, then came back down. It was just like super, super volatile, but it just becomes harder and harder because when people are sitting on massive profits, they're going to start taking them. And the thing is, is that you want more gradual, kind of long term slow growth than fast growth. Like if ETH was to double this week, if ETH went from three k to six k this week, it's not going to stay there for very long. It's going to, it's going to correct very, very hard, because what ends up happening is that everyone who bought at three k, all the traders they're going to be like, holy shit, I just made double my money in a week.
00:24:35.972 - 00:25:03.166, Speaker A: Of course I'm going to take profits here. And then all the people who bought, a lot of people who bought earlier who are like, oh, my God, I'm sitting on so much profit, are going to take profit. And then you've got the shorts on top of that, and then you've got, like, the, and then you've got the greedy longs, I should say, too, that are longing. And, and, and people, and then they're going to get liquidated, and then you get liquidation cascade happening. It's just, it's so dangerous. And this is why you see such reflexivity in crypto, especially on the shorter timeframes. And it's why people always say, focus on the long term and don't, don't trade.
00:25:03.166 - 00:25:25.130, Speaker A: I mean, you can trade if you want to. As I said, I've been doing a little bit, a little bit of trading on Dy DX lately, but really, I mean, that's with play money. I'm not using big money or anything like that. I'm not trying to, to make big money. I'm just doing it for fun because I wanted to try out the Dy DX platform. But generally, trading is just stupidly hard, guys, like, so. And that falls into, and being a good trader means you have to remove a lot of biases from you as well.
00:25:25.130 - 00:26:02.280, Speaker A: Like, recency bias, as I said, is one of the worst, especially in crypto, especially if you're sitting on crypto Twitter. I think actually sitting on crypto Twitter, unless you know how to get rid of your biases, is probably really bad for you as a trader. But anyway, none of that is investment advice. Just a bit of kind of, I guess, color around the changing narratives within crypto and how I kind of view them and how I kind of tend to ignore them. Like, you may have seen a lot of different people kind of like, talking about different kind of ethereum competitors. Over the last few weeks, I've given my comments here and there, and I talk, you know, somewhat about it on the refill because people ask me to. But generally, whenever I see this stuff happening, I always remind myself, I'm like, anthony, you've seen this happen so many times before.
00:26:02.280 - 00:26:29.008, Speaker A: And I tell my friends this as well. I'm like, guys, like, calm down. Like, remember how much people talked about x x chain or y channel z chain? What do you hear about them anymore? No, so stop. Kind of like, letting your, your bias get the best of you. Stop letting this recency bias infect your brain and start looking at the bigger picture. Because that's the only way, at least I believe it's the only way to win long term in this market is to look at the long term. And really the long term is that Ethereum is stronger than ever.
00:26:29.008 - 00:27:04.804, Speaker A: Ethereum is actually scaling now we have these L2 networks live. It's, it's just totally amazing what's been happening. And you know, there's been lots of kind of like stuff going on on the research and development side. Lots of things live. And this is really only the beginning of Ethereum scaling kind of journey as well. There's still plenty of optimizations and improvements to come. The end goal, you know, a lot of people agree that the end goal probably is just ZK rollups, and there's a lot of good content out there about them right now and about how we can get them doing smart contracts, how we can basically get it so that the transactions are extremely cheap by using validiums or volitions or other, or other such constructions and stuff like that.
00:27:04.804 - 00:27:36.790, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, guys, the future is bright. I kind of like felt like I had to talk about that because I had a lot of people asking me about different networks and things like that. Feel free to play with them and try them out and, and, you know, research them and see what their trade offs are, see how they achieve extra scale, blah, blah, or what features they offer that Ethereum maybe doesn't. But at the end of the day, I think that if you get caught in the short term stuff, uh, it's not a very good trading strategy or investment strategy. At least that's my kind of like view on things. But anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that for now. I've got a couple of more things to get through before I wrap today's episode up.
00:27:36.790 - 00:28:03.586, Speaker A: So Sina Habiba Habibian, hopefully I said that, right, has started a new podcast where they'll be hosting conversations around the ideas shaping crypto. The first episode here is with Vitalik Abuterin and Carl Flourish, where they talk about retroactive public goods funding. I have listened to this jet because it just came out like an hour or two ago. I plan to listen to this probably tomorrow. I'm playing some games. I usually like listening to podcasts while I'm playing a little bit of World of Warcraft. It's funny because I don't really play for very long.
00:28:03.586 - 00:28:28.522, Speaker A: I play for like an hour or so, and it's not like I'm playing it and getting like tons of fun out of it. I just need something. I don't know, the way I work is like, I need to be doing something when I'm listening to a podcast, either like that's me riding my bike or that's me playing like a game where I can listen to a podcast or whatever. But yeah, that's what I plan. That's what I plan to listen to it. But I guess, like, I recommend you guys listening to this as well. Vitalik obviously is a great, kind of like a great person to hear from.
00:28:28.522 - 00:28:56.668, Speaker A: And Carl as well. I mean, Carl works for at optimism, has been working on Ethereum and kind of like scaling stuff for a very long time now. He's just an all around great dude. I'm sure a lot of you would have seen him recently on the Bankless podcast where they kind of interviewed him and Ben from optimism. So definitely go check out this podcast as well. Another thing to check out is this amazing blog post from pauline ya here, who is liberosist on, on Reddit. I spoke about him last week, I believe so.
00:28:56.668 - 00:29:28.458, Speaker A: In this blog post, he addresses the common misconceptions around roll ups. And I mean, this is awesome. Like, I actually highly recommend reading this more than pretty much like most things in crypto. I think this does a really, really great job of just simply breaking down what these misconceptions are, why they're wrong, what, you know, what the actual explanation is, and kind of like just gives like a nice objective lens on these sorts of things. So definitely recommend going and checking this out. And the last thing here is that ethereum.org has added a new play, a new page explaining Ethereum governance.
00:29:28.458 - 00:30:03.034, Speaker A: So basically, a lot of people have asked me about Ethereum governance before, especially on AMA's how it works, what's the process, what goes on with it. On this page you can basically see all that, and you could actually contribute to editing as well if you want, because ethereum.org is fully open source. But you can see here who's involved, what's any ip, what's the process look like? What's the, how do we handle disagreements? And gives the Dao fork as an example, how the beacon chain works, how do you can get involved, all that sort of stuff. So yeah, go check out this new web page. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, of course, but I think that's going to be it for today, everyone. So thank you again for listening and watching.
00:30:03.034 - 00:30:09.874, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
