00:00:04.410 - 00:00:53.322, Speaker A: I think there's a lot of different parts of the Chainlink protocol, and the parts are continuing to expand into new categories of computation, cross chain and so on. I think we can arrive at a place where the consensus method of the chainlink network is pretty stable and has certain scalability. There can be certain key reusable components of the Chainlink protocol and the chainlink network. But I think the types of services and the types of oracle networks will continually expand forever because there will always be new data. There will always be new compute needs, like AI is a new compute need. There will always be more places to connect to with all kinds of new approaches. So I think that the foundation can kind of stabilize and then have sort of incremental improvements made on it, but it can be largely pretty stable.
00:00:53.322 - 00:02:03.450, Speaker A: And then the subsets of the network that are specific to different types of computation or different types of data or different types of cross chain connectivity, those will continue to need to evolve and change and improve very quickly. What's important is that the Chainlink platform, the chainlink framework and network can allow both of those to happen, so that you can have a very stable, secure, reliable set of core shared components around consensus and networking and a whole bunch of other key properties of the protocol. And then it can also allow various other categories of Oracle networks to rapidly emerge so they can be rapidly matched with the needs of applications as those applications emerge. So in that sense, because Oracle networks are so expansive in all the different categories of data, compute and cross chain connectivity that they now cover and will continue to cover, I think there will always be new Oracle networks. Similarly, how there are always new services for web developers or bank developers, because there are new technologies to new technologies like AI or new data sets or new various chains.
