00:00:05.530 - 00:00:40.002, Speaker A: Coordination. What's good today on the pod, we got Sergey Nazarov, the co founder of Chainlink. And Chainlink is really interesting for me because it's the industry standard Oracle network for connecting smart contracts with real world data and off chain computation. So if you want to build a smart contract that's smart, it's got to have data out what's going on in the world. And Chainlink is the largest smart contract network for doing that. In this episode, we talk about Sergey's vision for Chainlink intersecting with all trust minimized computation. So not just oracles in the future.
00:00:40.002 - 00:01:17.730, Speaker A: The vision is broader than that. And given that season two of the Green Pill podcast is about regenerative society and decentralized identity, we talk a little bit about how Oracle networks and decentralized computing can bring value to everyday people, how decentralized identity can create a more regenerative world. And man, he's just such a galaxy brain. I can't believe that he's just not dropping knowledge bombs this entire episode. Deeply technical, but also empathetic to the cause of the green pill community, which is regenerative crypto economic society. So I think that you're really going to enjoy this episode with Sergey Nazarov, the co founder of Chainlink. I know that I did.
00:01:17.730 - 00:01:20.034, Speaker A: Without further ado, I give you Sergey Nazarov.
00:01:20.082 - 00:01:52.590, Speaker B: Refi Summer has arrived and Celo is here for it. Celo is the layer one blockchain for the regenerative finance movement. It's fast, planet positive, and built for the real world. Celo has committed towards producing a sustainable future from the very beginning and is the world's first carbon negative EVM compatible layer one blockchain. Celo has become much more than a technology, a currency, a community, or even just a layer one. Cello is a movement to create conditions of prosperity for everyone. You can soon engage with all of this via green asset uniswap pools on Celo, benefiting reforestation and other regenerative products through the toucan protocol, Moss, and more.
00:01:52.590 - 00:02:37.674, Speaker B: Refi is also about the health of communities and resource network is creating bankless infrastructure for circular trade and mutual credit networks to benefit small businesses and local economies, all on celo. Follow long on Twitter to learn more about how Celo is accelerating Refi summer for a positive impact on people, communities and the planet. If you're attending ECC, visit the cello saloon to learn about what's happening on the front lines of refi from industry experts. Immutable X is the L2 platform for crypto gaming immutable offers massive scalability with up to 9000 transactions per second and instant transaction confirmation. No more gas fees, no more waiting around for your transaction to clear. Immutable's zero knowledge rollup finally unlocks the world of crypto gaming. Immutable X is the only gas free NFT minting platform with over 26 million nfts minted, all with zero gas fees.
00:02:37.674 - 00:03:01.926, Speaker B: With the power of immutable, gaming developers don't also need to become smart contract developers. They just need to plug into Immutable's API and instantly start unlocking the full potential of crypto assets inside of games. This is why world class companies and projects have decided to deploy on immutable X. Like GameStop, Embersord, Planet Quest, Alluvium, TikTok and many more behind the scenes. So start building your game on Immutable x today@immutable.com.
00:03:02.108 - 00:03:04.360, Speaker A: All right, thanks so much for joining me.
00:03:05.210 - 00:03:07.026, Speaker C: Thanks for having me, Kevin.
00:03:07.138 - 00:03:14.010, Speaker A: Yeah, really excited to talk to you about Chainlink. So how did you get into crypto and how did you come to co found Chainlink?
00:03:15.150 - 00:04:07.622, Speaker C: So I got into crypto around 2010 when the only thing that existed was bitcoin. I actually got into it from the gaming side of things because I was into, and still am into pc games. And back then there were only three groups that really did anything with bitcoin. There were the people who made it, the crypto cipher punk people. There were speculators, and then there were gamers, which were many of the miners back then because you could still do that with gpus. So I got in from that point of view, because I learned about it from the gaming community. And then as I started to learn more about what bitcoin actually was and how it was different than other digital currencies, and how it could exist without an organization, and how it could exist into perpetuity, and how it was immutable and beyond the control of any one party.
00:04:07.622 - 00:05:01.446, Speaker C: I knew enough about the history of digital currencies to see the value in that. And then I spent a few years kind of just doing bitcoin related things, nothing really impressive or that useful. And then the first smart contract started to come out, well before Ethereum and others started working on some of those. And some of the first systems that went beyond bitcoin, I think the first one that I saw was namecoin. And then were a few others started working on those systems, putting them together, basically trying to combine them into more advanced applications. So initially what I was doing was trying to combine multiple chains to have different privacy preserving and, well, not exactly privacy preserving, but different encryption and transparency in certain cases, privacy features. And so we would make these applications composed of a few different features from a few different chains.
00:05:01.446 - 00:05:59.150, Speaker C: It was immensely difficult and there weren't as many guarantees and it wasn't as much speed, but it know, super interesting. And then Chainlink came out of the experience of doing that, because oracles are basically a computing environment that does what blockchains don't do, but it still does it in a trust minimized way. So basically what we realized in the course of building all these smart contracts was that blockchains could only do a certain set of operations that we needed. And those operations were very important. They focused on private keys, token ledgers and state changes, state machine changes. And Ethereum did an amazing job at introducing kind of a programmable state machine that people could use for general purpose instructions. But there's still a ton of computation that blockchains don't do.
00:05:59.150 - 00:06:52.470, Speaker C: And it was really the combination of those computations together with blockchain computations that I always felt, even from the earliest days, would give to smart contracts. Right, like they're called smart, but blockchains in and of themselves don't even allow them to know what time it is. They don't allow them to have access to any information outside of a chain. And so my conception of a smart contract was always beyond tokenization and beyond what blockchains enable. And that conception naturally led to oracle networks because they're really the gateway to more advanced smart contracts, what we call hybrid smart contracts. One example of this is Defi. So Defi, for example, wouldn't exist without oracles and Oracle networks.
00:06:52.470 - 00:07:31.500, Speaker C: And there's many more other use cases like that. So the thinking behind Chainlink was to create decentralized infrastructure that provided these additional capabilities beyond those three capabilities of a blockchain. And very happy to say that the network has successfully done that, has powered, and today powered tens of billions of dollars in value, has enabled hundreds of billions of dollars in value and in many different verticals, is by far the leader in how people build applications like Defi. So in that sense, I think a lot has been achieved, but I think there's much, much further to go.
00:07:31.870 - 00:07:52.500, Speaker A: Right. Beautiful. So it seems like the oracle problem is what Chainlink is really deep on solving, and you can build much smarter smart contracts with oracles. I'm curious if I could pull the thread a little bit more, you could tell me a little bit more about how Chainlink works and what's the end game. Like, what is the world in which Chainlink is maximally successful look like?
00:07:53.590 - 00:08:34.850, Speaker C: Sure. So I just think of it in terms of decentralized computation. What an oracle network is, is it's a way to generate consensus, but it generates consensus on topics other than a blockchain's topics, right? So a blockchain can generate consensus on transactions about private key signatures, token transfers, token ledger updates, and state machines. Those are the things that a blockchain can come to consensus on. And that's great. And that has given rise to this whole tokenization movement, which has resulted in trillions of dollars of value being formatted in this cryptographically guaranteed tokenized format. And that's great.
00:08:34.850 - 00:09:33.090, Speaker C: And that's a great start. Just like the Internet began with unencrypted messaging, right? And universities would send messages between each other and then the messages expanded to more consumer use cases. So that's all wonderful. But what Oracle networks do is they come to consensus through a committee of nodes, right? So there's smaller committees of nodes that come to consensus on specific topics. You actually are starting to see some chains try to make smaller committees as a way to scale, whether they call it sharding or side chains or parachains or subnets or whatever they call it. They basically try to create smaller committees to make smaller chains focused on a specific application's needs for those three things, private keys, token ledgers and state machines. Oracle networks and Chainlink as a framework for Oracle networks is a way to create small, efficient committees.
00:09:33.090 - 00:10:42.598, Speaker C: On any other topic, and proud to say that we have over a thousand of these oracle networks, over a thousand of these committees, which is a level of scalability that other systems have yet to reach. And those thousand plus committees can come to consensus on many, many things. So they can come to consensus on random numbers, they can come to consensus on data about weather, they can come to consensus about data about prices, they can come to consensus about computations that may not be done in a blockchain or people don't want to do in a blockchain. They can basically come to consensus on anything that people want them to come to consensus about. But they are not focused on block production, right? So our goal is not to generate blocks. There's a lot of different chains that are generating blocks, and that's great. And I kind of view that as a computing environment and maybe a database or however you want to really look at it, database with unique transparency and immutability properties.
00:10:42.598 - 00:11:16.338, Speaker C: But we don't make blocks. We create committees of nodes. The network creates committees of nodes that sit next to block production systems like blockchains, and they inject everything that those blocks need. So if those blocks need data, they give them data. They need randomness, they give them randomness. They need some more computation that they can't do on a blockchain. They give them that soon enough they will be able to give them cross chain communication to other blockchains as well as movements.
00:11:16.338 - 00:12:44.158, Speaker C: So, to answer your second question, the end game is that Oracle networks provide all the trust minimized computation that blockchains and trust minimized systems need, but that blockchains do not produce, right? So blockchains will produce ownership, token transfer, state changes, private key signatures, multi signature. They will continue to produce all of these computations in various collections of blocks, whether those blocks are on a main chain or whether they're on a collection of smaller chains connected to a main chain. And that is where certain core logic, certain transfer of value, certain key conditions to private key signatures will continue to become fulfilled. But then all of those conditions will continue to need more and more data, more and more trust minimized computation, and more and more cross chain communication. Those are the first three big categories that the chainlink network is focused on, and in many of them has a leadership position anywhere from the 60% to 90% plus range in terms of the value secured in a specific vertical or by user count. And this is because, well, we've invented this new form of consensus. We've pioneered it together with a lot of great academics that we work with from the top universities.
00:12:44.158 - 00:14:13.950, Speaker C: And now it's kind of becoming expanded to do more and more advanced computations, more and more advanced data, and relatively soon cross chain communication, which includes token movements, but actually allows people to string together those different contracts on different chains, much as I was trying to string together many different blockchain protocols into a single useful application many, many years ago. So this is not, I would say, a new idea for us. It's an idea that has formed on the basis of what is needed to build useful, smart contracts, right? So our goal is to enable the larger industry and the world really to have useful, smart contracts. And while tokenization is very useful, it's a very good beginning for our industry, I think it is probably a single digit percentage point of the total value that will reside in the trust minimized systems of our industry, like blockchains and oracles. So I think tokens and ownership, whether they're equity tokens or utility tokens or NFT tokens, is just the beginning. And our goal with the chainlink network is to level everything up. And I'm very proud that we've had a big impact on that in defi, in insurance and fraudproof gaming, in carbon credit markets a number of places.
00:14:15.250 - 00:14:51.530, Speaker A: Beautiful. So it seems like oracles are just the start, and there's a lot of opportunities within decentralized computation as that ecosystem grows and tokenization is just a percentage of that. I'm curious to see how our visions align. As you know, I was one of the co founders of Gitcoin, which is known for gitcoin grants, one of the largest crowdfunding applications in the web3 ecosystem. I'm wondering because Chainlink has been a longtime supporter of Gitcoin grants. Thank you for supporting Gitcoin grants. What are your thoughts on open source funding and public goods funding, and how does that intersect with your vision?
00:14:53.950 - 00:15:54.766, Speaker C: I think the coolest thing, the most impressive thing that a technology or an invention can do is become a global standard, which means that it becomes a public good. And open source software is the version of this for software and the Internet. So I'm a big supporter of open source software and have been for the longest time. Also, open source software tends to win, and it tends to win for a number of reasons. Around how many eyeballs a look at a problem, around people's ability not to necessarily have to deal with large corporate entities that want to take over their use of a type of system and a lot of other huge benefits, security benefits, the ability to build a community of smart people to solve a problem. So I think there's two parts to your question. There's an open source part and a public goods funding part.
00:15:54.766 - 00:16:46.314, Speaker C: So on the open source part, I think that's the right way to build software that becomes a global standard. And that is really what we are trying, together with many other ecosystem companies in the chainlink ecosystem, to move the chainlink network towards being a global standard. Much as Linux is a global standard, HTTPs is a global standard, TCP IP is a global standard. These are all global standards that power the Internet. And blockchains have begun a transition to trust minimized applications. That's actually what we see ourselves as participating in. So it doesn't necessarily have to be that the whole application is on a blockchain or that the whole application is off a blockchain.
00:16:46.314 - 00:17:31.530, Speaker C: I think all applications will eventually become trust minimized, which means that they guarantee their users certain reliability, transparency and properties about not being able to deviate. One example of a trust minimized application in my mind is actually encrypted text messaging. So 1015 years ago, nobody cared about encrypting their text messages. And then everybody saw hacksa Telecoms and the Cambridge Analytica thing at Facebook. And now the top retail messaging systems all have end to end encrypted. At the top of each chat session they write, this is end to end encrypted. This means not even the team of the thing can read your messages.
00:17:31.530 - 00:18:49.654, Speaker C: So I think the whole world will go in a trust minimized application direction, and I think that that will require global standards, and those global standards will be public goods, because the nature of trust minimized applications and their impact on society, on a truth focused on a truth based society and a kind of truth economy is something that we seek to enable. So I think Gitcoin grants is a great thing, and it's a great model, and it's supporting a section of the trust minimized application economy primarily focused on Ethereum, of which I'm also a big fan and which has pioneered a lot of amazing things in our industry. And so I've been thrilled to have Chainlink participate in helping support Ethereum, its innovations, the Gitcoin grants program. Because at the end of the day, I think we are all part of building a trust minimized world. We're all part of building a world where our relationships are cryptographically guaranteed. And that's what Ethereum and Chainlink and everybody else in this industry is really working towards. And that's what I'm working towards.
00:18:49.654 - 00:19:47.350, Speaker C: And that's the real shift in the world that I think everyone here wants to see. And it is such a big, impactful shift that I think the systems that make it happen will have to be public goods. They will be such a big part of how society functions that just like Linux or Htps or TCP IP or any number of other standards, they will become public goods. So you might as well just be clear about that, and you might as well just set out on that journey and towards that goal, which in my opinion, once again, I think is probably the pinnacle of what you can achieve in making a technology, is you can create a global standard for how the world works for many, many decades. And that's really the goal that we have with all of the computation and all the trust minimized application work that the Chainlink network enables.
00:19:48.410 - 00:20:13.780, Speaker A: Beautiful. Well, thank you again for your support of public goods on Gitcoin grants. And it's quite interesting to see the intersection of those two visions. I'm curious if I could pull the thread a little bit more. If you think that smart contracts, oracles and blockchains can create a world in which there's more economic fairness and transparency, how does this vision that you have of creating more standards and more public goods create more economic fairness or transparency for everyday people?
00:20:15.350 - 00:21:09.970, Speaker C: Sure, absolutely. One of my favorite examples is crop insurance, because it has relatively little to do with tokenization. I think eventually the cash flows from crop insurance will become tokenized and sold as tokens. But the initial implementations of crop insurance, of decentralized insurance against weather and for crops, is something that really shows how the entire world can leapfrog towards a fair and transparent model of basically commercial relationships. Which, if you really think about it, commercial relationships are what enable us to live the lives we live. The ability for people to engage reliably in commercial relationships is at the bedrock of capitalism. It's at the bedrock of how our society works, and it's at the bedrock of why we all have so much discretionary time to pursue whatever we want to pursue.
00:21:09.970 - 00:22:22.246, Speaker C: So crop insurance doesn't really exist in many parts of the world, and it doesn't exist in many parts of the world because the local legal system in those countries does not provide enough reliable collaboration. You can't make an insurance company because you'll be defrauded or the policyholder will be defrauded. And so what that results in is that there are entire parts of the world where one negative event can throw a very large population into poverty, because they don't have a way to mitigate that risk, they don't have a way to manage risk. And this might not sound as exciting as other use cases, but realistically, if you look at the history of the world, the point at which people can manage risk is the point at which they begin to engage in certain types of activities. So the point at which you can create insurance for ships is the point at which people start sailing really long distances on those ships. And the point at which you can create insurance for other activities is the point at which people start doing those activities. Now, I would say probably the majority of the world doesn't have a way to create many relationships, many commercial relationships, and to manage, help people manage risk.
00:22:22.246 - 00:23:24.110, Speaker C: So the beauty of smart contracts and oracles combining is that you can actually make crop insurance that has nothing to do with the legal system of the country in which it is provided. So you don't need to have a local insurance company, you don't need to even have an international insurance company. You can just codify all the conditions into a smart contract, have those conditions verified by Oracles, which is one of the many things that oracles do. It's one of the few things they do extremely well now. And to have those conditions verified and proven to the contract opens up this universe of new commercial relationships. So now, if you live in a certain part of the world where global warming is making things a lot more difficult in terms of being a farmer for a few consecutive seasons, your option before was to stop being a farmer and become a migrant worker. Now you can get crop insurance that guarantees your ability to continue being a farmer.
00:23:24.110 - 00:24:51.130, Speaker C: And that crop insurance can be at an even higher quality than the insurance that people in developed countries get from the biggest insurance companies. And that's a similar type of leapfrogging to when you had people trying to get paper books and not having local libraries, to having a $50 Android phone and being able to read and listen to the same content and information that I gain access to. So I think what the Internet did for information and how it democratized access to information is what smart contracts and oracles and hybrid smart contracts will do for democratizing commercial relationships. And if you really think about it, I think you'll see that that is the main thing holding back the vast majority of the world. It's people's ability to pursue their economic goals because they can't engage in productive commercial relationships, basically because their local economy, their local legal system doesn't enable that interaction. Once you enable that interaction, then people can pursue their economic goals, which is generally when everything improves for everybody. So this is just kind of a view that I have on the value of what our industry does, is that it's similar to like the invention of the corporation or the invention of written contracts.
00:24:51.130 - 00:25:26.846, Speaker C: There's a kind of a step function increase in how people are able to relate to each other and how people are able to collaborate, and that ability to relate to each other reliably and collaborate reliably across borders without knowing each other, because those collaborations are now cryptographically guaranteed is an entirely different world. Just like the world before the corporation was a very different world, and the world before written contracts was a very different world. I think it's a similar step function improvement coinshift is a leading treasury management.
00:25:26.878 - 00:26:12.546, Speaker B: And infrastructure platform for Daos and crypto businesses who need to manage their treasury operations. Every crypto.org needs to manage their treasury, and Coinshift offers a simple, flexible, and efficient multi chain treasury management platform built on top of the extremely secure nosisafe. With coinshift, your organization can go from primitive single chain treasuries to expressive, flexible multi chain features such as global user management, global contracts, proposal management, and many other features that can be shared across an entire organization. Coinshift layers on powerful treasury management tools on top of the proven security of nosasafe, allowing users to save time and reduce operational burdens and gas costs. Coinshift even has data tools like account reporting across the seven chains on which it operates. Used by industry powerhouses such as Uniswap grants, balancer consensus, and Mazari, Coinshift is speeding up the coordination and efficiency of the organizations that use it.
00:26:12.546 - 00:26:57.874, Speaker B: In DFI, you have to keep up with the frontier, and coinshift makes that easy. So sign up at Coinshift XYZ bankless the Opera crypto browser is the world's first web browser built for the crypto community. With web3 support and a noncustodial wallet, Opera lets you access DFI apps quickly and easily. The Opera wallet has buy, sell and swap features and of course lets you view your beautiful nfds, but the browser still lets you use any crypto wallet extension you prefer, giving you the choice and flexibility for the web3 world. Opera lets you view and manage all of your assets across all the blockchains all at once, and offers seamless multichain support between Ethereum, bitcoin, polygon, binance chain and other evms and L2s. But opera goes even deeper than that. Opera has a built in homepage for crypto natives with the Opera crypto corner with price charts, newsfeeds, NFT updates to make sure you are always on top of your game.
00:26:57.874 - 00:27:10.838, Speaker B: And it even has discord and Telegram integrated natively into the browser. That's crazy. Opera is truly building the battlestation for the crypto world. Check out Opera both on mobile with Android and iOS apps, and on desktop too.
00:27:10.924 - 00:28:15.290, Speaker A: It's really quite interesting to see how chain link oracles can be used to manage risk, especially in the case of crop insurance. And I think that our visions sort of intersect in such a way that what the Internet did to information, we both view web3 as doing to value transfer into finance, and I'm wondering to pull a thread a little bit more about decentralized identity. I think that identity, when you have repeat interactions, allows for more positive sum games because you start to recognize your counterparty, you see the reputation of how they've interacted economically in the past, and because of that, identity is a huge vision for me of what a regenerative, decentralized society could look like in the future. So I'm wondering if there's any parts of decentralized identity solutions that you think will change how individuals and institutions relate to each other? And if so, which standards are you excited about? Soulbound tokens? Dids? Verifiable credentials? How does this interplay with the Chainlink vision?
00:28:16.910 - 00:29:17.630, Speaker C: Sure. So I would say that Chainlink right now is the largest provider of identity data on chain. I would say we have the largest amount of identity sources that are available for consumption on chain. And those sources generally result in more and more use cases that have legal requirements. Right? So one good example is something called regulated deFi. So, regulated DeFi would meet various email, KYC, and other requirements that other people may have for using DeFi at an institutional level or at other levels of interaction with DeFi, which, frankly, has a huge amount of value that can flow into DeFi, into insurance, and into other categories of smart contracts. I think identity is one example of one type of data that the chainlink network already provides, and there's already people using to make innovative new use cases.
00:29:17.630 - 00:30:02.670, Speaker C: And I think we're just going to continue doing this. There's so many categories of data, right? There's weather data, identity data, market data, many, many other categories. So identity is one of the categories that I think the Chainlink network is the largest provider of data in the blockchain industry. And I think we're starting to see a slow uptick in what people want to use that identity data for. I think that it is a requirement to open up a new market. So, basically, right now, there's still enough markets that identity data isn't a necessity. You can still capture markets where identity data doesn't exist, but those markets will continue to have more and more competition.
00:30:02.670 - 00:30:42.838, Speaker C: They'll continue to grow and kind of competition. So I think there's entire other markets that apps can open up if they meet this identity requirement. And our goal as a group working on the Chainlink network is to make the infrastructure provide that capability. Right? So if you want to make regulated DeFi, the Chainlink network should give you access to all the identity data you could ever want. You could get it in a consensus based form. You could get it in a single source form where the data is signed by the source. You can get it in a privacy preserving form using your zero knowledge proofs.
00:30:42.838 - 00:31:08.030, Speaker C: You can get it in whatever form you want from whatever source you want. And so, once again, our goal is not to build the use cases. It's not to build the blockchains where the app's core logic might live and where the token value might live. It's to build all of these additional computations in their own small building blocks. Right. So we have a pretty large number of identity data sources. It's growing.
00:31:08.030 - 00:31:54.622, Speaker C: Each of those could be viewed as a building block that somebody can combine into an application. And realistically, we now have many, many teams combining multiple chain link services, multiple chain link networks into one application. Right. And I think that's for data, if people want to be really reliable. And I know, sorry, with identity, there's different identity data sets for different geographies. So I fully expect applications to use one data source through Chainlink for one set of data about identity, another data source about another set of identity for another geography, and to kind of cobble that together the same way that people do it in web two, where they use multiple identity sources because of multiple geographies. Once again, our goal is to enable all that, I think, on identity.
00:31:54.622 - 00:32:09.880, Speaker C: We've gone very far on that already. And as identity gives people access to markets, it'll become more and more useful building block, which is why the chainlink network has spent so much time and energy and effort on making it available.
00:32:11.050 - 00:32:54.178, Speaker A: Right? Yeah. I think it's interesting to think about gitcoin passport, which is a civil resistance protocol that the Gitcoin Dao has released most recently. And Gitcoin grants is dependent on quadratic funding, which is dependent on civil resistance. And because of that, civil resistance is just something gitcoin cares a lot about. And I know that one of the things that the Gitcoin Dao is looking at right now is how to create a contract gate on a smart contract, where if you have a certain amount of civil resistance, then you can call a certain function in a smart contract. And I know that they're taking a look at Chainlink Oracles in order to bring that information on chain. So I don't know if you have any comments on that.
00:32:54.178 - 00:33:01.350, Speaker A: If not, I'll move to my next question. Just thought it was interesting to call out another intersection of the gitcoin and chain link visions.
00:33:02.490 - 00:33:46.440, Speaker C: Yeah, that's very exciting. That's a really good example. Right? Like, there's a more advanced functionality, and there needs to be an environment that provides that functionality to allow you folks to build a more and more impressive application. That's what is exciting to us. It's very exciting to us to enable other people in our ecosystem, in the trust minimized application blockchain ecosystem, to build more advanced versions by providing them the compute data or whatever capabilities that they're not getting from a chain. So the fact that you guys are doing that is great. I think it's a more advanced version of your application, and I know that I and many people here are very excited about enabling that.
00:33:46.970 - 00:33:47.718, Speaker A: Great.
00:33:47.884 - 00:33:48.166, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:33:48.188 - 00:34:05.210, Speaker A: I'm curious to learn about the privacy preserving oracle protocol called deco. Deco that was just launched. So what novel use cases does it unlock, whether in decentralized identity, decentralized finance, or other fields?
00:34:06.590 - 00:34:55.878, Speaker C: Sure. So we're excited to have some more upcoming news about that sometime soon. But generally speaking, identity and many types of personal data, personal identifying data don't really work well with systems that don't preserve privacy. Right? And blockchains are inherently very public. So there's this kind of dilemma around, I want identity data to be proven, but I don't want the identity data itself to go on a chain. And this has to do with all kinds of requirements from all kinds of legal frameworks, whether that's GDPR or HIPAA or just very basic privacy laws. Right? So generally speaking, people don't want their private data in public databases.
00:34:55.878 - 00:36:19.160, Speaker C: And legally that isn't a realistic thing in many cases, which is what's held up a certain amount of identity data reaching blockchain applications. Deco, in addition to its many other great properties for DeFi and other parts of the smart contract ecosystem, allows the verification of a piece of personal identity data without putting that data on chain. So it uses zero knowledge proofs to prove things about a person's identity, for example, that they're a certain age, or that they have a certain amount of money in their bank account, or that they're in a certain geography, or whatever other properties you want to prove about somebody to assure you that they meet a certain condition or that they're a real person, or whatever property you want to have proven. And that property gets proven through zero knowledge proofs without the personal data going on chain. And this is the kind of really big leap forward where you can prove something about an identity, but you don't need to put that data into a blockchain, which in many, many cases of personal identity data, you simply could not do that for legal reasons. People actually don't want to do that. People don't want their personal information in public databases where anyone can go get it at some point in the future.
00:36:19.160 - 00:37:31.866, Speaker C: People like their personal information to remain personal and private, not public and accessible by everybody. So this is one of the things that Deco achieves. It successfully, has achieved this already in research implementations. It's now successfully achieving it in various proof of concepts that we'll be putting out there sometime soon. And it's well on its way to multiple production implementations that will have it provide the value of all kinds of information, identity data, as well as back end systems data, market data, all kinds of valuable data, using that data in a smart contract, while not forcing the data to become public, which is a condition for using the data. So that's kind of a firm condition that certain types of data, whether it's market data, back end systems data, personal identity data, that condition simply cannot be removed if that data is going to be used. And so this goes back to the earlier point of our goal is to enable more and more applications.
00:37:31.866 - 00:38:58.998, Speaker C: So if there was a certain type of data, high quality market data, import back end data, critical personal identity data, without which an application could not be built, that is no longer a hurdle. Right? So you can now build smart contract applications using that personal identity data, using that highly sensitive back end data, using that highly valuable, highly protected market data, without having to reveal the data. So that is the kind of innovation and invention and originality that we are very proud of because it allows the protocol to enable entirely new categories of smart contracts. And I have to say that that's just kind of the most exciting thing for me on a daily basis. It's the ability to enable entire new categories of smart contracts that then become their own markets, such as DeFi. And I genuinely don't believe that DFI would be anywhere where it is today, anywhere near to where it is today without chain link. Oracles providing over 4 billion data points and providing massive amounts of data, without which DFI was a great idea for many years, but without which it didn't take off.
00:38:58.998 - 00:39:54.410, Speaker C: And if you actually look at the rate at which DFI grows on different chains, you'll see that the point that highly reliable oracle network data from Chainlink arrives on that chain is the point at which there's kind of this huge inflection point in how DeFi starts growing. So DeFi is really kind of the case study of how Oracle networks enable entire new categories and entire new markets. But there are many, many markets. There are as many markets as there is digital human activity that needs to become trust minimized. And that is obviously hundreds of trillions of dollars. That is the kind of opportunity that I think we're really going after, is how to enable hundreds of trillions of dollars to become trust minimized with the help of these oracle networks that give rise to these more advanced hybrid smart contracts.
00:39:55.310 - 00:40:26.166, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it really is a pretty big opportunity if you think that the opportunity for Oracle networks is as big as any human economic activity. And so, you know, I want to end on this point. What is the ultimate vision of Chainlink and the smart contract economy, and where are we in that journey? I think we've covered it a little bit up in the conversation so far, but if you could just paint a picture as we close for the ultimate vision for the chainlink and smart contract economy, I think that would be a really great place to end.
00:40:26.348 - 00:41:25.234, Speaker C: Sure. So our internal goal at Chainlink Labs, as one of the organizations helping build Chainlink, is to build a world powered by truth. And what that means is that Oracle networks will play a critical part in creating key cryptographic inputs, outputs, and decentralized infrastructure to create a world powered by truth. And when we say truth, we mean cryptographic truth. So cryptographically guaranteed relationships, there's a certain kind of cryptographic guarantee. When you hold a bitcoin or when you have an ethereum token, even in a smart contract, the deviation that can happen that could affect that token or that bitcoin negatively is a very limited universe of things. And that very limited universe for us is a source of truth.
00:41:25.234 - 00:43:26.590, Speaker C: It's a source of guarantees. It's a way that the world should work where instead of brands promising you that they will fulfill their obligations as an application, they become unable to do that, and then the experience you've expected with them doesn't happen. So I think there's this world that's probabilistic today where there's a lot of brands promising things and not reliably delivering them, and there's a deterministic world which is defined by cryptographic guarantees, cryptographic truth, and everything being a trust minimized application. So the goal of the chainlink network, in my mind, is to become the computing resource through which all trust minimized applications go into production, get all the reliable services they need, gain all the capabilities they need to become useful outside of what a blockchain provides. Right? So a blockchain can provide the block space, a blockchain can provide the token ledger, a blockchain can provide a private key infrastructure, but it cannot provide and does not provide all of this other computation and all of this other computation, I would say, is a huge category of work because as I said earlier, we already have multiple smart contracts that use multiple oracle networks. So if you look at the percentage of the application that's running in an oracle network versus the percentage running on chain, those percentages are starting to look more and more equal, which means that oracle networks are continuing to provide greater and greater value, whether that value is transferring tokens, transferring messages between chains, sending data, doing computations, providing randomness, providing identity information in a privacy preserving way. There is a very large and growing array of computations that need to be trust minimized.
00:43:26.590 - 00:43:59.718, Speaker C: That trust minimized applications cannot exist without. Just to keep it really brief, our goal is to build a world powered by truth, by transitioning all the world's applications into a trust minimized state. Right? So we want everything to become trust minimized. And I feel that Chainlink network makes the infrastructure that will allow that transition to happen, together with the other key infrastructure of our industries, like Ethereum, various other chains and so on.
00:43:59.884 - 00:44:05.420, Speaker A: Great. Quite a beautiful place to end. I'm curious if there's anything that I didn't ask that you want to say.
00:44:06.510 - 00:44:58.860, Speaker C: I guess I would say I'm really impressed by the work you've done on gitcoin and quadratic funding and the way that that's positively impacted the Ethereum community and the commitment that a number of other people have made to fund a series of public goods that benefit them and benefit a larger community. So I think aligning this kind of certain degree of self interest so that we all have a good, reliable infrastructure in the form of Ethereum, together with the creation of a public good that we all want to see happen, kind of marrying those two interests is a really impressive feat. And I think it's going in the right direction. And I've just been impressed to see how it's developing and really thrilled to be a part of it and excited to see the next shape that it takes.
00:44:59.310 - 00:45:17.360, Speaker A: Right. Well, thank you so much for saying that on behalf of Gitcoin Dow, which is now hundreds of people, and I'm actually not that deeply involved anymore. And thank you for your support of Gitcoin grants and public goods in the past. Looking forward to building a decentralized, regenerative future together. So thanks so much for joining me.
00:45:17.890 - 00:45:20.270, Speaker C: Thank you for having me. Cheers.
