00:00:00.400 - 00:00:24.926, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here. And in this video, I want to discuss the borrowing and lending rates on tether on Aave. If you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. None of this is financial advice, so let's get started. So I've had many people, like, tweeting me, dming me, saying, bro, have you seen the tether borrow rates? It's crazy high. I'm losing money. And, you know, I just want to talk about, like, how these rates are calculated and why I think these are only temporary.
00:00:24.926 - 00:00:51.632, Speaker A: And I do think that, yeah, let's just get into, like, why I think they're temporary. And to understand these interest rates, you have to first think about what Aave is. Aave is a bank, right? Aave is a bank. And what do banks do? They facilitate the borrowing and lending of money. And so let's look at this column here. The market size. So Aave, on Aave, there's 306 million USDT deposited onto Aave by people all around the world.
00:00:51.632 - 00:01:36.300, Speaker A: And on the other side, there are 291 million tether being borrowed. Okay? So if you click on tether here, you see that the utilization rate is 95%. This means that 95% of tether that AAVE has in their reserves is being borrowed out. And this is important because if you're in, like, the fiat system, the commercial banks, they have this thing called fractional reserve lending, meaning that they can lend out more money than they actually have. But in crypto, because it's more anonymous, it's permissionless. There is no such thing as fractional reserves lending banks like AAVE compound, they can only lend out money that they have in their reserves. And if you think of AAVE as a business, let's think about how AAvE makes money.
00:01:36.300 - 00:02:09.638, Speaker A: So AAVE pays you 29% if you deposit tether, right? So that's their expense. But AAVE gets paid 34% by borrowers for anyone that wants to deposit, for anyone that wants to borrow tether. So this, there's like a 5% delta here. And this is the. You can think of this as like the profit margin for AAVE, right? So, I mean, banks have to make money somehow, and this is how they make money. So if you're Aave, let's think about, like, what Aave's incentives are. Okay, so there's lots of people that wants to borrow Tether, but they only have 306 million tether left.
00:02:09.638 - 00:03:04.564, Speaker A: Tether, 306 million tether total, and only around 15 million left. So they want to incentivize more people to deposit tether onto the platform. So to incentivize people, they're going to increase their interest rates, right? So Aave is saying, bring your tether on here, we'll pay you 30% in interest rates. So you can imagine a bunch of people will just convert their USDC into tether, or just sell their assets, put it into tether, and just put money into Aave. And on the other side, Aave is saying, okay, our utilization rate is 95%, we are low on tether. So if you want to borrow tether from us, you have to pay up, you have to pay 35%, right? So you can just start to think about, like, the supply and demand dynamics, right? So, over time, as Aave increases the rates, the supply of tether will increase on tether. And as the interest rate to borrow increases, the demand to borrow decreases.
00:03:04.564 - 00:03:47.888, Speaker A: So, you know, I mean, obviously, these rates are calculated via supply and demand dynamics, and over time, these should go down, right? This is a short term fluctuation, because there's not that much tether being supplied. So these interest rates are high on both sides. And the reason tether rates are so high and the reason there's not that much people depositing tether is because tether cannot be used as collateral. And in my past videos, I've all. I've always, like, argued that the power of AAvE is that, you know, you can deposit assets as collateral and borrow against it. And because tether can't be used as collateral, I choose not to deposit tether. And the reason tether can't be used as collateral is because there's all this has been, all this fud around tether.
00:03:47.888 - 00:04:25.232, Speaker A: Fear, uncertainty and doubt that, you know, tether is not fully backed. Tether is not transparent. And because they're not transparent, it can't be used as collateral. Tether is trying to fix that, right? They're trying to be more transparent. They're, like, releasing these transparency reports. They released one in May saying that 75% of tether is backed by cash and cash equivalents, 13% by secured loans, 10% corporate bonds, and 1.6% other investments, right? So some tethers backed by bitcoin the market, like AaVE specifically, is yet to deem tether as a safe asset that can be used as collateral.
00:04:25.232 - 00:04:57.370, Speaker A: Because if you think about it, like, AaVE is also a business, right? And as a business, they have to manage their risk. And right now, like, the AaVE protocol, does not believe tether can be used as collateral. I do think this will change over time because, I mean, tether just got listed on Coinbase. They settled with like the district attorney. And over time, it's going to be slowly, slowly de risked. And I think the thing, tether will be able to be used as collateral maybe sometime this year, sometime next year, etcetera. But, you know, this, hopefully this kind of gives you like, a better understanding of how these rates work and why these rates fluctuate so much.
00:04:57.370 - 00:06:00.162, Speaker A: And lastly, I want to wrap up the video and talk about, I guess a lot of people in this space just assume that these rates will exist forever, right? Like even in a bear market, I can earn 3% on DaI and other protocols. They can earn like 12% on their stable coins. And though that's true right now, I want to make an argument for why these rates are not sustainable. Because if you think about it, like, because they're, they're a bank, right? Like these deposit APIs are high because borrow APIs are high. And why are borrow apys so high? It's because there's demand to borrow, right? There's demand to borrow stable coins by market participants around the world. And what is the, primarily the primary use for taking out stablecoin? Taking out for borrowing stable coins. It's to take on leverage, right? So you can imagine me depositing bitcoin into Aave, borrowing stable coins against it to buy more bitcoin or to buy more ether, right? Take on more leverage.
00:06:00.162 - 00:06:36.400, Speaker A: And right now we, I think we're in a bull market. But if we do ever enter a bear market, like, where is the demand for leverage going to come from? It'll be much lower, right? Like if bitcoin ever crashes below 20k, if ether gets below a. Don't think it's going to happen. But let's be open to the mindset. Let's. Let's be open to the possibility that it could happen, happening, right? So if, if crypto ever enters a bull market, sorry. Ever, ever enters a bear market, the demand to borrow will plummet, meaning that, you know, if you're a lender of stable coins, like, you're not going to be able to get this high apy.
00:06:36.400 - 00:07:06.806, Speaker A: So, you know, it's just like another way to think about these borrowing apy a borrow API and deposit AP wise, hopefully this gives you like, a better understanding of how this works. So, you know, even in my discord yesterday, someone was like, oh my God, it's super high. And then people were panicking. People were like, repaying their loans. And then this guy was like, what the fuck? Like, the tether borrow APY went down to 3% within minutes of me returning my tether alarm. So hopefully, this gives you a better understanding of how these rates work. So the next time this happens, like.
00:07:06.806 - 00:07:36.200, Speaker A: Like right now, you're not going to panic, right? You're not going to panic. You're going to be like, okay, like, right now, the APIs are high, but I expect these rates to go down because of the market. Because of the market's fine demand dynamics. And as the market reaches equilibrium, I don't know how long, how long that'll take. But once it reaches equilibrium, these rates will go back to what it was before, where APY is like, between three to 8%, right? Single digits. Thank you guys for watching. Have a nice day, and, yeah, thank you guys for watching.
