00:00:00.240 - 00:00:37.072, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delhi Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 1 June 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I kind of kicked the Hornets nest today, or I guess the hornet's nest may have already been kicked when it comes to Ethereum staking, and in particular the centralization concerns around liquid staking derivatives tokens or liquid staking service providers such as the lido. Lidos of the world, right, and other such providers. Obviously Lido is the biggest centralized player and the biggest player in the ecosystem at the moment, whether it be centralized or decentralized.
00:00:37.072 - 00:01:40.668, Speaker A: And I saw a bunch of discussions happening around this, and this is something that I've talked about a lot on the refuel before. It's not a new topic by any means, but I put out this tweet that ended up being a lot longer than I thought it would hit. Twitter's new kind of feature where you can basically tweet up to I think like 5000 characters is actually pretty useful when you've got something to say instead of threading it. So I want to go down this tweet that I put out like kind of line by not line by line, but like paragraph by paragraph and kind of expand on what I've said here, because I think it's critically important to both understand the points that I'm making, but also understand the points other people are making and see how this is a multifaceted and complex issue and not something that is going to change overnight, not something to be tackled lightly and not something that, that can be changed by just the social layer, which is kind of the main point point of my tweet, and you'll see why. So I started off the tweet by saying, you know, many of my fellow ethereums are going to hate me for this tweet, but it needs to be tweeted. Maybe he hates the wrong word here. I think that many people might disagree with me, but I think this is just a harsh reality of the situation.
00:01:40.668 - 00:02:23.386, Speaker A: So I said centralized centralization concerns around LSD's are well founded, and I agree with a lot of them, but the solutions presented often leave a lot to be desired, particularly putting too much emphasis on what the social layer alone can do. And I've talked about this before. I've said the social layer is quite powerful, but it can't just be used on its own. You can't just keep yelling at someone to do something and then expecting them to do it. There needs to be action that accompanies that, that kind of, I guess like social layer initiative. And then I continued by saying the social layer was able to fix the client diversity issue, at least on the consensus layer side, because it is a fundamentally different issue to the LSD centralization concerns. I would go as far as to say they shouldn't even be compared and I really don't think they should.
00:02:23.386 - 00:03:16.372, Speaker A: And the number one reason is that with staking centralization, or I guess like with, with staking generally and, and talking about changing providers, there is a very direct and apparent economic incentives kind of game going on there that isn't as apparent or nowhere near as apparent, is it, as it is with client diversity. So for example, when an everyday user, I'm not talking about whales or anything like that, I'm talking about an everyday user who has like five live ETH, for example. When they're looking for somewhere to stake, if they're more clued in than your average just investor that stakes on a centralized exchange, they're going to look at what's providing them the most APR. And a lot of the APR calculations honestly leave a lot to be desired. A lot of them tend to, it depends on what interface you're looking at. But a lot of them tend to just do backward looking by like a day or seven days, which I think isn't a long enough timeframe. I think at least 30 days.
00:03:16.372 - 00:03:43.920, Speaker A: You need to back, you need to look at the backward APR there. Um, and backward API isn't exactly accurate to, to forward APR either, because we don't exactly know what it's going to be going forward. It's kind of hard to calculate given that the execution layer rewards are so volatile. Uh, but people are just going to look at that and they're going to go with, uh, well not all of them, but a lot of them are going to go with what's paying out the most. Right. And the people that are using LSD's are not the people. Well, most of the time are not the people that are running the validators and running the, the nodes.
00:03:43.920 - 00:04:26.122, Speaker A: So they're not even thinking about things like client diversity, whereas the people running the nodes, running the validators, they want to make sure that they're not offside. They want to make sure that they are doing what's best for the network and doing what's best for themselves too, in case something was to go wrong. And they are a lot more technical in nature if they're running the validators. If they're running the nodes, they're a lot more clued in, obviously. And if they're a big provider, they're definitely clued in, definitely aware of everything happening in the staking space. So the two, in my mind, there's just so many reasons why they shouldn't be compared and why it's actually easier to change clients. Because literally changing clients is not something that needs to go through a cure or anything like that.
00:04:26.122 - 00:04:43.850, Speaker A: You don't have to, like, unstake your ETH and then restake it somewhere else. There's no risk to your. There's no. I mean, there is maybe a tiny risk to your capital. Maybe you accidentally get double, um, I get slashed for double signing or anything like that. But the risk is very minimal there. And you can change your clients very, very quickly, and there are a number of different ways to do it.
00:04:43.850 - 00:05:21.942, Speaker A: Whereas changing staking, I mean, if you're. If someone's telling you you need to change because light, you know, for example, lighter, has got too much market share, you need to go somewhere else. Well, okay. That would require them to sell their LST, right? Which would most likely incur tax liabilities for them. It would require them to then go ahead and rebuy the other LST, make sure that they aren't suffering some kind of slippage or that they're not buying the thing at a premium so they aren't suffering any loss there. And then also, you have to convince them that the APR that they've been getting is going to be better or the same with this new server. So it's just a whole mess of things.
00:05:21.942 - 00:06:27.832, Speaker A: Right? So that's why I think that the two things shouldn't actually be compared and why the social layer alone is a lot weaker with, I guess, like, the LSD space than it is with the client diversity space. And then I continued in the tweet, and I said, if my fellow ethereums want lido dominance to go down, then they need to create and promote better liquid staking protocols, and then vampire attack the hell out of Lido with them. And then I continued and I said, we all know the most powerful force in crypto is economic incentives, but too many people still want to sit around and hope that their social signaling will somehow lead to change. With this issue, I'm here to tell you that it most certainly will not. So when I say kind of vampire attack here, this is a term that's taken from defy summer, where essentially, it was popularized by Sushiswap I guess, like, is a fork of Uniswap where it's originally a fork of Uniswap, and came along and said, hey, everyone migrate their liquidity to sushiswap and we'll pay you out with sushi tokens and liquidity mining rewards in order to come, you know, provide you liquidity here. And the capital moved quite quickly. There was a pretty massive outflow from Uniswap, a pretty massive inflow into sushiswap.
00:06:27.832 - 00:07:03.026, Speaker A: But it was a very, very short term game, and it didn't really work and obviously didn't work out for Sushiswap over the longer term. They don't hold a candle to uniswap in terms of usage and volumes here. But that's not to say that something similar can't be done in the LSD space. And I'm not talking about something that appeals to djens and some. Some crazy inflated Aprs of like 100% or something like that. I'm talking about just layering on some token incentives and some kind of other incentives for people to migrate from Lido or to stake with your service if you're. If you're.
00:07:03.026 - 00:07:50.616, Speaker A: If you're a founder or part of the team that's. That's spinning up a staking service to do that with you instead of going with Lido. And I actually think a lot of the. The new stake, if we can get a lot of that new stake to go with providers other than lighter, that is a huge win, because getting people to rotate out of light, oh, is going to be more of an uphill battle. And to get their actual dominance down would require stake actually being withdrawn from Lido itself. So unless there's like a max exodus, which I don't expect there to be anytime soon, unless there was a kind of bug with lighter, that, that scared people off, what's going to be Dido's dominance is most likely going to go down because people are going with other services instead of lido. And as I said, like, we, we all know the most powerful force is crypto economic incentives.
00:07:50.616 - 00:08:29.344, Speaker A: So let's use them to get people to not stake with Lido and to stake with someone else, and let's hopefully keep chipping away at Lido's dominance with those incentives in order to get people to potentially leave Lido to go stake with somewhere else. And as I said, I'm not talking about doing short term degenerative yield farming games. I'm talking about doing a longer term, you know, years worth of incentives to get people to stay with you and to switch to you. And if they're happy with the product, they're not going to leave. And I think this is a pretty big thing that people don't talk about. Lido isn't something that just came along and was able to get, you know, whatever, 30 something percent of market share of the Ethereum staking space. Lido has been around for a long time.
00:08:29.344 - 00:08:53.935, Speaker A: They were the first mover. They have put in a lot of work to get to where they are, and now they're just reaping the rewards of that work, of having an amazing product, of doing the groundwork to get it to that point. And the other projects need to do that. Rocket pool is amazing, right? Don't get me wrong, I love rocket pool, but it hasn't been around as long. It hasn't been, well I should, I should say it hasn't been live as long. They uh, they, they were the second mover here. They weren't the first mover.
00:08:53.935 - 00:09:21.364, Speaker A: So they have that as a disadvantage, honestly, because first mover advantage is a pretty big deal. But they are growing, right? They are continuously growing and they're continuously improving, but they have a lot of work to do still. And then you have other ones coming online that are even younger. So when thinking about things from a product perspective, Lido is an amazing product for the people that use it. People that use it have no issue with it. They get to earn a yield on their ETH. They get to say they're staking because they're holding an lsd and they're not operating a node, obviously.
00:09:21.364 - 00:10:02.708, Speaker A: And a lot of the times those people don't care about decentralization, they don't care about the health of the network because they're obviously not people who are very clued in to ethereum. And that's, that's totally fine. But in saying that, these other protocols have a lot of opportunity now to eat into Lido's market share, to lead in late to eat into the market, that lido has proven out, which I think is going to definitely play out as time goes on. And then I continued and I said, social signaling then you, that you want Lido or really anyone to self limit is a non starter. And I've been saying this for a long time, it's just not going to work. The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and, and expecting different results. This is what is happening with the self limit talk.
00:10:02.708 - 00:10:39.054, Speaker A: And I've criticized the self limit talk before because there's just no way that any rational kind of, I guess like for profit business is going to vote to self limit its market share. Like it's just not going to happen, right? And the more that you social signal that they should be doing it, the more they probably start to resent you and the more they don't want to do. I know this is, this sounds silly and this sounds something, it sounds like something that shouldn't be happening. But you have to look at the reality of the situation. You can't just keep hoping and coping that it's going to basically turn into the way you want it to be. You always have to look at the reality of the situation, which is what at least I tried to do. And this is the reality, this is the harsh reality.
00:10:39.054 - 00:11:25.890, Speaker A: And as I say, I know people are going to hate me for these opinions, but I don't think they're just opinions based on nothing. I think they're based on the reality that we see today. And then we just to add some positivity here, I said, in saying all of that, there is importance and power in social signaling because it makes people aware of the issue, encourages tackling of that issue, and signals to the wider ecosystem that Ethereum wants to meet its problems head on. And this is a theorem's, I think one number one superpower, or close to its number one superpower, is that the Ethereum ecosystem is not afraid of tackling the hard questions. It's not afraid of doing this in public. It's not afraid of people throwing fud at ethereum over certain things. Ethereum develops out in public there, you know, there are a lot of people who, who give their thoughts on Twitter for better or worse, and then we hopefully get to a good outcome in the end.
00:11:25.890 - 00:11:56.850, Speaker A: And this stuff being openly talked about without people trying to sugarcoat it or anything like that is incredible strength. And that is where I think the most strength comes from when it comes to social signaling. So I'm still very happy to see the social signaling, but we have to turn that into action. And that's when I ended the tweet by saying social signaling without action is useless. I want to see action. So everyone who is building an LSD or part of an LSD community, this is a call to action for you. It's time to kick it into high gear and eat Lido's breakfast, lunch and dinner, and its second dinner.
00:11:56.850 - 00:12:19.734, Speaker A: And of course, I'm here to support in any way that I can. It really is time. There's no more waiting withdrawals alive there's nothing left to wait for. Get your projects live, do what you need to do in terms of capping it early on to ensure safety and things like that. Start doing incentives to get people to switch to you. Make sure that you've built great software for node operators to use. Make sure it's easy for them to use it and do aggressive marketing, do aggressive business development.
00:12:19.734 - 00:12:47.536, Speaker A: Hire the right people to do all these sorts of stuff and you will see success. I don't think that Lido has a monopoly that it can just maintain forever. I do think that Lido's dominance can be chipped away at. It's not going to happen overnight, though. The staking ecosystem as it exists today is probably going to look very different in a few years, right? But it is a slow moving beast, as I've discussed before, it's not going to happen overnight. It's not going to be something that you're going to have to, you're going to be able to pay attention to in the short term. I mean, lighter withdrawals have only been live for two weeks.
00:12:47.536 - 00:13:18.136, Speaker A: And I know we didn't see anyone really withdrawing from Lido, but that doesn't mean they weren't in the future. All it really takes, honestly, on, on the, on the lido side of things is if there's a major bug. I think a lot of people would actually leave if there was a major bug. But then all it takes from the other side is for all these other staking protocols to eat into Lido's dominance by offering incentive to do so. This is exactly what happens in the real world with other businesses, right? Not just in crypto businesses, but just generally with other businesses. They all vampire attack each other. They all offer incentives to get market share from their competitors.
00:13:18.136 - 00:13:59.268, Speaker A: And that's exactly what should be happening in the Ethereum staking space. So that was the kind of overall TLDR, or maybe not TLDR, but a longer version of my tweet here. And there were a few related tweets that I wanted to highlight. One was from Paulinayer here, who said when it comes to Ethereum staking, smaller players may reshuffle, but in a plutocratic game like proof of stake or proof of work, smaller players are marginalized. To state the obvious, it mostly matters what whales, institutions, custodians and family officers do. Unfortunately, many of these entities do not have an alternative beyond lido. So that's another important point, is that lido caters to these, these kind of entities because lido is huge ste, liquidity is deep.
00:13:59.268 - 00:14:29.590, Speaker A: You know, lido has a good reputation behind it with these players. They do the business development, they do all this kind of work that gets them or has gotten them to where they are today. And then Polynya offers some kind of advice here of how to be more competitive with lido for the other providers. You need to be as scalable as lido. You can be more decentralized and decentralized faster than lido. You need lower commissions and higher returns and incentives to compete aggressive bd target institutions. And when I say aggressive here, guys, I'm talking like next level aggressive.
00:14:29.590 - 00:15:06.902, Speaker A: You need someone who is so hungry to increase the market share of your staking service provider and so hungry to take market share away from Lido that that's all they think about. That's what you need, right, to tackle these sorts of stuff. And those people do exist, but you need to incentivize those people too, right? You need to pay them the right, right way. You need to give them token incentives, stuff like that, right? And then of course, defi integration is also very important and that's obviously being done as well and working in the background. But that comes with all the other stuff that comes with dominance. The more dominance you have, the more people want their favorite defi apps. Integrate your LST and the more that will happen.
00:15:06.902 - 00:15:45.174, Speaker A: So that that's all a natural flow on from there. And then there was a tweet here from Ethan Hughes who basically went over what the market share looks like of different LSD's six weeks after the Chappelle hard fork. So you can see a percent change in respective liquid staking derivatives or LSD market share with a bunch of the providers listed here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, lido is pretty flat. Rocket pool has been growing really nicely. Coinbase lost a bunch, I think, because of the arbitrage that was happening between CBE and the ether Coinbase had on the beacon chain for Frax has been growing as well. But as far as I know, Frax isn't in its current state, is quite centralized.
00:15:45.174 - 00:16:24.316, Speaker A: But that's okay, because I think that even if stake is going to other centralized players, it's better than it going to Lido because it's all about getting their dominance down right at the end of the day. But you can check out this tweet, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Danny Ryan also reshared his blog post around, or I guess like his GitHub post here around LSD's being above critical consensus thresholds, posing risks to the Ethereum protocol. It's a short read, but a very apt one. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. And that's it for, I guess, like a lot of the opinionated stuff on staking, but there's one last thing around LSD's here. So I came across this project called Prisma Finance that kind of came out of stealth, I believe, yesterday.
00:16:24.316 - 00:17:18.018, Speaker A: So they're a non custodial and decentralized Ethereum LST backed stablecoin. So essentially what they're trying to build is a stable coin. I think this is from the curve guys, but a stable coin called AC USD that is fully collateralized by LST's such as STE, Cbeth, Rethy, Frax ETH and Binance ETH, or be ETH, which I think is really important too, because it means that there's going to be hopefully more liquidity driven to these, these lsts, and then in turn creating a better stable coin for everyone. Now you can go check out this project. They also announced their fundraise here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this kind of stuff is going to what's going to kick staking into high gear, I think, because collateralizing things with lsts is really cool, because what you end up getting is you get this stable coin that basically has, is basically collateralized not just by 8th, but by the, by staking.
00:17:18.018 - 00:18:17.706, Speaker A: And then that yield that is on the staked ETH can be fed into it, and then it can be all kind of different games you can play here and different things you can do here, which I think is pretty fascinating. But anyway, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Lucas from the Nethermind team has shared that Nethermind syncing is now very, very fast because it scales with your resources and uses them to the max to achieve it. So you can see here that he was saturating his processor as well as a 100 megabit connection. And apparently he was able to sync a full node in about 1 hour and 50 minutes for a node to start validating blocks here, which, and then in parallel, he was syncing old bodies. That's really cool, because it means that within probably under 2 hours, both the El, if you're using nethermind, and the CL, if you're doing a snapsync on the CL, it's not called snapsnick, it's called something else.
00:18:17.706 - 00:18:56.980, Speaker A: I can't remember the name right now, but if you're doing that you can get started in under 2 hours. Obviously you would need more beefier hardware to do this because you need that hardware and that connection to to do it this fast. But yeah, it's pretty cool to see that Nethermind scales with hardware here. So yeah, I'll link the tweet in the YouTube description below. You can check out more info from Lucas himself and a bunch of replies in the tweet as well. All right, so Terrence here has written a document for the new validator and builder interaction for the upcoming Den Koon Ethereum upgrade. So this is basically a more technical post here that I just wanted to highlight for everyone to check out.
00:18:56.980 - 00:19:50.768, Speaker A: This is the kind of stuff that, that I guess guys, developers need to be you aware of or developers that are using, that are interacting with the beacon chain and node software and stuff like that, particularly need to be aware of. So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but not much to say beyond that, honestly, it's just something that I figured was worth mentioning for you guys to check out there. All right, so Tony from the Mevboost Peaks website has open sourced a dataset with validator public keys map to labels such as Lido, Kraken, Rocket, Pull, et cetera, including the individual lido, not operators. You can now access this at mevboost pix slash data dot HTML. It's updated on a daily basis and the deposit addresses and the necessary heuristics for specific validators were primarily gathered by Hill Dobby. So this is basically a data set that you can use to build really cool sites like the ones that I've been showing lately, like Raider.net
00:19:50.768 - 00:20:30.530, Speaker A: work for example, or anything like mev boost pics and anything that visualizes the Ethereum staking ecosystem in a particular around MeV Boost. So if that's something that you're interested in, you can go check this out. The datasets are available at that website and I'll link the website of course in the YouTube description below for you to check out as well. And you know what, I've, it's funny, I've highlighted Tony so much on the refuel in the past. He's just doing a bunch of amazing work around data. I mean, the MeV Boost pix website is probably at this stage the best website for keeping on top of what's happening in MEV in terms of, in terms of metrics and easy to read metrics here. So just a huge shout out to him for doing this.
00:20:30.530 - 00:21:04.566, Speaker A: And he doesn't just maintain this website, by the way. He's actually an Ethereum researcher and working on a bunch of other projects as well. So just a machine of, of a guy here in the Ethereum ecosystem. Just a shout out there. And also, while I'm on the topic of giving shout outs, Hill Dobby as well has done so much work around getting amazing do not analytics dashboards up and running and just playing around with all the, all the data he can get. So shout out to both of these guys for their amazing work in the Ethereum ecosystem. All right, so sovereign Labs here has announced their SDK has entered alpha.
00:21:04.566 - 00:22:02.794, Speaker A: So this is a toolkit for developers to easily launch their own applications as ZK roll ups, which is very cool because I've been talking a long time about how I believe there's going to be a proliferation of app specific roll ups and there's going to be a lot of these tools that allow developers to quickly and easily spin up their own app specific roll up. And the sovereign SDK is definitely one of those tools. You can check out this blog post for full details on that. And also, I should mention, not to be an ETH maxi here, but to not be an ETH maxi here is that it's not just limited to Ethereum. This will also work with other ecosystems once they're live, such as Celestia and Avail. And it basically is aiming to be plug and play with pretty much every ecosystem, whether it be layer one, settlement layer like a theorem, or maybe you want to use a theorem layer one as just settlements and, and kind of like dispute resolution and stuff like that, or sorry for proofs because it's a ZK roll up. And then you can use Celestia or avail as your data availability layout.
00:22:02.794 - 00:22:38.522, Speaker A: You can kind of create like a validium type construction, different adapters for your ZKVM such as Risk zero here, all different kinds of things that you can do. So really the, I guess like where the, the goal here is to provide a modular kind of development ecosystem or SDK, that people can use, the developers can use to build their app specific chains. So really great to see this. You can check this out. I should disclose here that I'm actually an investor in sovereign because I love investing in all things roll ups and l two s. All right. Lastly here we have an announcement from a Redstone Oracle's.
00:22:38.522 - 00:23:27.990, Speaker A: So they've announced their recent funding round, the recent angel rounds that had participation from a bunch of high, high I guess like quality and high influence builders such as Stani from Avi Ave, Stani, Sandeep from Polygon, Alex from ZK sync, and a bunch of other people here, as you can see. And they're also named in the the thread. Yeah. Now for those of you who don't know what Redstone Oracles is, they are a modular oracle suites that are trying to basically compete with, I guess, Chainlink and other oracle providers to deliver cost efficient oracles for defi for l one s and l two s and all that good stuff there so you can check them out for yourself. I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but congrats to them on the raise here. It's great to see more competition here. I know there are a lot of chain link fans out there and there is nothing wrong with chain link.
00:23:27.990 - 00:24:24.806, Speaker A: I love chainlink. Right? I love all the work that chain link has done, not just the oracle side, but everything they're trying to do across various different domains. But at the end of the day, I think, you know, more competition is always healthy, no matter where it is, right? I, you know, I even think, and ironically enough, I even think that the competition within the l one space, even though the l one competition has been just really bad, like most of the other l one s, aren't even trying to compete with Ethereum. I still think it's been, it's been overall probably net positive for Ethereum because for every other l one that fails or dies, it just strengthens Ethereum and it shows us what not to do. It shows us why the path that Ethereum is on is the best path to continue down and why, and Ethereum keeps winning because of that. So actually, ironically enough, think that the Alda al ones, as kind of extractive as they've been and as scammy as a lot of them have been, probably overall net positive for Ethereum in the longer, longer run here. So the same is true for, for just like any, any kind of competition.
00:24:24.806 - 00:25:47.272, Speaker A: And I think that that Redstone Oracle Sierras is hopefully going to make Chainlink a better product as well and other Oracle's better products by just bringing that competition to the forefront here. So yeah, you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, I've got a few minutes left here, and you guys have been enjoying my, my market talk recently, and I want to talk a little bit, not about the markets in particular, but about something that I don't really talk about too much on the refill because it's more of something that I think that is like, if there's like ten levels of crypto over like a theory, and this is like level nine or ten, I would say, in terms of the understanding that you need to actually grasp what I'm going to talk about here. Now, what am I talking about exactly? Well, I'm talking about the value of ETH as influenced by things that are indirectly driving value to it on the surface, but directly driving value to it under the surface. Now, what are these things? Well, these things are things like credible neutrality, censorship, resistance, decentralization, security, you know, distribution of stake, all these, all these sorts of things that people don't look at when they look at evaluating ETH as an asset, because you'll have seen plenty of valuation kind of attempts of ETH. Usually they'll take an assumption of, okay, well, this is how much ETH is going to be staked.
00:25:47.272 - 00:26:22.258, Speaker A: This is how much ETH is going to be burned. Let's slap a monetary premium on it, whatever that means in whatever report you're reading, right? Let's slap a store of value premium on it. Let's do a PE calculation. And hello, let's spit out a number. And I'm sure you saw the other week there were some people on bankless saying that they had a price prediction for ETH of like 50,000 by the end of the decade, but a low price of like $300. And these kind of numbers are just insane to me, and not, you know, just the volatility that is there is just crazy. And a lot of it is just based on those kind of surface level valuation metrics.
00:26:22.258 - 00:27:04.892, Speaker A: Whereas a lot, I strongly believe that a lot of its value is derived from those under the surface things. It's derived from what I was just talking about. The fact that Ethereum's competitors just keep dying, basically, and just keep failing to actually gain market share. It's derived from Ethereum continuing to execute on its roadmap, continuing to prove out its roadmap, continuing to prove out the success of things like L2s. It drives value to ETH via Ethereum continuing to prove out its censorship resistance. Ethereum had its biggest test of its censorship resistant properties since, since the OFAC sanctions, right, since August of last year, and it has passed it with flying colors. We really did not fix it entirely.
00:27:04.892 - 00:27:42.796, Speaker A: Obviously, there is still some level of censorship on the network, but we have mitigated it a lot. And there are plenty of other solutions coming down the pipeline like PBS and MeV burn to eliminate that, even more then Ethereum's credible neutrality as a network has been proven out. And the longer Ethereum exists as a credible, neutral, net, credibly neutral network, the longer it gets proved out, the more Lindy that has. And how I define credible neutrality here is that the Ethereum network doesn't bias any one participant or any one entity. It doesn't do things that favors any one party. It just exists as permissionless, neutral infrastructure as much as it can. Maybe it's not 100% neutral, maybe it does bias some sort of things.
00:27:42.796 - 00:28:32.352, Speaker A: Like some people would argue that the Ethereum network is biasing L2s because it's not focusing on layer one, scalability. And I think that's kind of a silly way to look at it. I think when I look at it, I look at it's focusing on biasing L2s and scaling for L2s, because that is where the users are going to sit. And that is how we retain all these other properties. And then other things like Ethereum's decentralization, Ethereum's ability to, to tackle its problems head on, like, like what I was talking about the beginning of the episode with LSD's and stake centralization and stuff around that. I think all of that feeds so strongly into ETH as an asset and gives ETH so much value. But it really is something that you need to be at like level nine or ten, right out of ten for, of the Ethereum ecosystem to actually understand and to actually understand why it drives value and why it's important.
00:28:32.352 - 00:29:04.284, Speaker A: And the only way you get there is by hanging around for a long time, because these things are long term things. These things play out over decades, right? They don't play out overnight. They don't play out even over one market cycle. It takes multiple market cycles over potentially decades for it to play out. And Ethereum is coming up on ten years since its ICO next year, and then in 2025, it will be Ethereum's 10th birthday. So it will have been a decade of Ethereum proving out all of these sorts of stuff. And then when you compare this to other networks that are competing with Ethereum, they are basically at the beginning and they have to do all of this.
00:29:04.284 - 00:29:43.672, Speaker A: And pretty much none of them have even attempted to do any of this. So yeah, anyway, as I said, not exactly market talk, but more kind of talk around what drives value to ETH as an asset below the surface. Because it's all well and good to look at the surface level stuff, because that's easy to explain. You can say to someone, hey, you know, we're burning this much ETH, and this is what each issuance is now. And look how much ETH is locked up in staking. But what really drives value to ETH over the long term, what makes it a store of value, what makes it a competitive asset in the marketplace of assets, is all of that stuff that I just talked about. So hopefully that gives you a lot of extra context around how I think about ETH and why I'm so bullish on ETH, you know, beyond the surface level stuff.
00:29:43.672 - 00:29:55.544, Speaker A: And hopefully you can be, too. But anyway, that's going to be it for today, so thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to Newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
