00:00:03.400 - 00:00:48.260, Speaker A: So it's a beautiful, sunny day in Amsterdam, much like this one, and you decide to go fishing in the canal. And like any good degen fisherman, what you care about is yield. You want to catch a lot of fish, so how might you do that? Well, you could just sidle up to a canal, cast in your fishing line, and hope for the best. And after doing this for a while, you'd probably start to get a good sense of which places in the river are good places to fish. Where can you get a lot of volume, right. Where can you catch actually valuable fish? All these things are good things that you'd start to figure out, but that's probably not a very efficient way to start fishing. Right.
00:00:48.260 - 00:01:41.342, Speaker A: It'd be a lot better if you actually had that data up front, if you could actually look at historically, where people have caught a lot of fish and where people have actually caught the really good ones. But that's actually not the whole story. Right. I think there's also a competition aspect here, like, fishing is a very PvP sport, so it'd be really nice if you'd be able to see also where everybody else is fishing and make your determination based on that. And where are we going with all this? Well, you've probably guessed through my thinly veiled analogy by now, but if liquidity provision were phishing, a surprising number of liquidity providers today would really fall in that first category. Essentially, they're going up, casting in the lines somewhat at random, maybe slightly informed, and doing a bit of trial and error to figure out how and where to LP. This is not a very efficient state of things.
00:01:41.342 - 00:01:50.434, Speaker A: Right. And we love efficiency here. So that's why today I'm very excited to be here with you announcing the liquidity terminal.
00:01:57.974 - 00:02:17.774, Speaker B: Okay, so the liquidity terminal is a one stop shop for LP's to analyze their pools and manage their positions. So when we. My name is Yutaro. I'm Ori, and we're the co founders of Orca. Thank you.
00:02:18.794 - 00:02:20.094, Speaker A: We love you guys, too.
00:02:20.554 - 00:03:01.834, Speaker B: So our goal at Orca is to be the best liquidity protocol on Solana. And we want to do this. We want to be one of the best, or we want to be the best liquidity protocol for the Solana community. And thanks to you all, we've been driving more trading volume than all the other Dexs combined for the past year. But we want to do better. And one of the things that we've been focusing on is the experience for liquidity providers, because at the end of the day, LP's are the lifeblood for our protocol. We need a healthy and competitive community of LP's, so that whenever traders are trading that they get the best price possible.
00:03:01.834 - 00:04:13.624, Speaker B: So we built a brand new interface from the ground up, and we're calling it the liquidity terminal. So when we say liquidity terminal, it's not just a buzzword. When we were designing and implementing this interface, we were inspired by computer terminals and how for users, it's the interface through which they can view information, execute commands and get real time updates. In the same way, we want the liquidity terminal to be a place where LP's can see and analyze pools, execute their transactions, and manage their positions in real time. So the first thing you might notice is the thing in the middle, which is a price chart. And for LP's, of course, being able to see the price history is critical for being able to make smart decisions, because in some sense, the game for LP's is figuring out how long they can stay or how long they can keep the price in range so that they can maximize their yield. But we think a price chart is really just table stakes at this point.
00:04:13.624 - 00:04:21.144, Speaker B: And in addition, we're going to talk about two additional features that we think will allow LP's to make smarter decisions.
00:04:22.244 - 00:05:15.024, Speaker A: So the first of those features is what we call the yield finder. Cool name, right? But what is that actually? So as I mentioned earlier, right, whether it's fishermen or liquidity providers, there are a lot of different factors you have to consider when it comes to whether or not a position is actually going to be profitable. So there's volume, there's fees, there's liquidity depth, information about the token itself. I see you yawning in the audience. I'll try to be even more interesting. Right now, the way most liquidity providers actually approach this is by having a lot of different tabs open, right? You might have one where you're looking at volume, another one where you're looking at liquidity depth, and there's just a lot of things to juggle and it becomes so cumbersome that for a lot of liquidity providers, it becomes just not really that worth it. Right? Like this is a time is money situation as well.
00:05:15.024 - 00:06:30.804, Speaker A: And so the easier it is and the faster it is to actually put all those factors together and make these informed decisions, the more appealing and the more effective liquidity provision will become. And that is what we've created with the yield finder. So if we zoom back out, you see the price chart at the top, right, with that blue selected area that's the price range you can simply click and drag on the edges of that area to adjust it. And immediately under that directly in the trading view chart, you see the yield finder, which shows the actual APR annual percentage yield, essentially that you would have earned as a liquidity provider with that particular price range at any candle in the past. So this is essentially backtesting and something that we've made super easy to do simply in this UI. So I think people a lot of the time have this image of all these very advanced traders and liquidity providers being people who essentially only write their own stories, scripts, and there are folks like that. But a surprising number of very effective LP's do so through the UI, and this will allow them to even uplevel that one level further and start making these really intentional decisions about how to lp.
00:06:31.704 - 00:07:39.004, Speaker B: Yeah, that's right. So going into the technical implementation a bit, what we're doing is we're using the same mechanisms that are used by the smart contract itself itself to account for the fees and rewards that are distributed to each and every single position. What we're doing on our back end servers is we're tracking all the transactions and we're tracking the changes in, well, if you're familiar with the smart contract, fee growth and reward emissions, and how that changes over time, so that we can reconstruct the change and we can use that to take any arbitrary position and then use the same logic that's being used by the smart contract to figure out how much fees and rewards we earn by any given position. So this allows us to have pinpoint accuracy whenever we're calculating yield for our users. And we're also able to calculate yield for arbitrary points in time. So a user can really drill down to candles that are 1 second long, but they can also zoom out and look at yield earned over, let's say, the entire year. Okay, so, great.
00:07:39.004 - 00:08:37.304, Speaker B: Now LP's can measure how much yield a position could have earned historically. But what LP's really care about is whether or not they can be profitable. And when it comes to profitability, it's about the relationship between yield and divergence loss, right? Because even if the yield is high, if the divergence loss is equally high, then the position can't be profitable. So we created this widget within the liquidity terminal, and we're calling it the time to profit estimator. So how does it work, and why do we call it that? Well, let's imagine how an LP thinks about profitability. Like Lori mentioned, the user can select a price range in the price chart itself. So here you can see that in the light blue area, and it's kind of hovering around the current price.
00:08:37.304 - 00:09:46.144, Speaker B: So the way an LP can naturally think about profitability is they can think how long does the price have to stay within that range before the yield that's earned is greater than the divergence loss from hitting the upper price or the lower price. In other words, what's the time to profit? And so for this example position, we can see that the average yield is around 350% annualized over the past few days. So of course, we're not claiming that historical yield guarantees future yield in the same way that historical price doesn't guarantee heat future price. But this is critical information that allows users to create a mental model for what they think future yield might be. And in this example, let's just say that LP wants to know what it looks like. If future yield is 350%, they can input it into the time to profit estimator. And then we see a few numbers.
00:09:46.144 - 00:10:20.384, Speaker B: So in the top it says 2.3 days to profit, and the bottom it says 1.5 days to profit. So what that means, if we go back to the price chart, is that given an annualized yield of 350%, the price needs to stay within the price range for 2.5 days on the upper end or 1.5 days on the bottom end. For the yield earned equals the divergence loss, and the position starts making money.
00:10:20.384 - 00:10:28.644, Speaker B: So immediately we start to get this mental model of whether or not a position can earn money. Wow, that's fast. Thank you.
00:10:36.504 - 00:11:35.238, Speaker A: So all of these features that we show today are based on months of user research with actual LP's, both on orca and on other concentrated liquidity amms. So we're confident that they represent a large step forward in terms of the liquidity provider experience for DeFi in general. But at the same time, they're also just the tip of the iceberg. And so we're excited to announce that this is really just an MVP. There are many more features coming to really fulfill this vision of a liquidity terminal that anyone would be proud to throw on their giant monitor and makes use of every inch of available space. So two features that are coming down the line. One is easier repositioning, which is already in the works on the design side as well as the end side, will make it super seamless to be able to move your position from one price range to another, as well as adjust the amounts of your position.
00:11:35.238 - 00:12:55.618, Speaker A: Something that currently in most clims is really a cumbersome multistep process that's on the convenience side. Another one that I think most LP's would be even more excited for is actually P and L. So not only in the past how much a theoretical position could have made, but actually how much is my position earning now? Because I bet a lot of you in the crowd have tried LP'ing at some point on an amm. And that's what you really want to know, right? Am I making money? That's why a lot of people are in Defi, right? And so I think with these improvements, we'll continue to advance towards this vision again of making it as power user of an experience as possible for those users who really want to dive deep and make LP ing something that they're very serious about, if you count yourself in that crowd. I welcome you today to apply to join the closed beta for the liquidity terminal, which is launching right now. So all you need to do is scan this QR code, tell us a little bit about yourself, and you'll have the chance to be the first ever group of users who get to use this terminal interface. You'll also have the ability to provide direct feedback to orca developers in order to continue elevating this experience.
00:12:55.618 - 00:13:39.310, Speaker A: Because, again, the core of orca is really about this human centered design, right? These features that I've told you about today, the ones that we have planned, are based on research, but nothing is more informative than actually hearing the experiences of users in real time. So, once again, if you would like to join us in executing with intention, apply for the closed beta. We've been so grateful to have you with us on this orca journey for the last three years, and we're really humbled and honored to continue serving the Solana community as what we hope will be the best place to bootstrap liquidity for any new project that you hope to build. Thank you so much. Ori and Yutaro, co founders of Orca. Thank you. Thank you, Flana.
00:13:39.462 - 00:13:39.854, Speaker B: Thank you.
