00:00:00.280 - 00:00:30.918, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 10 February 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I came across this meme from Coin Mamba today, which I thought was actually pretty, pretty funny. It's this meme with, with I guess like a human or a kid and a dog playing chess. And then captioned on the kid, it says, me watching YouTube videos on how to get rich with crypto. And then the dog is kind of like looking back at the camera and his caption with the youtuber getting rich by making videos.
00:00:30.918 - 00:01:11.554, Speaker A: So the reason why I thought this was, was quite a funny meme is because there's so much truth to it, right? I mean, think about how many youtubers are out there, all the clickbait ones, all the ones that kind of like have those really ridiculous thumbnails, all the ones that have the really clickbait titles. And think about what they're selling you, right? They're not selling you, you know, knowledge. A lot of the time, what they're selling you is just what they've, you know, a token that they've already bought. They're trying to get you to click on referral links. They're trying to sell you a trading course or something or other, right? And these days it's nfts. They're not actually trying to help you get rich in crypto or you know, find alpha in crypto. They're not doing, I mean, what I'm doing, right? They're not giving you pure knowledge.
00:01:11.554 - 00:01:38.956, Speaker A: Like, I obviously shy away like majorly from doing any kind of clickbait. I don't want even, I don't even want to draw that crowd in. I try to stick to kind of like the fundamental stuff happening. And look, I'm not going to sit here and say that watching the refill every day is going to make you rich. I mean, there's so much more that goes into investing than just kind of, kind of like research. There's, I mean, there's so much more that goes into it. I think people really do, uh, kind of like at this false sense of security during bull markets or even just in crypto in general, where they think investing is easy.
00:01:38.956 - 00:02:12.284, Speaker A: Guys, investing is the furthest thing from easy. It is actually really, really hard, especially if you want to make outsized returns. Like you can easily just go buy some ETH, you know, and hold it for a few years and you'll probably do well, right? Like, I believe that you'll do well doing that. But if you're looking to get, quote unquote rich in crypto and you're looking to start with a few thousand dollars, well, I've told you guys before, ETH isn't going to make you a millionaire, right? If you've only got a few thousand dollars to invest, not anytime soon anyway. Maybe far into the future when, I mean, maybe a millionaire doesn't mean much anymore. But, you know, if you want to, you know, get rich in crypto, you have to go down the risk curve. You have to invest in other things.
00:02:12.284 - 00:02:55.054, Speaker A: You have to kind of like, you know, find, find your own alpha, so to speak. And that was, this is the topic of today's newsletter, actually, where I titled it seeking Alpha. And Alpha is this kind of like thing within crypto? Not within crypto, within the investing world. It's basically describes, you know, having tangible information that you can act on to make an investment or trading decision. Now, I try to strictly keep the definition to be publicly available information, not so much insider information because obviously, as we know, insider trading is absolutely rampant within crypto. It is extremely hard to stamp out, if not impossible, because of the fact that Ethereum addresses, or just crypto addresses in general are pseudonymous. So just say you're an employee at an exchange, for example, and there's a policy not to kind of like trade based on a listing coming up.
00:02:55.054 - 00:03:23.446, Speaker A: Well, how are you going to stop your employees from doing that? They can literally go home to their own computer. They can spin up a brand new address. They can fund it, I mean, on Ethereum, they can just fund it through tornado or they can get their mates to send them some, some funds on it and then they can kind of like do the insider trading that way and it's pretty like much impossible to catch them. And there's a lot more of that, of this stuff that goes on as well. I mean, there's a lot of information that gets passed around insider circles. It's not publicly available and it's rampant. I mean, maybe it comes as a shock to some of you, but I may shouldn't.
00:03:23.446 - 00:03:50.334, Speaker A: Like, it really is kind of like rampant here. And that's not to say that it's not as rampant in kind of like the stock market as well. It sure is. And the funny thing is is that in the US at least, it's actually legal for, for politicians to trade based on this information, which is just even more bizarre. But when I talk about kind of like alpha and real alpha within crypto. I'm talking about the publicly accessible information. And the funny thing is, is that you can get so much good alpha from public information because people are just lazy.
00:03:50.334 - 00:04:16.862, Speaker A: Like you can actually get amazing Alpha from just watching a project's GitHub repository or joining their discord channel. Because a lot of people are either too lazy to do that or they don't have the time to keep up with it. And by the time the information is, you know, right in their face, it's already too late. And this is all publicly public information. This is not insider trading. You just doing kind of like your due diligence and digging in and things like that. And that's how you kind of like find that good alpha to potentially make you money down the line.
00:04:16.862 - 00:04:50.886, Speaker A: Now, is it going to make you rich? Who knows? As I said, investing is more than just finding the alpha. Like once you find it, you have to make a bet on it. How many times have you found a piece of information or you've, or you've been bullish on something and you haven't actually bought it and then it's gone like ten x. I've done that so many times it hurts to think about how many times I've done that. But that's the game, right? If you don't have conviction to actually purchase something after finding like some alpha on it, well, then you're not going to make any money on it, right? It's just as simple as that. And this happens to everyone, guys, it doesn't just happen to, to you or to noobs or to, you know, or to me. It happens to absolutely everyone.
00:04:50.886 - 00:05:31.230, Speaker A: Not, no one has a 100% hit rate. Most people don't even have like a 50% hit rate. It's actually quite low. You know, a lot of people actually just get one big win and, you know, they ride that up and they're like, okay, well, how do I do this again? And a lot of people actually trade away their big win, which is even worse because you made a lot of money and then you traded it away trying to chase that high again. And that's, I guess, like you can, you can refer to that as kind of like over trading or over investing where, you know, in that situation, the, the smart thing to do if you want to stay in the market is to diversify or at least kind of sell into less risky assets. Of course, you can go to stable coins and do stable coin yield farming. That's all well and good, but in my case, like, when I've made a return on a super speculative asset that I put money into, I go to ETH.
00:05:31.230 - 00:06:04.348, Speaker A: Like, that's what I take profits into because ETH, to me, is just, like, a much safer bet than anything out there. I consider everything other than Ethan BTC to be at least ten times more risky to invest in, at least. And then you go further down the risk curve and it becomes just. It's just exponentially more risky to go into these things. So taking all that into account, you're not going to be able to watch Bitboy. You're not going to be able to watch all these other youtubers. Like, I don't even know most of them because I don't even pay attention to any of them, but you're not going to be able to watch them and essentially kind of, like, get the alpha you need to get rich.
00:06:04.348 - 00:06:26.732, Speaker A: All you're going to do is make the youtuber rich because you're going to give them more views. They're going to go up the rankings, people are going to click the referral links, they're going to buy into the tokens that they shill, and they're going to get rich off the back of you. And it's really shit. It's really disgusting. But, I mean, I don't even know what the regulators are doing. They're going after honest actors while this shit goes on so that we can't even rely on them. And not that I even want to rely on them, but, you know, we've seen that we try to self police.
00:06:26.732 - 00:06:47.502, Speaker A: There's a guy on Twitter called Zach who does a lot of, kind of, like, highlighting of these. These people who promote scams and things like that, but they get away with it every time. Like, the law enforcement, I mean, has caught, like, 0.1% of these people. And as I said, I don't want to have to rely on them either. But self policing doesn't seem to fix it either. So it's kind of like a rock and a hard place here.
00:06:47.502 - 00:07:12.278, Speaker A: But I think that, you know, it's. There's different kinds of people out there. There are definitely channels that are quite large that do provide some. Some good information or don't try to show you too much. You know, it's funny, I talk about, like, trade course, trade pay, sorry, paid trading courses and things like that. There is actually one youtuber that I've been watching since 2019, since they were really, really small. A lot of you I know watch him as well, Benjamin Cohen.
00:07:12.278 - 00:07:34.950, Speaker A: So he's the only trader that I watch. I don't watch any other traders out, and I don't actually trade based on his information. Him, for me, is like church. You go to him to be told everything's going to be okay, the market's going to be fine, the long term is going to be fine. And to be honest, I mean, I know a lot of people do that. I don't personally do that because, like, I already, I already have my conviction on ETH and everything. I only watch, really, his ETH videos.
00:07:34.950 - 00:07:58.710, Speaker A: I don't need him to tell me that everything's going to be okay with Ethan. The market's going down, but a lot of people do that. And he, you know, has a lot of good insights into things. He has a lot of good videos. I mean, there is a lot of repetitive stuff going on there, but I repeat myself all the time as well. And as I've explained before, I think repetition is actually fine as long as it doesn't get to the point where it's just like, crazy amounts of repetition. And then he, you know, he has a paid kind of, like, group that he does.
00:07:58.710 - 00:08:40.096, Speaker A: He has kind of, like, staking pools with, I think, Cardano. He has, he's a big, kind of, like, staking pool there where he owns a commission, all these sorts of stuff, but his content's all free. And I honestly think he's an, he's kind of, he's an honest actor. You know, at the end of the day, I don't think he's trying to scam anyone or show anyone or anything like that, but that is someone who I think kind of just sits in the middle there. He's, you know, he's kind of, like, not doing everything for free, and people shouldn't be expected to do everything for free, but, like, he has a large following and he's kind of, like, providing information, and people can kind of get that information if they want. He's never shilling kind of, like, low cap tokens to people and telling them, hey, go buy this because this is going to moon, blah, blah, blah. So that's the only one that I really pay attention to in terms of kind of, like, trading and then other youtubers.
00:08:40.096 - 00:09:06.724, Speaker A: I don't even really watch any other youtubers, guys, if I'm being honest. I mean, Justin Bram does a lot of great videos, but a lot of them are newbie friendly videos. I don't need those, for example, like you, like, just now that I'm thinking through it, like, I don't watch a lot of it because I don't need to watch a lot of it. But there's a lot of people out there that obviously do, and those videos are really good for them. So I think it's still worthwhile doing that. And there's a bunch of other channels. I mean, obviously there's bankless and a bunch of other media out there.
00:09:06.724 - 00:09:41.544, Speaker A: But for me, most of the time, like, I don't even have the time to watch or listen to these sorts of things. Uh, and, you know, the funny thing is, is that like, when I'm recording the refill, it's like I'm watching it, right? Like I'm going through it all and that's kind of like my daily dose of video. Um, I I do listen to a lot of podcasts. I think that's a really great source of alpha, listening to podcasts with, with guests on them and things like that. Um, especially, like, obviously, as I said, bankless does a lot of good stuff there. But again, if you want, like, the real alpha, the real deep dive stuff, you need to go basically dumpster diving. Essentially, you need to go and weed through all the shit, find the real Alpha and then act on it.
00:09:41.544 - 00:09:59.848, Speaker A: Acting on it is the hardest part, but you got to do it. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. Just wanted to kind of ramble a bit about that sort of stuff. Obviously, none of that is meant to be me giving you guys investment advice. And I hate saying that because, like, I've said it so many times at this point, I'm not giving anyone investment advice. I'm not telling you you should buy this, you should buy that. And I'm never going to tell you that.
00:09:59.848 - 00:10:20.752, Speaker A: I'm never even going to tell you to buy ETH. All I'm telling you is that this has been my experience in the markets over the many years. This is how I, how I've played it. You know, obviously, I'm extremely bullish on Ethan. I. And that, and that's it. Like, so it's always funny when, like, I'm saying non investment advice and then you have these other youtubers over here saying this is gonna go 100 x or buy this shit coin because it's gonna go a thousand x, blah blah.
00:10:20.752 - 00:10:39.836, Speaker A: And they're just fine doing that. I honestly can't even morally bring myself to do anything like that. I would feel disgusted in myself if I did that. But I mean, they're different people. They're doing it anyway. I'm gonna stop ranting before I get stuck on that. I think I'm gonna move on to the next piece of news here from Walter Bloomberg, who's a pretty big account on Twitter.
00:10:39.836 - 00:11:12.410, Speaker A: You've probably seen him before, but he shared a post today from Coindesk about Blackrock planning to offer crypto trading. So for those who don't, who don't know, Blackrock is the world's largest asset manager. Trillions of dollars of assets under management here. And I think that there was rumored that they were planning to offer crypto trading a few months ago. And obviously being a big corporate entity, they take a while to move here. But I mean, this isn't, doesn't come as a surprise to me at all. I was actually talking to someone the other day about this and how one of the banks here, the biggest bank in Australia, Commonwealth bank, announced a few months ago that they would enable crypto trading directly on the, on the bank.
00:11:12.410 - 00:11:51.710, Speaker A: So they basically become a pseudo crypto exchange. And I believe it's because they see lots of money flooding out of bank accounts into crypto exchanges, like probably billions worth out of, you know, Commonwealth bank and probably other banks as well, going outside of the bank to these crypto exchanges that really are offering a service that the banks can offer as well. Because the banks already have all the licenses and regulations. They just need to set up, you know, a lot of the crypto native, crypto native things, but they could partner with an existing kind of exchange for that and bring some stuff in house. So I think the same is true for, like, Blackrock. They probably see all this stuff going on, like, holy shit. Like, we need to get our hands on this.
00:11:51.710 - 00:12:15.806, Speaker A: This is a massive new asset class. You know, it's, I say it's a massive new asset class, but the total crypto market cap is only 2 trillion. I'm pretty sure the equity market cap is 150 or 200 trillion or something like that, much, much bigger. And that's just equities. And you go, you know, you have, like, precious metals, you have the bond market, you have the currency markets, you have all this sort of stuff going on. It's. And crypto is so small, but the demand for it is insatiable.
00:12:15.806 - 00:12:52.248, Speaker A: So that's why I think these big firms are just like, looking at this and being like, yeah, we need to get a, we need to get a piece of this. We need to do it now. We can't wait any longer and needs to be done now because this is where, quote, I guess, quote unquote, the alpha is. The alpha is being early, you know, getting these products ready. I mean. Okay, let's take a step back here. What does an asset manager do? Well, I mean, in this case, Blackrock being the biggest, biggest asset manager, they have a lot of, I mean, I'm pretty sure, like, at some point in your life or at some point in an adult life, their assets are kind of like being managed by a blackrock or another kind of like asset manager, especially for your retirement accounts.
00:12:52.248 - 00:13:17.650, Speaker A: So what they're going to do is, and I was talking to a friend about this the other day, what they're going to do is they're going to wrap all these crypto products up into this stuff that they're going to call whatever, and they're going to sell it to their clients. As simple as that. They're going to take their fees. They're going to make an absolute killing on this. And the funny thing is, is that the products aren't actually going to be anything special. They're just going to be kind of like nicely wrapped boomer versions of crypto. And people buy these shit.
00:13:17.650 - 00:13:40.132, Speaker A: Like, imagine telling someone, hey, you can earn 10% on, on this thing, right? Whether it's like, kind of like a staking asset or five to 10% on a staking asset, and then, like, the real return is more than that, and you're just taking the difference there. Plus you're taking your own fees. These people aren't going to investigate that. They're not going to go looking. They're going to be like, oh, I can make five to 10%. Yeah, all right, I'll buy it. And then they just get raked on fees.
00:13:40.132 - 00:14:11.570, Speaker A: Right? So that's exactly why a lot of these firms want to get involved in this. I would never go through an asset manager or any kind of, like, financial services company to invest in crypto on my behalf, never, ever, ever. Because it's just unnecessary fees. Obviously, I already know what I'm doing, but most of the world is going to do this. Guys, like, most of the world already keeps their crypto on centralized exchanges. They already trade on centralized exchanges with really high fees. So I guess from that perspective, you know, Blackrock is looking at this and being like, there's so much money to be made here, let's do it.
00:14:11.570 - 00:14:35.446, Speaker A: So, not a surprise at all. I don't know if there was a kind of, like, date in here in the coindesk article about kind of like, when they would do this. But, yeah, I mean, I think it was just according to sources that this knowledge came from three people with knowledge of the plans and. Yeah, I mean, black book manages $10 trillion in assets, guys. That's five. Five times more than total crypto market cap. Like, it's crazy, right? You guys think we're big now? No, we're not.
00:14:35.446 - 00:14:58.832, Speaker A: The markets still have a lot to run here, but, yeah, I don't know if there's actually. Yeah, there's no kind of like date here, but I guess, like, it's probably gonna happen this year if it's. If it's already kind of like being talked about. So. So, yeah, pretty cool to see that coming. So I missed this the other day, but git coin grants around 13 dates were announced. So March 9 to March 24 is the dates for grants around 13, which is coming up.
00:14:58.832 - 00:15:33.562, Speaker A: I mean, I just realized today for some reason my brain had included to this, yet it's February. I. For some reason I thought it was still January. And I'm like, holy shit, where is the time gone? It'll be like, in a week's time, it'll be two months since I moved into my new house. I'm like, what the hell? Two months already? Crazy, right? But, yeah, I mean, you guys know, Gitcoin grants, I shield this to you all the time. This is pretty much like one of the only things I'll tell you to go directly do, and that's go donate when these grants rounds, matching rounds are on because obviously your funds get matched quadratically and you and your donation goes much further than it normally would. But, yeah, around 13 9th to 20 to 24th.
00:15:33.562 - 00:16:13.414, Speaker A: I will definitely keep you guys up to that date on that and obviously kind of tell you about it when it's live because you need to go donate to all your favorite, favorite projects once it's live. All right, so Terrence from the prior labs team put out a tweet yesterday about the merge saying optimistically syncing the Kintsugi testnet, another significant merge feature closer to completion with a screenshot here. So as I've said before, guys, I love these screenshots. Like, even if they might be totally meaningless to you, I love seeing the core devs be excited about stuff like the merge, sharing screenshots about it, keeping us updated with it. Even if it's kind of like a small update or something that you don't consider to be a big deal. I still love seeing this sort of stuff. So this is great.
00:16:13.414 - 00:16:42.470, Speaker A: As I said, like, the merge still seems to be on track, still seems to be going really nicely. I mean, it's funny, I was looking at kind of like some of the specs and some of the GitHub stuff and some of the checklists and everything, and it's come such a long way. I mean, we pretty much there, guys, like, it's actually crazy how close we are. We're pretty much at the finish line. It really is just kind of like dotting the I's and crossing the t's, as I've mentioned before. But I think that, you know, no one is more excited for it than the core devs and researchers. This is the culmination of so many years worth of work, and we're finally going to get there.
00:16:42.470 - 00:17:16.684, Speaker A: And I explained the other day why this is also bullish for ETH as an asset. It's stupidly bullish for ETH as an asset. And I actually think the markets right now, given that ETH is outperforming bitcoin, the ETH BTC ratio is going up and it's going up nicely. I actually think we're feeling the rumblings of the pre merge kind of like run up that I've spoken about where I believe that the run up in eats price leading up to the merge is going to be quite, quite, you know, quite crazy because of the narrative around it. So I believe we're feeling the first rumblings here. And it's funny because I. The reason I was so bullish on ETH after it crashed in May of last year was because we had a catalyst with 1559 coming up.
00:17:16.684 - 00:17:51.584, Speaker A: And it's kind of hard to pinpoint a reason why something pumps and why it doesn't. I mean, you know, we did recover in August, or I guess like in July and August, we recovered pretty significantly. And then we kept pumping after that up to 4900 all time high, and 1559 really, you know, I think played a, at least a narrative around that, played a big part in that. Now, leading up to the merge, this narrative is going to be even stronger because of that massive issue introduction. And I do think that it's going to play a significant part in, it's kind of like price here, but I don't know where it's going to go in the short to medium term. I don't know. You know, I don't know what's going to happen at the merge or after the merge.
00:17:51.584 - 00:18:35.200, Speaker A: As I've told you guys, there's so many misconceptions right now. The two biggest ones I mentioned the other day, the merge, people think the merger lowers gas fees on layer one, and people think that all the staked ETH just unlocks automatically. Both misconceptions, both completely false. But we're going to have to see how the narratives play out there. All right, so a big announcement out of the nomic foundation here today. They announced that nomic labs, the team behind Hard Hats, which is a Ethereum development environment, is becoming the nomic Foundation, a nonprofit Ethereum public goods organization backed by the Ethereum Foundation, Vitalik, Coinbase, a 16 Z consensus, and others. Now you may be wondering, okay, if this is a nonprofit, why did VC's invest in this? Well, they explained that in the blog post as well.
00:18:35.200 - 00:19:15.487, Speaker A: They basically said, well, VC's are investing in the future of Ethereum by investing in, I guess, or I mean, it's not technically an investment, it's a donation, but by donating to the nomic foundation here. So this is awesome. I mean, you guys know I love public goods. Obviously I'm a big promoter of Gitcoin. But what I really love about kind of like public goods funding is that you can have these non for profit organizations, you can have these tools that add a shit ton of value to the ecosystem in a roundabout way. For example, Hardhat being in a theorem development environment, if developers use this, develop their apps that bring billions of dollars worth of value to the ethereum ecosystem, well then that already paid for itself, so to speak, right? That's, there's already a massive return on investment. There's.
00:19:15.487 - 00:19:55.004, Speaker A: But they have other kind of projects as well. They have slang, which is a new solidity development compiler. They have EVM tooling with Retnet. As I said, they have the developer environment hard hat, and they have Ethereum connection, library, web3 js as a front end platform. So these things are things that developers are going to use to build the next, best and greatest products that could become billion dollar companies. So by investing in public goods infrastructure, you're investing in Ethereum, you're investing in the future of Ethereum, and you're investing in the billions, hundreds, hundreds of billions, maybe potentially trillions of dollars worth of value that are going to be kind of like created here. And you know, this is exactly what they said in the blog post.
00:19:55.004 - 00:20:43.894, Speaker A: They said they, that VC's are not making an investment where they expect a direct return. Since this is a nonprofit venture, they want to support the Ethereum ecosystem and, and us, us being nomic. So they're making a small contribution and most importantly, making their operational support resources available to us. So direct return, you know, this is, that, this is the kind of like term that I wanted to kind of focus on direct return. As I just explained, there's no direct return here. It's not like they're getting a token out of this or anything like that, but there is an indirect return where the easier they make it for developers to build things and the more kind of like other portfolio companies use these sorts of tools to, to make their products better, then they make a return that way. And you know, I forgot to mention that $15 million has been donated so far and they're looking to raise another $15 million for $30 million upfront for their first raise.
00:20:43.894 - 00:21:05.634, Speaker A: So I think the donations are open to everyone, as far as I'm aware. Donations website. So the number, sorry. Donations welcome the non profit nature of yeah, so I think that if you want to donate, you can get in touch here. But as I said, it is a donation. It's not an investment directly in kind of nomic, but it is an investment indirectly in the Ethereum ecosystem. So very, very cool to see this.
00:21:05.634 - 00:21:40.958, Speaker A: So immutable announced today that on immutable x you can now enable instant l two USDC credit card purchases on your immutable x on immutable x power platform with moonpay. So I think I spoke about them integrating moonpay a little while ago, but now you can buy USDC directly with a credit card on Altoo. So just another way to on ramp onto immutable x here with fiat. Of course. I think last time I spoke about this, I said that there might not be KYc with moon pay, but I think there is KYc with moonpay. Maybe I forgot, but I mean, this is the same as a centralized exchange. Like, unfortunately KYC is everywhere these days.
00:21:40.958 - 00:22:14.918, Speaker A: I think it's the, I mean, I'm bearish Kyc, it's such a stupid thing, but it's everywhere. But I still think it's bullish that we can now kind of like go directly, you know, to immutable x with USDC using a credit card. So definitely check that out if you haven't already. So Starknet is actually one year old today. So there's a recap blog post put out by Starkware, basically an update on the next challenge facing Starknet. So the TLDR is that they've been building stark netting steps, starting with establishing usability, then improving performance, and finally moving on to decentralization. So they've achieved their first goal, usability.
00:22:14.918 - 00:22:48.200, Speaker A: This means that they delivered general computation in an ethereum like state years before it thought possible. They're now moving to stage two of their three part plan, three part building plan performance, focusing on throughput, transaction cost and latency. And the next up will be decentralization. So in this blog post, they detail all these kind of like phases here. But I mean, next up, decentralization means a token is coming. Guys like that, you can't decentralize one of these kind of like networks, or at least you can try, but I mean, it's kind of hard to do without a token. So they want to do so that they have to have a first decentralized version by the end of 2022.
00:22:48.200 - 00:23:21.822, Speaker A: So star Quest token, I mean, I would put a high chance on it coming this year. As I said when I've talked about l two tokens before, Starkware seems to be the one that's kept the most tight lipped about a token. I haven't seen them even talk at all about a token, or heard them talk about a token. At least with kind of like the others, they've mentioned it, or they've mentioned that they aren't thinking about it right now. But like Starkware, as far as I know, hasn't really talked about it at all. But when you say you're going to decentralize the network, token comes here, so probably an airdrop will come with it as well. I'm not sure what the distribution is going to look like, but yeah, that's just kind of like a little bit of an alpha leak there.
00:23:21.822 - 00:23:45.446, Speaker A: See, that's what I'm talking about with Alpha. This is publicly available alpha right now. You farming an airdrop on kind of like Starkware, Starknet stockware related apps is just like Alpha that you've been able to get that other people may not have. Other people, a lot of other people may not be aware of this. As I spoke about yesterday, most people just buy things on exchanges they don't actually use on chain stuff. So that's, that's some kind of like alpha for you, for you there. But definitely go give this blog post a read.
00:23:45.446 - 00:24:13.450, Speaker A: It's full of awesome, kind of like information about Starkware's journey with Stocknet and kind of like where, where they've been and where they're going. So Doctor Carl Kriter here from Grid shared an update on Phonon. So he said in this tweet, welcome to the new paradigm of blockchains without blocks or chains. Daniel from the grid plus team mind the first native phone ons today. Imagine tokenizing hash shares without aG, without aggregating back to a blockchain. Here come Felix. Crypto payments and micro payments.
00:24:13.450 - 00:24:44.890, Speaker A: And he's got a kind of screenshot here. Now, if this whole thing means nothing to you, don't worry. This is pretty technical and pretty in the weeds here. But essentially, from what I can understand here, what they're saying is that you can basically, you know, tokenize anything and you don't have to put it on the blockchain. You can do it off chain but still have the security of a blockchain without kind of like, you know, the blocks, all the chains here. So, I mean, you guys should check out phone on. It's as I've described it before, it's an off chain kind of like protocol for transferring digital assets.
00:24:44.890 - 00:25:15.694, Speaker A: I've said to you guys before, the way it can work is that you can actually securely transfer private key across the Internet without anyone being able to snoop on it. So, and there's a bunch of other really cool use cases around this. And as you guys know, I'm an advisor to, to the phone on Dao as well here. And I'm really excited for what they're building because, I mean, again, as you guys know, my two big themes for like next few years are privacy and scalability, and phone on is working on both. So very cool to see this. Definitely go, you know, check out phone on doubt, see what they're building. Read some of their blog posts to get more context around this.
00:25:15.694 - 00:25:53.220, Speaker A: So Doon analytics has announced a program called the Wizards Grants Program, which is a way to kind of like grow their community and help their community achieve their goals. So the wizard grants program. Wizard, sorry, wizard grants will be awarded to the the dude analytics most engaged and active community members and to those with talent that they want to help nurture and grow. Those who are awarded a wizard grant will become resident wizards. So if you're very involved in the dune at elites ecosystem and you want to become a resident wizard, well, this is for you. And you get a grant out of this as well. So you'll be awarded a grant of $10,000 for a three month kind of like residency here.
00:25:53.220 - 00:26:19.730, Speaker A: And they'll be getting education, coordination and partnership efforts as well. So this is kind of like, I guess an intern program, which I think is really cool, especially for people that are still in college or something like that. And that can't don't be have the time to take on a full time role and, you know, but are still learning how to kind of like code and how to do things like SQL and stuff like that. This, I think is a really cool initiative. So if this applies to. Definitely go check out this blog post and I guess apply for this grants program. All right, last up here we have Cismo.
00:26:19.730 - 00:26:46.104, Speaker A: Their discord is now open to all. So there's no more waitlist or whitelist or anything like that. And they've got more updates, kind of like in this blog post here. But if you've been waiting to join their Discord channel to keep up to date with the Cismo kind of like project, definitely a go, do it now. So, but dow onboarding is still on hold. So yeah, you can find the link, I guess, in the, in the blog post here, which will be linked in the YouTube description. And you can learn more about cismo here and what they're kind of like working on and all that sort of stuff.
00:26:46.104 - 00:27:24.258, Speaker A: Refresher. They're trying to use ZK proofs to basically allow you to prove anything without having to reveal that. So I mean, that this is the way ZK stuff works. And I've given the example before that you can kind of prove to someone that you own a, you know, a specific NFT, but you don't have to actually tell them which address you own the NFT on. So you would get like a cismo badge on your public address that basically attests with cryptographic proof that you own this in another address or own something in another address, but you don't have to reveal what that address is. So there's a lot of cool use cases of this sort of stuff. And now you can get more involved with it by joining the Discord channel, you know, checking out this blog post, of course, and getting more involved with the ecosystem there.
00:27:24.258 - 00:27:34.394, Speaker A: And I think on that note, that's gonna be it for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
