00:00:13.290 - 00:01:06.850, Speaker A: Good afternoon everyone. Hope everyone's got some energy ready to talk about user experience and how to design crypto user experiences for humans. So first of all, who are we? We are team Peppo by OST. To my right, your left over here we have Benjamin Boland, who leads our blockchain development. We have Simona Pop, who's our chief engagement officer, who's working with us to bring in the community along with us and engage them. We have Kevin, who is our product lead for the OST technology, which is the underpinnings of the Peppo app, which we'll show you in a second, and Paul Qubeck, who works on our New York business development team and who's been manning the booth and showing everyone Pepo is about upstairs. So thank you Paul.
00:01:06.850 - 00:02:03.790, Speaker A: So first of all, who are we to talk about user experience? First of all, we're team OST stands for open simple token. For those of you who've not heard of us, we've actually been at this for quite a while. We've been biddling since 2016 building a technology platform to enable anyone to deploy L2 Ethereum tokens in app tokens inside of any application with self custody, smart contract wallets with gorgeous UX and blazing fast low cost transactions. If you download the Peppo app, it's in the App Store. You can see this technology in action. And this is a technology that enables us to have an awesome and really elegant user experience inside of the Peppo app and inside of any application. So you can go to the App Store, either iPhone or Android, you can download Peppo.
00:02:03.790 - 00:03:01.720, Speaker A: Peppo is an app that we designed to showcase the OST technology and to show what's possible if you think about the user experience first and designing crypto user experiences for humans rather than just building technology for the sake of technology. So Peppo is an app where you can make real connections with real people. It features basically 32nd videos from people here at East Denver and from around the world. And then you can join various communities in Peppo of people who share your passions, your interests. A hallmark of Peppo is that 30 seconds never felt so rewarding. So in Peppo, rather than just earning likes, you actually earn real money and you can earn real money from anyone. So basically what we've done is we've had the like button transforms into a token transfer from the person who's liking to the other person trying to play a video here, but it's not working.
00:03:01.720 - 00:03:46.614, Speaker A: There we go. Volume. We got volume or not? I think it's got volume turned off. It's fine, it's okay. So what enables this is the OST technology underneath the Peppo app, an embedded ethereum L2 smart contract wallet. We'll come back to this in a second. So who are we to talk about user experience? If you've downloaded Peppo, you might have seen kind of just how smooth the user experience is, how easy it is to transform any like into a token transfer, how easy it is to send a token person to person inside the app.
00:03:46.614 - 00:04:18.570, Speaker A: Don't just take our word for it. Decrypt recently wrote about Peppo that Peppo shows that crypto is ready for time. So we are proud and honored to be hosting and awarding the UX awards here at East Denver. We have $7,000 worth of Dai available in prizes. And a great thing about the UX awards is that it's technology agnostic. Any team building on any technology can win a UX award. At the end of this presentation, I'm going to come back and talk through the three different UX award prizes.
00:04:18.570 - 00:05:00.720, Speaker A: But first we want to tell you, basically walk through what it takes to win a UX award, what we actually mean when we talk about designing crypto user experiences for humans. So first I wanted to start by dispelling a myth. So some people came up to me over the last couple hours and said, I want to come to your talk and hear about graphic design, hear about design. And the first myth about UX is UX is not about design. UX is not about just the pretty kind of the finishes on an application. The reality is that UX is about how do you solve a problem. It's about how do you think about a use case and how do you solve that for these people who want to accomplish these things, how do we make the process better for them? How do we help them solve their problem better.
00:05:00.720 - 00:05:55.280, Speaker A: Another myth is that UX is just about the graphical interface. The reality is that really good UX combines a great story, a great architecture and a fantastic implementation to deliver an excellent user experience. And the key to all of this is starting with the problem, not the solution. So I want to walk you through where we started four years ago, where we started thinking about the Peppo app and how we got to where at today in terms of the solution. So four years ago, we looked out at the market and we thought of this problem. We thought about what if influencers on apps like Instagram, with hundreds of millions of actually now billions of users, could earn more than just likes? What if instead of just earning clout you could actually earn real money. And if you could earn that real money, not necessarily going through the platform, but earn real money directly from other people or from sponsors who would like your content.
00:05:55.280 - 00:06:39.118, Speaker A: The aha we had was what if every like could transfer value? What if every like, if it is an app like Instagram, could transfer peer to peer value from person to person? Well, the challenge there is that you couldn't handle Instagram. Users wouldn't put up with an experience like this. Imagine if Instagram was to have a wallet, and the first thing it would say is write down twelve words. That would be a huge step back from the experience that we have today in Instagram. Nor we have something like this, we have to install a plugin in order to use the application. Now, let's just say the user did get past all that they were managed to say they really want to be able to earn money inside of an app like Instagram. So they put up with this additional friction of setting up a web3 wallet as we know it today.
00:06:39.118 - 00:07:32.138, Speaker A: Well, even then, users wouldn't put up with something like this, where they would have to open up to something else in order to confirm the transactions, nor they wait for the block confirmations for the transactions to be processed. And especially they wouldn't be put up with something like this, where I say it costs 2.9 cents to send a $0.01 transaction. So this is what I mean about thinking about the solution, sitting about the problem you're trying to solve, and then coming working back towards what the solution might be. So the UX innovations that we had to work on when it came to the Peppo app as an example and building the OST technology, was how to think about how do we do things such as deploying session keys inside of an application so that the user doesn't have to manually sign every low value transaction. So if you experience the Peppo app as an example, you'll see that you can just tap the like button and you don't have to wait, you don't have to sign the transaction, you don't have to wait for block confirmations.
00:07:32.138 - 00:08:33.490, Speaker A: It's just instant the transaction happens, and you don't have to open up a plugin, it just happens right there in the app. And the way we're able to accomplish this is by thinking very carefully over a few years and architecting a system that enables the user to have a private key on a device that connects to a smart contract wallet, that has a multi sig, that is able to have session keys, that can sign low value transactions, execute low value transactions on behalf of the user. So in the case of Pepo, for instance, within a two week period, up to $10, the session key is able to execute transactions on the user's behalf without the user having to reauthorize a session that enables you to have a great user experience without encumbering the user. Now, I want to invite Ben up from our team to talk through again when we talk about user experience. You can't have a great user experience unless you really think carefully about the architecture and the technology that goes into it. So I'm going to invite Ben up to talk about how we thought about this, working from the bottom up to get to the experience that we wanted to when it came to Pepo.
00:08:35.510 - 00:09:01.722, Speaker B: Hi. So first of all, the aim of the presentation is to present the UX awards. So I'm not going to go all deep into this diagram. I just put it up here to sort of highlight how we thought about this. Also, during this weekend, you won't be able to build an entire architecture. So that's not the point. It's really just trying to isolate separate problems and solving them one at a time.
00:09:01.722 - 00:09:41.814, Speaker B: Right? And so what that meant for us, as Jason explained when we started with this problem statement, how would we make crypto peer to peer transactions seamlessly within an app? The first realization was we needed smart contract wallets, right? With meta transactions, as we've standardized them now. And so in the top, right, that's what we did. We have smart contracts, we use gnosis, multistick for every user. But we couldn't directly deploy this on Ethereum one. It wouldn't scale. We would be burdening Ethereum one with too much state. So we had to work all the way down.
00:09:41.814 - 00:10:28.834, Speaker B: And so what we did is we built a L2 solution that scales the EVM, the state of EVM, so that we can deploy normal Ethereum smart contracts on L2. So that's the infrastructure layer where we do consensus about what has happened on L2 and commit it back to Ethereum one. On top of that, we had to build a sharding model. How do you now distribute transactions onto subsharts? And so that's a tokenization framework. And so you can see that we define Peppo on Ethereum one, and then we move it into the shards so that you can use it more cheaply within the application itself. And then it allows us to build this relayer platform. So that's OST, the company is basically infura.
00:10:28.834 - 00:11:00.034, Speaker B: But for these app layer transactions. So within the wallet you will sign meta transactions. They come to us and we relay them, like the gas network to the chain, so that the user also doesn't have to pay the gas. But we had to build all those layers opinionated, to get to this ultimate user experience. And so that's sort of the same story. We knew where we wanted to get, and then the technology needs to serve that purpose. But I'll leave it at that.
00:11:00.034 - 00:11:05.220, Speaker B: If you have any questions, I'm here all weekend also hacking a bit, so find me.
00:11:06.390 - 00:11:46.526, Speaker A: So we don't expect any hacking team to build all this in a weekend. But the point here is to show that if you think about solving the problem first, then you work down the technology stack. It's that whole thoughtful process that helps create the user experience. So what we wanted to show everyone was how to win a UX award. Walk everyone through six UX essentials, and if you're a hacking team and you want to win a UX award, you want to win one of these three prizes, the top prize being 3000 die. What you need to do is very carefully focus on these six UX essentials as you think about as you submit for a UX award. So the first critical element of great UX is having a use case.
00:11:46.526 - 00:12:14.802, Speaker A: And the way I like to put it is, yes, but so, and here's how. Here's what I mean by that. For any product that we're building, we think about, there's a. Yes, there are people who need something. And so first we identify. Here are the people, and here's something that they need, but there's a problem, and they identify what the problem is that stops them from fully achieving what they're trying to achieve. So we built this in order to solve their problem.
00:12:14.802 - 00:12:51.938, Speaker A: And here's how it works. So at the very core of any good ux is this. Yes, but, so, and here's how. And I encourage every team that's doing a hacking project this weekend that is submitting for Ux award to really write down for these people who have this need, we identified that they have a problem, or they have. Maybe there's complexity, or maybe it's something that's an inconvenience or something that needs to be solved for them, something that stops them from fully achieving what they're trying to achieve. Maybe it's taking ten steps to do something. So we built this to make it more convenient or easier for them.
00:12:51.938 - 00:13:53.030, Speaker A: Maybe it's, for instance, if it's a bunch of developers who are trying to deploy something, and we found a way to make it go from 24 hours to 1 hour. The key thing here is identifying who are the persons that you're building the product for, what is the problem that they have? And then how does your solution uniquely solve their problem. The second critical component of great UX is understanding the user motivation. And the way we identify this is that basically, for any product that you're building, no matter who that you're building it for, everyone switches from something. And so even if they're switching from something isn't necessarily that they're using a solution today, then what they're switching from is having no solution or complacency or frankly, not giving a shit about what you're trying to solve. And so the challenge for us when we're building product is to think about what is the most important dimension, the most important dimension of our user. Because if you can identify that most important dimension, then you can start to think about how you optimize for that and get people to switch.
00:13:53.030 - 00:14:52.860, Speaker A: So the third critical component of great UX is relevance. So once you identify that for these people, here's the main dimension, the thing they cared the most about. It's how does our solution represent a better answer or a better improvement to that most important dimension that they have? So how have we identified that we can solve their problem knowing that this is the one thing they care the most about when it comes to what they're working on? We can get them to switch the way that they're doing it today to our solution because we optimized on that one main dimension that they care the most about. I'm going to invite up Simona to talk about one more thing. So I know that hacking teams don't have time this weekend to do lots of user interviews, but we are huge proponents at Pepo and OSt of doing user interviews, talking to people as the best way to really understand what the main dimension is that will get on the switch and to really find out if you're building something that they actually need and that they care about what you're building.
00:14:53.630 - 00:15:48.670, Speaker C: So the fourth dimension is so empowerment and obviously creating projects and applications that genuinely help people and communities. This has been something that I've always been interested in and something that I've believed in in every project. Like with bounties now with Peppo, it's incredibly, incredibly important to make sure that you cater to individuals and empower them to do the things that they need to do and go from an individual level to a community. Level, so that there is that empowerment that for many, many communities or segments of population just does not exist right now. Right. So let us figure out what we are doing, how we are empowering people and communities to do more, to do better, to be able to achieve their goals, whatever it is that they want to achieve.
00:15:52.130 - 00:16:07.380, Speaker A: So we talk about empowerment in terms of crypto projects especially. We're talking about, does the solution help expand the market? Does it further adoption and onboard new users to the crypto technology? Number five is.
00:16:09.510 - 00:16:42.430, Speaker B: I definitely wanted to just say one sentence on innovation, because that's ultimately why we're all here, right? So, yes, I think great UX and building great products is an iterative step. Like, you need to make small progress, small steps, so that you can get feedback and get building products that are actually needed. But we also want to make leaps. We want to build new things that weren't possible before. And that's fundamentally why we're all here. Like it's Ethereum. A few years ago, we were building Ethereum itself.
00:16:42.430 - 00:16:56.340, Speaker B: It's now possible. And so we want to keep making those leaps into the future to enable stuff that wasn't possible with just normal progress of things. So innovation definitely also matters. That's all.
00:16:58.980 - 00:17:01.360, Speaker A: And then our 6th dimension. Simona.
00:17:05.890 - 00:18:00.350, Speaker C: This is just basically me doing more movement so that I acclimatize to the mountain air that really is not suitable for me. So how does your solution contribute to the common good? I think, again with bounties, we did this incredibly well, where we found how we can deliver the tool that enable a certain betterment within a community within a specific use case. The Peppo use case. One of the first uses of Peppo from my side was to post a video about a homeless guy in Phoenix, Arizona whose laptop had just died within 48 hours. I got the equivalent of $250 in Peppo coins from the community. Already on Peppo. I was able to exchange that for an Amazon voucher within the app.
00:18:00.350 - 00:18:23.320, Speaker C: What? And send the voucher to Brandon, his name, who was then able to buy the laptop and get it delivered at a pickup point in Phoenix, Arizona. That is a very, very important use case of this technology that impacts individuals and has true potential to affect a lot of people.
00:18:25.370 - 00:19:36.954, Speaker A: Thank you. So, to recap, the six UX essentials that we identified is one is, does what you're building have a use case? The second is, have you demonstrated that you really understand the user needs and the main dimension? That's the main factor why they would switch from what they're doing today to your solution, number three is relevance, right? Are you showing that for that main dimension that you've invented something or created something that is better than what they have today? The fourth is empowerment. Does your solution contribute to onboarding more people into the crypto community? The fifth is innovation. Do you employ new technologies or new methods or new ways to introduce a step function and what's possible? And the 6th is responsibility. Does your solution demonstrate that it's not just for you, but for the common good that you're building? So to the UX awards, we are going to be giving three UX awards, 7000 die in prizes. As I said at the top, it's completely technology agnostic. So this is one of the only awards for the entire weekend where we don't care what you build on, as long as you build something that maps to these six UX essentials.
00:19:36.954 - 00:20:03.862, Speaker A: Anyone can win a UX award. First prize is 3000 die. That's real money. Two runner ups will get 2000 die each. And all you need to do is come up with something and present it to us that basically show that you built something awesome that meets the six criteria for good UX. Record a Peppo Video 32nd video with the hashtags eat Denver and UX awards. And on Sunday, find us the Peppo team.
00:20:03.862 - 00:20:44.750, Speaker A: We have a table up there and walk us through what you created and why you think it deserves to win a UX award. Lastly, you'll see that Ben here is modeling the elusive ETH Denver Peppo hoodie. We started off the weekend with 100 of these, so limited supply. We're down to about 70. And the only way to get them is by there's a in the Peppo app, you can send money to people with a QR code. You have to send us 2000 pepper coins. How do you get 2000 pepper coins? Well, one is you can buy them in the app, you can top up in the app, or you can complete some of these missions and earn some pepper coins to get the hoodie.
00:20:44.750 - 00:21:22.860, Speaker A: So we've had about 30 people who have already been racing ahead and doing these missions and getting the hoodie. And it's a great way to kind of bring the community into the app and to experience it as well as you really get a feel for the user experience we developed in Peppo to enable seamless money transfers between people. And the final result of it is you get this hoodie, but you also will send 2000 pepper coins in a matter of seconds via scanning a QR code person to person in order to get one. So thank you very much. And with that, good luck to everyone who applies for the UX awards. We hope to see lots of great innovations this weekend. Thank you.
