00:00:00.250 - 00:01:09.554, Speaker A: Hey everyone, Doran here to give you the latest on helping the developer space in the near ecosystem. This is nearbytes today on the agenda we have big news today on the agenda we have big news regarding the release of the near JavaScript SDK News regarding the Aurora to brave integration information on developer console's new alerts feature, Octopus Network's recent announcement, their new accelerator program and funder, a compliant DAO grants management tool. With that, let's get started. Let's start with the release of the JavaScript SDK Big news Land this week at Eatoronto in the Korea blockchain week where Nier announced its release of a StravaScript SDK Toolkit, a smart contract framework that allows developers with the build, test and deploy smart contracts fully written in JavaScript onto the near platform. This is a great leap for the web 30 adoption since JavaScript is one of the most popular languages out there. Being that it carries over 20 million developers, these developers can now integrate themselves into the web 30 space without having to worry about learning a variety of new languages. To get started, the Pagoda team has put together a list of resources to help you get started with using a near SDK JS, which you'd find linked in the description below.
00:01:09.554 - 00:01:50.062, Speaker A: Check it out and have some fun. Brave has now integrated the Aurora EVM network, an ethereum fattable network built on Nier as one of Bravewallet's pre loaded networks for all devs building on Aurora. This means any Bravewallet user can start connecting, transacting and using your decentralized applications on Aurora with their brave wallets similar to that of a metamask user. No extra step is required to get this started, just a simple update to your brave browser. This is exciting news because this will bring an increase to the accessibility of Aurora and the new ecosystem to interested users. Update your brave browser get started with the Brave wallet and check it out today. An effective grants program is a great way to kickstart an ecosystem by providing a funding to project or startup, but managing grants program can be incredibly difficult task, especially as demand for those grants grow.
00:01:50.062 - 00:02:40.858, Speaker A: Funder aims to streamline the process for the end user and grant operators on the end user side, it provides a unique place to submit and follow up on a submission to make sure the application process is easier and less stressful. On the grants operator side, funder aims to enhance compliance, transparency and scalability by automating administrative, legal and payment activities required by the grant programs. Some of the key features of funder include calendar integration for project rescheduling contract agreement signature with hello Sign, auto generated invoices transparent on chain payments. With the integration of Astrodao and more, the Nyear foundation plans to pilot and test funder with their grants program. You can find more information in the blog post, linked description below, and also a working demo. In that same blog post, Octopus network is launching their fall 2022 accelerator program. This accelerator program require you to turn your concept into a subtray app chain testnet in four weeks to earn up to 50K USD in funding.
00:02:40.858 - 00:03:18.102, Speaker A: The course workshop will cover major topics such as intern to app chain startups, web 30 product design, brand marketing in the Web 30 era, crypto community building, token engineering, regulation in the crypto world, and fundraising. At the end of the course, ten projects will be chosen to present their projects to select industry experts for judging. Five of the ten projects will be given the title of Octopus Future starter and each project will receive up to 50K in funding. Applications close on the 13th, so it's happening very soon, so apply today. Have fun's accelerator program, learn a lot and good luck. Hey guys, thank you so much for watching. Really appreciate your time.
00:03:18.102 - 00:03:30.620, Speaker A: Remember to buy your tickets for Nearcon and when to see you guys there. I want to hang out with you guys and have some fun. Remember to like and subscribe and leave your thoughts and feedback in the comments below. It helps us to improve and know what you guys want to see and yeah, thank you guys so much and have a great and wonderful day.
