00:00:06.490 - 00:00:24.640, Speaker A: Great. Thanks for joining us. So we have sylvan here from starboard. Today's session is on country level data and economy. In the meantime, if you have any questions, feel free to pop them in the chat. Sylvan, I'll leave it up to you.
00:00:25.690 - 00:01:04.526, Speaker B: All right, sorry about it. It seems like there's a network connection problem, but please just let me know if you guys are not hearing me again, right? I'll try my best, but very nice to meet everybody. My name is Sylvan. I work at Starboard working on research and product. So today I want to just really bring up the topic about the new data economy. Of course, I'm talking about filecoin. I want to talk about what is really unique about this new ecosystem and what's exciting about Fem.
00:01:04.526 - 00:02:16.614, Speaker B: What are the things that we could potentially do with Fem and how could some of our Starboard products help you navigate through this wonderful ecosystem? So, a brief introduction about Starboard. We are a company that focuses on network research, network analytics, and also product incubation. So on the network analytics side, we're mostly just trying to help people answer some of the most important research questions providing research metrics, monitoring dashboards to help user understand the network for product incubation side, we are trying to leverage on our experience, our insights into this ecosystem, and develop some Novo application to help a user better participate in this Novo data economies. We are a dedicated contributor in the Falcon ecosystem. We have been here for over two years now. So it's like we actually started Starboard shortly after the Valcoin Minute has launched. A couple of things that we have built.
00:02:16.614 - 00:02:57.458, Speaker B: First is the network house dashboard. It's the most commonly used intelligence dashboard in the Valcoin community. It demonstrates or gives people insights of different aspects of this economy, which I will give a demo later towards the end of the presentation. We also have some use case specific research and toolings. And some of this, I have just put them in screenshots. We have the Fem Explorer, which I will be giving another introduction as well shortly. It is a feature complete, explorer.
00:02:57.458 - 00:04:03.494, Speaker B: It offers smart contract and co inspection functionalities. So, I mean, it's very easy for you to track the smart contract that you have built and deployed from the file, coin the FBM, whether it's like FBM testnet for now or the main net in the future. You can also validate the code that you have submitted to the network and share the source code with other people. With our Explorer, we also have the plus dashboard. So file plus an impact of some of these or some of the data they want to store on the file. Claim ecosystem gives extra incentives for people to store those kind of data. So, Big Data Exchange is one of the product that we have incubated.
00:04:03.494 - 00:05:23.060, Speaker B: It is a service marketplace that helps people do deals to store data and look for storage providers on the Falcon network. It's a very interesting and also like Falcon specific use case, feel free to check it out as well. We also have the space called Falcon Data API that provides just like access to highly valuable and composable network intelligence if you want to build something that's data driven or that takes some type of main agenda today. So, first of all, why is Falcon a noble data economy? What's unique about it? Based on the new economy, how can we interpret it? What additional data does Falcon provide? And what are some of the potential data driven opportunities when FVM comes online? Falcon is really leading the exponential growth in web three adoption. It's currently the largest decentralized data center economy in the world. It has over 14 exibe of storage capacity. I've already stored over half of an exit byte of valuable data.
00:05:23.060 - 00:07:09.022, Speaker B: It connects over 4000 storage providers all around the world and also has over 2 million network users. And from this chart you can see that the adoption for Falcon storage has actually been growing exponentially in the past one year. And Falcon adopts this approach of having this really good data utility about import and export and that's how the Valve point economy can get started and also can sustain. So basically valpoint adopt model where the people within the network actually port a data services to the external participants, to the external users, exchange for the value that they have generated and stored. Utility is something that's really important, right? You want to make sure that the utility is always there, so that someone always there's a constant demand for that utility and that's why the token will get additional demand. And also within the island economy, there's lots of utility supply and also token circulation. But what really connects is that the reputation of the entire network and also the reputation within the network actually matters a lot.
00:07:09.022 - 00:08:20.574, Speaker B: So in that sense, what we actually need is more than just like token level information, we need service level information and use case level information as well, which makes Falcon really unique. So to recap, so why is Falcon a great example of a noble data economy? It's because it provides a universal utility. And in this island economy diagram, the utility that the entire island generates is the data services that it provides and also a unique value proposition of having this kind of provable data and people from outside the world and also inside the island consume like useful services here. And also in this economy, service quality and reputation really matter. So File for has more data dimension than most of the other popular blockchains. Just to give you a quick example, for Bitcoin, it's mostly just like token data cannot do anything. You can just have Bitcoin and transfer them on different addresses.
00:08:20.574 - 00:09:22.514, Speaker B: If you're a miner, you can mine bitcoin, but that's pretty much it for computation driven or smart contract driven blockchains such as Ethereum, Solana or like BNB chain, you have token data. Also like use case data because they have actually brought in real use cases to these networks and to this ecosystem. You start having people who actually have strong demand for a certain type of use case on top of the Ethereum or like the Solana or the BNB blockchain. For Filecoin, it actually adds even one more layer of data which is like the service level data. So Filecoin has its own token, so it has token data with the FBM and also lots of building contract or builtins actors on Filecoin. We can analyze how people are using Filecoin. Specific use cases will be brought to Filecoin.
00:09:22.514 - 00:10:52.370, Speaker B: In fact, storage itself is already a use case on. And what's more is that because the reputation system really matters within the Falcon ecosystem. That's why the service level data can provide additional information and that actually adds a lot more downstream use cases as well, right? Like when you have reputation meaning that people are constantly committing their resources or services to a certain thing and that helps you differentiate people and then you can use all those data to initiate new types of use cases which I will get to in a bit. So here are just some examples of data that's available on Filecoin. You have the token level data, you have the use case level data and of course all these are built in for now, but in the future when Fem comes to the main net, there will be more use cases for Fem, I'm sorry, for Filecoin. And also here is an example of a service level data. So you can actually see actually different storage providers perform differently based on the service level or like the assumed service level agreement with their clients.
00:10:52.370 - 00:12:04.650, Speaker B: Certain penalties has been taken place. We have active metrics to track whether a story providers or a client is fulfilling their supposedly service level agreement. If not, what's the gap and how can they improve? So this is actually something that's very unique to Filecoin and could potentially generate lots of new use cases. And with FVM there will be a lot more new type of data that gets generated. But I assume like most of you guys have already participated in some type of EVM blockchain engineering, so it shouldn't be very surprising to you guys. Those are just like mostly transaction data, metadata, actor information, which is like smart contract information, actor source code, TVL, token information, and also FVM usage and statistics because it's very similar to what's already available for other blockchains. I'll just give a quick overview of them.
00:12:04.650 - 00:13:31.400, Speaker B: You see like transaction data, metadata, all of these are actually screenshots from our Fem explorer, so you can take a look at those as well. So this is not online yet, but I'm just taking this from the Ethereum blockchain, but this could be very useful information as well. So address and account information. The address and account information can be associated with the service level or like the reputation metrics with Falcon as well, right? So when you have a storage provider that is heavily connected with some type of address and that address constantly adopt some smart contract or invoke some smart contracts and maybe there are some relevance that could be useful as well. Usage and Statistics we have a very preliminary usage statistic page on our Explorer as well. Feel free to check it out. There will be a lot more usage statistics that are coming up because it's just like a big topic and more people get a hand on.
00:13:31.400 - 00:14:17.714, Speaker B: So next part I really want to talk about, how can we leverage Falcon data and FBM for new business opportunities. Some of them, it's not going to be very surprising to you guys, but some of them I think it's very unique to the file plane economy. So intelligence Dashboard this is not surprising. There are already lots of good dashboards out there as Starbucks trying to do something as well. And very soon I think there will be lots of good FVM intelligence dashboard coming up. But again, this is like non product market fit. People need it, people really need it and it's very useful.
00:14:17.714 - 00:15:47.886, Speaker B: So I mean it's a no brainer that's going to come up. Reputation Power Application I think this could be something that's very unique to Filecoin, right? Because you already have all these unique metrics about existing players on filecoin about storage providers and all of this can generate really differentiating services or applications. For example, if you want to do like a lending based on people's reputation. So we can kind of assume that if you are a storage provider that provides better services or if you're committing more resources to their work, potentially your risk of defaulting or results just running away could be lower than those who have bad records about fulfilling their service level agreement with their clients. So that could be a differentiating point between a really good storage provider versus a bad storage provider. And then what we can do is we can have a DeFi pool that adopts the reputation metrics and provide different rates to storage providers with different reputation metrics. So that is actually a smarter way of whether it's staking or lending money to service providers.
00:15:47.886 - 00:16:54.758, Speaker B: But that's very unique and you need a very strong record of identifying who are the better or the more reputable miners than the others. Token NFT Intelligence that shouldn't be surprising as well. It's also like very common among other EVM compatible chains. Adoption analytics this could be unique to Filecoin as well because filecoin actually have lots of storage rooms, right? So storage is something that's unique to Filecoin and then we can base on storage to provide storage related adoption analytics. If you take a look at the Aft intelligence or the Aft market in general, you probably find that most of the AFTs have their metadata stored on another source. It could be like through IPFS. It could even be just like a random centralized provider and people don't actually check about it.
00:16:54.758 - 00:17:27.998, Speaker B: But for filecoin. You can have filecoin. Native NFT. You can have the NFT's metadata also stored on Filecoin as well. And then you can create linkage between a file point deal and the Falcon NFT. Right? So that's something that's going to be very unique, which means that everything is stored or it's verified on Falcon and that provides, I think, new value proposition to the market as well. Defy yield curve analytics.
00:17:27.998 - 00:18:04.910, Speaker B: This is also not very surprising to most of you here. I just want to do a quick introduction of some of the resources that Starboard provides and how you can better use it with your upcoming hackathon. And also even just build new application based on some of the products we provided. Or somehow we can help you to make your life easier. So I'm going to switch string. Yeah. So first this is the NeuroHealth dashboard that we have created.
00:18:04.910 - 00:19:32.860, Speaker B: Basically this gives you a very high level overview of the file point economy. You can just log into this page and see whether new capacity has been onboarded to the network, whether new deals have been committed, are people actively using it, what are some potential use cases for burning filecoin and also how are the token circulation changing. And then for each of these charts, you can just click into the subsections and see a breakdown of things. Of course you can take screenshot, you can view it on our research notebook. You can download the CSV provided on this chart if you want to do like additional analysis. So I think our network health dashboard could become a very good resource for everyone who is new to the FalcoIn ecosystem and just wants an overview of how Valkyrie network is doing. How is everyone using it, what are some of the key adoption metrics for this system? In that sense, I think this really good overview of things.
00:19:32.860 - 00:20:24.582, Speaker B: And the other is the fem explorer. This could be more relevant to the crowd here. But basically I think it's pretty intuitive. You have a search bar that you can just search by your ETH or Falcon address and then you have a list of the latest involved contract. So originally we built this for like a contract for so that's why a lot of the focus are more prioritized for contracts. You can also view latest transactions here. You can see all the contracts that has been deployed to a certain network.
00:20:24.582 - 00:21:08.700, Speaker B: And then you can rank them by transactions, like a number of users. Also by impact. Right? So impact meaning that how many of the other contracts have caught this contract or how many has been made by this contract that's dependent on other contract. So we thought this could be something that's very useful. If you just click into this contract, you can see contract details, internal transaction, contract events, but those requires verification as well. You can also see if people have verified their source code with us. You can see their contract source code here.
00:21:08.700 - 00:21:54.402, Speaker B: So also if you want to share your source code with someone else, feel free to just use the code verifier and then it should be very straightforward. And also like the transaction, this is just like the transaction list. You can see what has happened, what are the key use cases that people have been doing. The final thing is about space scope API. Right. So as I mentioned just now, the Space Scope API provides lots of highly valuable filecoin network data. So you can actually see so the network core is everything about the filecoin macro.
00:21:54.402 - 00:22:55.894, Speaker B: Actually, our Neo Health dashboard is using spacecope data to support all the charts. So if you want to recreate some of the charts, feel free to just use the network core dashboard and then we break it out into different subsections as well. If you want to check on storage providers aggregate data and all their reputation metrics, use the storage provider section which gives you their power rewards, token balance, and sectors. So six sectors is what I mean by service level information. You can see, oh, how many of the sectors are actually being faulted, being terminated. And you can use that as a key input to some of the application or like a reputation driven application that you guys are building. And finally, we also provide like a storage deal API.
00:22:55.894 - 00:23:55.280, Speaker B: So basically it's like you can use any of the deal that's already on filecoin, and then you can check all the deals that's been made by a client ID, by a provider ID, by a specific deal ID, and then you can see all the information. First of all, whether this deal is still alive, is it active, has it expired or being terminated? And also, who has made these deals? So use this for example, if you want to build like a deal insurance contract, you can use this as an input. Feel free to reach out to me. I'm just like Selvan on the Falcon Slack and I can also share my email as well, if you guys have any questions regarding some of the things that I've shared today. Yeah, but that's it. I think we still have a few minutes left. Let's see if anyone has any questions or any additional information I can provide.
00:23:55.280 - 00:24:58.266, Speaker B: The storage provider Space scope API works with hyperspeed. So the storage provider API is actually like the entire network, so it's not for the testnet. But again, I think that could be a source of data, like a source of information. If you want to build something on hyperspace, you also want to make sure that it works well on main net, right? The storage provider API can give you a more comprehensive view of the existing storage providers. But not just for storage providers who are participating on the hyperspace. I hope that makes sense. Yes, I will provide all the links transaction generator from Wallet.
00:24:58.266 - 00:25:07.640, Speaker B: I don't think that's in our current scope yet, but I mean, I'd be happy to connect with you in terms of the request and then see what we can do here.
00:25:12.390 - 00:25:27.780, Speaker A: Thank you. So then we're just finishing up here our time. So if you have any more questions, feel free to share on the discord on Spacewarp Chat or the Mentorship channel. Thanks everyone. Enjoy your day.
00:25:28.230 - 00:25:30.990, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you. Thank you guys. Hope this helpful.
