00:00:00.360 - 00:00:30.246, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 10 June 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I think the biggest release from the last 24 hours was that curve V two is now live on the Ethereum main and on polygon as well here. Now there is a white paper that goes along with this. Definitely only read this if you're good at math. There's a lot of technical kind of jargon in here, a lot of stuff going on.
00:00:30.246 - 00:01:05.580, Speaker A: You know, I read these equations and I think to myself, what? I don't understand this at all. I definitely didn't do very well in high school with math or whatever, but I did put out a tweet asking kind of like, you know, what's the explain? Like, I'm five on these new curve pools. Now, I may get some of this wrong. I think that even the smartest people that I'm following are still trying to wrap their head around kind of like what this means, what the implications are. But from what I've seen, there was this good thread put out from Degen trading here who basically had a take on these kind of new pools. And, and I should explain what these new pools are. It's actually non stablecoin pool.
00:01:05.580 - 00:01:50.086, Speaker A: So like tri pools where you can have, I think, their first pool, if I go to it here, their first pool, whoops, gotta get rid of that. Their first pool is USDT, WBTC and ETH. And they're claiming that you'll be able to trade between these assets with very minimal slippage on, you know, little liquidity. So this may sound similar to something like uniswap v Three's concentrated liquidity. And that's exactly what degenerate trading is saying here, is that it's similar to v three because they concentrate liquidity into a certain range. And then based on the math, and based on Degener trading's reading of the math, the price only moved if the loss is less than part of the profit. Otherwise, the price is adjusted by an exponential moving average of the oracle price.
00:01:50.086 - 00:02:41.230, Speaker A: Now, in plain English, from what I can understand here, it seems like they're using, I guess, part of the trading fees to, I guess, like keep the price, you know, within a kind of a certain range here and basically offset some of the impermanent loss. I think I maybe might be wrong here. Now, the pros of this is that it's going to concentrate a lot of liquidity. So you can imagine that this is really good for something like, I guess, tokens and assets that don't really kind of like trade too much outside of like a range. So just say, for example, you know, stable coins, obviously very, very good for this because stable coins trade around a dollar. But if you look at other like really volatile assets, it's actually not that great, you know, in terms of like impermanent loss. And it's the same thing with, with Unisov V three or whatever, where just say you have like your liquidity concentrated between $2,400 and $2,500.
00:02:41.230 - 00:03:24.558, Speaker A: On Uniswap V three, you're going to earn a lot more fees because a lot of your liquidity is concentrated in that range. But your impermanent loss is going to go, you know, exponential within that range. It's going to go up and down kind of much higher here because you're only in a $100 price range. And if you say you, you are Lp'ing on the ETH USDC pair, if ETH was to go to 2500, then you would be in 100% USDC and your impermanent loss would be quite great. So that's, that's the main trade off, really. And that's, that's what kind of like Degen trading says here. The con is that you experience really bad impermanent loss because you, you're basically trying, especially this is with curve, not uni V three, but with curve, you, you are, you are now artificially restricting, restricting the change in price from the price impact.
00:03:24.558 - 00:04:21.976, Speaker A: So, and he goes on to say in normal markets this will work all right, but when markets rip, this will cause the price and the curve pool to be mispriced and our overcharged away. So it's working a little bit different in curve where because they try to keep it to, to a certain price range using this new mechanism that they've come up with. If ETH was to like for example, pump really hard here, the curve pool will become mispriced to the rest of the market and that will be arbitrage away by arbitrage, bottle traders and stuff like that. And then he goes on to say the fees, you know, generated by this can protect you to a certain extent, extend, sorry, but in all likelihood it won't be enough to cover the law. The impermanent loss that you'll suffer if, you know, there's a, there's a kind of like large rip here. So essentially what you would want to happen from my understanding is if you're liquidity providing to one of these pools, what you would want to happen is you want each kind of like, range to. To exist for a long time, so that the fees build up over time, so that when it actually moves, the fees are making up from, for that impermanent loss.
00:04:21.976 - 00:05:23.676, Speaker A: But I think that when you kind of, like, look at the way the crypto markets actually work, and if you were to back test this, it's rare for things to go sideways in bull markets. And really, it only happens in bear markets where it goes sideways for a while. But it's. And this is like the danger of liquidity providing is that depending on when you add and pull liquidity out, your impermanent losses is different. Like, you could suffer no impermanent loss and all profit. If you were to provide liquidity at 2500 ETH, and ETH went to $5,000, and then ETH went back to $2,500, you and you were LP in that range, you basically got all of the fees of that, of that range, and you profited all those fees, and you suffered zero impermanent loss because you remove liquidity at the pro, at the point you put it in, that's usually how liquidity providing works. But with curve here, from what I'm understanding, because of the fact that they're trying to cover and restrict the change in price from the general price impact of the wider markets, you're going to need a lot more fee revenue to make up for that kind of impermanent loss here.
00:05:23.676 - 00:06:04.142, Speaker A: And that's kind of like the bet that you make, that the fee revenue is going to be greater than the impermanent loss, I think. And this also, I guess, applies to units of v three with concentrated liquidity as well. This is why I think it's been so appealing to people, is that in a range bound market, this works really, really well. But as soon as the market starts getting, you know, starts breaking out of those ranges, like we're potentially seeing now, with something like bitcoin seems to be pumping off of this elf Salvador news. If you were lp between like the 30 and 40k range, you might be starting to sweat now, because I guess the last time I checked, bitcoin was at what, 38k. So if bitcoin goes above 40k, uh, and you LP, we'll just say you LP'd at like 30k. Now, bitcoin's at 38k.
00:06:04.142 - 00:06:42.694, Speaker A: You've suffered some impermanent loss there, and, you know, the fees probably won't make up for that. So you're hoping that it goes back down and maybe you pull liquidity and you're all good. So, yeah, from that point of view, that's usually how uni v three works at the concentrated liquidity and curve seems to be. Taking this to the next level where your returns can be much greater, but also your losses can be much greater because of that as well. Um, so yeah, hopefully that explains kind of like how that works in a simple, in simple terms here. I won't lie, I don't totally understand it either yet, but I'm going to definitely kind of keep up with this and make sure that, that I, that I understand it better so I can explain it better in the future. But this is definitely, you know, brand new.
00:06:42.694 - 00:07:23.188, Speaker A: I saw some of the Giga brains, I like to call them on Twitter, fighting over this, uh, or at least debating this in, you know, in a kind of like, um, I guess you could say they were there. A bit of, a bit of shade thrown either way here. But basically the, the guys from paradigm who essentially had a big role in designing uniswap v three were kind of like debating the guys from curve. And the people like that kind of like worked on curve or like understand curve and things like that. So there was a bit of shade being thrown there. But I think generally over time, you know, we'll see what works and what doesn't because the markets don't lie and the code doesn't lie. So we'll be able to see in the coming weeks if these pools actually do what they say they're going to do.
00:07:23.188 - 00:08:25.388, Speaker A: Are they actually going to give greater returns, less slippage? And due to the concentrated liquidity, will they give, I guess, like better end results to end users when they're trading between these things? And will they increase volumes for curve overall? We're going to see that play out. I mean, it's funny because I think uni v three took the first shot at curve saying, well, you know, we can do stable coin trading better than you can. And then curve was like, well, wait till v two. And now they've got v two out there and they're basically saying, well, we can do, you know, volatile asset pairs better than you can. And so, you know, I really love this because outside of the shade being thrown by either team and like fans of each project, at the end of the day, we all benefit from this, right? As kind of like users of these products, these people are like in cutthroat competition to one up each other, not for any monetary gain, really, but for, I guess, like intellectual gain. Everyone wants to be the smartest person in the room when you're at this level of kind of like designing these protocols. Because if you, as I said, if you look at the, you know, the kind of stuff that's going on in this white paper here, this is like giga brain stuff, definitely.
00:08:25.388 - 00:09:04.502, Speaker A: And, you know, the people who work on this sort of stuff, I understand it deeply, but I even saw some of them talking on Twitter being like, I can't understand this. Like, some of the people, I guess, from, from paradigm, some of the researchers there, I believe, said that they looked at this and like, I can't understand this. And if you can't, and if people can't understand it, then it's bad math. And then the couple were saying, well, you know, I guess, like, just study it like closer and like spend more time on it. You know, you can kind of see what's going on here. I think, as I said, over time, this is going to be illuminated more and people will actually, you know, know what's going on here and they'll be able to study the actual market dynamics of this and study what's going on in the actual markets here. So, yeah, exciting.
00:09:04.502 - 00:09:23.436, Speaker A: Either way, I'm a big fan of curve and what they've done. Big fan of uniswap. I try not to play kind of like favorites among projects. I may seem like that sometimes may seem a little bit biased. It's hard not to be biased in this ecosystem, to be fair. But I definitely do think that at the end of the day, the real winners are just us as the users. It doesn't really matter what people say.
00:09:23.436 - 00:09:45.204, Speaker A: It matters what happens on chain. All verifiable. We can see all the code. It's all open source. So that's the beauty of this ecosystem as well, is that we will tell, you know, people will be able to tell if you're lying to them pretty much straight away. So we'll see what happens. Not to say that curve's lying or anything like that or kind of overhyping, but we're going to see this new kind of product play out in the markets and see how it actually fares in real world conditions here.
00:09:45.204 - 00:10:08.296, Speaker A: So an interesting tweet from, I guess, Walter Bloomberg here, who cut who basically, I think, just tweets out the Bloomberg news terminal kind of prompts. So he basically said basil proposes capital treatment of stable coins in line with assets like stocks and bonds. I don't know who Basil is. Maybe in the comments? They said something about it. It must be some kind of regulator somewhere. I don't know what I'm missing here. Okay.
00:10:08.296 - 00:10:17.834, Speaker A: There's a more complete picture here. Maybe this is a regulator, part of the bank of international sentiments here. Yeah, I think so. A bank of. Yeah. Okay. I get a banking committee on banking supervision.
00:10:17.834 - 00:11:03.434, Speaker A: Okay. So it's a pretty big kind of regulatory body here. But essentially this is pretty bullish, because if you treat stable coins like assets, like stocks and bonds, well, then you're just treating them like any other normal asset out there, and they're being regulated like any other asset out there. And as I've said before, governments don't regulate things that they plan on banning. Like you look at pretty much everything that's been regulated instead of banned, like cigarettes, for example, in Australia, we have pretty strict regulations on cigarettes, like plane packaging, high taxes to dissuade people from buying cigarettes, and all these kind of support kind of groups for people to quit. But the government didn't outright ban it because they were regulating it. So from that kind of point of view, this is really, really bullish, I think.
00:11:03.434 - 00:11:51.586, Speaker A: And we've been seeing a lot more chatter about regulations around stable coins and in, you know, for like, about a year now, really, since stable coins have really taken off, especially USDC, you know, a fully kind of like us based stablecoin issuer. When I saw that, I was like, I don't know how these teams are going to get away with this forever because they're letting basically anyone transact in USDC around the world unfettered access to it. Like someone from, you know, a sanctioned country, like North Korea or Russia could be sending money around using this, you know, USDC, stablecoin. Now, of course, circle and Coinbase have backdoors with USDC. They can freeze it, and they have done so in the past at the request of governments. That's just the risk that you take when you're using us, DC. But in saying that, I'm sure that there's tons of this activity going on that they just don't know about now, that, that was always surprising to me.
00:11:51.586 - 00:12:13.354, Speaker A: I always thought that that was. Was crazy. I didn't think that would last either. So it depends what these regulations look like. I honestly, I'm not a big fan of most financial regulations. I think a lot of them are just reactive, and a lot of them are just basically putting up a. I guess, like a fence around people and fencing them into some kind of thing that you want them to be in being because you think they're too stupid or whatever.
00:12:13.354 - 00:13:01.934, Speaker A: You know, as I've mentioned before, I think leverage trading is definitely going to be regulated much, much more heavily, especially the US based exchanges. I think either Kraken or Gemini actually got hit over the last 24 hours by a regulator saying that they have to kind of scale back their offering on leverage and only offer it to sophisticated traders, whatever that means. So I think the reckoning is coming from regulators, but I don't think it has to be something that's necessarily bad. I think generally the only thing that can be regulated in any real capacity is decentralized things like centralized exchanges or centralized stable coins. But good luck regulating the Ethereum blockchain and the actual truly decentralized apps that run on top of it. And I'm not sure if regulators are actually aware of this. I'm sure some, some of them will come and be like, okay, well, can we actually regulate this? And they'll try, and then they'll figure it out the hard way.
00:13:01.934 - 00:13:23.462, Speaker A: That there's literally, it's unstoppable. Like, uniswap is unstoppable. You cannot regulate uniswap on Ethereum. Yes, you can probably choke it. You can, you can ban the websites, you know, the front ends, whatever, but it's, it's, it's essentially like banning something like peer to peer file sharing or torrenting. Every kind of like, head you chop off of one of these websites, another one just pops up. And there's plenty out there.
00:13:23.462 - 00:14:13.158, Speaker A: I mean, look at the Pirate bay that's been around for, for a long time, and governments have gone after it as much as they can, but they can't shut it down. Um, and Pirate Bay is just like an indexer for torrenting, but like, just generally peer to peer file sharing, you can't shut down because it's peer to peer. There's no central service here, it's decentralized. So from that point of view, it's the same thing that happens with Ethereum, with Defi, with crypto generally, is that if it's decentralized and it's worldwide and global, there is no kind of like regulations that you can impose on that. You can, you can try and choke the endpoints, you can choke the centralized exchanges and decentralized assets on Ethereum and other kind of platforms here, but you cannot regulate defi. Now, I, as I said, I am curious to see kind of like how this all shakes out, if there are really, really harsh regulations put forward, like I've seen in the past. One group wanted to regulate full nodes, like people running full nodes.
00:14:13.158 - 00:14:45.420, Speaker A: Maybe that would scare people away from running full nodes. It'd be, it'd be outlawed. Say people say the government said, well, if you run a full node, you're breaking the law. Uh, and, you know, maybe people will be scared by that and just not. And there'll be less full nodes being run, which I think would be probably some of the worst regulation that could be put in place because that would hurt decentralization. But in saying that, I think it would maybe even rally people to do it more because there's nothing better than the government telling you you can't do something when you think that it's fundamentally your right to be able to do it. And there's plenty of examples of this, right? There's plenty of examples of shitty laws that that, that have no purpose existing.
00:14:45.420 - 00:15:35.750, Speaker A: I mean, if we just take like, uh, marijuana, for example, being illegal, that is just like a really shitty law. And, you know, generally you can point to other things and be like, okay, well, why is, you know, why are cigarettes legal? Why is gambling legal, like these things? And why is alcohol legal? Like, these things are more harmful to the average person than something like marijuana is. And I'm not, you know, advocating for, like, for any kind of, like, which way here, but I'm just saying that there are laws out there and regulations out there that really shouldn't exist and exist just because of a number of different things. I'm not gonna get into the politics of it all, but I think that's what's going to happen. If there's too much regulation being put on these things, the users and worldwide are just going to essentially rise up and essentially kind of like fight back with. By running full nodes, by decentralizing things even more. And it might cause DeFi to actually decentralize itself even faster because a lot of Defi, to be fair, is still quite centralized.
00:15:35.750 - 00:16:03.870, Speaker A: A lot of the front ends don't run on ipfs. They still run on centralized web servers. So I think that could actually be a catalyst to kind of like, you know, decentralize it out further. So a bit of a streisand effect from the government there if they were to kind of clamp down too hard here. So I trust that the regulatory kind of lobbyists that we have, such as coin center, are doing their work here to make sure regulators are aware that they can't regulate this stuff. And if they do, it's going to be harmful to them. It's actually not going to achieve what they want it to achieve.
00:16:03.870 - 00:16:24.962, Speaker A: But, yeah, I guess back to the original tweet here. This is just very, very bullish in general, if the stable coins are treated like stocks and bonds. But we'll have to see regulation, I think over the next couple of years is going to be a big thing. Crypto is not small anymore. Crypto is a big industry. It's made a lot of waves. You know, the, the BTC being passed into law as legal tender in El Salvador is definitely going to make waves.
00:16:24.962 - 00:16:52.924, Speaker A: It's going to get politicians speaking. If more countries do it, it's just going to ramp up from there. So, as I said yesterday, we have entered the geopolitical age of this kind of ecosystem now. And that is an age that's going to be very dicey, I believe. You know, different countries are going to treat it differently, but I'll leave it at that for now. Definitely going to keep an eye on all of this stuff and keep you guys updated with it. So the Ethereum cat herders put out a blog post over, going over all of the aips that are coming with the London upgrade.
00:16:52.924 - 00:17:27.572, Speaker A: For those of you who don't know, the London upgrade is scheduled for July, and it is the one that includes EIP 1559. So you can see down here, not only does it include EIP 1559, but it also includes four different eips. So EIP 3198 adds the base fee opcode, which is required for 1559 to work. 3529 basically reduces refunds. So this is the, you might have seen the gas refunds that people were using to basically create a gas futures market on Ethereum. Now, that is basically going away. This is a more technical one, rejecting new contracts starting with the zero x ef byte.
00:17:27.572 - 00:18:07.620, Speaker A: I don't know technically what that means or kind of how that's helpful, but I think that is just like a technical line of upgrade here. And the last one, the difficulty bomb delay to December 1, 2021. Now, for those of you who don't know, the difficulty bomb is a mechanism that exists within ethereum, and its original purpose was to force upgrades on the network, so force developers to not become complacent and force ethereum to not ossify. So, and this gets delayed from time to time. And, you know, last time it was delayed was in the Muir Glacier hard fork, which went live in January of 2020, I believe. So it's been about 18 months since then. And so, you know, you have to push it back with an AIP here.
00:18:07.620 - 00:18:43.386, Speaker A: So what the difficulty bomb actually does is that once it activates on Ethereum, once a certain block is hit, it will basically increase the block times of Ethereum and eventually it gets to a point where it bricks the chain. So the chain basically becomes unusable. And the only way to fix it is to diffuse the bomb by either delaying it or removing it. Now, what I find interesting about this delay here is that it's only been delayed till December 1, 2021. So if you've been paying attention, the next upgrade following London is actually going to be the merge or so. So if. Is the merge scheduled for December 1, 2021? I don't think so.
00:18:43.386 - 00:19:20.134, Speaker A: I still think it's gonna happen in Q 120 22. So what I do, things gonna happen if we're gonna have to hard fork again, is that we might get AIP 3704 is, which is the other popular AIP that's going to improve the user experience. So maybe that that'll get in before the merge goes in, which would be really cool to see as well. But in saying that technically we can just have a hard fork that delays the difficulty bomb and nothing else. We've done that with mu glacia, as I just mentioned, but still pretty cool. But anyway, this blog post details basically what each of these eips are and kind of why they're necessary. Actually, I think reading through this one here, the one that I was confused about.
00:19:20.134 - 00:19:56.770, Speaker A: So apparently eip the 3514, is a simple change which lays the groundwork for broader EVM improvements. So this AIP will make it impossible for new contracts, starting with this byte, to be deployed. And I'm not exactly sure what the implications of this are, but I'm sure you'll be able to read, if you kind of like, go to this blog post and follow the links, you'll be able to read on that. So this will be linked in the YouTube description, but I'm very, very excited to see, you know, London go live. Obviously, because of 1559, there's no block times yet. Actually, I think. I think I haven't seen any kind of main net block times or block numbers put forward here.
00:19:56.770 - 00:20:34.298, Speaker A: I think that this is because as I mentioned the other day, there's either going to be a one to two week delay due to that bug that was found, that had to be kind of fixed and tested and everything like that. So at best, we get like a one week delay, which would put it at July 21, I believe, and then if not, July 28 would be the next one there. So I'm still confident we're going to get it in July 1, two week delay is really not going to be making much of a difference, in my opinion. And it's funny how like we had like a year's worth of really, really high fees and then finally when we get 1559 on the network, the fees are really low. So, you know, it's. And, you know, like 15 way right now. It's just funny how that kind of worked out.
00:20:34.298 - 00:21:16.128, Speaker A: But maybe in July, mid, mid to late July, there will be, you know, high fees again on layer one because I, I think that, that most of the reason why the fees are low, he's got to do with the market conditions. And then once the market kind of heats up again, we're definitely going to see higher fees again on layer one. But that's not going to be something that a lot of end users are going to have to deal with because we do have scaling solutions. Now, I've talked about arbitrum a lot, you know, optimism, zksync, polygon, of course, and all that sort of stuff. So even if layer one fees get high again, I think a lot of users are just using these other kind of scaling solutions now and they're going to have a really good time on there. And these scaling solutions will pay Ethereum for its security instead of users having to pay there. So really cool to kind of like see that.
00:21:16.128 - 00:21:47.904, Speaker A: And yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description so you can go check it out for yourself. So just a quick update here from Sigma prime. They have a new lighthouse release. So if you're staking on ETH two with Lighthouse, definitely upgrade your kind of nodes here because these beacon nodes that the lighthouse beacon node now uses only one third of the ram of the previous version and one fifth of the ETH one call. So some massive kind of efficiency improvements here, which is really, really awesome to see. So if you are running lighthouse, definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, of course.
00:21:47.904 - 00:22:13.382, Speaker A: So Gary Tan from initialized capital put out a really cool video called Ethereum is going to ten k and here's why. I think that was the title of it. Let me have a look on YouTube here. So it why ETH is ultrasound money and going to ten k, why Buffer, Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway are wrong on crypto? So this was a pretty popular video. I kind of watched it here. I thought it was really good. I mean, I highly recommend going, going and watching it.
00:22:13.382 - 00:23:02.094, Speaker A: It's about twelve minutes long here. I think Gary has a different reach to something, to the people that me and bankless and the define and all that have a reach into because Gary comes from I guess like the web two world. He's definitely been investing in a lot of different companies over, over time and definitely has a reputation behind him. As I mentioned, he's the founder of initialized capital, which I guess like Alexis Ohanian from, Ohanian from the co founder of Reddit is also part of initialized capital as well, which is really cool. So yeah, good to see more people kind of like clue into the ultrasound money meme. And I think I've spoken about Gary Tam before, how he went on, I think it was CNBC or one of those kind of like mainstream news channels and gave the case for ETH going to ten k and ultrasound money and all that good stuff. So yeah, definitely go check out this video if you haven't yet.
00:23:02.094 - 00:23:34.134, Speaker A: So matcha, the popular decentralized exchange aggregator, is now live on Polygon. So you can trade basically all the tokens you want on Polygon. There's over 1000 tokens available. You know, Macho is just an awesome decentralized exchange aggregator. I use it a lot myself. I think it's got a beautiful UI, probably one of the best, if not the best within all of kind of crypto and defi right now, if we're being honest. So if you're a regular polygon user and you've been waiting for, you know, a decentralized exchange aggregator like matcha to come on board, definitely go check that out.
00:23:34.134 - 00:23:53.044, Speaker A: But you have other options too. I mean, I've spoken about a slingshot before. They're on there. They're really great as well. I love, I love slingshot. And disclosure, I'm a seed investor in slingshot as well there. But it's good to see the polygon kind of like DeFi ecosystem being built out more with more of the kind of popular apps that are on Ethereum, which I think is really cool to see.
00:23:53.044 - 00:24:31.042, Speaker A: And yeah, so go definitely check this out if you haven't yet. Speaking of Polygon, OKX announced that they have integrated Polygon and will now allow withdrawal to Polygon. Now you remember that OKX was the first to integrate arbitrum as well the other day. So they seem to be really, really pushing the boundaries here. And I think that, I don't know if this is a fact, but I don't know if OKX actually allows withdrawals to something like BSc because they're doing polygon, they're doing arbitrum, but are they doing something like BSc or other chains out there, like Polkadot and whatever else, or Solana Cosmos, whatever. I don't think so. I haven't seen that.
00:24:31.042 - 00:24:37.368, Speaker A: But maybe they are. I'm not sure. I don't use. Okay. Okay. X. But they are a big exchange, so it's really cool to see that they've integrated polygon here.
00:24:37.368 - 00:25:14.758, Speaker A: They thought they follow ok coin, which announced this kind of the other day. And I think that this is just like, much easier way for people to get into the polygon ecosystem rather than, I guess, going through ethereum layer one, where fees, even though they're low today, you know, the fees are still something that if you want to avoid them, you know, sorry, if you. If you can't avoid them, you want to. So, yeah, good to see this integration here. And if you're an OKX user, I'm sure you're happy, and a polygon user, I'm sure you're very happy with. With this. So finally, Alex from flashbots announced that they have Reese, that they have posted a new flashbots research post called MeV in ETH two and early exploration.
00:25:14.758 - 00:26:01.604, Speaker A: So, you know, a lot of you will know about MeV and kind of like what's been going on there. And, you know, I've explained MeV before on the refill, so I won't go into it now. But MeV in ETH two has a few different kind of considerations here. So in this report, they found that MEV obviously still exists in ETH two, and it can actually significantly boost validated rewards by about 70% at the current number of validators, which is 160,000 validators, or 5.3 million ETH staked, which would lead to more rewards, more validators, and Ethereum gets more secure because of that. However, there's a caveat here, a pretty big one. MeV can also amplify the inequalities between validators, you know, catalyze a rich, get richer dynamics and be a centralizing force that exerts better pressure on validators to join pools by making running a solo validator financially harder.
00:26:01.604 - 00:26:49.568, Speaker A: So you can see here that MEV is very complex. While you can paint the positives for it, you can also paint the negatives for it just as easily. So I still hold that MEV is something that, over time, we need to minimize as much as possible. I don't think that long term is actually healthy for a decentralized blockchain to have lots of meV going on, and lots of these kind of, like, negative externalities that come out of the MEV. The MEV that's, that's going on, on chain here. But in saying that, I think MeV in ETH two and with stakers is probably better than something like, you know, miners because I think that stake is generally a more, more aligned with Ethereum and ETH as an asset than miners are. Because if you think about, and I've explained this, you know, plenty of times in the past, but if you think about it, ethereum miners have to sell ETH to cover costs.
00:26:49.568 - 00:27:21.288, Speaker A: They have to do it. There's no way around it. There's, they have to pay off their electricity costs, their hardware costs, their maintenance costs, whereas with staking, you only have a very, very small kind of maintenance cost and electricity cost because you're not using, you know, massive kind of mining farms and lots of electricity to do so, you can get away with running validators on a, on a very simple pc. Like I've pointed out my staking box here, it's not very powerful. It's pretty simple stuff. Even though it might look a little bit fancy, it's still pretty simple hardware. So from the end, and I'm sure it's not costing me much electricity because of that.
00:27:21.288 - 00:28:05.132, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I think that, you know, stakers are definitely more aligned because they don't have to dump ETH, they don't have to cover costs. They normally have been ETH holders for a long time. I know a lot of people personally, they've been holding ETH for a long time, waiting for staking, and they have no plans to sell their ETH. And they, they care about the network deeply because they have been using ETH a lot, using defi and stuff. Whereas from what I've seen with mine is, is that a lot of them are actually not users of Ethereum. They view mining as like a separate kind of job or a separate thing to Ethereum, where they, they will mine the chain, they'll make their profits, but they won't actually care too much about the chain that they're mining. Now, I'm not saying this is the universal rule, I'm sure that there's plenty of miners out there who care deeply about the network, but it definitely feels like there's a disconnect there.
00:28:05.132 - 00:28:36.662, Speaker A: And I've spoken about that disconnect before, but not to put like a blanket thing on miners here and not to get miners to hate me again, but I just think that generally, stake is a moral line. Like, I, never mind. But I'm staking, for example, and there's plenty of people like that because I think the barrier to entry to staking is much lower than it is for mining, even with solo staking. I think a lot of people bought 32 ETH or more back when ETH was much cheaper than it is today. Obviously, 32 ETH today is worth a lot more than it was, you know, just a few months ago. But I think a lot of people stacked ETH during the bear market that are staking today. Like I'm one of them, of course.
00:28:36.662 - 00:29:03.356, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I just think that generally they're more aligned. And maybe Mev is is kind of like better under ETH two because of this. Maybe that the stakers don't want to kind of like be parasitic and don't want me to be kind of corrupting the chain here. But again, we shouldn't rely on that. We shouldn't rely on humans. We should always be able to make this stuff better with code, and I think we can. Over time, I think that Mev will be minimized to a point where it will basically be a non issue eventually.
00:29:03.356 - 00:29:23.960, Speaker A: I'm just not sure how long it can take. There are smarter people than me working on it. I've mentioned before, banklist did a really great podcast the other day with top some of the top MeV researchers in this space, so definitely go recommend checking that out. But yeah, and this thread will be linked in the YouTube description along with the report, so you can check that out as well. But that is it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:23.960 - 00:29:30.024, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
