00:00:02.730 - 00:00:45.914, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. FTX customers fight for money while more assets get mysteriously swiped a group of FTX customers filed a lawsuit against the failed exchange, arguing that any assets recovered should be earmarked solely for customers and not shared with other creditors. They seek a ruling that customer assets, such as those held by Alameda Research, not be considered FTX's property. The case also aims to ensure that customers will be repaid first, even if the court finds that these customer assets are the property of the exchange. According to the firm's reported user numbers, FTX's collapse may have affected over 1.2 million customers in the US. It also owes around $3.1
00:00:45.914 - 00:01:40.374, Speaker A: billion to its top 50 external creditors. On Wednesday, blockchain researchers noticed activity from Ethereum addresses tied to Alameda. These wallets swapped altcoins for bitcoin, ether and USDT and then sent the funds to mixers. Speculation around these transfers is heightened due to the recent release on bail of former FTX CEO Sam Binkman Fried. Just weeks prior to these funds movements, tokens worth $352,000,000 were mysteriously removed from FTX coffers, leading to speculation of a hack. This has been confirmed by the US Justice Department, which is currently investigating the incident. In addition, this week, Caroline Ellison, former CEO of Alameda, admitted in a federal court in New York that she and Bankwin fried deliberately misled lenders by creating false financial statements regarding the amount of money the firm was borrowing.
00:01:40.374 - 00:02:53.726, Speaker A: In her guilty plea, Ellison said that starting back in 2019, the year FTX launched, Alameda's account on FTX was granted an unlimited line of credit without being required to post collateral, pay interest on negative balances, or be subject to margin calls. Moreover, according to an affidavit filed with the high court in Antigua and Barbuda, FTX cofounders Bankman Fried and Gary Wong borrowed $546,000,000 from Alameda to buy a 7.6% stake in Robinhood. Mango markets exploiter is arrested Abraham Eisenberg was arrested in Puerto Rico after US prosecutors charged him with fraud and commodities manipulation for his involvement in an exploit on the mango markets DFI protocol. In October, according to the complaint, Eisenberg artificially inflated the price of MnGO relative to USDC, allowing him to borrow and withdraw $110,000,000 from other investors deposits. Eisenberg claimed in a tweet that he had used the protocol as designed and that he was pursuing a highly profitable trading strategy. Mango was eventually able to recoup $67 million of the funds, but Eisenberg kept the remainder.
00:02:53.726 - 00:04:08.666, Speaker A: In an interview on Unchained, Eisenberg, when asked whether his trade and others like it were hacks or market manipulation, responded, sometimes the code doesn't match the docs, sometimes the docs say something and it's just not implemented, and sometimes the code does exactly what was intended. It's just that what was intended isn't what anyone wanted. Eisenberg's travel records suggest that the day after the alleged market manipulation, he flew from the US to Israel in an attempt to avoid law enforcement, said FBI special agent Brandon Racks this case could have regulatory impact on Defi, with Delphi Labs general counsel Gabriel Shapiro noting that this is not a good case on which to settle such matters, he tweeted, no one who is pro DeFi should be celebrating this arrest. Even if it is morally and legally justified, it is likely to set the movement back in bigger ways. Gemini is sued by investors crypto exchange Gemini and its co founders, the Winklevoss twins, are facing fraud allegations from investors over the sale of interest bearing crypto assets through the Gemini earn program. The Winklevoss brothers have been accused of unlawfully offering a product without properly registering it as a security in compliance with U. S.
00:04:08.666 - 00:05:08.650, Speaker A: Securities law. The lawsuit alleges that Gemini abruptly halted its interest earning program in November after FTX filed for bankruptcy. That led to a liquidity crisis at Genesis, which had borrowed the Gemini earn assets. According to the court filing, the halting of this program left its investors effectively wiped out, leading to significant financial losses. The investors who filed the lawsuit are seeking a trial by jury and are petitioning for a class action lawsuit in order to receive damages, restitution and other statutory and equitable relief from Gemini. Three commas admits data breach affecting thousands of users three commas, a crypto bot trading service, admitted that its database of users'API keys had been leaked, which could have allowed malicious actors to gain unauthorized access to its users'accounts in a statement posted to Twitter on Wednesday, three commas CEO Yuri Surokin said. We saw the hacker's message and can confirm that the data in the files is true, he added.
00:05:08.650 - 00:06:19.226, Speaker A: As an immediate course of action, three commas requested all its supported crypto exchanges, including Binance and Kucoin, to revoke all API keys connected to its service. API keys are essential for tying the three commas bot service to a user's crypto exchange account and allow third party services to execute trades on the user's behalf. Earlier in the day, Binance CEO Changpang Zhao warned users that they should disable their API keys if they had ever connected to three commas. This admission comes after weeks of repeated denials and assertions by three commas and its CEO that users were losing their assets due to phishing attacks. Three commas users have lost at least $6 million to hackers starting in October, but that some has more than doubled in recent weeks, according to users who spoke to Coindesk. In light of this breach, three commas users are now planning a class action lawsuit against the company, claiming that they have collectively lost $14 million due to the data leak. Popular NFT projects D Gods and Utes leave Salana two of Salana's most prominent NFT projects, D gods and Utes, confirm their migration from the Salana network to Ethereum and Polygon, respectively.
00:06:19.226 - 00:07:05.762, Speaker A: The reason for the move comes down to the waning performance of the Salana blockchain in the second half of 2022, according to Dgods leader Frank. Rumors suggested that the Dgods team had asked the Salana foundation for $5 million to stay on the platform, but the team has categorically denied this. According to Coindesk, Ute's move to Polygon is understood to have been paid for by the blockchain's partnership fund. However, details of the deal haven't been made public yet. The announcement triggered a surge in DgoD sales, with the collection's floor price increasing by 12%. Utz's floor price jumped by five sol. Both projects accounted for around 70% of Salana NFT sales volume in the week leading up to the announcement, according to Magic Eden data.
00:07:05.762 - 00:08:16.842, Speaker A: While one of the main reasons to move to Ethereum is the high network effects, research shows that wash trades accounted for over $30 billion of Ethereum NFT trading volume, representing more than half of total NFT trade volume in 2022 and almost 45% of all time NFT trading volume. This week, leading NFT Marketplace Openc made a controversial move as it delisted cuban artists and collectors from its platform in order to comply with US sanctions. On a related note, investment giant Fidelity filed three trademark applications in the US related to providing services in the metaverse. Argo blockchain is saved by Galaxy Digital Argo Blockchain, a Nasdaq listed bitcoin miner, is set to receive a bailout of $100 million from Galaxy Digital, Michael Novogratz's crypto focused financial services firm. The bailout deal involves a two year hosting agreement between the two firms, which will enable Argo's miners to keep running at its Helios mining facility in Texas. The agreement includes the sale of the Helios facility to Galaxy for $65 million and a new $35 million loan from the firm. Argo CEO Peter Wall expressed his gratitude for the deal.
00:08:16.842 - 00:09:07.862, Speaker A: He told Coindesk, this deal with Galaxy achieves all of our goals and lets us live to fight another day. One day before the announcement, Argo had requested that trading of its shares be suspended on Nasdaq. Argo's case is not an isolated one. The bear market has battered other miners, too, with core scientific filing for chapter eleven bankruptcy protection earlier this month. According to a report by Hashrate Index, bitcoin mining companies finished 2022 with a total of $4 billion in debt. In addition, Tom Dunleavy, a Masari analyst, said that publicly traded bitcoin miners sold nearly all the coins they mined in 2022. On the topic of miners, bitcoin mining equipment and hosting provider blockware solutions is being sued for allegedly breaching a contract, negligence and fraud by a customer seeking at least $250,000 in damages.
00:09:07.862 - 00:09:50.614, Speaker A: The bear market continues the crypto markets are still in a downward trend. The stock of Coinbase dropped to a new alltime low of $31.89 per share on Wednesday, and it's down 87% this year. In addition, crypto exchange Kraken is ending its operations in Japan, citing unfavorable market conditions and a need to restructure. Payword Asia Inc. The firm's Japan based subsidiary, will officially deregistered with the financial services Agency on January 31, giving customers until then to withdraw in fiat currency or transfer them to a private wallet. Microstrategy, the largest corporate holder of bitcoin reserves, revealed that it sold some of its BTC holdings for the first time ever, but only to generate a tax benefit.
00:09:50.614 - 00:10:49.142, Speaker A: After selling 704 BTC, the company acquired 810 more tokens. Microstrategy now holds 132 500 BTC, and its average purchase price is around $30,400 per bitcoin. At today's prices, that's roughly a 50% unrealized loss. Time for fun bits despite being in a bear market, there's clearly a bull market for memes around FTX Autism Capital, an anonymous Twitter account that has been linking all kinds of details on FTX, and Sam Pinkman Fried shared an animation video about SPF. The video features the disgraced founder saying he accidentally stole the customer's life savings to create a giant, over leveraged Ponzi for himself. Throughout the video, SPF says he is sorry a gazillion times in different locations. The Bahamas, FTX's office in a garden, eating a cucumber with NFL star Tom Brady, and even playing League of Legends.
00:10:49.142 - 00:10:59.040, Speaker A: If you deposit it, I donate it, reads a street poster, alluding to Sam's effective altruism. After that, he gets arrested. But not for long.
00:10:59.490 - 00:11:17.890, Speaker B: Ladies and gentlemen, we got him some breaking news in the case against disgraced crypto founder Sam Bankman Fried. He was just released on $250,000,000 bond.
00:11:18.550 - 00:11:35.170, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Martin and the case against Sam Bankman Fried, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Matt Pilchard, Juan Irvanovich, Sam Shri, rum Pama, Jimdar, Shashank and CLK transcription. Thanks for listening.
