00:00:00.160 - 00:00:16.318, Speaker A: The climate action and international sentiment analysis of news media. You're muted. You're muted. Truth. You need to unmute. Can you unmute him? All right.
00:00:16.366 - 00:00:28.782, Speaker B: There we go. Fantastic. There's always some sort of technical issue there. Thank you so much, Chris. Good to see you again. And thank you everyone. It's a pleasure to join you all, virtually.
00:00:28.782 - 00:00:54.400, Speaker B: My name is truth. Arthur Doherty. Emma, postdoctoral fellow at the University of Victoria. Also an alumnus of Waterloo. So always, always great to be somewhat back home. I'm again thrilled to be here talking about some of my more recent work on public sentiment around net zero. It's a collaboration in partnership with doctor Katya Rhodes, doctor Basma Majerbi and Doctor Madeline McPherson.
00:00:54.400 - 00:01:41.204, Speaker B: I'll mention that this work is somewhat in early stages. Some regressions still need to be run, but I sort of look forward to getting your inputs till the very end, really. The study is motivated by this phenomenon that we've seen, this explosion in public discourse on decarbonization and net zero. Yet global emissions continue to rise, and public support for these interventions seem to, in some cases, be waning. The crux of the issue here is that we will need increasingly ambitious, increasingly rigorous climate solutions as we go forward. Yet it doesn't really matter how effective these solutions are. If they're not acceptable by key stakeholders in the general public, they'll be increasingly susceptible to regulatory capture.
00:01:41.204 - 00:02:28.724, Speaker B: So, starting with some good news, we know that the net zero idea has entered mainstream discourse. As of last month, 2000 jurisdictions, 40 countries, collectively accounting for a billion people, have declared a climate emergency. We've seen over 1800 climate change laws passed across 133 countries. A third of publicly traded companies now have net zero targets. And we're seeing that countries and companies around the world are embracing and committing to net zero in a manner that aligns with the globally accepted two degree target. We're also seeing, concurrently, a proliferation in public discourse on the topic through news and social media. And so the general public is now increasingly informed and aware for this call for climate action.
00:02:28.724 - 00:03:25.744, Speaker B: But I think we faced two main challenges here. One, these solutions have just not been enough to reduce global emissions. Absolute emissions continue to rise, and even the solutions that we do have are increasingly divisive. We can just look here in Canada or internationally at sort of political discourse around things like the carbon tax. What we know is that we need solutions that aren't only effective, but also acceptable. Or in other words, policies that aren't susceptible to regulatory capture. And so, in understanding what those solutions might look like, we examine acceptability through an examination of news media we look at a total of 12,000 news articles in the study through a combination of inductive, deductive and content methods, when we look primarily to see how discourse on net zero differs by stakeholder, by framing, by select events, and by solution types, which I'll talk about as we go.
00:03:25.744 - 00:04:28.204, Speaker B: And what we argue here is that news media does influence public perception. On the nets are transition, and public perception on this transition can influence acceptability of low carbon futures. I want to talk really quickly about the literature and get right into the results, but we know that we need all stakeholders to play a role in this transition, certainly policymakers, but also financiers, industry consumers. And taking this one step further, we also need acceptance of these pathways. They're not only contingent on stakeholder perceptions, but also perceptions of types of interventions, taxes, subsidies, technologies, as well as the timing of those interventions. The second piece is that news media does play a critical role in defining how issues are presented, interpreted, and ultimately how they influence public perception. News framing can raise both awareness, but it can also raise apathy, and so it has real, sort of real world, tangible influence on policy and practice.
00:04:28.204 - 00:05:14.560, Speaker B: Finally, news media and sentiment analysis both are relatively nascent in the climate literature, but they have been applied in select cases. Amongst the more sort of popular is Burkmire et al. 2016. They used a similar methodology to look at the polarization of news media communication on the IPCC reports, and new sentiment has been applied in other cases for corporate performance, corporate social responsiveness and so on. So we're using methods coming, coming from those pieces there I mentioned we take a few different approaches, inductive, deductive and so on. Primarily, it's a deductive approach to identifying our core concepts of interest. We have these terms defined ahead, and I'll present the queries that go along with them.
00:05:14.560 - 00:06:03.700, Speaker B: We look at four stakeholders, policy, finance, industry and consumers. As I mentioned, we look at two schools of thought, degrowth and decoupling, two overarching groups of solutions. We look at six different technological solutions and five policy solutions. And we look at the effects of two events, the Paris agreement and the COVID-19 pandemic, as sort of breaking points in that transition. I mentioned we looked at 12,000 articles altogether. And what we see is that although news articles on decarbonization are older, language around net zero has really taken over in recent years. The number of articles also leans quite heavily towards the past few years, 2020 and onwards, nearly 5000 articles in 2021 alone.
00:06:03.700 - 00:06:57.294, Speaker B: And primarily this was due to the use of net zero at COP 26 in Glasgow. To the left we're seeing the sentiment which is overall positive. But what we also see is that it is increasingly polarized over time. There's greater deviation in the sentiment scores as time goes on. We do a short inductive approach here where we just looked at the top keywords in article titles that had a positive sentiment or a negative sentiment. And apart from the obvious reference to clean energy at the very top of the green chart there, the positive keywords and fossil fuels being on the opposite side, we also see reference to terms like renewables, green energy, nuclear, economic growth and so on. On the positive sentiment side, the negative sentiment side, we're seeing reference to energy crises, coal, gas and so on.
00:06:57.294 - 00:08:03.094, Speaker B: Certainly there is a lot of overlap between the two, but there does appear to be a slight negative framing around fossil fuel related terms in that inductive approach. Really quickly starting over on the deductive approach of things, I just wanted to include this to present the keywords that we used for corpus, and we're sort of hoping to extend this to include some of the regressions with sentiment scores and by time and such for the next time you see this. But the column at the end there references how many sentences use those specific keywords. A couple notable points we mentioned. We're looking at the four different stakeholders here, policy being the most prevalent, citizens being the least, and how this can be read as sort of the term polis govern or regulate. Appearance 61,603 sentences across those 12,000 articles. Second, really no surprise here, but reference to decoupling emissions from economic growth does appear much more frequently than references to degrowth practices, nearly four times as much.
00:08:03.094 - 00:08:42.094, Speaker B: And then finally, looking at the technological and policy solutions, we looked at six, six and five each. Couple of quick takeaways there on technological solutions. So these are 0.3 there. Quite a bit of discourse on renewables and transportation. But I think what's really interesting for me that I found here was the policy counts, where we see a heavy focus on targets, benchmarks, reporting, disclosure, but just under 3000 references to carbon pricing and just about 2000 references to subsidies. So we're going to sort of take a look at why that might be the case in future iterations of this work.
00:08:42.094 - 00:09:38.114, Speaker B: The last couple of slides here present contingency tables and chi square tests to examine this sort of non random association, in this case over here, stakeholders and solutions in the left figure, and stakeholders and degrees and decoupling in the right. So how do we read this? Well, just sort of talking about the figure to the left. There, the size of the bubble represents how frequently we find sentences that reference both a stakeholder and a solution. So over here you can see just over 16,000 sentences reference both a policy stakeholder as well as a policy solution. Second, the color presents the Pearson residuals that come out of the chi square test. What this shows is that we're seeing a non random association between two variables. Policy stakeholders appear inordinately more often with reference to policy solutions over technology solutions.
00:09:38.114 - 00:11:01.682, Speaker B: Conversely, finance and industry stakeholders appear inordinately more frequently in sentences that discuss technology. To the left, the degrowth terms appear to be associated with policy, and we've got to be really careful with how we explain that per se, just to the point that this doesn't infer that policy stakeholders are talking about degrowth more. It could be the opposite, that when degrowth topics are discussed, they usually call for policy action by regulators or other sort of policy stakeholders. The last two slides here, we'll be looking at those two events, the Paris Agreement and COVID. No surprise here that there are more articles post Paris than pre Paris across all solutions. This is just the size of the sample, but looking at the Pearson residuals, which are the more interesting pieces here, renewables are spoken about in orderly less, or in another way to frame that would be they should be spoken about more, while transportation and hydrogen are spoken about more post Paris. Relatedly, on the policy solution side of things, we're seeing an inordinate focus on targets and disclosure post Paris, with less focus on carbon pricing and subsidies post COVID.
00:11:01.682 - 00:11:55.234, Speaker B: However, we see less of a focus on transportation than we would expect in a randomized distribution and a higher focus on hydrogen and to the right, a significant focus on standards and disclosures. And again, just to clarify, inordinately less of a focus on targets and subsidies than what we'd expect in this randomized distribution. So, last slide here, just to wrap up, we posed that we can use news media to understand social acceptance on net zero. We know that we need social acceptance to avoid regulatory capture, and we posed that sentiment scores from a study like this can inform scenario models by blending the effectiveness of a solution with how acceptable they are. There is certainly work to be done in this space, but we hope that by understanding public perceptions we can have a better understanding of the social dimensions of that necessary transition.
00:11:56.494 - 00:11:57.374, Speaker A: I'll stop there. Thank you.
