00:00:01.120 - 00:00:29.938, Speaker A: Welcome to Rehash, a web3 podcast. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to Rehash. I'm your host, Diana Chen. And in this episode, we'll be talking all about tokenized communities and the role that tokens play in daos and web3 more broadly. And I can think of no one better than Jihad Esmail, who leads community and partnerships at Syndicate and is a core contributor at forefront to, to talk to us about all of these topics. Welcome, jihad.
00:00:29.938 - 00:00:31.762, Speaker A: Thank you so much for being here today.
00:00:31.938 - 00:00:34.974, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, Diana. Yeah, super, super excited to chat.
00:00:35.434 - 00:00:42.334, Speaker A: Awesome. Before we dive into all things tokens, can you tell listeners a little bit about your background?
00:00:43.314 - 00:01:14.856, Speaker B: For sure. So got into web3 sort of two parallel ways. On one hand, I was running a creator growth agency, we'll call it in college. So we were helping, like, big youtubers between, like, half a million and 10 million subscribers grow their audiences, make more money. That started, like, beginning of 2019. Like, it was, it was a really nice business to be running in college. Met some cool people, and then toward the beginning of 2020, like, right when COVID hit, I began to hear, like, the first whispers of social tokens and nfts in the space.
00:01:14.856 - 00:01:42.444, Speaker B: And, like, prior to that, my only exposure to crypto was, like, I had some ETH number go up. Like, it was nothing crazy. But this was my first, like, practical application that I had seen for, like, how crypto could be useful. And it was. It was directly useful to some of the creators we were working with. So it just seemed like a no brainer to explore. Around the same time, I had this really cool professor at Northwestern who was in the entrepreneurship department, and she was like, unlike all the other professors, like, in that department, like, very leftist.
00:01:42.444 - 00:02:32.884, Speaker B: And basically her and I would chat in office hours around this idea of, like, post capitalist entrepreneurship. And we had no idea what that term meant, but we were basically, like, circling around this idea of, like, what would it look like for a startup or some sort of organization to not be profit maximizing, but, like, still be, like, economically productive? What would that look like from, like, a community level? Like, how would that impact, like, the cities that that was getting founded in, but then at a high level, like, in the organization, like, how would that be structured? Would it be hierarchical? Like, what would the economic model actually have to look like? And that brought me through doing research there, also brought me to the world of tokens and daos, and this is all happening at the same time. And I'm like, huh, this is interesting. Both of these worlds are colliding. Crypto seems to be the end goal. Let's just see what's up here. So once COVID hit, it was like my senior year of college.
00:02:32.884 - 00:03:17.732, Speaker B: I was at home cheating in all of my classes and I just had a lot more free time. So I was going down the crypto rabbit hole, met a bunch of folks in like the social token space fairly early on. Jess from seed club was like a huge, huge help. Joey from backdrop, Carlos from forefront, and they sort of were just like introducing you to a bunch of other folks. Ended up getting involved with forefront pretty heavily, like when they launched the token in April of 2021 and was responsible like for helping craft what season one of forefront was going to look like. At the same time, I was running hangouts and got to just chat with like a bunch of founders in the web3 space, one of whom was Ian from Syndicate. Him and I hit it off pretty well, mind you, throughout this entire process I was thinking about like taking a job in management consulting.
00:03:17.732 - 00:03:28.464, Speaker B: So I had already accepted the offer, and two weeks before I was set to start there, Ian gave me a job at syndicates and I was like, hell yeah, this sounds a lot more exciting than consulting. And here we are.
00:03:28.764 - 00:03:34.680, Speaker A: Wow, you were living in like two alternate realities at that time, it seems like.
00:03:34.852 - 00:03:37.208, Speaker B: Yeah, there's some crazy stuff.
00:03:37.376 - 00:04:12.004, Speaker A: So when people hear about tokens, I think a lot of things maybe pop into mind if people aren't too familiar with them. What you're mostly talking about are social tokens. So I think most people, when they think of tokens, they might default to thinking about like ERC 20 tokens. And these are like the cryptocurrencies, like you were saying, you know, before you really started to understand this stuff, you were kind of just tracking prices of Ethereum bitcoin when price go up sort of thing. Social tokens, though, is what we're talking about here. Can, for anybody who's not familiar with social tokens specifically, can you sort of give just a primer on what social tokens are?
00:04:12.424 - 00:04:52.508, Speaker B: Yeah, I think social tokens are one of those things where it's like a term that has stuck, but it's not necessarily like the best name for what we're talking about. The term itself could probably be broken into a few more specific categories. So you've got personal tokens. So when you talk about like, hey, how can tokens be used as like investments into particular creators? Or like, you can capture the upside of like, if you were a Taylor Swift fan super early on, like, what if you could buy a Taylor token and then ride that wave moving up. Like that was sort of a wave and that has sort of lost steam over the last year. Like, I think early 2021, that was picking up. And then people realized there weren't a ton of use cases, at least at the moment, for that to take off.
00:04:52.508 - 00:05:32.130, Speaker B: But, like, folks like rally and roll are still working on that. So I think cool stuff there. Then you have community tokens, and I think that's probably what we're talking about here. And that's like, how do you actually, like, financially capture the value of a community? Like, prior to having a token, any sort of like cultural or social community or social club on the Internet was like pretty much non financial. You might pay for access into it, like $5 a month. That was going to whoever the organizers of the community were. But there was no way to actually measure, like, what the value of a community was like, what value that community was creating outside of, like, products and services that the community was putting out into the world.
00:05:32.130 - 00:06:04.828, Speaker B: So that's what we're talking about here. Still very vague, but I think we can get into it throughout this conversation. And then, like, there are a few other, like, ideas on the periphery. Like, there are some tokens that are like, not tied strictly to a particular community. So, like, we could talk about FWB as like the clear example of a community token. It's tied directly to the FWB community. But you can imagine a token that's just like a dog lover token, right? There's no specific community that is tied to it per se, but folks who are really into dogs might buy and hold this, ride the wave of that particular meme.
00:06:04.828 - 00:06:07.184, Speaker B: And I talked about that a bit in the essay as well.
00:06:07.804 - 00:06:50.174, Speaker A: Yeah. So let's dive into the essay. Just because I feel like skeuomorphic thinking is still almost the most effective way to describe things, at least to the mainstream audience nowadays, as we're still in the early days of this. Would it be fair to compare a tokenized community to, for instance, a yacht club in our traditional world, where you sort of pay this membership fee so that you can be part of this club and as a result you get certain benefits? Maybe you get to rent a yacht x number of times a month, or you get to network with other people who share similar interests as you. Is it fair to compare like, a web3 tokenized community to something like a yacht club?
00:06:50.314 - 00:07:28.304, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, like, I hesitate to go that route only because, like, the connotations that come with yacht club are like, oh, this is like elitist it's exclusive. Like, you can't get in unless you're one of the, one of the boys or something like that, right? That's like definitely not the connotation that we want to give up. Nor is it the reality of the vast majority of tokenized communities that I think exists in the space. There are definitely ones that exist purely to capitalize on exclusivity. And that's cool. Like, I don't think we should, we should shun those communities, but we should be very thoughtful about what the dynamics of those communities are and accept the fact that they are what they are. And there are other ways that we can go about it.
00:07:28.304 - 00:08:13.906, Speaker B: I think one of the most powerful ideas around tokens is that just because they can be bought doesn't mean that they have to be bought. They could also be earned, they could also be gifted. Just like you can transact any other asset. You could do the same with tokens, right? So with FWB, you might in the status quo, like have to buy 75 tokens in order to get access to the community, but they also have like a fellowship program where you could apply and like the community can like grant you that 75 token. At forefront you could like do various bounties and you could earn those tokens in order to like join the community. And also forefront is a good example of a community that you don't have to own the token in order to get involved. Right? So the token is used as a means of like coordination across the entire community and it's used as a means of like rewarding contribution.
00:08:13.906 - 00:08:32.294, Speaker B: But you could attend any forefront event without holding the forefront token. So I think, like at the high level, like thinking about it as like a social club or a yacht club or a country club, like, yeah, that's a good mental model to use, but like, we want to make sure we're, we're breaking that open a little bit more.
00:08:32.674 - 00:09:22.596, Speaker A: Yeah. It seems like in the traditional web two world, or not even web two, I mean like web one, web zero, just in our physical world, most of the gated communities where you need something in order to access the community, most of those are really, really elitist. Like the examples I can think of, yacht clubs, country clubs, golf clubs. I can't really think of any sort of club where you can maybe earn your membership or it's not elitist in some way. Like, I mean, I'm thinking about even like sororities and fraternities in college, right? But like even that, you can argue that it's kind of elitist because your dues are so high to be part of a sorority or a frat in college. So I'm really struggling to think of an example where like, forefront you described, you can, you know, earn your way into the community or be part of it without holding any sort of like monetary tokens, right?
00:09:22.700 - 00:10:11.058, Speaker B: I think one of the most interesting things about tokens is like, the openness and transparency of a token means that anybody can use it despite the fact that they're not a part of a community, and that like, fundamentally changes the dynamic of how those communities need to function. So like, for example, let's use like a sorority or fraternity. Like, the rules around a sorority or fraternity are like, if you do not pay the dues, you cannot become a member. You can receive some sort of grant or subsidy from the community, but that community then still needs to like, accept you as one of them and give you that grant in order for you to go. The function is still like, I need to pay in order to get in, or like some financial transaction needs to occur. There's also no membership asset that allows you to be a part of sorority fraternity. It's quite literally like, I paid to get in, and therefore there's no market around joining that particular community.
00:10:11.058 - 00:11:26.594, Speaker B: I think, like, let's continue to use the example of forefront just cause like, that's what I'm familiar with. The fact of the matter is, like, anybody could use forefront token even if they weren't part of the forefront community. This is this idea of like, forking a community, right? If forefront wasn't doing something in the way that like, the broader ecosystem wanted them to be doing it, but they saw the value in like, that token and uniting that group of people, they could say, hey, we're going to create our own discord and we're going to be using the forefront token as the token for our community, and we'll allow anybody else who already holds forefront token to join and get the same benefits, but we're also going to open up access to events to non token holders as a result. I think it's a forcing function for a lot of communities to be more open and think about more creative ways to actually accrue value to the token and accrue value to the community without being completely exclusive. And even with the more skeuomorphic models like FWB, I think not to say the community itself is skeuomorphic, but this idea that you buy membership to get in, this idea of tiers, you could buy five tokens and get access to an event despite the fact that you aren't a formal member. But if you have 75 tokens or you're guaranteed access to the event no matter what, it creates a more dynamic economic system that I think inherently makes things more inclusive.
00:11:27.034 - 00:12:11.256, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. So I want to go back to just tokenized communities generally. You wrote an essay recently called defining tokenized communities on forefront, and in it you sort of broke down what a tokenized community is into seven different aspects. And we've sort of started going into this a little bit. But the seven elements that you outlined in your article were that it has to be tokenized, has to be platformless, self managing, collectively governed, meme driven, positive sum, and aspirational. I would love to sort of break this down a little bit for you. Obviously, everyone should go read this article, maybe even before you continue listening to this conversation, just so you have some context.
00:12:11.256 - 00:12:21.726, Speaker A: But I have some additional questions for you. So just to give people the TL doctor, like, can you sort of briefly go over each of those elements, and then I want to dig deeper into some of those with you?
00:12:21.910 - 00:13:11.254, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. So we can sort of get into the motivations of the essay, too, because I think that'd be, like, really great context. But basically, like, this piece came from this idea that, like, a lot of people will tweet a definition of a Dao or, like, assert a definition of a Dao, and, like, nobody really agrees on what that definition is. And at forefront, our mission is to support what we were calling, like, social communities that are using tokens. And we started calling those social daos. And then it was like, social tokenized communities. And it was really like, we're trying to figure out, like, target a specific subset of communities that, like, aren't the uniswaps of the world that are very clear, like, defi protocol daos, and maybe aren't the git coins of the world that have, like, very clear, like, product focuses, but it's like, focused on this idea of folks coming together around a shared, like, idea.
00:13:11.254 - 00:13:35.250, Speaker B: Mission, or meme is the term that I use using a token. Right. So tokenize is pretty straightforward. We define that as, like, the community coordinates around a commonly held token on a blockchain. When we say, like, coordinates around a token, it means that they're actually using the token as a core function within the community. So, like, FWB, everything sort of revolves around the fact that, like, that is a membership token. People can gift that token.
00:13:35.250 - 00:14:00.818, Speaker B: They tip the token. You need that token to access things, et cetera. Time magazine dropped an NFT collection. That does not necessarily mean that there is a tokenized community there, because they're not actively using the token to form community. Second, is platformless. So like, by nature of using the token, like you could token gate a discord, but if discord went away tomorrow, like, you would still have the on chain representation of everybody who owns the token. And that community can port over to some other like social app self managing.
00:14:00.818 - 00:14:33.962, Speaker B: And this is like a hotter take maybe, but like, leadership is distributed amongst roles, not individuals. Like, the fact that you have this token and the fact that like the community is completely open and forkable means that you need to make sure that like leadership and power is distributed throughout the organization and actually make that token valuable. Otherwise there's really no point in using the token. And then collectively governed, same thing. Token holders actually have some sort of power meme driven. The community is working towards the proliferation of a common beam. And this is the idea I was getting at, that like forefront wants to support tokenized communities.
00:14:33.962 - 00:15:14.336, Speaker B: There might be other communities, like other subsets of people who are also working to support tokenized communities, and they could theoretically all use the forefront token to coordinate around that common goal, despite the fact that they don't know each other. And then positive sum, the economic model is expansive. You're actually trying to increase the value of the network for everybody and aspirational. This is a really cool one, actually. That like was a last minute ad, but basically like a tokenized community does not need to fulfill all of the first six traits on day one. They just need to like be going in that general direction. We see a lot of communities that are like very, very centralized on day one because that's what you need to get the community off of the ground.
00:15:14.336 - 00:15:24.404, Speaker B: But over time, like, the community will progressively decentralize. And as long as that's a goal of the community and like the other five traits or goals of the community, I think they would still fit within the definition.
00:15:24.864 - 00:16:34.034, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for going through like high level what each of those elements mean and sort of your thinking behind even writing this piece. In general, I know we've talked about that first piece of tokenized bit quite a bit already, but going back to what we were talking about earlier with tokenizing communities and different models of that, like FWB charging people for, you know, 75 FWB in order to access everything that the community can give, versus a forefront where, you know, you don't have to have any tokens to be part of the community and you can start earning them with your work what are some pros and cons of each of those models? Like, of the FWB model versus the forefront model? And actually, like, I think maybe an interesting thing is thinking about how the FWB community was in the early days when their token wasn't worth anything. And it was kind of like anybody could afford to buy the requisite number of tokens in order to join FWB, versus today where 75 FWB costs, I don't know, like, a substantial amount of money that not everybody has. I'd be curious to know how the community has changed over time as the FWB token has become more valuable and it's become more expensive to get into the community.
00:16:34.614 - 00:17:25.459, Speaker B: Yeah, that's, that's a really good question. My experience with FWB is that, like, the community has changed simply because, like, more people are in it and it has, like, nailed down what its brand is and who it's trying to attract. But overall, I think, like, the, the culture of the community has relatively stayed the same over the course of the last year. And I think that's a testament to the fact that, like, a, like, the people who were ogs in the community have stuck around, but also b, like, the reason that the token price keeps going up is because people don't want to sell. Demand continues to increase, but, like, the folks who are in the community want to stick around. That creates, like, a very strong and stable culture. And it means that, like, when new folks come in, they're still interacting with, like, the folks who have been around for a while, which I think, again, like, is a testament to how great of a product and community that FWB has managed to create.
00:17:25.459 - 00:18:07.046, Speaker B: I think this idea of earning versus buying tokens, or like, the different ways that tokens can be consumed. I think about it as, like, the difference between, like, access and utility, right? Like, access might be considered a utility of a token, but at the end of the day, you get FWB, so you could access the community. And FWB is also used to reward contributors, and FWB is also used to gate certain events. It's primarily an access token forefront. What we're trying to do is make it a bit more of a utility token. So part of that is through access. There are certain products and services, for example, FF daily, which is a curated list of links that Carlos puts together every day that's going to be gated.
00:18:07.046 - 00:18:53.990, Speaker B: I think you'll have to hold like 100 ff token or 50 ff token or something in order to get access to that on a daily basis. But you could also think of it like, more as a currency, right? So you can imagine a world where, like, we want to incentivize builders in the community. We don't want to give a grant per se because that would just incentivize people to, like, sell FF tokens so that they could, like, fund their, their lifestyle, which makes sense. So we could say, like, hey, we will give you a USDC grants of $5,000 and we're only going to require you to pay back 75% of it. But in return, you have to give a 25% discount on your product or service to anybody who pays you an ff. And that accrues value to the token, but, like, promotes circulation rather than promoting quality. Right.
00:18:53.990 - 00:19:11.334, Speaker B: So I think that's, like, really interesting. Like, token economic dynamics that, like, can be experimented with and, like, will create different realities within various communities. I don't think either one is right or wrong, but I think, like, the way that we experiment with these things will then, like, promote value across communities in, like, very diverse ways.
00:19:12.194 - 00:19:43.994, Speaker A: Yeah, that was a question I had, too, is how do you promote diversity in tokenized communities? Is there something that we should be paying attention to more so in tokenized communities as opposed to just traditional communities, when we think about making sure we build out a diverse community? And I think, you know, it's not that anybody ever intends to build out, like, a very homogenous community, but I think that is just something that happens unconsciously when people don't, like, specifically pay attention to diversity.
00:19:44.374 - 00:20:46.852, Speaker B: Yeah, I actually think in tokenized communities it could be harder because again, like, let's take the case of FWB. If FWB hadn't been very intentional about creating a very diverse community from day one, you can imagine a world where token price just keeps going up and up and up and up. People are gifting tokens to their friends, and then it's just like a bunch of, a very homogenous group of people. And I think FWB has been intentional about we're creating the fellowship program, but also from day one, bringing a bunch of different folks and a bunch of different perspectives in the door when the token price was low. On the other hand, I would argue that bored apes is an example of a tokenized community that was not focused on diversity from day one and as a result did become a bit more homogenous and people are responding negatively in some cases as a result. So I do think that can become a problem. And I think when a community is financialized and it's not just, hey, there's this static price of dollar 500 to get in no matter what, but the token price inflates as the community becomes more valuable.
00:20:46.852 - 00:21:40.332, Speaker B: And ideally, as the community becomes more valuable, that's when you want more diverse perspectives to come in the door. It's like almost a self fulfilling prophecy to become less diverse. And as a result, communities need to pay very, very close attention. From day one, I've seen a lot of folks do this in different ways. So at index, for example, Chase was running the women in index program, and that was one way is like, okay, as a community member, we are going to create a working group to attempt to solve this problem as the community grows. On the other hand though, like FWB was like, we are going to grant tokens to a diverse group of fellows. And from forefront's perspective, it's just like we're going to try to keep the organization as open as possible and make sure our outreach and our media is hitting people who aren't just like your traditional web3 folks, right? So there are different ways that you can go about solving the problem, but I think the problem is definitely more acute when you have a token.
00:21:40.508 - 00:21:59.336, Speaker A: Yeah, I think so too. Earlier, when you were talking about the self managing component of tokenized communities, where leadership is distributed amongst roles and not individuals, you said that this is potentially a hot take. Can you share what the other side of that argument might be and why you said that might be a hot take?
00:21:59.520 - 00:23:00.748, Speaker B: Well, a like one of the pieces of feedback that I got in the post I was thinking about a lot is like a lot of daos or tokenized communities are self managing, but by definition it does not need to be self managing. You could have a lot of different governance and hierarchy, hierarchical structures within a DAO or within a tokenized community. I accept that. But I also think that if you're going to maximize the use of the token, what you are going to tend toward is a more self managing organization. What I mean by that is a token is the next generation coordination tool, because everybody is holding this thing in common, and we are then all incentivized to increase the value of said token. Ideally, like, even if we don't know each other, we are all collectively incentivized toward a common goal. As a result, if you want to maximize the value of using a token as a coordination tool, rather than just like starting a company, you need to make sure that every individual token holder is empowered to contribute in a way that like, is meaningful and in a way that, like, they actually are going to be able to provide value.
00:23:00.748 - 00:23:32.184, Speaker B: The way to do that in a decentralized way that is like token native is through a self managing organization where you, like, have working groups and powers sort of being distributed out to smaller working groups or smaller organizations rather than having a centralized CEO or core team that is making everything function. That said, you can have a community that has a token that has very centralized governance. I just think at that point, you're not maximizing the value of the token. And then at that point, why is it a tokenized community?
00:23:32.904 - 00:24:07.394, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a really good point. The final element out of the seven elements that comprise the tokenized community that you wrote about is the meme component. So I think the first time I read this, I got to the meme part and I thought, you know, like, obviously memes are a huge part of web3 more broadly, but is it such a big part that we should say this is like a requirement that all tokenized communities need to have? Can you go into that a little bit more? And why you say that, you know, meme driven is like, you would take it so far as to say that this is actually a requirement that all tokenized communities need to have.
00:24:07.734 - 00:24:57.768, Speaker B: Yeah, this is another thing where, like, I was very hesitant to use this word, but I was like, I think this is the word that makes the most sense. When I say meme, I'm not talking about like a picture with a caption, right? But I'm talking about like, an idea or element of culture that is, like, evolving as it spreads throughout a network. And like, as each person gets their hand on this idea or this piece of culture, they're editing it slightly before they push it back into the rest of the network. Right. Even if unintentionally. I think the best example of a meme driven community is actually gatecoin. So when you talk to Scott at Gitcoin, for example, he's always talking about this idea of memeing public goods and GTC as a token has become an incentivization mechanism to get a bunch of different folks promoting and talking about public goods in a bunch of different ways that Gitcoin didn't even imagine six months ago.
00:24:57.768 - 00:25:53.344, Speaker B: Right? So when we're thinking about community that is crafted around the shared meme, the meme is public goods. It's not necessarily a picture of public goods or it's not necessarily like the meme that we would think of. But it's this idea that, like, people are trying to promote this idea into the world, build tools around it, get more people to buy into it, and like increase the value of the idea itself by putting their own spin on it, either through a product, service, etcetera. So yeah, I do think, like, meme driven is probably the way to talk about tokenized communities. Because like, if we're saying mission driven or goal driven, again, like, at that point you should probably just have a company. If we're saying like, hey, we're going to build x product and that's what this organization is going to do, have a centralized team and go at building that said product, and you're going to get it done much faster and you're probably going to make a lot more money doing it. But if it's like, hey, we want to promote the idea of public goods in a way that empowers everybody to get involved.
00:25:53.344 - 00:26:02.364, Speaker B: Your community needs to be more meme driven than mission driven because everybody is going to have their own mission in pursuit of proliferation of that meme.
00:26:02.984 - 00:26:21.324, Speaker A: That is so well said. Wow, I love that. So if somebody listening is thinking about building out a community for whatever purpose they want to achieve, how should they think about whether it's appropriate for them to pursue a tokenized community or maybe to pursue just a traditional community?
00:26:21.874 - 00:27:23.906, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a really good question. I think, like, that last point is probably like one of the things that you should be thinking deeply about. Like if you sort of have a concrete goal or mission in mind. Like for example, I want to build a piece of software that does X, Y and Z. It would make a lot more sense for you to just like start a company or start a community or whatever, but like keep it more centralized and more simple to get that thing done right. If your goal is a bit more abstract and it's like, hey, I want to unite folks who are interested in web3 education, and I want to empower them to start a bunch of different media based projects around this idea of web3 education, but allow them to express their own creativity and have power over what that actually manifests as. A tokenized community is probably the way to go because doing that without a token puts a lot more work and a lot more burden on the original organizers to make sure that, like, everybody is sort of staying in line.
00:27:23.906 - 00:28:14.626, Speaker B: There's this idea of headless brands that I mentioned in the piece, and I think that term was coined by other Internet. You could throw an idea into the world. But if there's no central party that is promoting that idea or is crafting what that idea actually means, it ends up just being like a decentralized idea where everybody who is proliferating it or is a part of it has a say in how it's manifested. Right? And this is like when we talk about the word dao having like 26 different definitions, you can think about Dao as a headless brand, right? Like the definition is sort of being created in real time as everybody is tweeting their own definitions. And some get more popular and others don't get popular. If you want to, like, actually have creativity at scale, makes a lot more sense to create a headless brand and have the token be the coordination and incentivization mechanism around the headless brand, rather than having some sort of centralized entity where you have a few folks pushing the idea forward. Both can work.
00:28:14.626 - 00:28:19.414, Speaker B: It's just a matter of what you want to pursue and if you want to pursue the latter, I think that token makes sense.
00:28:19.874 - 00:28:30.094, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. So looking ahead to the future, where do you see tokenized communities being in, let's say, you know, the next year or next five years?
00:28:30.674 - 00:29:24.158, Speaker B: That's a great question. I think Jess from Seed Club has said, like, in the next couple of years we'll see our first, like, billion dollar tokenized community or billion dollar, like, social club. Like some could argue we have already seen that, depending on what things you define as tokenized communities. But if we haven't seen it yet, we will definitely see it soon. I think second of all, there's just a lot of talk about Dao to Dao, but just community to community interactions and what m and a amongst Daos or tokenized communities might look like. And I think in my mind, what we'll see is less communities combining into like five or six communities, like joining forces into one community, and more of like five or six communities who like, realize, hey, all of our communities are sort of aligned around like a shared meme. We should probably just all adopt the same token so that we don't all have to bootstrap this micro economy ourselves, right? We haven't seen that quite yet.
00:29:24.158 - 00:29:55.344, Speaker B: We saw a bit of it with in like Defi with like the Feyrari merger and like, now they all use the tribe token. But I think it's a lot more interesting when we see it on the social side of things and the community side of things, where you're basically seeing like culture getting mashed together in real time and you could see like the financial implications of what that looks like. So very, very excited about both of those things. And like, in general, I think as tooling gets better and as education increases, like, we'll just see thousands more of these communities pop up. And I'm very excited to see what folks come up with.
00:29:55.804 - 00:30:10.674, Speaker A: Are there any ways in which you'd love to see tokenized communities change the way they're currently operating as we move forward? Like, are there any big mistakes you see tokenized communities making today that you're like, this needs to go, like, we have to improve in this area?
00:30:11.574 - 00:31:06.968, Speaker B: Yeah, this is like a whole other conversation. But like there's this debate around like ERC 20s versus nfts and like what makes for a better, like, community token? I would argue that like both have their place even within like individual communities. Individual communities will be in the long run using both ERC twenty s and nfts and maybe future primitives that exist. But if you are bootstrapping a community and all you are trying to do is like define membership and like, gate things, an NFT probably makes a lot more sense than an ERC 20. And like minting an ERC 20 on day one and like creating a liquidity pool and like adding more complexity to the community very early on is probably going to kill a lot of communities prematurely. And what we should probably be seeing is a lot of folks keeping things as simple as possible from day one. Not just try to use every web3 tool available because the tools are out there, and then like adopt new tools when they become necessary.
00:31:06.968 - 00:31:29.766, Speaker B: So like when you have like a very strong contributor base or like a large community that needs to like economically coordinate around shared contributions, maybe then you use an ERC 20 because that would be much more difficult to do with like a very illiquid and like cultural asset in an NFT. I think we will learn best practices around when to use what tool and what the pros and cons of each are at different stages for sure.
00:31:29.910 - 00:31:49.904, Speaker A: Last question for you. Looking ahead, obviously you're super bullish on tokenized communities really blowing up in the next couple of years even. How do you see this growth of tokenized communities impacting all aspects of our lives, so our work lives, our social lives, and any other aspects of our daily lives?
00:31:50.564 - 00:32:16.476, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the two trends will be that a tokenized community does not need to live forever. A token itself does not need to be a forever thing, despite the fact that it might exist on a blockchain forever. Maybe it doesn't need to have active utility forever. We've already seen this with Constitution Dao, for example. Is this idea of a flash dao it just spun up. They tried to buy the constitution, it didn't work. And then the token still exists.
00:32:16.476 - 00:33:08.472, Speaker B: I don't know what's happening in that community on a day to day basis, actually, but from my understanding, the energy just isn't there that it was before. That's okay. The token spun up with the particular purpose of trying to buy a thing. It didn't happen, or maybe it would have happened and then you move on from that. I think in the future we will see a lot more initiatives get spun up as it gets much easier to mint a token and as it gets much easier to distribute a token. You can imagine like mass coordination at like various levels, like at the micro level, just like within your apartment, within your city, within your neighborhood, and at the macro level, like completely globally, across like a specific mission or mean really, really easily. So I don't know like specifically what ideas will pop up, but like, this idea that you could have like really easy token at scale or at various skills is super intriguing to me.
00:33:08.472 - 00:33:38.110, Speaker B: Like, a lot of times, like, we're using crypto just to proliferate crypto and we're already seeing it, like actually impact the real world with this idea of like impact daos or impact communities. Like a lot of these regen communities that are using tokens to unite around climate change in Chicago, we're actually seeing community organizers start to use tokens, which is really, really cool, as a means of uniting people from across the city and different organizations around a shared purpose or goal. Very excited to see how people are experimenting on that end.
00:33:38.302 - 00:33:51.482, Speaker A: So cool. I'll have to get some of those names from you after. Cause I'm really curious as a fellow former Chicago and myself, is there anything, Jahad, that I didn't have a chance to ask you that you want to say or any final thoughts you want to leave our listeners with?
00:33:51.658 - 00:34:15.809, Speaker B: No, I feel like I talked a lot, so I appreciate you asking the great questions. This was really, really fun. I'm glad I was able to share. But yeah, just I would say, like, if you want to talk tokenized communities, feel free to shoot me a DM on Twitter. And yeah, happy to jam. But in general, this is what I'm working on in a daily basis, so very, very excited to see it move forward.
00:34:16.001 - 00:34:28.793, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely go follow Jahad on Twitter. Lots of great takes there and you can also keep up with all of his writings. Make sure you go check out his article, tokenized communities on forefront and we will be back again soon.
00:34:28.873 - 00:34:30.613, Speaker B: Heck yeah. Appreciate you.
00:34:30.993 - 00:34:59.074, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this episode of Rehash. If you enjoyed this conversation and want want to get involved in helping shape next season of the podcast, including nominating and voting on your favorite guests, go to Rehash Mirror XYZ to join our crowd fund. And don't forget to rate, comment, and subscribe to help us get this podcast heard by as many people as possible. Thanks for being part of this community and I can't wait to connect with many of you in discord and Twitter soon.
