00:00:00.730 - 00:00:44.518, Speaker A: Hey hey and welcome for this new edition of my weekly newsletter for Ethereum, DAP developer and smart contract developers. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, make sure you subscribe now. And you can also subscribe to the newsletter on my website. So without further ado, let's start so the first news of this week is the launch of IDWBlox Pro, which is my pet screencast and I'm super excited to finally launch this. I've been working on this for quite a while and finally I've decided to launch it. So you can see the landing page by going to this page on my website, idablogPro. And so you'll have a description of the first Pro episode.
00:00:44.518 - 00:01:59.422, Speaker A: So basically the idea is to provide some exclusive tutorial videos for Ethereum, DAP and smart contract to members. There will be one new video every week and the starting price is set at ten us a month. After that it will switch to 15. So ten is just for the launch. And when you become a member, you will not only get access to these episodes, but you will also get access to a private telegram group that I've created just for Edoblocks Pro, where me and other members of the screencast will be able to help each other to discuss DAP development and solve any problem you might find in these episodes. So some people ask me Julian, what will be the difference between the episode in idoblocks Pro and blocks the YouTube channel? Well, on idoblocks the YouTube channel, the episode will be a little bit at beginner level, and on iToblocks pro it will be a little bit more intermediate to advanced. So you can expect to see topics like TDD, smart contract development.
00:01:59.422 - 00:02:53.294, Speaker A: So TDD, it means test driven development. So first you write the test, then you write the implementation. You can expect to see cover more security. And in general, I'd like to do more project on Indoblocks Pro where basically it will not be just a one off video, but often it will be a series where you will actually build a finished DApPs or a more complex smart contract. So yeah, that's it for the presentation of idablox Pro. If you have any question then make sure you write them in the comments of this video and it'll be my pleasure to answer you then. The second link of this newsletter is this big video I release on how to become a blockchain developer.
00:02:53.294 - 00:03:24.702, Speaker A: So that's my longest video ever. It's 36 minutes and I'm quite proud of it. It got a really positive reception on the blockchain Reddit, it was trending at some point. I was really happy about it, a lot of positive comments. So if you haven't seen it, have a look. It's basically if you're a beginner and you want to get into blockchain, but you don't know how. So in this video I will lay out a step by step plan.
00:03:24.702 - 00:04:13.200, Speaker A: There are ten step, that's basically the method I use for myself and it has worked well for me. So I hope that it can be helpful to you too. And if you agree or disagree with what I say in this video, then make sure to write them in the comment. Next. I was interviewed in a podcast this week, so it's called let's talk, etc. So that's a podcast focused on Ethereum classic. And so in this podcast I basically introduced what's the current state of developer tools for Ethereum Dapps and I also talk about my course with mining where we built a decentralized application.
00:04:13.200 - 00:05:41.606, Speaker A: And yeah, so that's my first postcast interview so I'm quite happy about it. And then the next link is this tutorial to verify Ethereum contract using Webstery and Solsi. So if you've been using Etherscan, you might have seen a feature that allow to verify a contract where basically if you are a developer and you publish your smart contract, basically you can upload the source code to Etherscan and Etherscan will verify that the bytecode matches the source code basically sorry, that the source code that you provided actually compel into the bytecode that is in the blockchain. And if that's the case, then you will have a little badge that says contract verified and that help to increase the trust for your smart contract and your decentralized application. So this is something very important. And in this tutorial, basically they teach you how to do this, but on your own on your computer without relying on ether scan. So it's quite interesting and it gets a little bit deeper into the details of the bytecode and things such as contract metadata.
00:05:41.606 - 00:06:43.854, Speaker A: So I learned quite a few things with this tutorial was super interesting. Then there is this tutorial on a pub sub pattern in solidity. So what is this pub sub pattern? So pub sub pattern is something that does not come from blockchain. It's something that is very common in web application. And the idea is you have a producer of information and many consumer of this information and we want to find an easy way for them to communicate without having the producer knowing too much about the consumer. And so the typical use case for smart contract will be let's say you have one smart contract that provide information to many other smart contract. The problem is if the smart contract that provide information has to know about all the other smart contracts, it will make it really complicated to implement the system.
00:06:43.854 - 00:07:31.230, Speaker A: So we will use another third smart contract in this case whose job will be just to publish the information to all the subscriber. And this tutorial will explain you how to do this. It's quite interesting. Then there is a new version of the remix ide. So this new version has a lot of new feature, but I think the single most important new feature is the new version of solidity 0.5.0. I've heard people saying that there are still a few bug, I haven't seen any, but if you see any, make sure you report them to the repo of remix because solidity 0.5.0 is still quite new.
00:07:31.230 - 00:08:10.250, Speaker A: So it's possible that there might be some unstable instability here. Then remix added some plugins. Actually, I know that very few developers are aware of this new feature of remix that allow to extend remix. So basically one of the tab now you can enable plugins and they've added two plugin. Sorry, actually they added a lot more plugin. Okay, so the first one they added, which I think is cool, is Oracleize. So where Oracleize is the oracle service for Ethereum.
00:08:10.250 - 00:08:49.190, Speaker A: And the problem is when you want to develop on Oracleize, you need to deploy a sort of mock Oracleyze contract. And it's not always easy to do this with remix. So with the Oracleyze plugin for remix, you can do this easily. Then they have a lot of other plugins, such as Solium, like a linter for solidity, Openzemplim. Another interesting one is Viper, where basically it's another programming language for smart contract. So now remix is not just for solidity, but with the Viper plugin you can also use it for Viper. So that's super cool.
00:08:49.190 - 00:09:32.946, Speaker A: And you can keep looking at all the other plugins. It's not the only improvement, like you have maybe four or five other features, so I'm not going to go over all of them. But yeah, it's quite an interesting release of remix. And remix is becoming really better and better. Then we had an announcement of AWS that launched its managed blockchain service. So if you've been paying attention to Microsoft Azure, you've noticed that they released some services just for Ethereum and truffle. So AWS saw that and it was like all these guys are moving their ass to add some feature just for blockchain, so we don't want to be left behind.
00:09:32.946 - 00:10:25.140, Speaker A: So they are launching this service and in particular it will allow the creation of private network for Hyperledger and Ethereum. So this will be particularly useful for continuous integration. And in particular, if you're building a blockchain project that does not rely on a public network, but on a private network. Also with their tool, you'll be able to simulate the load on your private network, which is something not very easy to do if you have to do it on yourself. So that's quite cool. So far the service is in preview, so you have to register to get access to it. So it's not publicly available yet, but it might be worth trying out.
00:10:25.140 - 00:11:21.014, Speaker A: Then I saw this tutorial on Ethereum 2.0. So that's a series of tutorial actually, and this is the last article of this series. So in Ethereum 2.01 of the thing that people don't know is that actually there will be two ether that will cohabitate for some time. So there will be the sort of normal ether on the main chain, and then there will be ether that will be staked in staking smart contract on the main chain. And once you stake your ether on this smart contract, then basically it's not possible to take it back to the main chain and it's only possible to withdraw it to one of the shard of Ethereum 2.0. And this article explain how this work exactly.
00:11:21.014 - 00:12:14.210, Speaker A: It's quite interesting if you want to know more about the future of Ethereum. And then there is this tutorial on how to do end to end encryption with Ethereum and ipfs. So IPFS is this decentralized network for storing files. And this tutorial has been created by Airswap. So Airswap is a protocol for peer to peer trading of ERC 20 tokens. And as part of their project they needed to develop a technology that allow peer to peer communication in an encrypted way. And so they explain, basically they give a very high level overview of their technology in this article.
00:12:14.210 - 00:13:05.254, Speaker A: So my understanding is that their solution is very tied to sswap at the moment. So unfortunately you can't just use it for your own project. But I believe that if they receive a lot of interest, probably that they will decide to extract a standalone library for it. The design is quite interesting, it's quite sophisticated. So if you are into encryption and cryptography, definitely check it out. And finally, I find this new ERC standard. So 1630 about hash time lock contract standard, which is most commonly known as HTLC in the jargon in general.
00:13:05.254 - 00:14:03.640, Speaker A: So basically, what is this new standard? So first of all, it's quite an easy standard because it's very short and this is the implementation, so it's very easy to understand. So the general id is that it's sort of escrow that is secured by a secret. And this is the building block of atomic swap. So if you combine two HTLC contract, you can implement atomic swap between two ERC 20 tokens, for example. And if you find another blockchain that has similar smart contract capability, then you can combine an HTLC smart contract on Ethereum and an HTLC contract on another blockchain and do an atomic swag, which is cross chain. So it's a little bit more evolved. I might actually do a tutorial on this because I think this is especially interesting.
00:14:03.640 - 00:14:25.946, Speaker A: Yeah, that was it, guys. Again, if want to make sure you receive the newsletter every week, make sure you subscribe on my website to receive the email. And if you like this video, please give me a thumb up, give me a like and I hope to see you in my next video. Have a good week, guys. Bye.
