00:00:06.360 - 00:00:36.475, Speaker A: Hello. So welcome. So this is a Fluxbeam keynote. Today we'll be going over some of the stuff we've been up to in the past 12 months, along with a brand new product we'd like to launch today called Fluxbeam Infinity. For those of you who don't know, we've been kind of Solana builders in the defi and tooling system for over the kind of past two years, mainly focused on kind of promoting Token extensions or token 22 as it was back in the day. So we started off with Fluxbeam. We built out a DEX and a tooling ecosystem so you can mint manage and maintain every aspect of these token extensions.
00:00:36.475 - 00:01:24.285, Speaker A: We're also fortunate enough to be part of the global ecosystem adoption rollout for token extensions, along with some great teams from wallets to explorers, other protocols and aggregators like the Amazing Jupiter. From there we realized there was a real core issue occurring on the underlying belly of Solana, around more and more rugs and scammers coming into the ecosystem. So we built Rugcheck. Rugcheck's now monitoring over 50 on chain metrics. And we've also augmented this with a proprietary network graph, allowing us to track these scammers from end to end. And I'd like to think we've been pretty successful at this. With over 100 million token reports generated over the past 12 months, and with over 2 million users accessing RogCheck, we now believe that we're able to catch and track these scammers before they have a chance to rug.
00:01:24.285 - 00:02:17.865, Speaker A: And then finally last year we announced fluxbot, the first telegram trading bot with advanced functionality such as copy trader and limit orders. And that also won the Solana hackathon last year. And from that it got us thinking, what other pain points could we fix in this ecosystem? And from there we decided that there were two kind of key issues that we wanted to address. One, unfortunately, we're human, so we have to sleep at some point. And when we're asleep, there's a lot of issues that could go on or missed opportunities that we can't get into because we're having to rest. On the other side, when we look at the data layer, we've noticed that there's a huge delay between users clicking a UI and that data being transmitted onto any other trading interface that you're seeing. So that's got us thinking, how can we improve the trading experience for traders across the ecosystem? And today I'm very excited to announce Fluxbeam Infinity.
00:02:17.865 - 00:03:22.865, Speaker A: This is a brand new token trading interface designed from the ground up to focus on giving traders the absolute edge when it comes to trading, whether it be meme coins or any tokens on Solana, we've achieved that in a few ways. Firstly, we've managed to aggregate all disparate pieces of information, whether it be on chain data, off chain data, news or even rug check reporting data and access to our network graph all into a single one stop data terminal. Meaning you no longer need multiple tabs open to see exactly what's going on. We've augmented this even further with truly real time instant data, so you're notified the second a token is minted or a pool is launched, giving you even higher chances of getting in there early. And finally, of course, we've got Fluxbot fully integrated into this, allowing you to use one click swaps and access to our bandwidth markets for instant transaction delivery, making sure your transactions land before anyone else's. We've even further augmented this with what we call advanced limit orders. This is one of the most highly requested pieces of functionality we've had in the past 12 months.
00:03:22.865 - 00:04:01.645, Speaker A: Traditionally, this was limited to one protocol. We've managed to get that to work across over 22 platforms, giving you the access to the deepest liquidity and the highest chances of these limit orders landing. So whether it's a trailing stop loss or a take profit, you can now sleep. Rest assured that when the profits are there, they're locked in, or your downside's limited by the trailing stop loss. But we didn't stop there. Building on what Toly said last year about making sure that Solana will be the data backbone of the world, we've also liked to announce signals and automation. And this is a fully automated algorithmic trading platform of where users can come in and they can trade on any data and trade on Solana.
00:04:01.645 - 00:04:39.665, Speaker A: And when I say any data, I really do mean any data. Signals allow you to trade anything from your standard trading indicators, like the 200 day moving average of Bitcoin, social sentiment from X and news, even simple stuff like token price change or what traders are doing, even smart money movements. All of this can also be applied to custom logic and webhooks. So if you've got your own custom data pipelines, you no longer have to worry about building all the Solana integration. You can simply plug in and play all in a lovely ui. So the great news is this is available today for our Fluxbot power users. If you're not a power user, this will be available in the coming weeks for the public.
00:04:39.665 - 00:04:52.305, Speaker A: As we scale out the capacity. If you want to get in a little bit earlier, do join the Fluxbeam Telegram channel and build up your points and you should see a Beta invite appear for you relatively soon. Thank you very much for listening. Have a great day.
