00:00:00.920 - 00:00:52.088, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Tanky here. And today I wanted to discuss XRP's case against the SEC and the implication on the broader markets. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. We have a lot to cover today, so let's get right into it. So this morning it was announced that XRP, or like, when the us judge ruled that the token sales that it did on centralized exchanges were not sales of unregistered securities. And predictably, we're just seeing some just, I mean, green all across the board, right? Things like salon o matic, you know, basically in Lido, right? Like the projects that got sued or like the project that were deemed securities, like a month ago, maybe all the shorts are unwinding and we're just seeing, you know, green pumps all across the board. And I guess, like, you know, like, what does this actually mean for the broader markets? I'm not gonna spend too much time on, like, nitpicking the details of its case.
00:00:52.088 - 00:01:33.888, Speaker A: I'll provide some resources in the description below. But basically, right, any, like, whatever equity that ripple sold to institutional investors, those were sales and securities. But as long as, you know, people bought XRP through an order book, it was not sales of unregistered securities. And overall a huge win for this space. I think the entire altcoin market was really suffering because, you know, there was a lot of uncertainty around, you know, are these asset securities? If they are securities, then can people actually buy them? And there was a lot of, you know, like a gray area there. So I think that uncertainty being lifted is a huge win for this pace. I think it's going to be really, really positive for the entire asset class.
00:01:33.888 - 00:02:48.366, Speaker A: And I'm pretty hyped and, you know, like, I didn't really predict, you know, like, you know, like all the sephora happening just because, like, XRP, like, won its case, right? Because I don't really, like, touch XRP and I'm not really part of that community. But hey, you know, like, I guess, you know, when the SEC is going after everyone, like, we're all part of the team and, you know, I think if you're like a us based team, I think this also is a big moment of relief because I know for a fact that some us teams were really, I guess, more careful about building, and it was kind of driving innovation away from the US. But if this is real, which it seems like it's real, I think crypto innovation can stay in the US and it's good to see, I feel like moments like today, times like today, it makes me feel proud to be maybe like, feel proud to be an american. And it's a vote of confidence in like, the judicial system in the US. But, you know, that being said, what does it actually mean? So obviously, the talk of the town was bitcoin dominance is going higher and higher. The bitcoin ETF catalyst narrative was driving asset, or they noticed bitcoin much higher. The narrative was like, why hold altcoins when they're all securities? Just hold bitcoin? Because it's the only form of money.
00:02:48.366 - 00:03:26.436, Speaker A: Even ether might not be like, yeah, even either might be a security. But, you know, if XRP is not a security, then how can you call any of these securities, right, like ether, like really uniswap token governance token really like maker. I mean, yeah, like, if XRP is not a security, then, you know, it's, it's going to be really, really hard. And it kind of sets a precedent that, you know, like, let's keep innovation here in the US and let's not stifle innovation. And I think that's more of like the psychological win here instead of like, just like pumping XRP, for example. But, you know, I drew this red box for bitcoin dominance at the beginning of the year. And I said, hey, like, I think, you know, the max upside for bitcoin dominance is gonna be like roughly the 50% to 55%.
00:03:26.436 - 00:04:01.846, Speaker A: And, you know, if it gets in this box, I'm gonna convert all my bitcoin into eth. And that's why I said earlier I did that a little bit earlier, just because I wanted to hold more ether, because I think as like collateral on money markets on chain, I think ether is a better form of money than bitcoin, at least on chain. Right on, like, you know, l two s, mainnet alto ones and whatnot. And if anything is gonna at least create a local top in bitcoin dominance, it's going to be this news. People are calling for the eternal down only for HPDC. To be honest, I don't really believe in the flipping. Like in the next twelve to 18 months.
00:04:01.846 - 00:04:34.440, Speaker A: I think it's one of those things that at BTC is going to be range bound. Maybe it's going to go a little bit higher, maybe it's going to go a little bit lower. But whenever bitcoin maxis get your fork at 0.05, that's probably a good time to buy EBTC. Whenever the eat maxes get too cocky, that might be a local top, at least in this ratio. I think this ratio is kind of dumb, to be honest. I get that crypto is very tribalistic, and I get that bitcoin and ether, they're both kind of competing to be crypto monies, at least like an alternative to the financial markets and whatnot.
00:04:34.440 - 00:05:13.810, Speaker A: But I consider bitcoin and ether to be completely separate assets, at least in my head as a crypto native. And people arguing about EtBTC and why you don't want to buy ether and whatnot, it's kind of like you go to the stock market and then the Apple Maxis and the Microsoft Maxis are arguing over each other about the Apple Microsoft ratio. And the Apple crowd is like, hey, AR VR is the future. Apple Vision Pro up only, Apple dominance up only. And then the Microsoft Bros are like, oh, yeah, AI is the future. And Microsoft things don't flip Apple. No one's really doing that.
00:05:13.810 - 00:05:40.762, Speaker A: This just exists because in crypto, people are just part of tribes and I guess there's like semi toxic communities that form around these assets. To be honest, I really don't care about the EBTC ratio. Of course. I care if it gets like 0.03 or like, I care if it goes like 0.12 and like Flippin's bitcoin and whatnot, but as like an on chain native, right? Like, I view ether as a store value. I view ether as money.
00:05:40.762 - 00:06:22.636, Speaker A: I view ether as pristine collateral. There's the additional added benefits where, you know, the loan to value ratio on money markets like Aave, I believe for ether it's like roughly 80% and for bitcoin it's 70% to 75%. I mean, that's, you know, like, that doesn't really like move the needle and whatnot. But whenever I deploy money market strategies, I would much rather use ether as collateral just because it's more liquid. And like, you know, like, the more you operate on chain, I think, you know, it's really, really hard to not be bullish, the e to BTC ratio. But, you know, that being said, let's kind of talk about like, types of narratives that can happen. So I think, you know, I've talked about EIP 4844 and I'll talk about like, the timeline of that narrative and generally like, how I expect that thing to go.
00:06:22.636 - 00:06:53.788, Speaker A: And then also talk about like, other l two tokens. I think mantle is sort of being slept on. So I'll talk about that. And then I think there's this entire potential narrative around real world assets. The entire bitcoin. Like, you know, the bitcoin narrative is driven by Blackrock and Larry Fink. And if you listen to Larry Fink interviews on CNBC, Fox, like, whatever, like, he's gonna tell, like, he's been saying the same thing over and over again about, like, how he's incredibly bullish on the tokenization of real world assets onto the blockchain.
00:06:53.788 - 00:07:21.010, Speaker A: And, you know, Larry Fink can create narratives out of thin air, and they can be, like, you know, multi month narratives. So I think it's worth keeping an eye on, like, the RWA asset class and I guess, like, how I kind of think about that in, like, the broader defi terms. And now I'll talk about the company that I'm starting out. One of the reasons I've been posting less is because I've been aggressively. I mean, maybe not aggressively. I mean, I've been, like, building out a team to build, like, a research team. And, you know, it'll be completely.
00:07:21.010 - 00:07:43.110, Speaker A: It'll be free and whatnot. So I'll talk about that later. So let's get into the slide deck. You know, I think the l two narrative is pretty strong. I think in 2021, we had the Alt L1 narrative. And if you were following the channel, right, that's, like, all I was doing back then. And I think right now, like, alt l one EVM chains are kind of dead just because all these l two s are being funded.
00:07:43.110 - 00:08:34.388, Speaker A: And I expect in 2024, maybe even later this year, to just have, like, alt l two season where maybe, you know, like, arbitrary optimism as well. Maybe some mantle then, like, a bunch of, like, other l two s, like linia, like Tyco, like Zksync, Starknet. Like, maybe they start teasing a token, the ecosystems start to get developed, and, you know, like, maybe they all do tokens. Maybe they repeat, like, the whole l two incentive game all over again. And I think as farmers, as on chain defi maxis, it's just something to be aware of. Maybe it's too early, right, to look into this in July, but we're seeing all coins moving, rising tie ups, all votes, and I think it takes time for people to just get rid of their bear market PTSD and flip bullish. So I just think that the entire crypto asset class has strong, strong tailwinds against it or strong tailwinds for it.
00:08:34.388 - 00:09:15.248, Speaker A: But I'll talk about that later. EIP 4844. I mean, I don't want to keep talking about it, but basically prototype charting, it's going to lower l two fees it's going to increase the profitability of these l two sequencers. So if you kind of view arbitrum and optimism as businesses, you can argue that they're going to make more money or their margins are going to improve. And from an end user perspective, it's going to lower the transaction fees by an order of magnitude, like roughly ten to 20 x from what I've seen. And this is going to come with the dancun upgrade happening later this year. And according to the developer Alex Stokes, it was suggested that maybe it's reasonable to, for this to happen on October 2023.
00:09:15.248 - 00:10:01.422, Speaker A: I've been saying for the last couple of months that I think it's going to happen like roughly in November, maybe even December. To be honest, it's really hard to predict developer timelines. But, you know, like EIP, I mean, and these like, you know, Ethereum network upgrades, they're typically on schedule, even though, you know, at least like the most recent Ethereum network upgrades. So let's just say. Let's just say mid November is like a time to expect the dancun upgrade, which should spur some narrative and growth in these l two s. So, yeah, let's just assume mid November. And I think the narrative that really kick started the 2023 bull market recovery, or whatever you want to call it, was the liquid staking, derivative narrative.
00:10:01.422 - 00:10:36.978, Speaker A: And if you remember the Chappelle upgrade, right, the Dave Chappelle upgrade for, you know, allowing people to like, you know, unstake their ether. That happened in mid April. But coins, right, like tokens, like Lido, went from like a dollar to $3 in a span of basically a month. And the narrative really started like January 1. So, you know, Chappelle upgrade, mid April narrative started January 1. That was basically like, you know, a three month, three and a half month front run. Like the narrative, like roughly three and a half months.
00:10:36.978 - 00:11:19.836, Speaker A: And if you look at the price of lido, the price peaked roughly two months before the upgrade. It was mid February. So of course, history doesn't repeat. And there's kind of marketing is happening here, right? Because you can argue that a bunch of funds, like, sold their lido for tax loss harvesting reasons at the end of the year, and then they maybe rebought exposure, or maybe the shorts got squeezed on January 1. So there's a timeline there. But let's say maybe the narrative starts three to four months before the actual upgrade, and then maybe the narrative peaks one or two months before. Because if everyone believes in the same narrative, they all buy three months before then at some point we're going to run out of buyers.
00:11:19.836 - 00:11:50.446, Speaker A: Of course, if more retail come back, then, you know, it can keep going higher. But, you know, let's kind of work under this base assumption. So if the then coin upgrade is going to be on November 15, which is my best met, maybe the narrative picks up around mid q three, right, plus or minus a couple weeks and then like maybe Max hype early q four. And then, you know, like it could change. Like if a bunch of, like, if like Zksync drops token, which I don't really expect them to, then, yeah, like, you know, it can get really crazy. But, you know, obviously, like history does not. Like it's not going to repeat, but it often rhymes.
00:11:50.446 - 00:12:27.092, Speaker A: And you might argue, hey, like, why would this narrative happen, right? Like, everyone knows about it. Like, you know, like, what the hell is this? But I think whenever there are like Ethereum network upgrades, I mean, every, every single time there's like a network upgrade for, on Ethereum, it like always leads to like some sort of a narrative. So I would just assume that the same is gonna happen. And one like, I guess I trend, I've noticed, is that this is a price of op. I'm not, I'm not going to look at this price action because like all these like, you know, tokens, whenever they drop, they like launch at like, like super high prices for whatever reason, and then it gets nuked. So I'm going to just view this as the pre. Sorry.
00:12:27.092 - 00:12:49.962, Speaker A: I'm going to view the price here, which is like roughly $2 and like $0.15 as the post airdrop top, right? Like post airdrop Max hype. Like, and the top happened roughly in mid August. Sorry. Yeah, like August of 2022. And then op just like got fairly distributed, right? Because everyone got tokens. Everyone has like the op token at some point, like the price goes higher, like, you know, they're gonna sell.
00:12:49.962 - 00:13:23.944, Speaker A: People are gonna sell. And from the post airdrop peak to the post airdrop bottom, after the peak, it lasted roughly 80 days, right? And then it like put on like this, no bullish price action into the beginning of the year. And now we're kind of going down. But I kind of expect this to go much higher, you know, like as we go later into the year. And I took this screenshot today, and it's been roughly 85 days since the first airdrop. Like post airdrop peak, I suppose. And you know, I mean, it put in like a lower low, like roughly 60 days in like $0.90.
00:13:23.944 - 00:14:02.242, Speaker A: You can't really see here, but you know, and I feel like there's like some level of accumulation happening here. And I think arbitrary is viewed as like a higher quality level two. So if history were to repeat, maybe people that held onto the airdrop because they're bullish, they saw this two green candles they sold, and maybe the airdrop has been pretty well distributed. I sold my arbitrum token airdrop roughly here and I do not own any anymore. So maybe I'm underexposed, but I'll talk about how I'm being allocated into this narrative later. So let's talk about the pros and cons of both op and Arb op. The base chain is going to launch in 23, and this was just announced.
00:14:02.242 - 00:14:31.308, Speaker A: Basemanet is now open for boulders, not for users. I feel like there's going to be like some guardrails in place, but Coinbase is like the largest exchange in the US. It's going to make the onboarding of users a lot very seamless and maybe there's going to be some bullishness happening there. Worldcoin is building on op. I heard they recently raised a $2 billion valuation. I think publicly they raised like a billion dollar valuation, but I heard that they did another round. I mean, don't quote me this.
00:14:31.308 - 00:15:10.454, Speaker A: It's like I'm like hearing things, but yeah, but so, you know, and if you. Another thing I forgot to add is if you think about this trend of more projects like applications becoming like app genes, right? And like, you know, building their own l two or like a roll up, they're all using the optimism stack and not like arbitrary or like, you know, other like sub, like avalanche subnets or like polygon supernets. Right? Like, or like, you know, like cosmos zones. Like they're not really building on those chains, they're building on top of optimism. And if you expect a bunch of these app chains to launch and some of the profits go to the sequencers for op, then you can argue that there's going to be some future value. Cruel. At least the narrative alone.
00:15:10.454 - 00:15:50.084, Speaker A: The con is that the unlock have started. I think the circulating supply is going to. At the most recent unlock, the circulating supply is going to double or something. Of course, I don't really have an edge predicting whether these insiders are going to sell or nothing. I think that, you know, the team members like they should sell or they're probably selling, but I think the VC's are like not really like selling. At least like from what I've seen for Arbitrum I think the best thing is, like, no unlocks until March 2024. And if you expect this narrative to be something that happens at the end of the year, right, and, like, peak at the end of the year, then, you know, you don't have to worry about, you know, VC's like, you know, like team members, like, dumping.
00:15:50.084 - 00:16:22.848, Speaker A: And you can argue that there's a more thriving defi ecosystem. There's arguments against this. It's like, yeah, right now, arbitram has a better defi ecosystem, and optimism isn't really there yet. But maybe six months from now, optimism is going to have a much more developed developer ecosystem because right now on arbitrum, it's GMx and random perpetexes and then people building on top of GMX. And, yeah, I mean, yeah, there's more activity there. There's some meme coins pumping, gaming coins pumping. Um, but, like, maybe it's not really, like a purely sustainable, like, ecosystem.
00:16:22.848 - 00:17:11.976, Speaker A: Um, I mean, I'm just, like, giving, like, the bare case. I'm still, like, more positive on the arbitram defi ecosystem than the optimism ecosystem. But that's one argument against it, I guess. Cons, higher valuation, there's like, no real catalyst. They don't have, like, world coin base chain and whatnot. Of course, there could be a possibility, right? Because maybe alongside EIP 4844 or maybe alongside, you know, like, q one of 2024, maybe the arbitrum Dao is going to announce like some arbitrum incentive program where you bridge over to arbitrum, you use Aave, we'll pay you to borrow, right? And then that kind of accelerates, like, the velocity of the entire arbitrum blockchain ecosystem. And then, like, maybe that's going to be a way for, like, a team to, like, you know, like, sell into the hype, right? So there's like, you know, catalysts like that happening.
00:17:11.976 - 00:17:49.600, Speaker A: And, like, maybe, like dow selling. And, like, when I say dow selling, like, you know, like, some, like, arbitrary projects got, like, arbitram token airdrops. Some of them have sold. I mean, I don't really see them as, like, a bad thing, but, you know, like, they're, I mean, yeah, like, they can sell if they wanted, to be honest. And like I mentioned, like, it might seem too simple, but, you know, everyone cares about Ethereum network upgrades and, like, in fact, like, that's, like, that's the only, like, real important thing happening, right? If you like, you know, I mean, yeah, like, maybe that's controversial, but, you know, basically everyone cares about it. And if everyone cares about it, if everyone's looking at it, people are going to want to bet on what's going to move. And I think l two is pretty much in the zeitgeist.
00:17:49.600 - 00:18:19.900, Speaker A: Is it priced in? I think it's hard for things like this to be priced in. And if you also expect more retail to come back in the future, especially with like the whole XRP news, then you can argue that there's going to be buyers like a month from now, two months from now, three months from now, four months from now. Right? Like there's always new, it's all about capital flows in crypto. So for me for exposure, I don't own any arbor op. I actually, I'm considering a position to op. I think it's kind of interesting for arbitrum, I own GMX MCV's protocol, talked about it before for Op. I own Pica.
00:18:19.900 - 00:18:42.222, Speaker A: They're all kind of underperforming but you know like Pica just dropped like a v four upgrade. I think that's maybe pretty interesting mux, their volumes are going up. NGMX is like leader in the perpetex category. So this is how I'm allocated. I could be wrong on this to be honest. I'm super, I mean I'm wrong all the time. Right? I part of like what I'm known for but.
00:18:42.222 - 00:19:11.328, Speaker A: And of course big bags of ether and I'll talk about like my profit taking strategies later in the video. So next thing I want to talk about is mantle. I think it's kind of being slept on but let's, let's talk about it. So their mainnet's going to launch July 17 along with a token migration to MNT. So bit is the current token, the bybit token. But they're going to rebrand to mantle just so that they're not like too closely tied to the centralized exchange. The Dapps are going to be live alongside the mainnet launch and incentives are going to come but not immediately.
00:19:11.328 - 00:19:33.264, Speaker A: I know the people that working on mantle right. And they said hey, we're super excited. We're going to do incentives not immediately but at some point. So it's something to be aware of. I mean this is kind of technical but it integrates eigenva to its data availability layer which is supposed to offer roughly 70% gas savings relative to its peers. Cool. And it's built on the optimistic world.
00:19:33.264 - 00:20:05.794, Speaker A: Right? Do you see like a trend? There you go. And they're going to do this token swap. So right now that token is called bit. Most of it is held by insiders. But according to this governance proposal, 3 billion bit tokens, roughly a third of the total supply, is not going to be converted to MNT, roughly decreasing the total supply by roughly 33%. So, you know, maybe the valuations become more reasonable. So this, this doesn't take into account the price pumps of today, but it's like roughly this, right, in terms of like Mark Gap and whatnot.
00:20:05.794 - 00:20:43.632, Speaker A: So mantle not really cheap by any means, given that it has much less adoption than Opnar, but doesn't really, I mean, there's also like the potential unlocks, but the team is saying that they're not going to sell. But, you know, I think the bet is that, you know, it's going to be a new l two, it's going to be cheaper to use. They're closely connected to bybit. So maybe like if you're bullish on like base chain, because it's connected, the coinbase maybe makes sense, like logically, right? Like if you're bullish on base chain, like, you should be bullish, Mandel. Right. Because it's going to make the offboarding onboarding process on chain a lot easier, right. And then like new tokens and whatnot.
00:20:43.632 - 00:21:29.112, Speaker A: And there's a lot of binance spot happening in bybit. If you look at like the assets and like the like, inflows and whatnot, they are, I guess, slowly taking on more market share. So if you expect a lot of money to be on bybit right now and they drop a new l two that's connected to bybit depositing, withdrawing really easy super cheap farming opportunities, then maybe we can see like a repeat of binance smart chain that we saw. Q one of 2021, if you're in the space back then, that was some crazy stuff. I don't think history is going to repeat like that. But something to be aware of, one crazy thing is that the mantle team has $3 billion in the treasury. Of course, 2 billion is in the bit token, and they're not going to convert, like, you know, half of this, right, 3 billion.
00:21:29.112 - 00:22:12.356, Speaker A: So the real number is like roughly 2 billion, and like half of it's gonna be in their own native token. So maybe it's not like real money, but they do have half a billion dollars in either, roughly $300 million in stable coins, and it's gonna allow them to see liquidity on like various applications, right. Looks like if there's like a new money market, like the mantle Dao can literally just like put like a hundred million dollars on like on like the lending side. So if you're using a chain, it's gonna be cheaper to borrow, which should increase velocity of money in the ecosystem, which might mean to more fees, more yield farming, like whatever. Like all these applications are going to have new tokens. Who knows? I think it could be interesting. They also have a bunch of like these grants and I think, yeah, so over a hundred protocols are going to launch, apparently.
00:22:12.356 - 00:22:41.990, Speaker A: So who knows? Maybe that's going to be pretty good. I don't know how high quality these apps are going to be. I've seen some of them, they all feel like cash grabs, but you never know, right? And like I mentioned, like if you're bullish base chain because it's connected to Coinbase, then like, you know, bybit's also like a pretty big exchange with more money, right? They can actually like pay people. Like, shouldn't you be excited about mental. Something to ponder I guess. Like from an airdrop farming perspective. I did sign in.
00:22:41.990 - 00:22:55.900, Speaker A: They have like this incentivized testnet. They're like a Dex. So all you have to do is connect to the mantle testnet. And, you know, they have guides on the website. So it's like pretty easy. It took me like two minutes to do this. Who knows? Maybe I got some tokens, something.
00:22:55.900 - 00:23:13.038, Speaker A: Maybe something you're interested in. So those, that's the pitch on l two s. I think that's kind of interesting. So let's talk about real world assets and defi. Let's hold up. Let's see. Was it this one? Yeah.
00:23:13.038 - 00:24:29.000, Speaker A: So let's start with this postwar. So something that, I mean, if you've been keeping track of, I guess, defi coins, I mean, this was like a couple weeks ago, but some of them have been like pumping like mad. And it's kind of weird to see these coins going up a lot because, I mean, the last time I saw like double digit gains on like Aave uni comp and whatnot, it was like Q one of 2021, right? Or Q four of 2020 when it was like just up, only crazy price action. Maybe it's literally like shorts being squeezed. But I also think that, you know, this merits to, like, think about, okay, like, what if this is real, right? Like, what if, you know, given the, given that SeC lost its case against, against ripple, then, I mean, if XRP is not security, then, like, none of these should be securities, right? Which might like, you know, get rid of like the regulatory overhang you might have to price in the future potential of like some of these tokens introducing revenue share, right. Which is like the. The golden egg, right, of like what we want these assets to be, like, ultimately, right? Like, I want these defi tokens to be securities, right? Like, I mean, I want to be able to buy uni, stake it, earn like 5% yield, like 10% yield or something from like the fees that they generate, like, in the future.
00:24:29.000 - 00:24:53.090, Speaker A: And I feel like, you know, like, easily, like, these assets can continue going higher. And it was originally led by makerdao and maker. I think a lot of people hate on maker because it's like this old defi coin that like, bleeds like profusely against either. So let's go up here. Let's find the maker. Ease short. I think I have it here somewhere.
00:24:53.090 - 00:25:25.540, Speaker A: Okay, maybe not. Let's make read, right? I mean, it's down 4% today. And if you kind of zoom out, right, it's like this. It's literally down only. And this has been like the bear case for altcoins and whatnot. But, you know, like, I think if you actually look at the fundamentals, they're like actually generating a bunch of money. And if you think about like, the narrative that Larry Fink and Blackrock's pushing, they're like, you know, they're going to go hard into the tokenization of real world assets.
00:25:25.540 - 00:25:44.620, Speaker A: Blackrock invested in circle right and circle right. Like, they have a bunch of dollars. They buy treasuries, they make money. And then, you know, like, it's, it's a really profitable business. And I think maker is like a poor man's version of circle. Of course, everything is on chain. You know, it's basically a bank without like the fractional reserve banking aspect.
00:25:44.620 - 00:26:09.056, Speaker A: But if you kind of like, just think about it. First principles. Like, you know, they have a stable coin, right? And like, the dollar is back in the stable coin. Like they're buying treasury bonds with it. And if you think that the Fed is going to stay higher for longer with interest rates, then technically that's going to lead to higher volumes. I'm sorry, not volumes, like higher profitability. And the annualized profit right now is roughly 87 million.
00:26:09.056 - 00:26:53.306, Speaker A: The PE is like ten. Maybe PE is kind of relevant, but this is a protocol that's probably going to make $100 million a year valued at under a billion dollar market. Captain, you know, like, I feel like if you're like an institution, like trying to allocate into defi, I feel like assets like maker Aave Uniswap becomes a lot more compelling than whatever, like some new token that launches with like some anonymous team, right. And I think that's kind of the goal that these teams have, right? Like there are different movers, they're like the most battle tested. And once, you know, there's more adoption into space, you know, like this can be like, you know, these defi 1.0 tokens can be like an index of like the growth of defi. Right.
00:26:53.306 - 00:27:31.384, Speaker A: From a token perspective. And I actually created this new Twitter account called HFA Research and I hired a few writers and we're gonna be posting every single day. And one of the first things we dropped this morning, sorry, not this morning, on Monday, was like this really large, very long form research report on Makerdez. And you can have, yeah, like, all the resources are here, so I'll link it in the description, but the goal is, right. It's hard for me to upload videos every single day on YouTube. I mean, yeah, like, these videos on average take a pretty long time to make. So, you know, like, let's try to create like a newsletter if you go here.
00:27:31.384 - 00:28:03.146, Speaker A: You know, I also have a newsletter that just got dropped this morning, the Humble Farmers Digest. It kind of goes over, you know, like the news things that we're looking out for. I'm not gonna spend too much time on this because you can like, look at yourself. But let's see some projects for watching. Some low caps, micro caps, if you're into that stuff. And also on Tuesdays, once a week, we're also going to do humble farms of the week. So if you want to earn yield on stable coins, ether, airdrops, we'll have all the resources here.
00:28:03.146 - 00:28:52.550, Speaker A: I think one thing that's interesting is where is it? Yeah, I think Sval network is kind of interesting. It's like this new liquid staking derivative token. And they have this on their website where, you know, if you stake your eat with them, you're gonna get like imaginary tokens for swell. And once they drop as well, it should be like roughly 34% APR on your ETH, which could be pretty interesting. I think they're like extrapolating the price of the swell token at like, whatever valuation they raised at like previously. So, like, that could be a bunch of fugazi and like fakeness. But I mean, basically, right? Like, you know, feel free to follow this account, you know, like, it's all free, right? I just like, hired writers like write for me and whatnot, and I'll be posting every single day on this account.
00:28:52.550 - 00:29:27.560, Speaker A: So, you know, if, if I'm quiet on YouTube and like, I, you know, if it feels like I disappeared or like I died, well, like, you can like, just follow this and then there you go. So, yeah, Twitter account posting everyday, newsletter free. And once or twice a week we'll be dropping some threads slash longer form reports. Cool. All the link will be in the description below. So let's see. Yeah, and wrapping up the topic, right, it's like, when it comes, like, defi 1.0
00:29:27.560 - 00:30:14.782, Speaker A: tokens for like, a more sustained defi bull market, I kind of think, like, these tokens has to go up first, right? It's kind of like, you know, the. The meme where, you know, bitcoin dominance goes higher at the beginning of the recovery. And bitcoin has to go up a lot in order for the wealth effect to be redistributed to altcoins. Well, if, you know, if. If you want to convince. If you want to convince the market that Defi is back, then maybe what needs to happen is like, you know, for, like, I don't know, like, you know, like maker, comps, snx, uni, Aave, Lido, and like, you know, like, maybe even GMX, right? Like, these older coins just like, start really going up. And I guess, like, that's kind of what we're seeing, right? People look at these tokens, they went up a lot and they're like, wow, like, is the bid returning? Like, who's buying these assets? Hmm.
00:30:14.782 - 00:30:57.102, Speaker A: And then, you know, like, arbitrum up 7%, optimism of 14%. You know, like, maybe this is literally the beginning of EIP 4844. I mean, XRP, right? This news, I mean, definitely, like, if. I mean, if anything is going to put, like, a top on bitcoin dominance for the next couple of months, it's going to be this news. So I think it makes sense to look out for, you know, these types of narratives and ultimately, like, maybe these market caps are pretty high. But, you know, like, if Defi is going to be like a trillion dollar asset class, then I think, you know, these assets can easily ten x, right? Like, why can't aave, like, the premier bank of crypto be, like, worth 10 billion, right? I feel like there's like, all sorts of bear market PTSD, which I want to talk about. And.
00:30:57.102 - 00:31:15.830, Speaker A: Yeah, and, like, one thing I. So basically this morning I got an email from YouTube saying, hey, like, hey, hey, taki. Like, this is your July update on, like, how your channel is doing. Like, you're doing great. And then I got, I got. I literally got this image of you guys, your own new subscribers. I'm like, whoa.
00:31:15.830 - 00:31:32.510, Speaker A: Like, that's. That's pretty crazy. And I think it's not actually zero, it's actually negative. Right. Because this is, like, my metrics for 2023. I mean, yeah, this is pretty crazy. Every time I upload a video, these little black play buttons, I lose subscribers.
00:31:32.510 - 00:31:53.710, Speaker A: I haven't even uploaded a video in the past three weeks, and I still lose subscribers. Where are these people coming from? And I think generally this. And maybe, I mean, it kind of depends how you look at it. If you're like a bear, right? If you don't like crypto, you're like, oh, my God. Like, you know, crypto's a scam. No one cares about defi. There's not much happening, which is kind of true.
00:31:53.710 - 00:32:43.410, Speaker A: And, like, you know, if this is happening, then, like, who's gonna buy your coins? Which I totally do understand, but I think the more optimistic case, and I mean, like I said, like, I'm more. I lie more on the optimistic spectrum, I guess, when it comes to crypto. But I think it's a signal that, like, once people do come back, we kind of need to let go of our bear market PTSD, because, yes, the current meta, the current zeitgeist of the entire market is like, there's not much new money coming into the space. And if that's, like, what's happening, then, you know, it's going to be like, very PvP, right? Where for me to make money, someone else has to lose money. For someone else to make money like, someone else has, you know, it's like a zero sum game. It's actually negative sum if you think about, like, slippage fees and whatnot. And I think there was a post, right? There's currently zero interest.
00:32:43.410 - 00:32:56.574, Speaker A: Anecdotally. I mean, this is like, no, I deal with this, too. Normies. I talk to think that the sector is uninvestable for the default. And. Sorry, I think I commented here, but basically. Right? I think you can argue that.
00:32:56.574 - 00:33:04.744, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, sorry. This is like. I mean, this is like pure opium, right? Yeah. Retail gone is bullish. Retail back is bullish. Always bullish. I.
00:33:04.744 - 00:33:56.858, Speaker A: But, like, right now, like, coins are going up with zero retail interest, but at some point, there's gonna be retail interest, and if money falls back, then you really have to strip yourself off of, like, the bear market, BTS, because if there's more interest, more money coming into the space, more attention, then that's gonna be just like, more flows, more eyeballs, more attention, more capital inflows into the space which should on average, just like rising tide lifts all boats scenario. So that's kind of where I'm at, right. It's like my entire thesis this year that I've been saying is like, I think, you know, 2023 is a recovery year. I think you want to be accumulating assets, like make your bets. I'm not really trying to like make short term trades. I mean, sometimes I do, but you know, generally, like my entire mindset is like buy and hold, right? That's kind of my idea. I made a bet on like the perp sector.
00:33:56.858 - 00:34:40.322, Speaker A: They're doing okay, right. Um, it's probably not going to outperform like the hottest coin out there, like whatever it is, but I think it's going to be like a consistent grower. So, like my biggest bag is like GMX and ether, basically, but yeah, like holding these assets and then like the question of like, okay, like when do you sell, right? And I think this is like what I mean, where, you know, like the bear market, PTSD, I think, you know, because nothing has worked for the past year and a half. We're just conditioned to like take profits. And there's nothing wrong with taking profits. Ultimately you have to do what's best for you. But, you know, I think, like my mentality, which I've said before is, you know, instead of selling coins that I like, you know, like, I want to hold these coins for the next twelve months, right? Like 612 months, maybe I'll trim here and there, like reallocate and whatnot.
00:34:40.322 - 00:35:22.888, Speaker A: But, you know, generally they're going to be like longer term holds, right? On average. And if I do feel there's too much euphoria, if I do want to take risk off, you know, this is where the money market strategy comes in, where I've done this before, right, where I use ether as collateral. You can use anything as collateral. Then I can borrow an asset that I'm not that bullish on. And I am not like necessarily bullish avax, because I think in this era of, I kind of see a future where it's going to be like alt l two season next year. So these alt l one EVM chains, I think this has significant headwinds for them, not to mention like unlocks. So what I can do, right, if I want to take profits is to not sell my ether, not sell my GMX, not sell like other stuff.
00:35:22.888 - 00:35:57.266, Speaker A: It's to like just borrow Avax and then short it, right? Borrow avax, buy GLP. And that's typically what I've been doing. So, you know, if you look at the price of Avax, it's up 6% today, and it's going to zoom in here. Yeah. So I drew this red box sometime in June, and I said that, hey, like, you know, when this. When Avax, like, enters, like, this, this range, whoops. If Avax enters this range, I'm going to borrow Avax against my collateral, buy GOp with it, or, like, buy other lp tokens with it.
00:35:57.266 - 00:36:30.820, Speaker A: And, you know, like, maybe I pay, like, 7% to borrow Avax, but the farm I'm in pays me, like, 15%, and then I'm, like, basically being, like, paid to short an asset. And if Avax keeps going higher, then to be honest, I don't really care, because if Avax is training, like, $25, then chances are my either NGMX is, like, much, much higher. So that's kind of the mentality that I have. I was gonna say something else, I think. Hmm. It's been a long video. I kind of forgot what I want to say.
00:36:30.820 - 00:37:01.636, Speaker A: What was it? I forget. I forget. But it's been, you know, it's been a good day, I suppose. And I don't think this is, like, a pump that should be sold, if anything. Like, I think, you know, this is, you know, like, this confirmation that, hey, like, we're in this recovery era. Like, the biggest fear that people had around, like, our assets being securities maybe not that big of a fear anymore. And if I.
00:37:01.636 - 00:37:31.266, Speaker A: That regulatory headwind goes away, then, you know, like, all the people that sold, like, alts and, like, all the coins, because, like, you know, like, they just, like, didn't believe in them, right? Like, you know, they're all securities. Like, the government's not gonna let this happen. Like, whatever. Like, these bearish narratives people had, I think people are gonna have to slowly shift their mindset. And in the grand scheme of things, right? It's like, you know, if you buy bitcoin at 30K, if you buy either at two k, who cares, right? It's like, you know, like, this is. Zoom out. Like, this is the weekly chart of ETh.
00:37:31.266 - 00:38:16.280, Speaker A: This is the weekly chart of BTC. Like, how can you argue that? This is, like, bearish stuff, right? And, like, we had, like, a bunch of bad things happen in the latter half of 2022, and we've had a bunch of bad news actually, this year, but it seems like, hey, like, blackrock ETF, that's probably happening. Our. Our unregistered securities are not unregistered securities. They're just like, coins and like, hey, like, I think that also increases like, the perceived upside of these tokens. And if anything, right? Even if like, the upside of these tokens is like limited from like the actual usage that these projects have, I think what's more important is the shift in the sentiment, shift in the psychology, and it gives people hope that there's light at the end of the tunnel. And I think, right.
00:38:16.280 - 00:38:48.880, Speaker A: And I think, you know, as more capital, as more attention comes back into the space, I think you want to be allocated, I think you want to place your bets. I think you want to be more attentive on what's happening, what's actually happening on chain. If you just look at the price maker, you wouldn't know that this is happening. But I think this is something interesting to keep track of. If you want to daily content, feel free to research. Feel free to follow HFA research. Feel free to subscribe to newsletter.
00:38:48.880 - 00:39:01.628, Speaker A: I'm not going to charge for the Twitter and the newsletter. So. Yeah, just like wanted to, I guess offer more resources. Yeah. Anyways, thank you guys for watching. See you guys later and yeah, bye.
