00:00:00.480 - 00:01:01.530, Speaker A: Thank you Ben, for such a great introduction. I'm very happy to be here. As Ben mentioned, I am a PhD candidate in computer science at the blockchain center and specializing in my research on intersection of L2 blockchains, rollups and decentralized finance. And today I'm going to show you how those two wallets actually can come together for our benefits. I mean, if you are not persuaded by the previous talk from Nikola, why tokenization is great, I will give you some more arguments. You can see behind my back, actually, what was happening when it comes to tokenization of us treasury bills last year. Last year was known as a crypto winter, when the TVL in DEFi was at best flat with relatively low trading volume.
00:01:01.530 - 00:02:13.554, Speaker A: But there was one asset class that was performing quite well, and these were those tokenized us treasury bills. I mean, one of the reason was back then they were paying five or more percent, which is far more than you can or you could make from staking. And what would be actually very cool if those assets could be put inside DeFi protocols like Aave to enable some leverage. It is today not straightforward. Some protocols are experimenting with it, but we hope it will come soon. There are the major benefits why the companies are like, I mean, Aksenariat and others decide to go for tokenization because of the very fast settlement on the blockchain, which is happening within seconds compared to the days that it lasts in the traditional financial industry. Also, the costs are relatively low, especially when you are using L2 blockchains.
00:02:13.554 - 00:03:13.592, Speaker A: And then there is also the issue of trust. That's maybe a little philosophical question, if we trust more regulations, or if we trust more cryptography, I believe that in the future, this is where we are going. There will be no need to choose. There will be systems that will be based on those two pillars. But as I mentioned to you, the nice thing about decentralized finance is that we could simply think about using those smart contracts behind decentralized finance to further boost possibilities of tokenized, those tokenized real world assets. So there are plenty of applications of decentralized finance. I'm not going to talk about all of them today and how they could be used for tokenization, but only focus on one particular use case, which are decentralized exchanges.
00:03:13.592 - 00:04:03.224, Speaker A: And those decentralized exchanges, they function like uniswap or a curve. They have one magical trick, which is called automated market makers. And simply those automated market makers, they decide to whom and for how much tokens sell or buy some another tokens, like in international finance. You typically have order books. You have some companies that are doing market making, they are coming, they are putting some orders on that order book and the traders are interacting with that. Putting such order book on a decentralized finance on the blockchain would be too expensive. And for that reason, though, automated market makers were invented.
00:04:03.224 - 00:05:10.042, Speaker A: But one of the things before actually we start using those automated market maker is the question about interoperability. Because as you can see on a chart behind me, a lot of tokenization projects actually happening on a very different blockchain. This is just a snapshot about one particular class, which is a tokenized debt. So it's not representing the whole class of real world assets. I mean, the interesting thing is that most of tokenization is happening on the ethereum compatible chains. But still, if we want to have in the future a very, very liquid and efficient market, we need to think how to bridge those tokens together to have one ide blockchain taking care of that interoperability and bridging. And then there's actually another question that we actually, we at the university ask ourselves and focus on our research.
00:05:10.042 - 00:06:12.344, Speaker A: Will it be really cheaper in the future to buy, for example, a bond, or maybe to exchange euro into a swiss franc using the blockchain, than it is today using the traditional financial system? So we just put aside all of those ideological aspects of the blockchain and then simply we are trying to calculate what is cheaper. Because I mean, I believe that in the future, the revolution adoption will come from that increased efficiency. So we were actually not the first one that look at those topics. The interesting thing is that pioneers of applications of smart contracts from Defi for central bank digital currencies are central banks. And they already running a lot of pilot projects and experiments. I just maybe mentioned the two. One is Project Mariana, the other is Project Agora.
00:06:12.344 - 00:07:45.704, Speaker A: In a project agora, simply central banks, there are like seven together with bank for international settlement in Basel. They are trying to bring all of their tokenized assets on one blockchain and they are experimenting with bridges. The project just started. And in the project Mariana, simply what central banks did, they did a fork of curve on the Ethereum testnet, and they were experimenting with using it to exchange three test cbdcs, one representing digital euro, one representing digital swiss franc and one singaporean dollar. And actually the interesting thing is, it turned out that from the legal point of view, but also from the point of view, all of their processes, it is possible, it is possible, and it will meet all of the requirements that the traditional finance has to use those smart contract and the blockchain to move the whole FX market on the blockchain and on the DeFi smart contracts. And this is a huge market because FX market alone, even not touching that tokenization, is processing 7 trillion of dollars daily. So you can imagine that what the boost it would be to the traditional DeFi if those 7 trillion trading volume would be moved there.
00:07:45.704 - 00:08:50.608, Speaker A: But looking at that project that actually proved that it is possible. We simply at universities start asking more questions about which blockchain to use, which imm to use and how to parameterize them. And this is what I'm going to show you in the second part of our presentation. This is actually when it starts to get interesting, because the L2 and layer three blockchains are stepping in. So I mean, as we are at Ethereum Zurich, I will not be explaining to you what is the roll up, but I heard even during the talks in the corridor that some people questioning the sense of existence of layer threes on top of the roll ups. And this is actually what I'm presenting to you as a very good use case, which is showing that we really need layer threes and layer fours and five on top of those L2s. Because L2s and the roll ups, they offer a very low fees, especially after the koon upgrade and introduction of the blobs.
00:08:50.608 - 00:09:50.674, Speaker A: I mean, it went down almost to $0.01 for many roll ups, but it's still far too much. If you're thinking about moving the whole financial system and our daily operations there, we need to go with those gas fees even further. And this is where those layered trees are becoming useful. Because according to the research, gas fees on each layer are around 50 times cheaper comparing to the previous layer. So if today L2s and roll amps are offering gas fees 50 times cheaper than Ethereum may not, then the layer three s can offer 250 times cheaper gas fees. That of course is reading that increased scalability is leading to the challenges of capital fragmentation between those different layer trees.
00:09:50.674 - 00:10:25.934, Speaker A: And simply what we did in our experiment. We designed such decentralized exchange that is operating on L2 and layer three blockchains. Here you can see how that decent is exchange is actually working. Maybe I start from the bottom. At the very bottom there is public layer one blockchain, for example ethereum. Or maybe in the future it will be bitcoin. And that layer is simply a settlement layer.
00:10:25.934 - 00:11:41.550, Speaker A: This is a layer where in the future for those tokenized assets, or cbdcs, will be just using as a data storage. But then what we're going to happen on top of that, there will be a L2 or a roll up that is responsible for integration of the data from another blockchains or another layer tools. And on top of that you have different layer trees that are operating decentralized finance protocols. In, let's say traditional computer science, which is not related to crypto, it's quite common. Then you have a computer program which is having different layers, like a database layer, data integration, user interface and so on, an application layer. And simply with the more complex applications for the blockchain, we are going to see more blockchain layers also each blockchain layer specializing in different application. And maybe the important thing is that in our simulation, this L2, this roll up is a private roll up because sometimes it's being called validium.
00:11:41.550 - 00:12:44.074, Speaker A: So this is like a permissionless. This is like a permission blockchain which you can have on top of a public blockchain. This is quite a new and interesting concept. And even though that a permissioned roll up is on the public blockchain, like Ethereum, still all of the transactions are encrypted by the sequencer. And here there are only validity proofs stored in the underlying layer one chain. So I mean, thanks to that approach, we can combine the legal requirements that are coming from the central banks or traditional finance with all of the best things that are coming from the decentralized finance and those smart contracts. But then you, I mean, that was a beautiful design, but will it really work in the reality as that capital will be fragmented between different layer three blockchains, each operating different DeFi protocols and EmMs.
00:12:44.074 - 00:13:50.554, Speaker A: We simply run a simulation and we look at the effects market. We look at those three currencies that were chosen by the central banks, euros free strengths and Singapore yen and dollar, and simply calculated how much it would cost to exchange those three currencies using the blockchain and using automated market makers? There are some benefits coming from that. Maybe such a future FX market will be open 24/7 there will be a very low gas fee. All transactions will be settled automatically. But the cost of doing such swaps will be, will change depending on the effects rate. This is maybe not too nice property of automated market makers, which is called a price impact or a slippage. So typically like in it and computer science, we are fixing one problem, but we are creating another problem.
00:13:50.554 - 00:14:50.822, Speaker A: Also in our simulation, we use the. We simply convert our solution, which is running on the three layer trees with one dex, which is a fork of a curve running only on one blockchain, for example on Ethereum. And that blockchain is not having the capital fragmentation. And here you can see the results of that simulation. So, I mean, for the very small transactions, when you are converting, for example, five euro into three strengths, then the system which is operating on L2 blockchains is simply far more cheaper than system running on the layer one chain. It's a similar thing actually is happening for the largest transactions that are above 1 million. However, for the medium sized transactions, around maybe €10,000 being converted to another currencies.
00:14:50.822 - 00:15:38.152, Speaker A: According to our simulation, let's say the results were very similar for both systems. You can see the breakdown of those fees here. Maybe it's important to know that when you are using the blockchain for, I mean, I should also apply not only for tokenized assets and cbdcs, but for every token also. Yeah, meme coins. When you are using the Uniswap or curve, you have different, your fee is coming from a different elements. This is of course gas fee, which is paid to the Ethereum or roll up. But there is also a so called swap fee or lp fee which is going to the liquidity provider, to the automated market maker.
00:15:38.152 - 00:16:58.382, Speaker A: And there is that slippage and price impact, which is that inherent property of the automated market makers. And we simply break down all of those fees for the DEX, which is running on layer one and on the L2s. And you can see especially that the gas fees are much, much lower on the L2 s and also the slippage, actually it's much lower for the largest and yeah, for the largest transactions. And then you can think why there is such a weird property that such a system is actually outperforming the smallest and the largest transaction. And the reason is there is no perfect automated market maker yet. I mean, all of the automated market makers that are there, there are good in some cases, like uniswap, v three is good to trade token pairs where the volatility is not too big, but you need to rebalance the pool very often and pay gas fees for that curve. V two is good for trading stable coins back to the same coin and so to the same target and so on.
00:16:58.382 - 00:17:52.980, Speaker A: But when you build a system which is actually using one amm for one type of the tokens, another amm for another pool of the tokens, then you can achieve very good results. And I mean, this is important because you can see that when you are running a dex on those l two s and l three s, then actually the majority of the cost is coming from the slippage here in the green. This is actually the part of the fee which is going to the liquidity provider gas fees on l one, almost no, on l two. But the slippage is actually very big. And the slippage is coming from the parameterization of those automated market makers. And they're a choice. What actually we are thinking right now at the university is how to apply the artificial intelligence and deep learning to minimize that steepage cost.
00:17:52.980 - 00:18:38.586, Speaker A: Because this is actually also very important. There is, and there will be actually different AmM for different tokenized assets. So we are going to use different AmM to trade tokenized equities, different Amm with a different parameterization for tokenized equities, bonds and so on. And maybe the last thing is we also organizing a site event to the Ethereum Zurich, which is going to take place on Monday afternoon. Also the University of Zurich, but not at this campus in the city center. And you are very welcome to join. We are going to have a lot of swiss banks, we are going to have the founder of kerf, also some epcs.
00:18:38.586 - 00:18:46.054, Speaker A: So it will be a few hours talking only about DeFi, and then. Thank you.
00:18:47.174 - 00:19:03.394, Speaker B: Thank you very much, Christoph, super interesting questions from the audience. Let's head straight into that. Everybody's stunned, pretty much. I see. Super interesting. Oh, here we've got one.
00:19:06.814 - 00:19:33.504, Speaker C: Yes. Thank you, Christoph, for the presentation. Very interesting. What is your view on, you know, there are layer one, L2, layer three, there are these sequences between. Is there not a risk that these sequences can be compromised and then nothing will work? Or what is your view on the security side on the whole thing, because there are a lot of small contracts involved in different layers. So what is your view on this?
00:19:34.324 - 00:20:11.954, Speaker A: Yes, that's actually a very good question about the sequencers. I don't think there is a security risk coming from, especially that. The nice thing about those roll ups is this is already a tested technology, because there are public roll ups, like, albeit room CK sync, that are already there, and we know it's working. However, what will come from L2 and layer three will be delayed in finality, because you will have to wait before, until each layer will settle, and that might create some risks that needs to be researched.
00:20:13.494 - 00:20:14.434, Speaker C: Thank you.
00:20:17.534 - 00:20:40.774, Speaker B: Any further questions? Okay, so there may be just one word from my side. Really? Christoph has an amazing substack where you can subscribe. He's crazy. Like publishing every, literally every day a new article. I don't know where's your private life or anything. You breathe. This stories are really super interesting.
00:20:40.774 - 00:20:54.934, Speaker B: Like this debt is not just the shallow and repeating what is out there. He's really challenging new stuff. So well done and thanks very much for the speech today. And put your hands together once again for Chris. Thanks very much.
