00:00:00.280 - 00:00:46.554, Speaker A: Hi everyone. In the last lesson we looked at minting fungible tokens. In this lesson, we're going to be looking at minting non fungible tokens, in other words, minting your own NFT. In this lesson, we'll be specifically using the candy machine learning tool from Metaplex. Before watching this video, I highly suggest you look at the instructions to get an understanding of candy machine and Metaplex. But as a really short recap, Candy Machine is an on chain generative NFT distribution program for from Metaplex, and Metaplex is a collection of tools, smart contracts and more, designed to make the process of creating and launching nfts easier. Candy Machine is a really useful learning tool to learn how to mint nfts, and it also can be built on top of to eventually mint your own real nfts.
00:00:46.554 - 00:01:26.670, Speaker A: Here we can see an introduction to the candy machine and new features between candy machine version one and the newer Candy machine version two. So let's take a look at these new features a little bit further. Some new features, including an unpredictable mint index and captcha settings, have to do with bots and safety. For example, in candy machine version one, the mints happened in sequential order. That means that it was possible for hackers to estimate what item would be minted and take advantage of this. Now, in version two, the release of mints is unpredictable. This avoids things like hacking the mint in order to get rarer items, and overall creates an equal level playing field for nfts.
00:01:26.670 - 00:01:59.584, Speaker A: Another new feature is capture settings to prevent bots from getting all of the items. Other new features are for more advanced NFT drops, including having a whitelist which is allowing users to mint before the start date as an exclusive access to the NFT and larger collections and hide and reveal drops. Hide and reveal drops are when the NFT is hidden so you don't really know what it is, and it is revealed later on. By the end of this entire lesson, you'll be able to use your own knowledge to use the candy machine to build your own nfts on top of this. So see you in the next video.
