00:00:00.640 - 00:00:39.662, Speaker A: Thanks everyone for joining us here today on the third day, I know everyone's pretty tired and no one wants to have anything to do with blockchain stuff anymore. So I appreciate you here to give me all this support and encouragement. I'm no one important, no need to introduce myself. Let's have a show of hands here. How many people here have used Wikipedia in their academic work, even though they were not supposed to? Yeah, we all have. And if you say no, you're a liar. And there's a reason for that, right? Wikipedia is basically now considered a largely reliable source for secondary research.
00:00:39.662 - 00:01:31.046, Speaker A: The reason for this is its strong community spirit, lack of entry barriers, and emphasis on the collective ownership of content. What makes it even more impressive is that it's primarily volunteer run and most of its revenue comes from donations, unlike other top ten websites. However, maybe Wikipedia is not that idyllic as people think, depending on who you ask. There have been allegations of political bias in Wikipedia. Some saying it's a left wing website, others saying it's a right wing website. But there's many ways that this bias might be implemented due to the functional structures of Wikipedia. The first is source deprecation, where the Wikipedia community prohibits certain websites from being cited as valid references.
00:01:31.046 - 00:02:48.262, Speaker A: Secondly, violation of the neutral point of view policy based on the article concerned where people will negatively or positively emphasize certain aspects of a topic depending on their political or other ideological affiliations. And thirdly is the whole issue of locking pages, which, you know, happens quite a lot every time us elections are near in the english language Wikipedia. So another thing, while people say that, you know, Wikipedia is a democratic platform, its actual structure is a bit more complex than that. I'm not going to go into detailing the entire hierarchy, but, you know, there's levels of different users with different powers and different points of authority which can basically, you know, control the fate of the website. So it's not that open in the first place. And of course, related to the previous part, there's a rule of 1% in Wikipedia where 1% of the editors contribute about 80% of the content and have quite a large say over how the articles are structured, the topics they talk about, stuff like that. Because of all these factors, there is now a breed of people thinking that maybe blockchain will solve all of our issues.
00:02:48.262 - 00:03:44.468, Speaker A: And the most famous example here is Everipedia, who for the past few years were advertising themselves as the Wikipedia killer. The essential idea behind everipedia was that we are going to leverage staking and slashing mechanisms using our native IQ tokens to ensure that people coordinate in fair, accessible and open encyclopedia article production. So largely what it involved was you stake IQ tokens for 21 days, you get some points known as brainpower, and you can propose edits using those brainpower points. Once you propose an edit, other people who have staked tokens, they vote on whether they want to pass your edit or not. And if your edit is passed, you get curation rewards. The people who passed your edits also get curation rewards. These curation rewards come from token inflation.
00:03:44.468 - 00:04:24.054, Speaker A: Proposed platform fees what is interesting with every PDA was their slashing mechanism. While generally in proof of stake mechanisms, slashing involves a redistribution of tokens from the minority to the majority. Every PDF instead decided to implement time based slashing, where basically your lockup duration would increase based on how much in the minority of you were. If 100 people disagreed with you, then you your stake would be locked up for three months. If only ten people disagreed with you, okay, maybe you will lock it up for one week. Something like that. Now, every pedia looked like a good idea.
00:04:24.054 - 00:05:21.304, Speaker A: Did it work? Unfortunately, it did not work. And there was a few issues wrong with every pedia. First of all, the majority of their submissions, they were a copy paste job of Wikipedia. Eventually, every PDA ended up deploying a bot which would just scraped Wikipedia and copy paste any new edit that happened on Wikipedia. On the Everypedia platform, there was a lot of misinformation going on. You know, any original articles which were not on Wikipedia were largely shitcoin, spam, self promotional material, lots of non notable articles, conspiracy theories, defamatory content, and, you know, eventually, like people just stopped contributing to every PDF held onto the IQ token, but they decide we're just going to use this as some other speculative asset and not contribute. Now, every PDF, ever since the past few months, just starting last year, they have decided to rebrand as IQ Wiki.
00:05:21.304 - 00:06:03.040, Speaker A: While there's still some plans of staking and slashing mechanisms, they seem to be focusing more on the AI hype cycle. And honestly, I've wished them all the best. Let's see if they actually end up improving on the Everpedia limitations. But here's what went wrong. Every didn't realize that Wikipedia's key strength was its community spirit, and that is why the donation only model is successful. Wikipedia does not need to earn revenue in a traditional way. Every PDF chose the route of financialization, of community interactions, and basically, or individual self interest was celebrated rather than the idea of contribution.
00:06:03.040 - 00:06:49.108, Speaker A: And that's why the IQ token never made it past empty speculation. Now, there have been a bunch of studies in this regard. You know, studies indicate that community identity and a desire to volunteer are linked in a virtual circle. You have a stronger community, you're gonna wanna contribute more in a volunteer spirit, and so on. It goes on in a virtuous cycle. And while I'm no historical social anthropologist or something, there are several proposals on the function of money in society. And studies indicate that money makes cooperation possible when people cannot rely on reputation and kinship, and that one of its primary roles is to facilitate temporary cooperation between strangers who will never meet again.
00:06:49.108 - 00:07:37.414, Speaker A: Obviously, that entire function of money sort of grinds against what you typically understand as a community spirit, and this also ties down into ownership of content production within these respective platforms. What Wikipedia did was that it depersonalized the editing process by emphasizing community ownership of editorial output. This, together with low transaction costs to participation, fostered collaboration. Now, if I go through Wikipedia and I think something is slightly wrong, I don't have to be an expert, right? I can go ahead and edit that. No one's gonna come back to bite me in the ass and tell me I did something wrong. They might reverse my edit, but that's fine. I won't actually be hounded or persecuted for it.
00:07:37.414 - 00:08:29.944, Speaker A: In every PDA, they explicitly associated edits with individual contributors because that was their selling point, right? You make a good edit, you will be rewarded. We will consider you a hero. You will be the cool guy in the room. But what this did was it resulted in the monetization of content production, which also introduces an element of risk. And that element of risk is a transaction cost, which discourages people. Because studies have also indicated that people aren't perfectly rational, they tend to be biased more towards risk aversion than undertaking neutral assessment of potential risks and rewards. Another problem, every PD, I did not realize the importance of dissent in knowledge sharing, because crypto economic staking and slashing mechanisms, they are perfect for coordination.
00:08:29.944 - 00:09:33.944, Speaker A: Coordination is not the same thing as cooperation. Right? Because in cooperation, there's more of a voluntary nature involved where you want to come to a mutually acceptable conclusion with someone else, and you don't want to force them to think the same way that you do. In coordination, enforced coordination, there's no room for good faith disagreement. This may be a good thing in certain instances, such as compliance, you need to have standardized accounting practices or construction codes. It's a good thing that people aren't allowed to be creative with them. But there are also instances of human interaction that required more nuanced decision making, right? A facilitation of diverse perspectives that you don't disagree with, and you don't really want to stifle disagreement in these issues, and you don't want to enforce conformity because that kills heterogeneity. It results in groupthink, and everyone in general is worse off when that happens.
00:09:33.944 - 00:10:20.768, Speaker A: It's then no surprise that eventually the shelling point for every PDF became Wikipedia. Because if everyone gets rewarded or penalized based on what they do, and they have to convince everyone else, people are just going to go for the most obvious solution, which is Wikipedia. If it works for Wikipedia, it should work for us as well. No one's going to disagree. We won't have these debates. But ultimately, if all you're doing is scraping Wikipedia, what was the point of trying to create a Wikipedia killer? And this is related to another new burgeoning trend within the decentralized ecosystem known as decentralized science. Now, decentralized science is a bit of a hype.
00:10:20.768 - 00:11:26.158, Speaker A: It basically involves the introduction of blockchain technology in various aspects of the scientific process, of whether it's data management, whether it's funding research, so on and so forth. What's relevant here is this idea of decentralized peer review. So basically, a subset of decentralized science people have identified that the peer review process is unfair and inefficient because peer reviewers have unpaid labor. There's quality control issues. You know, people might be biased, people might not be doing their job as peer reviewers, they might be slow and inefficient. What these desi people decided is that we are going to implement staking and slashing mechanisms in the peer review process, based either around financial or reputational tokens, or both. And while there are many projects with many different proposed mechanism designs, it all boils down to the same fundamental idea, that if I'm peer reviewing your scientific research, eventually my output will be evaluated by others.
00:11:26.158 - 00:12:10.212, Speaker A: They could be the authors, they could be co editors, they could be other reviewers or the scientific community at large. And based on their feedback, me as a peer reviewer, I will be rewarded or penalized accordingly. So there's a few issues with this proposal. It will probably not make the peer review process more efficient or fairer. And the reason behind this is that scientific progress requires parhesia. Right? Parhesia means not just the freedom to speak freely and boldly, but the obligation to do so. That if it basically encourages dissent and disagreement, if you think there's something wrong, even though you're not completely confident in what you're saying.
00:12:10.212 - 00:12:46.120, Speaker A: And the necessity of parhesia has been in science. It has been viewed throughout history. Just a few examples of, you know, commonly of common misconceptions that were at one point the majority. So Ignaz Semmelweis, a hungarian scientist, he was sent to a lunatic asylum by his fellow scientists. Why? Because he said that doctors should wash their hands before operating on patients, that birthing mothers are dying. Because you're not washing your hands. His fellow scientists did not like that.
00:12:46.120 - 00:13:11.772, Speaker A: They punished him. The guy who came up with the idea that stars are distant suns, he was burned at the stake. The guy who discovered that we have a pulmonary circulation system, he was burned at the stake. His name was Michael Servitas. Now, some people might say, but we have moved past the whole burning at the stake aspect. We're not killing people. What's wrong with staking and slashing mechanisms? And that is true.
00:13:11.772 - 00:14:16.408, Speaker A: We might not kill someone when we're penalizing their reputational or financial stake. But that goes against the point of science. It's that the point of scientific progress is not to create martyrs, right? If there's any sort of mechanism that disincentivizes parhesia, that is not good for science, that is not good for knowledge discovery. And this is a problem even with tokenized reputation mechanisms, those that are not based on finances. Because once you quantify and tokenize a reputation, whether through sbts or whatever, you start creating an objective standard by which people will be incentivized or disincentivized, which, again, might be great in case of strict compliance. It's not great when you want to encourage people to be diverse and to disagree with each other. So what is the conclusion here? Basically, the conclusion here is probably going to be unpopular in this conference.
00:14:16.408 - 00:14:50.422, Speaker A: I don't know. But the conclusion is that not everything needs to be decentralized. Personally, I would argue that most things do not need to be decentralized, because the pursuit of quantifiable, tokenized incentives compromises fluid, natural interactions among people. Enforced coordination is not always ideal. There are situations where you want to encourage people to be wrong. Right? The blockchain hype in general, it focuses too much on buzzwords like transparency, immutability, trustlessness. Think in your regular lives.
00:14:50.422 - 00:15:22.042, Speaker A: Do you really want to live in a world where everything is transparent, everything is immutable, and everything is trustless? No, obviously you don't. You don't even want that in your financial lives. Forget, you know, everything else that goes on. So if. So, if this is the selling point of blockchain technology. Maybe we should think back for a second and, you know, wonder whether if we should be integrating this into every single one of our processes. And ultimately this ties back into sensible system design.
00:15:22.042 - 00:16:03.890, Speaker A: What is sensible system design? It involves knowing the fundamental culture and interactions of a community, organization or process requires. It's not good enough to say that, hey, maybe blockchain can solve XYZ. The first question you should ask yourselves is, should I be using a blockchain to solve these issues in the first place? And I believe this is a problem that we see everywhere. In all these events, whenever people come up with a new blockchain invention, they're basically showing us, I built a cool thing. They're not really able to explain to us, why have I built that cool thing? And that's basically the end of my talk. How much time do I have? I try to get it under 20. Okay, we're done.
00:16:03.890 - 00:16:07.694, Speaker A: So if you have any questions or answers, you can always ask me later.
00:16:20.494 - 00:16:49.922, Speaker B: Great. Hey, thank you very much. So I understand that you are opposing the idea that blockchain should be used everywhere. Completely agree there. I mean, I'm all in for blockchain, but I think you are right. Not everything needs to be decentralized on this topic of peer review. So you are claiming that the Desai people are wrong because they are proposing something like this.
00:16:49.922 - 00:17:59.208, Speaker B: So I'm also. I would not claim I'm part of this community, but I follow some of the thoughts and I do not think that this kind of solution has been generally proposed. I think what the deci community is saying is that the peer review process is flawed. That's very similar to what all open sciences, and that it should be replaced by something else. Also that the peer review is kind of an experiment, and that experiment has failed because peer review is based on a premise that you should forbid people from publishing bad ideas. But the most progress in human history has not been done by forbidding this kind of publications, but rather from publishing something that was super, super cool, like ideas of Albert Einstein. And people like that have not been peer reviewed.
00:17:59.208 - 00:18:27.770, Speaker B: And what peer review does is that it's based on lucky, it's based on chance, and it's not an efficient process. So what I understand from Lisai is that those people are. People are claiming, hey, we agree that this is not true, this is not correct, and we should do something better. But there's not a widely accepted solution of staking, slashing and stuff like that as you presented.
00:18:27.962 - 00:19:32.274, Speaker A: Actually, there's about five projects I can name which are, you know, trying to build, staking and slashing peer review mechanisms, and they sometimes merge that with open review. I'll probably check in my phone to give you their explicit names later, if you want. Now, if the contention here is that peer review is not necessary for scientific progress and you can name Einstein at all, I agree, I agree. But the point is that, you know, can we. Can we do away with the idea of peer review entirely, which forms that basic first level of quality control within scientific discovery? I'm not entirely convinced that we can do it mainly because all of us have limited cognitive capacity and there will always be some room for relying on the understanding of experts, gatekeepers, so to speak. And that's why these decentralized peer review proposals are being started. If you want to share your discoveries without undergoing the peer review process again, you're more than welcome to do so.
00:19:32.274 - 00:20:22.720, Speaker A: But the question then comes up is, how seriously will people take it? I do not think that we should get rid of the peer review process entirely. I think the solution here is just to encourage a diversity of different ideas, which I think most people here would agree with. But the point is that crypto economic mechanisms that emphasize coordination are not doing that right, because they're trying to make people agree. Converge upon one point. And especially in the case of knowledge sharing and scientific discovery, that is not a great thing to do. Thank you for the question. Thanks.
00:20:22.720 - 00:20:24.924, Speaker A: Sabir, real quick.
00:20:25.664 - 00:21:11.876, Speaker C: Thanks. Yes, I would like to add on this decentralized science topic. So the presentation that you gave, in my opinion, has a very negative view, and it kind of presents the opinion that the world is good as it is right now. So maybe this is something we should also discuss, because for everything that exists, there is potential for improvement. Now, the thing about what you mentioned, gatekeeping, or centralization mechanisms, or open science and curated science, and one thing that's kind of missed is the role of journals. So the reason why we are looking for open science is because the journals are gatekeepers. It's not peer reviewers, its moderate journals.
00:21:11.876 - 00:22:09.394, Speaker C: And the editors and most historic examples of really innovative breakthrough ideas didn't get published in papers, not because other scientists didn't like the idea, but because the editors didn't like it. They thought it wouldn't fit in our journal, and that's why they don't even pass it on to the peer review process. And I think that open science has a real great opportunity to improve the system here so that all kinds of ideas can be published and reviewed in an even more decentralized fashion, that they are not just one or two chosen reviewers, but a larger group. And the question at hand, what we are looking at is, is crypto a technology that can help to do this? So this is basically the question. And the answer will be probably in a couple of years emerge if it will work or not. But in my opinion, it's definitely worth trying.
00:22:09.934 - 00:23:09.396, Speaker A: Well, here's the thing. I mean, I wouldn't say. I'm saying the world is good as it is. I am saying that if you don't like the world as it is, at least don't make it worse. Right now, when it comes to all these decentralized science proposals, the problem is, many of these proposals, they miss the entire point of what the blockchain is. The blockchain is at its core a consensus mechanism, right? So simply saying simply including the world decentralized does not rob it of its function as a consensus mechanism. Now, are any of these decentralized science proposal, whether through implementing the open peer review process or open publishing, actually resolving any issues? I would say not necessarily, because ultimately you do not have a blockchain if you are not coordinating people using tools such as economic or reputational staking or slashing.
00:23:09.396 - 00:23:57.888, Speaker A: I mean, otherwise, the alternative for that is having a centralized point of failure, which is basically what journals are, right? That's much of the criticism that journals get ultimately, is blockchain technology. Solving this problem is so called decentralization, which at its core means coordinating people. Without that, without that centralized point of failure solving this issue, I would wager. No, I think the solution, the solution would be to encourage and incentivize many different sources of these centralized points of failure and hope for the best. And that's what people are trying to do right now, you know, having competing journals or whatever that is. Fine. You know, if one journal does not agree with you, you go to another one.
00:23:57.888 - 00:24:05.024, Speaker A: Ultimately, I do not think that, you know, decentralized coordination mechanisms are the answer for improving the world or the state of science.
