00:00:00.160 - 00:00:30.121, Speaker A: You've issued for a financial kind of profit motivating reason. You can afford to run 100 nodes because those are just boxes. You already have a team to manage all this stuff. You can constantly sample the network and make sure that from your perspective that there's no partitions are possible and that actually is very, very hard to break. One thing I want to clarify here, and Brian, I think you might have some thoughts, is when we're talking about staked nodes in this 100 validators, these, these are staked nodes. These are block producing nodes. Right.
00:00:30.121 - 00:00:55.619, Speaker A: They're writing to the blockchain. Totally. It sounds like you're advocating for a very large number of nodes at least to be able to self verify. Right. And so to bring the verification cost down. And so what we're seeing now with projects like Mithril and other verifying light nodes, these are not block producers, they're not staked, but they are allowing for greater independent verification. So I'm going to take this opportunity.
00:00:55.619 - 00:01:35.047, Speaker A: And here it comes. Lean into it, Dan. Lean into it. Come on. And Brian, I'm going to ask you to, if you could, why would you argue that 100 validators, particularly staked block producing validators, is not sufficient for Solana to remain decentralized? Yeah, so flip positions here and the, you know, the idea of better performance sounds fantastic, right? Unicorns and rainbows. We're going to have really fast transaction time, smooth experiences, global coverage. Got to love it.
00:01:35.047 - 00:02:22.721, Speaker A: That's fantastic. Until something breaks. And the truth of the matter is that a smaller validator set leaves the network fragile and subject to breaking. I'll try to give some examples though, but not in a CSI context. I don't have a CSI degree, so I'll just try to explain it a different way. But if we think about 100 really wealthy validators with a lot of stake on them, those become really ripe targets for bad actors, whether it's state actors, hackers, the bribery, corruption of some sort. It's easier to go after 100 nodes instead of 1,000, and especially 1,000 that are actually smaller targets because they don't have as much stake.
00:02:22.721 - 00:03:22.417, Speaker A: So that's one way that a larger network could be more robust and more reliable than a smaller validator set. Regulatory risk is very similar, that we need validators in as many jurisdictions as we can around the world and just in case that there is trouble with any government in any part of the world that they could flip overnight and that we would want to know that we have very broad coverage of our validator set and I'll turn it over. Thank you. If you have any thoughts. How much harder is it to partition 1000 validators vs 100 in defense of 100 validators being enough? So it's very hard to like even get AT and T to create a partition as a normal person, as somebody that's not part of a three letter agency or working at AT&T. It's human. Normal security and activity is actually pretty good and people are honest and it's hard to go do that.
00:03:22.417 - 00:03:59.869, Speaker A: And when you have a network like tendermint with 100 nodes, typically you're up to 160 that are geographically distributed. You're talking about partitioning 10, 20, 20 ATT level organizations. It's extremely hard. Like it is something that I expect NATO would have trouble coordinating because the amount of bureaucracy that needs to all agree to go do it at the same time. So there is a very practical diminishing returns as the validator set increases. And we'll probably never see 100 validator network running. Tendermint or any other consensus mechanism actually have a double spend attack.
00:03:59.869 - 00:04:50.005, Speaker A: We've never seen one out of all the thousand instances. It's very, very unlikely that we'll ever see one ever. So under this argument, in the few seconds we have remaining, if 100, it's sufficient by these standards, how low can we go? What is the minimum number that still qualifies this safety? Yeah, that's a good question. EOS is 20 and they've never had a double spend attack. So like, and if 100 is not enough, how high should we go? Yes, Somewhere bigger than a bread box, smaller than a VW bus. And I would argue that, you know, to get global coverage we'll need at least 500, maybe somewhere between 500 and 1500. That's a top of the head answer.
00:04:50.005 - 00:05:26.469, Speaker A: Perfect. Thank you both very much. Thanks everyone for your time. Thank you. Thank you guys for another incredible debate. Now we've got another, followed by another debate and then another product keynote and we'll take a break after that. So coming up now, we've got a super interesting panel, I guess debate now from Terry and Kevin on SVMs.
00:05:26.469 - 00:05:58.209, Speaker A: Are they competitive to the Solana mainnet, yes or no? We'll find out right now. All right, Good morning everybody. Hope you're having a great time. Hope you're having a great time. At breakpoint. It's the fourth one. I think it's the most packed.
00:05:58.209 - 00:06:26.743, Speaker A: 6,000 tickets sold. It's been a great one so far today. I'll introduce a topic. We're talking about SVM and evm and is that competitive Install on mainnet. First I'll sort of introduce a topic and then we'll get into it right after. So you've probably seen quite a few conversations on Twitter and other forums about network extensions and L2s and whether those are parasitic or competitive with Mainnet. There are many conversations about fees and MEV and execution and DA and how these things actually affect Mainnet.
00:06:26.743 - 00:07:03.265, Speaker A: Do these things actually have a roll back to Mainnet? Are you actually taking these fees away from stakers and validators and actually important people that are sort of helping secure the network? There are quite a few different types of VMs that actually end up settling to Solana. There's the SVM, there's the EVM, there's the move VM and there are a few other types that end up doing bridging or side change or things like that. But all of it, is it competitive or is it not? We're not really sure. So that's what we're going to try to get into today. So first we'll introduce Terry from Eclipse and he'll give a little bit about himself and then a little bit about why he's against or thinks this parasitic. Yeah. Hey guys, I'm not Frank from DGODs.
00:07:03.265 - 00:07:23.461, Speaker A: Terry from Eclipse here, head of strategy. Eclipse is Building the first SVM L2 that settles to Ethereum. Uses Celestia as DA. Great to meet y'all. And then Kevin. I'm Kevin, developer relations for Monad Labs, background in computer architecture and signal processing. Cool.
00:07:23.461 - 00:08:26.705, Speaker A: Yeah, let's get into it first. Kevin, you're on the fore for this, right? So you think that SVM and EVM is actually competitive to Solana Main. Net. Can you explain why you think that is? Yeah, I think like fundamentally, like if you're a shop owner and if someone is going to a different shop, you know, like the entry point is where you have a lot of advantages, right? You can collect fees, you can collect mev. And so like, if that entry point is somewhere else that has an intermediary in between a lot of like the value capture mechanisms that drive a lot of the incentives behind blockchains, then fundamentally you are somewhat competitive. Now, I think there are constructions that can mitigate that a little bit, but for the most part, and as they exist today, I think there is a pretty strong case to say that they're competitive in a multiple different ways, even just on like developer, like mind sharing stuff, like if you have to Build for multiple environments. Like obviously it's hard to build an Android app and an iOS app, right? And so having to do that, like obviously, yes.
00:08:26.705 - 00:09:35.849, Speaker A: But yeah, Terry, why don't you think they're parasitic to Main net? Yeah, so let me, let me make a distinction here, right? Like Eclipse settles to Ethereum. And so when you say that, you know, it's a different shop, different entry point is parasitic to the fees and MEV of Solana. Eclipse is connected to Solana essentially by a third party hyperlane bridge. And so there are other execution environments that are also connected to Solana by, by the same bridge construction that are also execution environments where you can do substitute type of behaviors that might be similar things like, you know, taking out, borrowing against certain collateral. The fact that the action is similar does not make the state substitute, Right? The fact that there is a wormhole bridge connecting Avax and Solana does not make Avax defi directly competitive and parasitic against the MEV and the fees of Solana mainnet. So Eclipse, you know, you can discuss it that in the context of Ethereum that might be a different conversation, but in the context of Solana, number one, we are not, you know, settling to Solana. We're not parasitic for the MEV and fees of Solana.
00:09:35.849 - 00:10:21.545, Speaker A: But number two, state is fundamentally non substitute in that. Let me give you a kind of concrete example here. Say the emergent behavior on Solana Defi is that I deposit Solana or Jito Solana and against that I borrow PayPal USD to buy whiff on Jupiter. None of those assets first of all exist on Eclipse. So fundamentally, because the state is non fungible and non substitute, you cannot even do the action that would generate MEV and fees on Solana mainnet on Eclipse mainnet. So on Eclipse what you might instead expect is I would deposit Ethereum and then I would borrow Solana and by thereby I would gain, you know, exposure to the Solana asset. Instead of say, you know, doing something that can be directly correlated, directly doable and substitute on Solana mainnet.
00:10:21.545 - 00:11:27.691, Speaker A: I mean, I guess I could just say like that's the same argument from the Solana side. It's like I could do Solana denominated Ethereum defi, right? With the same trust assumptions as a bridge over using wormhole with Ethereum assets on Solana. And so in that sense, like if you own the door to the store and customers are coming into your store and your store takes fees on the activity that the customer is doing, like I still think that's competitive but yeah, fundamentally there is no, like, there isn't a trustless bridge to Solana from Ethereum. And so therefore kind of the state that exists on Solana, I.e. ethereum DeFi adjacent is significantly less than what is going to be there on Eclipse. And by that argument you could also say, yeah, there's not going to be a lot of trustless Solana deposits on Eclipse because of that argument. And that's fair, because I think that even puts us further away from the parasitic and fees argument because, you know, if we have full assets in State that is much more Ethereum defi adjacent taking advantage of the SVM execution, that gives us a completely different use case compared to what is possible in Solana mainnet.
00:11:27.691 - 00:11:47.117, Speaker A: Okay, so he just said state there. Right. So Solana was originally, you know, built and envisioned to replace Nasdaq, to replace traditional finance. And a lot of what Tolle says is a large integrated state machine where anybody around the world can access that state. Right. Historically you'd think that L2 is actually fragment state. Right? That state is actually partitioned amongst multiple L2s.
00:11:47.117 - 00:12:24.111, Speaker A: And I'm not really sure if that actually changes it. If you actually sort of settle back to Mainnet, can you talk more about this sort of like integrated versus modular approach? And actually how does state fragmentation actually affect the SQL evm? Yeah, I mean, like, I think fundamentally like you are fragmenting state and like the value prop of Solana is to unify state. And like that is competitive, right? It's a competitive vision of what one layer is used for versus another layer. Right. And so, yeah, I mean, like maybe there is different state over there, but I mean, I think the point of Solana is to eat the world state. Right. And so if we can get that state representative representation on Solana, I think that is the goal.
00:12:24.111 - 00:13:03.997, Speaker A: Right. And if you're not doing it, it is competitive. Yeah. So my response to that would be that puts any execution environment fundamentally competitive with any other execution environment. It makes Monad competitive with Ethereum, it makes Monad competitive with Solana, it makes any ETH L2 competitive with Solana, because we are fundamentally, and I kind of repeat this a lot, is that we are SVM rollups settling to Ethereum. And in fact, the way I like to think about it more is that we're kind of like a beachhead, that it's like a Solana infiltration into the Ethereum ecosystem. And kind of what we've experienced firsthand is there are quite a lot of EVM dapps that come to us as the first entry point into coming into the Solana ecosystem.
00:13:03.997 - 00:13:54.245, Speaker A: They're like, hey, clips, you know, you guys are an evml or you guys are Ethel too. Can you please help us port our contracts over into rust? And once we do that, that is kind of the upfront work that it takes for them to also deploy on Solana Mainnet as well. I actually wouldn't really disagree with that in some sense because like, as Monad, we see this a lot, right? A lot of the entry point into the EVM is coming over to Monad. But there is an element of if you want to be the world's global synchronized state machine, right. I do think all L1s and L2s have an element of competitiveness or like, why would we be here, right? Like, I think we're all kind of in this world of trying to be the best. Like, otherwise we wouldn't be building the technologies that we're building. And while some of these things are symbiotic in ways in expanding to like different audiences, like I said before, it does split developer activity in time in some ways.
00:13:54.245 - 00:15:34.295, Speaker A: Fundamentally, I think if you're an app and your expansion plan is just to go to another chain because you didn't find product market fit on the original chain, I don't know how that's supposed to solve the problem. A lot of these apps who want to come over to Monad, it's great, but we would like to see them innovate on what's possible on Monad within the EVM sphere and really push boundaries of actual product market fit and new use cases. So let's move on to fees and MEV, right? So why, if an L2 has some other execution environment, non consensus, but still sort of doing top of block ordering or sort of building some block and sort of posting that safe back to mainnet, like why, when you're taking MEV as a sequencer or why are you taking sort of fees away from VL1? Why is that? Why is that not parasitic? Yeah. So in, in the concept of the debate, in the context of the debate, we're discussing whether SVMs on Ethereum are parasitic to Solana. But the question you posed was if I'm taking fees and MEV away from the L1 that I settled to, why is that not parasitic to the L1? And fundamentally here the L1 in question for us is Ethereum, right? And the argument against that, that I have is that Eclipse by that network is a network extension on top of Ethereum in that what you can do on Eclipse is fundamentally something that you cannot do on mainnet. And this is by definition because we are an SVM and Ethereum mainnet is an evm. So all the applications that exist and all the kind of activities that are fundamentally doable, that are only doable on svm that will deploy to Eclipse, are again, not possible on what the L1 is.
00:15:34.295 - 00:16:22.607, Speaker A: Thoughts? I don't have a disagreement with that, honestly. Like, if you're building an SVM on an evm, obviously you can do like different things on it, right? But I do think like as L2, you are being like this middleman between mev, right, that you're capturing. That's not going to the L1. Now, I do think there's a world in which you can build smart contracts that, that capture MEV for applications, right? But the L1 still determines like congestion fees, especially if your blocks are full. And I do think that's like fundamental to actually incentivizing the validator set to find value in running the chain. And if the L2 is capturing that, right, it's like actually diminishing like the value prop of being a validator on the L1. Yeah, understandable, understandable.
00:16:22.607 - 00:17:18.011, Speaker A: All right, so next let's move on to Mindshare. Right, so if you're building an svm, maybe using the SVM API, right, and settling to Ethereum, right, You're actually not using the same clients that the traditional L1 is using with Agave, you're probably using a fork, you don't have the consensus involved. You probably have like direct mapping, these feature gates that aren't even activated yet, these new curves. How do you sort of think about that separation between the SVM that's forked and used by the L2 and then the L1 that might not actually upstream any of those changes? I mean, historically we haven't seen a lot of streaming of changes. Right? The way that it's worked so far is like the mainnet client is then forked and pared down for the other use case. I haven't seen a lot of contributing back to the actual core client. And so, I mean, I'm more of looking at what has existed till today and just saying I haven't seen evidence of that.
00:17:18.011 - 00:18:12.035, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a. Definitely. It's a long cycle, right. And I think the EFLAN has a bit more examples here where especially a lot of the ZKL2s, they pioneered and even invented all these new proof systems, as well as optimizations to existing Proof systems that are now being used to, you know, extend in co processors, Ethereum Compute and or even in the future ZK prove layer one blocks. And if we get to the point where, you know, ethereum itself is ZK proving layer 1 blocks using some of the proof technology invented by the L2 teams, you know, namely Zksync, starkware and Polygon, that is a significant contribution of these roll up teams back to, you know, the future roadmap and the capacities of the L1. And with SVMs, like frankly, you know, we've been live for, I don't know, like two weeks, three weeks at this point. So like it is a little premature for us to discuss like, you know, what are the core contributions we're making back to the Solana ecosystem, to the Solana client, to the Agava client.
00:18:12.035 - 00:18:56.411, Speaker A: But it is definitely something that we're very mindful of and something that we want to achieve in the future. Yeah, yeah, makes a lot of sense. Right, so can you switch? Right, so when, when is it not parasitic? Right? Like when do you think SVM on EVM that sort of settles to Ethereum is not parasitic or it's not competitive? It's probably not, yeah. I mean I think like as far as developer tooling, like that's something we've even seen on the evm, like the proliferation of the same execution environment, it motivates people to build auxiliary tooling for these ecosystems that ends up being very helpful for app migration and adoption and stuff like that. I also think that a construction with a base roll up actually does make a lot of sense and I think this is what network extensions on Solana are. They're just fundamentally like based roll ups. Right.
00:18:56.411 - 00:19:43.571, Speaker A: So their fees go back to the sequencer sent. So I do think there's constructions where it is like actually symbiotic and I do think there is some developer mindshare things especially honestly like the vendor lock in stuff like it's good for a developer to feel like they can go somewhere and not be completely tied to a single ecosystem. But again like if you're not finding product market fit in your app and you're just like hopping from chain to chain to try to expand your user base, like I don't know that that's going to fix your problem. I think like you actually have to expand with product market fit and stuff like that. Yeah. All right, so when, when is it parasitic and competitive to Mainnet? Yeah, I think there is a case to be made say when we have exhausted the kind of expansion of growth in crypto such that, you know, it is really a PVP ecosystem in a closed loop system. Right.
00:19:43.571 - 00:20:16.645, Speaker A: Like the number of developers that we're going to convert into crypto and building crypto is absolutely finite. And you know, in that case, you know, if you're competing with a product that is purely based on SVM execution, it has nothing to do with, you know, non substitute state, then yeah, it is competitive there, but I think we're kind of far away from that world. Yeah, fair point. All right, we have five minutes maybe let's get into technicals. But first I want to actually get to one thing. So why or like what types of developers want to build on SVM that settled to Ethereum? Like what do you actually gain by doing that? Or like building on clips. Yeah.
00:20:16.645 - 00:20:55.025, Speaker A: So one interesting cohort that we've seen is Ethereum developers that are Solana curious and I think there are quite a lot and they see us as kind of an easy entry point. Right. It's not say, oh, we're leaving Ethereum for Solana, but it's a. We're deploying to an SVM L2 that is also an Ethereum L2 and therefore, you know, we are already on XYZ Ethereum L2. It is just a cross deployment. But by doing that work obviously they're also going to go to Solana Mainnet. So we've actually seen quite a lot of inflow of developers like that who have said hey to clips, can you help us like port our contracts into rust? And then of course, you know, I do expect them to see them on Solana and sometime in the future that's number one.
00:20:55.025 - 00:21:37.625, Speaker A: Another use case that I personally am excited about is Solana Eth Defi. So we have a trustless bridge from Ethereum, so we expect a lot of Ethereum assets. I think just because of our VM association we will see Solana assets that cross over from some path or another onto Eclipse. And I'm personally excited about things like using ETH collateral to borrow Solana, using ETH collaboration to lever long Solana perps just by like the type of exposure in terms of assets that I have wanted. So that's something I'm pretty excited about. Yeah. Why do you think people should just build on an integrated chain like on a Monad or on a Solana? Like why should you pick that over Nultu? I mean I think like composability is like a fundamental property of blockchains.
00:21:37.625 - 00:22:10.429, Speaker A: I also think that when you start looking at external da like, you can't get around the fact that you're adding a network op. So there's like latency games that start happening and like, you compound this with execution layers that are like, going at speeds where the stuff starts to matter. Like the latency to the da, like starts to matter when you have a lot of like, value in flight. Right. And then you have to, like, for a user, you have to reason about all these trust assumptions. As an app developer, you now have to pick different stacks, Right. I think a lot of apps would rather just have like an integrated stack and be like, this is my full stack solution.
00:22:10.429 - 00:22:53.465, Speaker A: Things just kind of work here. And I think we've seen that in a lot of different integrated environments. Yeah, this kind of sounds like an integrated versus modular debate. And here's where I want to point out that Celestia is going to get to 1 gigabyte blocks on mainnet significantly faster than monad can get to the same DA throughput, simply because they don't have to focus on things like execution and they don't have to focus on, you know, all the other innovations that Monad is driving in the ecosystem which are beneficial to their stack and execution, execution of EVM and faster execution there. But fundamentally, just by focusing on one thing, you know, they're able to come up with all these new innovations that increase DA throughput, that increase verifiability while increasing DA throughput, which is also very important. And, you know, that's kind of the whole idea of modularity. Right.
00:22:53.465 - 00:23:41.315, Speaker A: By specializing, you have people who are just working and focusing on one thing, and that improves at exponential pace faster than people focusing on the whole integrated environment. But I would actually argue you're actually like introducing latency to verifiability, which the property of a blockchain that you want to have fast is the verifiability of the data, not verifiability of the DA layer, because that's just a DAS, like client on Celestia, but verifiability of the L2 blockchain that writes their DA to Celestia. Because you have that again, you said the latency ping of reading from a separate DA layer, right. Whereas in an integrated chain you're just reading the hard drive. But today, right, Celestia is infinity times more DA throughput than Monad, because Monad is now live. But once it is live, Right. I'm not quite sure what gigabyte blocks or how much gas per block you are going to have or DA capacity that you are going to have.
00:23:41.315 - 00:24:15.409, Speaker A: Celestia is just going to be like 100 times more. We'll see, we'll see, we'll see. So we have two minutes left maybe. Let's try to get into the technicals. What do you disagree or what do you have hot takes against SDM on evm? That's how I'll stood there, right? Like what are things that you don't think work? Like censorship resistance or sort of like state STF proving? I think for me it's more of just like the L2 trade offs is like you're losing real time censorship resistance. And they talk a lot about like, oh well you can exit, but like there's actually delay to that exit. And for financial markets that can be like very, very impactful.
00:24:15.409 - 00:25:07.997, Speaker A: Right. And so like if you have to get in line, like markets are moving in real time, like you want to get your orders off the book, you want to like place bids and cancels. And if there is a situation where real time censorship resistance matters, like for global finance, that's like actually incredibly important. And the risk that market makers have to take on things like order books that we're hoping that these new scalable, you know, environments enable, like the risk for the market makers on that order book could go up exponentially. Yeah, totally agreed. So real time sensor resistance problems in L2 exist because you have one centralized sequencer. And the kind of question that people pose is, okay, if that one centralized sequencer which is run by the sequencer operating company starts to censor your transactions, what happens to my say, collateral that is borrowing that I'm borrowing against, that can then be liquidated and, or censored, whatever.
00:25:07.997 - 00:25:52.549, Speaker A: Right. So I think the core question I have to pose in the last 30 seconds here is what happens if you just simply increase the number of sequencers? What is the minimal viable set such that you do get real time censorship resistant guarantees while not incurring the overhead of massive consensus set over a permissionless validator set. I would like to know that as well. Because if we have multiple, Honestly at a point where you're having multiple sequencers, you have to have, I guess in a rotating sequencer you don't have to have that. But like, I don't understand why you would just not use the base roll up where your sequencer set is the L1 itself. Right? Right. Because that, that's kind of two ends of the spectrum, right? You have one sequencer and then you have the full entirety and sensitive resistant guarantees of the L1 proposal set.
00:25:52.549 - 00:26:47.981, Speaker A: But my position is that with PBS we have already seen builder centralization to the fact that where, you know, the vast majority of blocks are actually built by a few entities, and I think most blockchains, the financial incentive is there to go down to that direction. In which case is there a number that we can choose in the middle of the spectrum where you get that censorship resistant guarantees in real time such that it is sufficient for DEFI to flourish while not having to incur the overhead of going all the way here. All right, we're at time. I hope that was interesting for you. All three of us will be around at breakpoint. Hope you have a great last day and have a great rest of your day. All right, another debate.
00:26:47.981 - 00:27:05.987, Speaker A: Here we go. This one's pretty cool. All women on the panel. We love that. We're going to be joined by Cindy Devi and I forgot the other name, of course. We are going to hear about Eastern versus Western crypto markets. Which ones have the tech, which ones have the users, and you know, it's going to be super exciting.
00:27:05.987 - 00:27:44.385, Speaker A: We have people from all over the world here. A lot of different debates, a lot of different opinions on this topic. Of course, as always, look at app chomp games to cast your vote. Who won the debate, which side had the better take, and what is the audience saying? Without further ado, we'll welcome the panelists up. Hello. Hello. I think it's pretty rare for like any crypto event that we have like three ladies here.
00:27:44.385 - 00:28:16.089, Speaker A: We always have this like completely unbalanced like gender ratio and too many crypto bros. And then so now we finally have like two beautiful ladies founders sitting here, standing here and then four like steel man argument. Okay, so let's get started. And so the debate today is about the east and West. So Joanna and Cindy, and what about you guys that both give us like introduction and also your definition on what is east and West. Right. Is it Russia, east or west? Right.
00:28:16.089 - 00:29:02.539, Speaker A: And then so is it at the east and west divided by geography, by land market preferences, or by ideology? Okay, please Joanna first. Sure. Hey guys. My name is Joanna Zen. I'm the co founder and CEO of Soon is a SBM roll up stack, the most efficient SVM roll up stack that brings the top performance of Solana virtual machine to other ecosystem starting with Ethereum. So the reason I think why I was chosen to argue for the west is because I spent most of my life in even though I was born in China, but you know, immigrated to the US very early on and have only worked with western companies in the past. Actually this Includes even pre crypto.
00:29:02.539 - 00:29:42.293, Speaker A: So you know, only worked in the west for the last two decades, including including op optimism at Coinbase and later on at the ZK project called Alio. So to answer your question though, so you asked about how do we define west versus East? To me it's really just a geography definition, but specifically for the Russia, how does that lie? Right. I would say by the Russian money being parked in, you know, Dubai, that will be the East. If it's parked in London, that would be the West. Cool. Cindy. Hi everyone.
00:29:42.293 - 00:30:07.355, Speaker A: I am Cindy. I'm the co founder of Drift. This has me as the founder of Drift. I am not the founder of Drift, it's Drift. We're the leading defi platform on Solana with the largest perpetuals exchange and borrow land as well as Spot. Most recently we just launched prediction markets on top of our integrated pool of collateral. So we've been deep and building in the solana space since 2021.
00:30:07.355 - 00:30:51.229, Speaker A: I am debating on the Eastern crypto does crypto. Eastern crypto does crypto better than the western crypto? Because I'm Malaysian Chinese, grew up in Malaysia and spent most of my career in the east as well, using to work in Korea and Shanghai. And my career in crypto has been since 2017. I was a trader in the past, so largely trading on centralized Asian exchanges such as OkX, Finance, etc. So I'll be debating on this side today. And in terms of the definition, agree with you there. I think we should define it Eastern versus Western hemisphere.
00:30:51.229 - 00:31:12.013, Speaker A: We don't need to go into two deep philosophy today. That's out of scope. But we're excited to get started. Yeah. And the reason why I'm just standing in between. So I spent my first 18 years in mainland China and moved to US for the past decade. And then my crypto story is also a very interesting east versus west as well.
00:31:12.013 - 00:31:34.861, Speaker A: Because when I was having my first job at ebay and I was a product manager and my. So my manager asked me to do research around the auto marketplace. Like that's like that was 2012. That's when I figure out Sucro. And then so I asked my Asian parents because they all want me to buy houses in San Francisco. Like how I can move the money out of China. Like it's like impossible, right? It's like capital control.
00:31:34.861 - 00:32:39.555, Speaker A: Like everyone can only move like 50k. And so I asked my mom what about we use this at bitcoin thing? So my mom now is not very happy because. Because I wish you have held onto those Bitcoin instead of my housing Noe Valley in San Francisco. Okay, so I think probably the next question going to be for Cindy, because Cindy as a Eastern founder and then so you are flying in between New York and KL now. So being an investor in drift and so I know that drift is also very like Western or like or probably like global focus. Like when it comes to like traders and like users acquisition and like can you share a little bit more that because I like. So if the assumption is like east has like more users and then so why you guys are focused on like New York? Yeah, I think two things, and that's the core of our argument today is that a lot of the capital markets that are more mature happens to be in the west.
00:32:39.555 - 00:33:22.283, Speaker A: And the capital mature markets creates opportunities for zero to one type of innovation. Which is why the founders of Solana, founders of Ethereum, are largely Western based. But distribution focuses largely on the East. And there are two things that the east does better which is from the outflow of the initial innovations from the west, the east does distribution, I would say 100 times better due to two things. One is necessity. We talked about capital controls in Asia and a lot of these are the reason that I got into crypto in the first place. Growing up in Malaysia, there's a lot of rampant capital controls.
00:33:22.283 - 00:34:19.511, Speaker A: Can't even take 10 to 100k out without being flagged. So crypto provides a very natural use case. Specifically stablecoins like USDT and USDC are very rampant in Asia versus the West. Second is a very flourishing developer ecosystem in Asia. So our team, we're about 30 now, we recently just announced a funding round to expand our team to 50 people. The we're quite split between east and west and we kind of followed the similar structure of a lot of the early innovations of, you know, crypto companies where we started off building our technology with Western developers and Western researchers. But when it came to distribution and growing the technology, all of our most recent hires in the last year were from the East.
00:34:19.511 - 00:34:44.793, Speaker A: So Taiwan, you know, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore. And this sort of shows the evolution over time. Distribution happens in the east but innovation largely happens in the West. Yeah. So I think the question for Joanna then gonna be and yeah, can I challenge that a little bit? Yeah, sure. So I think going back to the point, like why West? Right. So superior education and immigration policies.
00:34:44.793 - 00:35:08.165, Speaker A: Right. Allows these Western educated Eastern founders to stay in the U.S. right. So like maybe just to go back to the question, why Cindy, are you moving? And I know David Your co founder moving to New York as opposed to staying in kl. Right. Maybe because you thought about, you know, you get better coffee and wi fi. Maybe that's it.
00:35:08.165 - 00:35:47.513, Speaker A: Well, I think that going back to the dichotomy of this question, like I think we all agree here that crypto is inherently global and to focus on east versus west is a new question. But we're here today so we can, we can talk about it. But I do think that a combination of the best of both is the best way to operate here. For founders that need to fundraise raise capital, I think being in the US is definitely the right decision. And having stricter regulations in the US also makes it more difficult for a founder to scale their company. So starting out, raising capital in the US is great. Capital markets are awesome, a lot of money there.
00:35:47.513 - 00:36:22.069, Speaker A: But as you're going into expansion mode, I think that the real users are in Asia. The real scale of developer ecosystem is in Asia. Yeah. So for like Joanna and then so now you guys are building, so like now you are building a generic developer platform and then so going to bring on like more application and then you were at like optimism as well. So like the story for optimism. So I still remember clearly being like early investor in the optimism and they're looking for non financial like application. Like they cannot like back in the day.
00:36:22.069 - 00:37:15.185, Speaker A: So like back in the day they were not many non financial application in so in like us and so they have to come to Asia Vietnam and then just look for like gaming company and like Game five founders. Right. And then so then the question is like if west have like enough users and so why we have seen from like past cycles and most of these applications like Stepan Assets, Infinity and then so none of the founders or like markets are ever started in the West. Well there are more than 60% of the world population in Asia, so if we don't onboard more users it's kind of freaking embarrassing. Right. Jokes aside, basically I think it comes down to two things. One is viral marketing which is something that Asian founders marketers just do really well.
00:37:15.185 - 00:38:06.357, Speaker A: Something to. Yeah, as you mentioned, right. Stepan and Axie Infinity all have done this before and actually with Vchai Web 2 company in China, they basically pioneered this mini games on phone and now Tang is kind of stealing the idea and make it a thing. I think western companies are very much better at building narrative. So yeah. So basically going back to like why you see more gamefi companies being founded in Asia, I think it kind of goes back to your point actually Cindy, you said the fact that it's not as advanced economies here, right. So people are touched by crypto in a meaningful way.
00:38:06.357 - 00:38:48.077, Speaker A: So what I mean by that is you guys are all here at the brain point yesterday at the awards winning the roast I would call it, right. The one quote I remember is like we all love referee gaming, also known as the Indonesian or Filipino basic income, right. So people really care, right. Going into crypto is life changing for them. Yeah. And so like I think that the clear division when it comes to east and west and that's centered around stablecoin and so here if you ask anyone here, most of the users on the ground. So Singapore is not very Southeast Asian.
00:38:48.077 - 00:39:17.127, Speaker A: So we have to admit that Singapore is more closer to the developed the west world. And if you go to Philippines, if you go to Indonesia, Malaysia, China, Taiwan, everything is tether like usdt. Right. And so like there's a very interesting number that. So if we look at the on chain. So if we. So if we look at the wallet overlap between USDC and USDT like guess what the number is? It's 2.8%
00:39:17.127 - 00:39:58.239, Speaker A: right. So like everyone in US like use Circle Coinbase and like USDC but like the distribution is not just happening here. And so and I think we have this very interesting offshore and onshore like economy and so then the question probably for both side is and it seems like the stablecoin becoming this shadow dollar play and like neo banking play but like this but like a stable coin distribution is a highly, highly separated. Right. And then so probably for like stingdy because you guys have to onboard USDC like USDT and like all the stablecoin as I clear. Yeah. So like how.
00:39:58.239 - 00:40:36.129, Speaker A: So how do you see that distribution like being like so sparse out? Yeah, yeah. I think the stablecoin it's important to talk about what people are using the stablecoins for as well. One is trading people don't want to denominate re nominate in fiat once they've entered the crypto. So it's very important to build on chain economies around supporting different stablecoins. So drift for example we have a cross collateral system and we enable. I think we're the only dexes that do this. We enable multiple sources of stablecoin collateral to be used as collateral.
00:40:36.129 - 00:41:19.093, Speaker A: So USCC is actually by. And larger, larger, larger pool as is on Solana. You USDT is about maybe like 10% of USCC right now. But that tells you the bifurcation of the users within Solana ecosystem. I think the users are Currently still very much more on the Western side. When you compare it to something like Tron, which is a very clearly Eastern focused chain, I think The USDT emissions versus USDC are like 100 to 1. So for us, as a DEFI protocol, it's very important to build port and rails around both sides so that Western users and Eastern users can allow for both.
00:41:19.093 - 00:42:31.005, Speaker A: But you know, when we look at trading volume, even though the USCT volume is 10% of USCC, the trading volumes generated on the eastern side are much higher than on the West. So these people are clearly using USCT to do a lot of trades as well, not just as a form of payments. So for Joanna, like, given your experience, can I go back to that question and answer that? Yeah, I think it's a really good point. Right? Like why do we see very small overlap between usdt, usdc? A lot of this has to do with not just perception but the reality of the west being more compliant. Right. So you know, kind of general consensus is that, you know, the, let's just use Coinbase and Binance example, right? You know the Coinbase, it's a lot more compliant and you know, you have to pay 30% tax by trading and reporting tax on top of it. And my Dev Rao guy would tell me in India people actually still prefer to use Coinbase even though Binance and much larger market cap and much larger trading volume there.
00:42:31.005 - 00:43:41.151, Speaker A: And the reason is because the local banks will close your accounts if it's linked to Binance crypto because they think it's again could be perception but also high likelihood of nefarious crypto activities happening. So people would rather just pay that extra money to be on Coinbase just to make sure that their assets not going to be taken away. And that's a big deal because we Asians are very cheap. Yeah. So Jordan, just given your experience at Coinbase before and so thinking about the distribution, right, so now you're building a platform and then so are you going to repurpose some of the prior distribution like like 10x like from like Coinbase? Because like Coinbase, like yeah, so like as you said, it's a highly compliant. But the thing is that when it comes to like, so when it comes to emerging markets and so Coinbase like so far does not have a relatively good like distribution so far and then, so when it comes to soon and then. So how do you guys think about like the actual user distribution plan? Yeah, absolutely.
00:43:41.151 - 00:44:34.603, Speaker A: So just by maybe starting with my team. Right. So I am one of the two only People that's actually sitting in the West. So even though I guess we are by definition a western company, but we're actually very much deeply rooted in the east. And all my developers are actually Chinese because they're just as good as the Bay Area developers and I pay them one third of the salary and everyone's still happy. So yeah, that's a little joke, but it's true. But yeah, just to come back on the user side because we have these people that's on the ground very much deeply rooted in the local communities and we know where the developers are, the good developers are especially we are absolutely focusing on the emerging market side.
00:44:34.603 - 00:44:57.275, Speaker A: Right. Especially the apac. So we're on a mission to elevate these emerging market developers because we believe the next wave of high quality developers is going to come from. Yep. I think like this also leads to like the next argument like if like west has attacked. Right. And why all the developers are Chinese and like Ethan developer.
00:44:57.275 - 00:45:48.565, Speaker A: And I think for Cindy as well, most of most of your developer are in kl, right? Half. Half, mostly. So, so like if we look at the actual developer onboarding and I, I think like the thing is okay at a very, very high level, most of this frontier crypto publication like indeed like coming from the west because of the brains and like the professors are still in like us college whatnot. Right. But like the actual developer like who are making things happen, it seems like to be all like Ethan developers. So like Joanna, do you want to start with that? So like have you seen the developer like quality or like their different like lifestyle or like working style? So like why you guys eventually land on having most of like Ethan developers? Because the Ethan developers are worked, they work hard and they deliver fast. Right.
00:45:48.565 - 00:46:38.265, Speaker A: So take ourselves example, right. We, we basically launched The DevNet within three months and TestNet we're actually I guess alpha for everybody. We're going to announce that next week and you know the whole process took about five months compared to maybe some of the other SBM projects that been doing research for years and barely delivers. So you know, it have a lot more Runway, right. With also less kind of a burn rate when it comes to cost. So I think in general just being able to tap into the talent pool here is really important. And going back to my point, we were all about getting the developers onboarded in this part of the region.
00:46:38.265 - 00:47:17.725, Speaker A: And the other thing I want to actually give Cindy a shout out I think, you know, drift. Right. These are the great examples like what inspired us about why we wanted to, you know, we wanted to onboard these next wave of high quality dapps that can actually track users from both west and east. Yeah. I think to wrap up, a lot of the users are in the East. A lot of the innovation happens in the West. But you know, when you look at Binance with 200 million wallets, when you look at Korea, one in five Koreans have a centralized exchange account versus just 70 mil in Coinbase.
00:47:17.725 - 00:47:40.407, Speaker A: Right. Like a lot of the speculation, payments and necessity for crypto happens in the east alongside the east and accessibility of developers here. But combining that with innovation and the capital markets of the west is where we want to be. And I think both our companies are positioned in that way. Joanna, I want to give. You want to give us closing remarks. Yeah.
00:47:40.407 - 00:47:57.255, Speaker A: The closing thought is it doesn't matter if it's east versus West. That division is all very arbitrary. Right. We're in crypto for a reason. We're here for decentralization, and that transcends borders. And at the end of the day, we're here as unifiers now. Dividers.
00:47:57.255 - 00:48:26.067, Speaker A: Right. We're all here coming from the west and east into Breakpoint. Maybe we don't win a Lambo or, you know, even spot one of the three Lambos that Cindy brought over, but we're all here for fun. Thank you, everyone. Like, thank you to beautiful ladies. And then so I hope that, like, we crypto people can be completely meta solvent, apolitical. And because I think, like, after Covid, like, there's only one consensus that can be easily generated, it's like, we all deserve better government.
00:48:26.067 - 00:49:30.737, Speaker A: Okay, thank you, everyone. All right, thank you, ladies, for an incredible debate. As always, you guys can use app Trump games to go vote on who won and who lost that debate. Going off the backs of onboarding in different crypto markets. We are welcoming Brandon from Czar, and he's going to be talking about on repping cash to stablecoins to onboard the next billion users. Hey, everybody. So I'm Brandon.
00:49:30.737 - 00:50:46.675, Speaker A: And continuing on a little bit of the last talk, I'll talk about Czar, which is a platform that's accelerating stablecoin adoption for the next billion users. So people are usually surprised to hear that I'm an American who moved to the other side of the world to build a business in Pakistan. And when I first visited in 2018, I was blown away to hear that 87% of 250 million people still didn't have a bank account, but they all had smartphones. So to make a long story short, I founded A neo bank called Satapay. And we we spent no money on marketing, but scaled somehow to 4 million people in less than two years since launching and after our company was acquired earlier this year, I thought about how there was still so much more to accomplish. And during my time, I had become so close with so many of our employees, their friends, their families, and it was really challenging to see how they had such a hard time making ends meet when their currency was devaluing 30% per year. So living on the ground, I learned firsthand that stablecoin adoption would be most impactful for a billion people with unstable money.
00:50:46.675 - 00:51:43.357, Speaker A: However, this big challenge remains. How do we on ramp the next billion users if they still live in countries where cash is still king? So over the last five years, I became intimately familiar with a concept called called agent banking. Mobile money Agents like this gentleman form a hidden financial superhighway that spans across all emerging markets. And every year, 18 million agents process $560 billion in cash over the counter. They traditionally accept cash to pay bills, process money transfer top up minutes on your phone, and more. This incredible potential for agent networks is what inspired me to build Xar. So leveraging depin incentives, we can rapidly scale a decentralized cash on ramp by recruiting from existing agent networks.
00:51:43.357 - 00:52:34.841, Speaker A: By adjusting token rewards programmatically, you can scale the incentives by neighborhood, city and country. And early agents have more incentive to join sooner, helping us accelerate the path to critical mass. And if we get this right, Czar might look something like the Western Union or the MoneyGram of Web3. On the consumer side, you can use Xara to find an agent nearby with the best exchange rate to trade your cash for digital dollars. In a way, agents are kind of like Czar is kind of like a decentralized exchange, but in the physical world. So earning agents can earn by providing stablecoin liquidity to the platform, but also they can make some extra money on the exchange rate that they choose. So Czar agents like this gentleman would have a prominent QR code displayed where you could see you can buy digital dollars.
00:52:34.841 - 00:53:22.805, Speaker A: And these QR stands act a little bit like miniature billboards. So as a user, you just scan the QR code, you can create a transaction, hand over your cash, and you can get digital dollars instantly. So traditionally, the spread between local fiat currency and dollars might be between 5 and 10%. So this leaves a lot of margin for Czar to create a substantial impact and a lot of efficiency in this informal sector. So once consumers have stablecoins, they need a way to Use them. And Czar is actually powered by a stablecoin only wallet and we abstract away all of the complexity so that even a user using a smartphone for the first time can still figure it out. The wallet also comes with a debit card to give you access to cash when you need it and pay for your daily needs.
00:53:22.805 - 00:54:01.721, Speaker A: So to get to the next billion users, we're prioritizing high inflation, high smartphone adoption markets. But let's be real for a second. This is a really ambitious goal. So we certainly can't do it alone. Even though Czar will have a wallet, our bread and butter is going to be the cash work which we hope to offer as a public utility across all of Web3 platforms. And using our SDK, any wallet or app should be able to integrate our on ramp and maybe this can open the door for the whole ecosystem to reach a far wider audience across emerging markets. So XAR is hiring, we're fundraising and we're partnering and I'd love to connect with you.
00:54:01.721 - 01:08:50.674, Speaker A: So find me on X, shoot me a DM and thank you to Solana and Breakpoint and everybody for the support so far. Cheers. Thank you Brandon for that chats. Now we have a roughly 20 minute break. Come back at 12:35. Go get some food, get a drink and Jack Lou, magician CEO will join us for an announcement. Sa sa sa sa sa sa sa sa sa.
01:08:50.674 - 01:15:04.035, Speaker A: Welcome back to Break Point Singapore 2024. Make some noise. Oh come on, you can do better than that. Make some noise. All right, we got back to back to back keynotes from some of the biggest products on Solana. My name is Eno. I'm a co founder of isc.
01:15:04.035 - 01:15:41.263, Speaker A: ISC is the only inflation stablecoin on Solana. If you're holding USD stables, very bearish on you. I am so excited to announce our first speaker who is going to be giving keynote. He has the biggest NFT platform in the world. Give it up for the co founder and the CEO of Magic Eden, Jack Lou. All right, thank you so much. Cool.
01:15:41.263 - 01:16:11.285, Speaker A: Does this clicker work? Whoops. All right, cool. Awesome. Yeah, thank you so much. Really, really excited to be here and very heartwarming to be here actually. I remember coming to my first break point in 2022 and I felt like it was like me showing the world Magic Eden. At that time we were supporting Solana NFTs and over the last couple of years we launched a bunch more products.
01:16:11.285 - 01:16:50.381, Speaker A: So today I want to talk about what the next evolution of Magic Eden looks like and I'm Very, very excited to share it here at Breakpoint. Right. The start of Magic Eden and the start of our next chapter. Cool. So over the last couple of years we've been building Magic Eden and one of the real core questions we've been thinking about is how do we grow? How do we grow? And it became really obvious to us and probably very obvious to a bunch of the folks here today in the industry that the complexity of Web3 makes it really hard to onboard new users. There's like 10 different apps that all kind of do the same thing on 10 different chains. Everyone have to like, you know, download the same wallets.
01:16:50.381 - 01:17:53.291, Speaker A: And that complexity is really tough for a new user trying to onboard into the ecosystem when we are, when we are innovating on so many new use cases that we want to show them to these new users. And our thought process has always been, look, our thesis is that the on chain economy is going to be massive. And we started with the NFTs, which is a very native on chain asset, but there is many, many more really cool use cases and really cool new things that's coming on chain. And as we looked around and thought about how we can grow, we realized yeah, like for new users coming into the ecosystem, they really need the single trusted place across chains for them to grow and manage all of their new assets and for them to interact with Web3. And we see that, right? We see that analogy also in kind of the centralized Exchange World where Web2 people are coming to crypto for the first time as well. So this basically started our train of thought on what is next for Magic Eden. So what have we actually done so far? Of course everyone knows Magic Eden as an NFT marketplace and very proud to say reach the number one cross chain NFT marketplace position.
01:17:53.291 - 01:18:38.395, Speaker A: We stopped tracking volume a while ago. I think it's a pretty gameable metric. But right now we have around 65% of the revenue in the NFT industry across every chain and been really proud to serve millions of users this year and also support a lot of creators. But it's not just NFTs. We've also this year expanded into some other use cases. So within our mobile wallet and within our Chrome extension, we really worked hard on this cross chain swaps that allows folks to swap from BTC to SOL to eth. I really cover all the plethora of different routes that people want and that's been growing really fast and now that's around 20% of our business and only growing more.
01:18:38.395 - 01:19:49.463, Speaker A: And the last thing that we've been really grinding on and really pushing out recently. Just a couple of months ago is our mobile App, right? And Web3 has generally been this place where it's kind of like web first, but the world is already on mobile and we really wanted to do something here to give our users a seamless on the go experience to interact with Magic Eden. So those are the things we've done so far. But the real question is what's next? And stepping back one second is when we thought about building what's next and we thought about the logic of how we built things, we really distilled our strategy down to something like this, which is we always wanted to pick really simple, delightful use cases that can appeal to masses, like masses of retail users. And we started with the NFTs, but we layered on more and more use cases, each layer by layer, so that we can offer more touch points to our users, but of course offer them more seamlessness and more convenience. And even though Solana was our genesis, it was our home. We also wanted to expand these use cases across chains so we can give our users the wide range and convenience.
01:19:49.463 - 01:20:53.265, Speaker A: Right. That they want as they explore different ecosystems as well. So stepping back, that's really allowed us to offer our users this seamlessness and convenience that I think they deserve as they come and explore the Web3 and crypto ecosystem. And for us as a company, it's also given us a lot more diversification and defensibility so that we can build for the long term. And we were really inspired as we thought about the logic of how we build things, we were really inspired by some of the really major like centralized players, right? So Coinbase Binance, as they built many touch points that touch the users and become the single trusted hub for their crypto activities. However, going back to the thesis that I outlined earlier, our thought is always that the on chain world is going to become bigger and it really takes an on chain native company to have that DNA and user understanding to build a single trusted hub as well. So what's next and what's coming up in the next couple of months? Very, very excited to share some of that with the folks here today.
01:20:53.265 - 01:21:55.081, Speaker A: The first is this, we call it our seamless login and multi chain identity product. Really it's all about forget 12 word passphrases, right? And that is just one of the biggest inhibitors for folks new users to come on board into the ecosystem. We want to do social login, basically set up and create a magic unit account. We would generate multiple multi chain addresses for you based on email, telegram id, discord id and at the same time then we know that for you to have a seamless multi platform experience on web mobile, maybe a telegram later on, you don't want to re import all of your seed phrases and all of that to really, you know, get, get all of your notifications and get all your preferences across different platforms. Once we have something like this, this will allow us to share those preferences with our users across all of their devices. And it's just the kind of experience that people now expect anyway. The second is trade all assets across all chains.
01:21:55.081 - 01:23:07.155, Speaker A: And this is something that we actually did a lot of deep thinking into it because of course our genesis was really around NFTs. But as we had our users interact with our mobile app, as we had users interact with our Chrome extension and really users who interacted with our fungible token trading products, those users are giving us a lot of feedback to say, hey Jack, Magic Eden team, we love what you guys do in NFTs, but really there is something really special that you've done in your cross chain swaps and cross chain experience. How can we do that more so that we can have one single place and avoid navigating to all of these different surface areas? So we want to offer the ability to trade different asset classes within the marketplace itself as well. Again, that will allow us to appeal to a wider audience, new use cases and as with a new onboarding experience, I think that's also going to help us welcome more users into web3 and the crypto ecosystem. And one of the things that we're really proud of top right here is the ability to effectively use different type, you know, pay anything, buy anything. The ability to use different types of tokens and different currencies across chains to buy some native assets. So imagine you'll be using Bitcoin, using Ruins to buy some of the real OG prestigious assets within the Solana ecosystem as well.
01:23:07.155 - 01:24:17.449, Speaker A: Then we also realized this other thing which is, you know, at the core of Magic Eden's use case today it's really about trading. But a lot of our users are very casual, they're very retail and they'll say, hey, we don't know what to trade all the time. It's not really every, but if there's a way for us to have fun, engaging experiences, rewarding experiences on Magic Eden, we would love to have some of that. We already started the path down this position with our rewards program, but of course we wanted to make this even more engaging with more types of Quests, some of them will be Magic Eden Quest and some of those we will also open up to our, to our partners as well. And then lastly lastly, but very importantly, the ME Token is being administered by the ME Foundation. But we at Magic Eden, we're very proud to adopt this as the central utility token and rewards incentive for our application. And it's a, it's a really proud moment for us to say that this will be on SPL and it will be our way of also contributing to the Solana ecosystem.
01:24:17.449 - 01:25:22.235, Speaker A: Because if you really think about it, in the last couple of years, some of the most cutting edge innovations have really happened on Solana, right? Whether it's new use cases, whether it's this cutting edge performance of the underlying technology itself. And of course, some of the really new onboarding technologies like book links, wallets are also happening on Soar as well. And the way that we want to use this token as we adopt it is really to bootstrap and hyper grow us towards this next vision. It's going to happen, the claim will happen exclusively within our mobile app and also future rewards will also happen within the mobile app as well. And this is the way that we want to create even more engaging, even more sticky relationships, even more tighter relationships with our end users as well. And there's many, many flavors of what we want to do with this token adoption that we want to share with our community. So stepping back, I would actually say that Magic, even at our core DNA, we are consumer application developers.
01:25:22.235 - 01:26:19.891, Speaker A: But if we look at the history of crypto, a lot of the narratives has really been about infrastructure and those are the household names that we know today, right? It's the chains, Sol, Bitcoin, eth, they are really the household names in our space. But if we zoom out and think about the wider history of the Internet, actually eventually consumer applications become really huge and they can also become household names and they eventually do. That's the history of the Internet. But for us as consumer developers at Magic Eden, some of that a few years ago was just a dream. We didn't have the underlying technology to be able to do that. But as we sit here today in 2024, we think about the hyper performance of saw the amazing, you know, the onset of new things like embedded wallets, that's going to make onboarding a lot easier. And of course some of the core use cases on chain that have already found product market fit and it's just looking for an opportunity to scale.
01:26:19.891 - 01:26:55.195, Speaker A: I really think that the moment is here, right? The moment is Here and the alignment of stars is here for consumer decentralized applications to take the main stage and become those household names itself. And spoiler alert, we at Magic Eden, we think we're going to be one of them. So I just wanted to wrap up and say thank you so much everyone here for all of your support for Magic Eden for us from the start, all the ups and downs to now and all of our different variations and different evolutions. And we want to be in our next evolution, your home to Web3. And we also welcome you and thank you for your support as well. Cheers everyone. Thank you.
01:26:55.195 - 01:27:43.405, Speaker A: This next speaker needs no introduction. He's a core contributor to Bonk and one of the most prolific community builders on Solana. Bonk and its ecosystem of products including bonkbop, Bonk Live, Bonk for Paws, Bonk Advisory and much, much more have proven when you build for the community during the lowest of lows will ride with you during the highest of highs. Give a warm and loud Solana welcome to the one, the only, Nam. Hi everybody. It's fantastic to be here at my fourth break point. Thank you all for speaking, spending your time here and thank you to the events team for making another banger of an event.
01:27:43.405 - 01:28:34.149, Speaker A: I'm here to talk to you about communities that are launching products and how you can engage with them. One of the things that's been great over the course of the last two years that we've been building at Bonk is this idea of independent aligned teams. I can do a lot of things, but I cannot lead 450 current on chain programs that are using Bonk. It's the third most utilized token across Solana right now other than Sol and USDC itself. Bonk is gas, literally. One of the things that we're lucky enough to see is that these teams are building their own products that are promoting the brand and getting more and more on chain users as much as possible. So if you've been having the opportunity to see some of the incredible speakers like the folks at Bonk for Paws or Kate later on, who's going to be talking about Moonwalk, you might have also been trading with bonkbot, who's getting ready to announce and things around moving to be being completely non custodial going forward.
01:28:34.149 - 01:29:31.885, Speaker A: If you had a chance to bet on Bonk boxing outside you use Bonk bets, you might have traded on Bonk Swap or looked for a new token on the Bonk Live platform. Anybody who's holding on to one of the cards around their necks right now has been touched by the team at Monstre. And it's been very easy for us to start using people through things like Bonk Rewards and expanding them into the BONK ecosystem. We want to make it so that people have a emotional connection, not only to Bonk, but so that they have the ability to start doing more and more things on chain, so that all these incredible innovations that teams like Fire Dancer are doing are going to be creating block space that gets utilized. So Bonk has been working through a bunch of different methods for distribution. Hopefully some of you have all received that initial airdrop in December 2022. But things like the DAO that we've built out for Bonk, as well as the incredible team over at Faze Labs who have helped create the Align Protocol, or the folks over at Coliseum who are helping us invest in the next generation of programs for Solana to be getting built.
01:29:31.885 - 01:30:15.367, Speaker A: And you might have seen us at a couple of hacker houses every now and again. But one of the biggest things that we always want to see is culture. This idea of becoming a culture token and getting to the point where all the things that we want to do is going to get people interested and excited. So we've been working with some incredible partners like Borussia Dortmund, the Paris Musketeers, Baseball United out of out of Dubai, as well as now we've added a K pop group. So the good folks over at ADIA who have been spreading the, spreading the word of the dog in a very new medium more than anything else. So we're excited to keep using culture as a way to keep the community excited about bonk. So how do you keep them engaged? Well, you have to give them things that people, people are looking for.
01:30:15.367 - 01:30:43.965, Speaker A: So some of you might have had the opportunity to get a bunch of Bonk out of the Solana mobile phone and you might now have the opportunity to get the Seeker. You might have also been a part of things like Crypto Fight Night or seeing any of the things that we've been doing around the world. If you haven't seen Gordo, our giant inflatable dog, he'll be around. Happy to see you. We're also doing things that we're trying to hit into traditional or, you know, web two style marketing. Right. So we've been lucky enough to work with an Incredible charity at KK9R, break the Guinness World record for the most dogs walked at any one time.
01:30:43.965 - 01:31:21.571, Speaker A: If any of you are in the state of New York, those dogs are available for adoption and they are going very quickly. So get your hands on a world champion as much as you can. And also a massive thank you to the good folks at Baobao and Venta who are showcasing our charity line, which is a new fashion line for Bunk where all the funds are going to helping us save more animals around the world. So that's a lot of good ways for us to do what we're talking about. We find users and we want to bring them to Solana. We know that there's a ton of people right now who are utilizing blockchain products and we want to make sure that we get them to start using those products on Solana. We can bring them there and we want to make products that consumers are going to use.
01:31:21.571 - 01:32:11.665, Speaker A: If any of you have seen the Exchange Art Gallery, you can probably guess the 11th company that we're going to be adding to the Bonk family relatively soon. But I'll let that announce announcement come out a little bit later. But the thing that we have to focus on is there's a lot of different people right now who don't have exposure to all the incredible things that people are building. There's a lot of people who I'd love to be getting exposed to Bonk and being able to have them join the family, but they might not have traditional exchange accounts, they might not have wallets and we need to figure out how we can go bring them onto Solana. So I'm very proud to announce that we're going to be working with an incredible team based upon of the state of New York for the first Bonk exchange traded product. If you're familiar with a GBTC or a G stole, this is going to be the first step towards a Bonk etf. So we're working with Osprey funds.
01:32:11.665 - 01:32:26.963, Speaker A: They're incredible work. They've done the first Bitcoin and one of the first Solana based trusts out in New York. It's going to make it so that Bonk is literally going to be available in bank accounts across the world. And the ticker is still Bonk. So don't worry. We're looking forward to releasing it before the end of the year. I'm excited.
01:32:26.963 - 01:33:09.473, Speaker A: We just submitted the prospectus so can't wait to get Bonk in more people's hands. If any of what I've said has resonated with you, please come by the Bonk booth, have the opportunity to talk with some incredible contributors. And again, I get a lot of credit and I get to be on the stage, but it's not possible without all the incredible people in the community. So thank you guys for your trust and let's bonk. This next speaker is well known for his relentless focus on listening to the user and building for the user. In crypto, we often talk a big game about onboarding the next 1 billion. Well, as CEO of Drip, the largest application in crypto built on Solana, his mission is to build consumer friendly applications with killer UX that brings the masses into the fold.
01:33:09.473 - 01:33:54.861, Speaker A: Give it up for Vivu Narby. Thank you. Hey all, I'm Vibhu, I'm the co founder CEO of Drip. If you don't know Drip, I only have five minutes so I'm going to rush through this. We're the number one non DeFi app on Solana. If you don't know Drip, by the way, just open up Phantom. You can find us usually in the top couple apps on there.
01:33:54.861 - 01:34:15.765, Speaker A: You should give it a try. Drip is the collectibles platform. What does that mean, collectibles? It's digital content that you own, secured on the Solana blockchain. We have three products. This is the core product, the Drip Dapp for desktop. And obviously there's a mobile version of this as well. Beautiful, gorgeous product.
01:34:15.765 - 01:34:54.553, Speaker A: This is Drip creator Studio, which we launched a month ago, lets creators publish their content and media on the Solana blockchain as a collectible. And today I'm going to introduce you to Drip Mobile. I'm very thankful to the production team because they are going to let me do a live demo from my phone. All right, we have an announcement to make. We are right now opening a public beta for the drip for iOS and drip for Android. So if you have an Apple device, please scan this code. You do need a Drip account first.
01:34:54.553 - 01:35:23.835, Speaker A: So if you don't have a Drip account yet, this is not going to work. So before you get into the app, you go into the dripd app, you're going to add an email address and that lets you sign into the public beta here. And if you have Android here, you can scan this one as well. All right, so I know creative Drew is very nervous. He's the lead behind this app here. So this is running live on my phone here. Let's run through it.
01:35:23.835 - 01:35:43.893, Speaker A: So first thing everyone does when they wake up, they play Legendary Lock in. Check this out. We built a little portable game player here. Let's see if we get rugged. Nope. There you go. Live demos in action.
01:35:43.893 - 01:36:03.053, Speaker A: It's not working. All right, the Internet is okay. All right, we'll do something else. So check this Out. I mean, there's nothing like this in the crypto world, in my opinion. I'm going to click this button here. I just collected on the salon blockchain.
01:36:03.053 - 01:36:20.675, Speaker A: That's instantaneous. This is gasless. Airdropped right to my Solana wallet. Everything that Drip does is off chain to on chain. Let's try again here. We're going to go ahead and we're going to donate to a. This is about a dollar.
01:36:20.675 - 01:36:36.927, Speaker A: Boom. I just donated a dollar USDC to a creator. You didn't feel the wallet? There was no wallet. Connect dialogue, nothing. It just kind of works. This is really the magic of Drip that you can see here. The app is a first class app, in my opinion.
01:36:36.927 - 01:37:11.185, Speaker A: It feels like Instagram, but everything that you do on it is interacting with the creator directly, helping them get paid. I can't play audio from here, unfortunately, but you can see what this looks like here. We go ahead and play a song. I don't think it's going to work, but we support background audio in the app so you can actually play something. You can close the app and it continues to play in the background, which is pretty cool. And in fact, it even is sticky to the app. So you can see, see, I'm scrolling here and it's still playing.
01:37:11.185 - 01:37:44.515, Speaker A: For the first time ever, we have crypto auctions on a mobile app natively. So there is some NSFW content on Drip as well, if that's of interest to you. So again, it's off chain to on chain. So I can bid on an auction without having to sign any transactions, which is pretty cool. See all the participants here and yeah, we just bid there. I think we're the highest bidder now. There I am.
01:37:44.515 - 01:38:10.241, Speaker A: You can browse your wallet. So we Support up to 50,000 collectibles in your wallet today. The leading wallet products in Solana today support around 2000. So we have many users who have thousands or tens of thousands of collectibles and it all just works pretty cool. Yeah, that's a little bit about it. The main point here was I wanted to announce the open beta. Please try it out.
01:38:10.241 - 01:38:48.323, Speaker A: This is truly a beta. We want your feedback. We want you guys to throw everything at it and tell us what we can do better. And yeah, we'll see you on the Drip leaderboards. Thank you. This next speaker is the director of growth for the hottest fitness product on Salana Moonwalk. She's a firm believer that anyone can do it if they put their mind to it.
01:38:48.323 - 01:39:18.165, Speaker A: With moonwalking, you achieve your personal health goals. By the end of this talk, you'll be inspired to walk like you've never walked before. A big round of applause for Captain Kaitlyn Cook. Hello everyone. Like you know said, I'm Caitlin Cook. I am the Director of Growth at Moonwalk Fitness. We are in the midst of a global health epidemic.
01:39:18.165 - 01:40:03.405, Speaker A: We have never seen a higher amount of money spent on gym memberships. Yet obesity is on the rise, mental health is deteriorating. Heart disease one of the leading causes of death around the world, also on the rise. While we can attribute this to a variety of factors, an undeniable fact is that the conveniences of modern day technology have eliminated a lot of the ways in which we naturally move our body throughout the day, necessitating a conscious effort to integrate that movement back into our lives. But how do we hold ourselves accountable? Cue Moonwalk. Moonwalk is a fitness accountability app to help people build healthy habits. And we've incorporated a variety of incentives to accommodate different types of motivations by our users.
01:40:03.405 - 01:40:56.847, Speaker A: First of all being social incentives, Moonwalk hosts group step based competitions where users compete against one another to hit daily step goals, achieving those goals together but competing at the same time. And as we know well, crypto supports financial incentives incentive very, very well. To enter a Moonwalk competition, you have to submit an entry deposit denominated in Solana, USDC or bonk. The fun gamification aspect of this comes in because if you hit your step goal every day, you get your full deposit back at the end of the game. And if you do not hit your step goals on one or multiple days, that day's worth of your overall deposit is put into a prize pool and split by those who are constantly hitting their goals. I like to call it gamified accountability. So again, varying incentives for different types of motivations by our users and even early on.
01:40:56.847 - 01:42:14.859, Speaker A: Moonwalk has launched earlier this year and we've seen very substantial positive impacts on the lives of our users, whether that's weight loss, improved mental health, broadened social circles and more. This is something that is having an effective positive change on people around the world and we've been seeing that very quickly. This is something that is uniquely enabled by blockchain with the financial incentives component and something that we plan to expand in the future. Which leads me into what we want to talk about today, which is the upcoming launch of the Moonwalk iOS app and subsequent Android app launch as well. This is something that I think is really going to change the game and that Moonwalk is going to be one of the first truly mainstream consumer Crypto apps. I want to talk a little bit about what that means because I think historically speaking, a lot of claimed consumer applications in the space have not done a lot of the legwork in terms of UI UX in onboarding to make it really comfortable for non crypto native users to onboard to so we can talk a little bit about what we're doing with Moonwalk to make that easy. First I want to talk about in terms of onboarding and signups, every step that you add to the onboarding experience in an application or any product results in significant drop off at the ad of each step.
01:42:14.859 - 01:42:49.491, Speaker A: So what we're doing with Moonwalk is trying to get people into a game as fast as possible. We also want to have login methods for those who aren't from this space. Right now we started with SPL wallet login as well as Gmail via Tiplink. But with the launch of the iOS app this is going to look completely different with sign in methods that are well known and comfortable to mainstream consumers. I'm thinking phone numbers, emails, sign in with Apple, sign in with Google. Things that normal users outside of our space are comfortable with and use on a daily basis. Next, talking about payment methods.
01:42:49.491 - 01:43:35.635, Speaker A: Right now game entries are denominated in Solana, USDC or Bonk. With the launch of our iOS and Android apps, we are going to be implementing fiat Rails that allow our users to enter games using Apple Pay, PayPal, credit card and again other venues, other ways that they are using applications day to day that do not involve crypto directly. I think this is a really important distinction because in my opinion a true consumer application does not lead with crypto. It leads with a strong use case that people want to participate in and the crypto is just on the back end. So user experience is extremely important in that process and something that we're focusing on a lot. So follow along with Moonwalk, scan the QR code if you haven't gotten started with it yet and let's step towards a healthier future. We're just getting started.
01:43:35.635 - 01:44:07.395, Speaker A: And again, this is going to be one of the first mainstream consumer apps that even the biggest of crypto skeptics can get on board with focusing on their health. Thank you. This next speaker is the founder of Parallel. Parallel is a sci Fi based competitive card game where players build decks, face off and build armies to decide the fate of humanity. Wildly ambitious, the parallel universe is endlessly expanding to include new and exciting games. Get ready to dive into the future. Put your hands together for Koji Legata.
01:44:07.395 - 01:45:06.095, Speaker A: Hey, Guys, Parallel is a game about epic battles, and I'm currently fighting my own epic battle against food poisoning. So appalling that I need to reference my notes here. For those of you who know us, you probably think of us as a card game, or maybe just somebody who argues with Hearthstone players on the Internet. But Parallels, so much more than just trading cards. It's an epic story about the future of humanity and how we might end up in a battle against one another for control of the planet. I'm excited to introduce you a Colony. It's a one and a half player survival sim game powered by Solana and optimized for the Solana phone.
01:45:06.095 - 01:46:04.315, Speaker A: The goal is to work alongside your AI and other players to help your colony survive disasters while gathering rare resources that you, as the player, can extract. In 2022, we launched an avatar collection. What mixed colony so special is that instead of directly taking control of these characters, they will be given a brain powered by an advanced LLM and a personality fine tuned by you. They will make decisions and operate as an agent in the parallel universe, and you as a player will act as their guide, helping them through challenging situations and over time, helping them learn and grow. You might wonder how some of this plays out on Chain. We're excited to be joining Solana. The skills, stats, progression and items you acquire in the game and craft will live on Solana.
01:46:04.315 - 01:46:55.137, Speaker A: We're still working out some of the details, but all of these core tenants will be tied back to the prime ecosystem. This will allow the agents to autonomously use prime to interact on chain. We really want Colony to feel like an infinitely emergent space you can explore with your agent through our game. The world and the challenges will evolve around you and you'll need to work with your agent to find creative solutions, fending off pirates, raiders and environmental threats. You will work with your agent and alongside other the players of Excuse me. And alongside other agents belonging to other players in order to survive and thrive. I want to tell you a quick story about what has been happening in some of our colony tests.
01:46:55.137 - 01:47:58.965, Speaker A: We had a colony that was suffering from essentially mass depression, and one of the players told its colonists a story about how when they were young, their mother used to brew them mint tea and that would help sort of bring up their mood. And before this, mint tea wasn't something that existed within colony, but that particular colonist went to our dungeon master LLM and said, hey, is mint tea something that can exist within the parallel world? It said, yes. They were able to purchase mint seeds from the store grow mint and brew mint tea. And then from that point forward, mint tea was something that existed in Colony. And it's just sort of those personal experiences that you can bring to your avatar that will change the game for everybody else who plays. Now here's a short teaser of Colony. Welcome to the Colony player.
01:47:58.965 - 01:48:54.101, Speaker A: Since our last update on the game, our teams have made great progress all around. Colony is now fully playable on both iOS and Android devices. We have created richer worlds, expanded our avatars collection and designed new and engaging NPCs you'll interact with. There are now many more activities and challenges waiting for you. We look forward to welcoming you to Colony very soon. We're still fine tuning some of the game to make it as fun and engaging as possible, but we're excited to say that we're on track for a close alpha, early 2025. And if anyone's interested, come find me.
01:48:54.101 - 01:49:28.715, Speaker A: I actually have it running on my phone. I can show you a bit more than what was in the video. So just, I don't know, follow us on socials, join our discord and yeah, just be ready to experience the future. Thanks for having me, guys. This next speaker is the CEO of one of the largest travel startups in the world, Travala. Using Travala, you can book over 3 million different hotels, flights and activities with more than 100 payment options, including crypto. Give it up for Juan Otero.
01:49:28.715 - 01:50:01.017, Speaker A: Awesome afternoon, everyone. Well, I love the energy in this room. Let me start by asking you a quick question. How many of you here today have booked a hotel, a flight, or any other travel product in the last month? Raise your hands, please. Wow. That's almost the whole room. So, just like you here today, there's 1.5
01:50:01.017 - 01:50:50.025, Speaker A: billion people that have booked a travel product in the last 12 months alone. And that's exactly the audience that we're targeting here at Travala. Travala, powered by its native token, Ava, is the leading Web3 travel booking platform. We set on a mission to target these 1.5 billion travelers and change the way they experience travel with Web3 technology. And when we ask ourselves the question, who can bring the next billion users to crypto, we believe that the answer is travala. With over 3 million travel products globally, we have processed over a quarter of a billion dollars worth of bookings to date and reach over 300,000 monthly active users.
01:50:50.025 - 01:51:36.755, Speaker A: We see Travala becoming a crypto hub for millions of travelers across the world, a place where they can connect with the world with each other. And themselves. And why? Because travel does make us better humans. It encourages curiosity, it encourages us to be more open minded and also more understanding. We want to give everyone access to these life changing opportunities in a simple and rewarding way through the power of Web3. So now for the exciting part. Yeah, Travala is coming to Solana.
01:51:36.755 - 01:53:15.175, Speaker A: It is my pleasure to announce here today that the Solana Network has already been integrated on Travala. We have several assets including USDT and USDC on the Solana Network as well as Sol, obviously with zero transaction fees available on the Travala platform. The AVA foundation has also deployed the AVA Token on the Solana Network following a recent community vote. But yeah, let me show you what it looks like. How seamless it is to book travel with Travala. Cool, eh? Yeah. So I've got another question for you guys.
01:53:15.175 - 01:54:18.487, Speaker A: What is the point in continuing to use booking, Expedia and so on where you can book with Travala, you can pay with crypto, you can support the industry, you get the best deals and you get real rewards. It's kind of a no brainer, isn't it? So next up, something I'm very excited to introduce here today is the Open Loyalty, the world's first interconnected Web3 loyalty program for the entire Solana ecosystem. Powered by the AVA Token, this program will bring on chain loyalty to Solana for the first time. Something that is really having an impact. The AVA smart program already has around 30,000 smart members. So we are off to a very good start with this program and we will allow Solana projects to plug and play to get access to a lot of these members. So what is the ABA Smart program? It's a Web3 travel loyalty program that offers benefits from discounts to gift bags, airdrops and so on.
01:54:18.487 - 01:55:09.233, Speaker A: If you're a top tier member of the smart program holding a travel tiger NFT, you also get access to over 1300 airport lunches across the world, incredible travel experiences and much, much more. You also can get up to 13% back on your bookings in Ava Bitcoin and soon also Solana or Sol. Sorry. So if you have a project within the Solana ecosystem, come join us. As we push forward with crypto adoption, we can offer more utility to your token by integrating as a preferred payment method on the platform. We can also partner with you to give more visibility to your project by, you know, doing member airdrops or cross marketing initiatives. And yeah, please scan this QR code, get a free $50 voucher, no questions asked.
01:55:09.233 - 01:55:56.337, Speaker A: And if you want to give more visibility to your project or you want to partner with us to give more utility to your token within the Travala ecosystem, please reach out to us partnerships@travala.com thank you very much. These next speakers are building Rally, a social wallet for hundreds of thousands of early adopters and their friends. Rally inspires users to explore, discover and trade together. Imagine a wallet that makes crypto a truly multiplayer experience. Please welcome Chris Mattern and Christine hall to the stage. Hello, Breakpoint.
01:55:56.337 - 01:56:21.917, Speaker A: What an incredible few days. I'm Chris. I'm Christine. And we're the co founders of Rally. You might have known Rally as Floor until just a few days ago, but the transformations in the product that we're going to tell you about today led us to it was time for a new name and we've been sitting in the audience. Amazing builders announce some of their really great launches. And one thing that we've heard over and over is mobile.
01:56:21.917 - 01:56:56.703, Speaker A: 2024 is the year of mobile on Solana, which is exciting for us because we've been building a mobile first product since 2021. But even before that, Chris and I have focused our careers on introducing users to revolutionary financial products, you know, on their phones. So Chris first at Venmo and me recently at Robinhood. So why does mobile matter? Mobile matters because attention matters. And attention is the biggest market that we've ever seen. And it lives on mobile. It lives on the devices that we have with us for 12, 14 hours a day and that we literally spend four to six hours of a day on.
01:56:56.703 - 01:57:22.417, Speaker A: It's where we connect, it's where we communicate, it's increasingly where we transact. And the way that that attention is shaped is through influence. And now influencing has been around for centuries. It's nothing new. But in the era of the Internet, influences really mirror the underlying compute structure that's evolved. It's nothing new. This is a diagram from a paper published six decades ago.
01:57:22.417 - 01:58:22.327, Speaker A: Might seem familiar of how something can go from centralized to distributed. If you think about influence, that has happened as well recently with influencers having their own audiences and being able to work with platforms or brands to monetize that influence that they have. But fundamentally today, the system is extremely broken because we lack the tools in order to be able to recognize, to track and to ultimately reward that influence. And with crypto and blockchain, we have this incredible tool set for the very first time to take the most powerful force that there is, attention and influence, and to platform it in Web3. But the thing that we all use is stuck in single player mode, we're doing it alone. You start your journey in web3 and non custodial crypto with these 12 words, probably in a dark room, so no one else sees them and you can hide them. And it really doesn't get any better as you go, you're sat at your computer and your desktop browser and your extension and your signing messages.
01:58:22.327 - 01:59:33.045, Speaker A: And fundamentally, while our clients are stuck in single player mode, we don't think it's going to be possible to realize this vision of a multiplayer influence recognizing system that's equitable for everyone. And so we've been focused for the last year on how you put your wallet into multiplayer mode. And today we're sharing four updates to floor that transformed it into rally and we think really puts your client to Web3 into multimedia mode for the first time. First and kind of most directly is bringing your friends with you at every single step of the way. So whether that's how you discover tokens or coins or NFTs, whether that's social context at the point of transaction, or whether it's for new users being able to see the world of Web3 through the eyes of the person who brought them before they're even ready to get into it themselves. The second thing that we're excited to announce is meeting people where they are with native payments at every single step. Native to us might be on the blockchain paying gas, but for our users it's using a credit card, it's funding with a debit card, it's purchasing with in app payments and face id.
01:59:33.045 - 02:00:27.193, Speaker A: Speaking of native, probably the least native thing to anyone who isn't in a room like this is gas. Like why on earth do you have to pay to click a button? And with Solana, with localized fee markets and with the cost structure of Solana for the first time, it's really feasible to be able to completely sponsor GAS and make that problem go away. So starting today, every single Solana network transaction in Rally is completely sponsored, completely gas, free to the end user. And last but not least, the thing that I'm most excited about, it brings the social element of Venmo's feed with the dynamic that Robinhood used to grow virally and that is a social referral program. Give a meme, get a meme. We're really excited about this. We're working with some of our personal favorite memes in order to make sure that when you bring your friend to Web3, they get a little bit of Web3 in their wallet from the very get go.
02:00:27.193 - 02:01:03.801, Speaker A: We think this is important. Important for two reasons. One, for new users, it proves to them that Web3 is for them and they can do it because they already have a token, they've already done it when they start. And for memes and communities, it's a way to welcome net new users at the very front door and have it be the first community that folks join. And we're really excited to bring some of these meme communities to more people. If you ask someone how they got started in stocks and they onboarded through Robinhood's referral program, they probably know the actual share that they got. We want to replicate that in Web3 and shifting something that really feels PvP sometimes today to something that you can do together.
02:01:03.801 - 02:01:58.313, Speaker A: Explore, trade, win, maybe even lose with your friends. So everything we just talked about here is now live in rally in the app store and we think that these four things bringing your friends into the context of the wallet, everywhere, using, going to where users are in, using native payment methods for mobile, getting rid of gas entirely and welcoming new friends with memes, put your wallet into multiplayer mode and hopefully can be the place that you can bring your next curious friend into web3. So we challenge you to give that a go. Try welcoming your next friend to Web three through rally. They'll get their first token. You'll get a token as a thank you for bringing them. And finally, I want to say thank you for having us and thank you to everyone in this room who is isn't building at the consumer layer because so much of what we've been able to accomplish here is because other teams have been building much further down the stack in order to make things possible that weren't possible two years ago that weren't possible before Solana.
02:01:58.313 - 02:02:22.739, Speaker A: And so we really are building consumer experiences on the back of many of the giants in this room. So thank you very much and have a great break point. Great job to Chris and Christine. Great job, great job. So that concludes our morning session for Breakpoint. We had back to back to back to back product keynotes. We are breaking for lunch right now.
02:02:22.739 - 02:02:50.025, Speaker A: Lunch is going to be until 2:05, so you have about 30 minutes to go grab yourself a beautiful lunch. I want to give a huge thank you to everyone that's on stream tuning in also to Solana Events Team to making sure that everyone is all fed. And of course downstairs there is bonk boxing. So if you go downstairs there's going to be bonk boxing. I'm actually going to be Putting some boxing gloves on. I've never thrown a punch in my life. If you want to see me get beat up, just go downstairs.
02:02:50.025 - 02:21:52.078, Speaker A: My name's Eno. I'll see you after lunch. Peace out. Sa sa sa sa sa sa sa sa sa. Sa. Sa sa. Nice.
02:21:52.078 - 02:55:19.363, Speaker A: Sa sa sa sa it. Sa sa sa sa sa, sa sa sa. GM GM. Everyone. Did everyone have a good lunch? Awesome. Wonderful for everyone that's tuning in on the stream. Sarang.
02:55:19.363 - 02:55:44.791, Speaker A: Hamida, thank you very much for joining us at Breakpoint Singapore 2024. My name is Eno. I'm a co founder over at isc and I have two missions in life. My first mission is to make solana the number one chain for stablecoins. First in DeFi, then in emerging markets and then in the entire world. And my second mission in life right now is to make sure that we have these vibes and maximum overdrive. On the count of three, I want you to say Solana.
02:55:44.791 - 02:56:07.495, Speaker A: One, two, three. All right, so this next debate, anybody here invest during the ICO period? Anybody? Raise your hand. Raise your hand. Perfect. All right, this debate is for you. ICOs, should we bring them back? Introducing to the stage, Tushar, Kevin and Ciao. Make some noise, Sa.
02:56:07.495 - 02:57:02.955, Speaker A: Oh, do I start? All right. All right, let's get started then. So I'm going to argue for bringing back ICOs. But before I get started, I just want to say neither of us are lawyers. We're not going to talk about the regulatory side of things, really. We're going to talk about market structure. I'm not commenting on any sort of regulatory anything, so just want to be clear on that.
02:57:02.955 - 02:58:07.147, Speaker A: So my argument for bringing back ICOS is that the current token launch structure is deeply flawed Right now. Instead of democratizing access and putting market participants onto an equal playing field, what we actually have is a structure that leads to low float, high FTV tokens that are unfair to some market participants. Look, fundamentally, I believe that the best way to build a community in crypto is to make a lot of people some money, not make a few people all of the money. So I think reforming how we do token launches is the best way to accomplish that. People like to win together. People want to win with their team. Something that a lot of teams do right now is they'll do an airdrop of tokens.
02:58:07.147 - 02:58:59.587, Speaker A: But airdrops are a really awful solution because they're capital inefficient. You're just giving away those tokens and they actually incentivize airdrop farmers to civil Attack your protocol and you lie to yourself and you are basically fooling yourself into thinking you have more traction than you actually do. So these airdrops, it's just a terrible meta. You're giving away the money and you're lying to yourself about your metrics. So what's more fair, what should we actually be doing? I think we should give people the ability to buy tokens and have true price discovery as quickly as possible. Market distortions like low floats destroy value. Maybe investors or founders feel good by looking at their balance sheet and they say like, oh man, I'm so rich.
02:58:59.587 - 02:59:29.465, Speaker A: But they're lying to themselves too, because the number on the screen is not a real number. When your float is 2%, it just not real. You need enough float for true price discovery. And what I would like to see is an exploration of the design space of ICOs. It's not just a simple auction, but you can do creative things like allow people to bid with different lockups. You got a lower price with a longer lockup. You can have lockups that are based on KPIs instead of being based on time.
02:59:29.465 - 03:00:14.929, Speaker A: Or you can even look at how a bidder has participated in past ICOs and what they did afterwards, and then use that to judge, you know, what kind of deal they get in the current ico. So overall, you know, I think my opponent is going to talk about how ICOs can be scammy. And yes, ICOs have been scammy before, but I think you don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater. And anything can be scammy. We should explore the design space for more efficient capital formation. I'm not going to talk about how scammy ICOs are. In fact, what I'm going to talk about is the two most iconic projects in the history of crypto.
03:00:14.929 - 03:00:48.105, Speaker A: One is Ethereum, that's an ico. And the other one is Solana, that is the VC coin. And guess which one is doing better, Solana? The VC coin is doing better. That's it. That's my argument. But to elaborate more, what VCs do bring. So first of all, VC investment and ICOs can coexist, but let's assume there's a full dichotomy between the.
03:00:48.105 - 03:01:34.155, Speaker A: What VCs bring to the table is some of the best ones, including multicoin, can actually add a lot of value to the project itself. So to give an example, Solana is actually a really good example. Right? I think you guys made a huge impact in the early days of Solana. Obviously not discrediting the Solana team themselves. But you guys, for example, connected the Solana team with the most important players in their early days, notably ftx, but that's another story. But ftx, for better or worse, was an important player in the early days of Solana, and you guys made that happen. And I think that's just the key difference between having a VC on board and having a bunch of retail participating in an ico.
03:01:34.155 - 03:02:33.385, Speaker A: So let's start with the basics, because that's what I like to do to Shar. What is an ico? What is an ico? I think an ICO is a offering of tokens to the public. And I think what differentiates an ICO from, from an IPO is it's permissionless access. I think permissionless access is the key differentiator that, you know, is the line between an IPO structured equity process where only big hedge funds get to participate, and if you're retail, you only get to buy after it lists and usually there's a pop. And ICOs allow regular people to go and participate at the same terms as the big sophisticated investors. If you are, if you're pro ico. I've heard quite a bit people saying, oh, man, the ICOs were so much better.
03:02:33.385 - 03:03:04.701, Speaker A: Right. Than what we have today. But if they made so much sense, why have we evolved so far away from them? Oh, regulatory uncertainty and a regulator that decides to regulate by enforcement rather than guidance. I think it's. Without that regulatory hindrance, I think we would have ICOs. Kiao. Yes.
03:03:04.701 - 03:03:44.175, Speaker A: Given how much the industry has changed over the last six years, even if we have regulatory guidance that you're talking about Tushar and given the incentive that the different actors have in the space, is it even possible to bring back ICOs? I mean, ICOs exist today. Right. Like ICOs are taking are. You know, there's ICOs going on all the time offshore outside of the U.S. if we're talking about inside the U.S., I think there is like, do we consider like the coin list token sale as ico? I think we can. And those are regulated, effectively regulated ico.
03:03:44.175 - 03:04:50.581, Speaker A: So it's already happening today. What does a typical successful ICO look like? Typical success? What ICO look like? Well, because we have so many, I mean, people who are very suspicious about the space and there is so much money that's been lost, right? Yeah. So what's the right way to do an ico? The right way to do an ico? I think you want to at least try to replicate the you know, how traffic does it, not in the actual process, but in spirit. Meaning specifically transparency. I think you want to disclose as much as possible about the team, what you want to do, what you want to build, where you are based, what are some of the, ideally, what is the vesting schedule of ICOs? I think that's one of the key differences between ICOs and VC investing. I think you want to have a good ICO is something is one that has a long vesting, long lockup so that the team is more incentivized to be in it for long, for the long term. So transparency, I think is probably the most important.
03:04:50.581 - 03:05:20.679, Speaker A: So you're saying you're vesting that's long enough for the team to be incentivized, right? Yeah. And ultimately, like, look, we don't, I don't think we necessarily need regulations to enforce transparency, but the market will should, in theory take care of this. Right. Like over the long term, the ICOs that don't provide the transparency should be discredited by the market. Right. So hopefully the market will take care of it. Yeah.
03:05:20.679 - 03:06:02.107, Speaker A: Actually, if I can answer, you know, with an example of what I thought was, I don't know if I want to call it an ICO or not, but a very well done offering of tokens. And this was recent, not a multicoin portfolio company, but a builder here who I have a lot of respect for was the Sanctum team who did a offering and it was very well thought out with different structures. You know, the longer lockup you took, the better price you got. They had a number of anti bot mechanisms in there. I thought it was one of the more thoughtful offerings out there. So I just want to shout them out as a success case, in my opinion. I feel like there is in this space more and more conversation about that, obviously.
03:06:02.107 - 03:06:39.021, Speaker A: And more and more founders were saying, oh yeah man, what's happening with these low flow, high FDV tokens is not good. But I also feel like a lot of founders are still incentivized to do those. Right. So not go the ICO way. How do we change their mind? Oh, public markets have to change their mind. Right? It needs to be. Public markets need to reward people who launch tokens with a high float and not reward people who have this low float, high FTP game.
03:06:39.021 - 03:07:05.195, Speaker A: And that's my honest view. Like that's not even me taking a debate stance like stop supporting people who do the low float, high FD game. That's not what is healthy for capital markets. That is not what leads to the best capital formation. And that's not what leads to good price discovery. So you need to have enough float out there to see what the price really should be. And any market distortions are net negative.
03:07:05.195 - 03:07:28.631, Speaker A: So what happens to the project that raised a lot of money at a high value that might still kind of be in this game of. I'm kind of the previous game. Right. But the market is slowly but surely changing. How do they deal with that? How do the products deal with. If you raise at a high valuation and you raise a lot of money. Yeah.
03:07:28.631 - 03:08:01.681, Speaker A: How do you deal with that now? I don't really have any advice for them. My advice for our founders, the. The startups that we invested in, is to raise just enough money. Don't get greedy with the money you can raise with the valuation, because more money will actually kill you. More money means more distraction. It means you're constantly thinking about hiring, you're constantly building a huge team. You're going to create a lot of bureaucracy within the team.
03:08:01.681 - 03:08:28.009, Speaker A: When you pivot, you're gonna. It's gonna be very hard to align the whole team. Right. So having too much money is actually very counterproductive. So I advise all our startups to do the very opposite of the phenomenon you described. I know we're supposed to disagree, but I said the same thing. Look, VCs like us will and our peers will try and give you more money because that is our business model.
03:08:28.009 - 03:09:12.475, Speaker A: But the best teams stay hungry. You know, look at how much Solana raised in Venture rounds compared to how much some of their peers the other L1s raised. And I actually think they did better because they had less money because they were forced to stay lean, they were forced to ship, they were forced to stay hungry, and they didn't have all this bloat. Yesterday we talked about the. The fact that we were kind of a bit down because of this, you know, sideways markets and not a lot of deal flow because you have to justify your existence as a VC. Right. If we're moving more and more towards the ICOs again, how do you guys play this game? We would participate.
03:09:12.475 - 03:09:40.993, Speaker A: It would just be on an equal playing field with everyone else. Right now, you know, honestly, we get preferential access because we can help people. We have a brand and that's valuable and I love it and, you know, thank you. But, you know, we have to play the game that's on the field. We don't get to choose what the game is. So we would play with the new rules. Maybe a last question.
03:09:40.993 - 03:10:28.135, Speaker A: About Because I've seen some founders just really be really scared about these big unlocks. Right. Right at the beginning. And I mean obviously Solana is not an ico, but you had an experience of a big unlock that was kind of scary for you. Do you want to explain us how you felt and what really happened? And maybe this can help some founders think a different way about these big unlocks. Yeah, I think people have a fundamental misalignment between what venture investors think and what public markets think on the venture side. We think a lot of us that long lockups are good because they align incentives because it means that we're demonstrating to you that we're in it for the long term.
03:10:28.135 - 03:11:11.351, Speaker A: But there's a double edged sword here. There's another side which is the long lockups mean that there is a long low float which leads to a high ftv. Which means that the people who are buying on the public markets get a bad deal because there just isn't enough ownership to go around in the public market. So what public market investors want to see is they want to see high float. They want to see true price discovery without market distortions that let them actually see what is this thing worth. Not, you know, see some made up number that's on the screen. So I think we have to fix this mismatch.
03:11:11.351 - 03:11:33.565, Speaker A: And doing a big single token unlock is one way to do that. It's not the only way to do that. That's what Solana did. I don't know if any of you remember what the timeline was like heading into that big Solana unlock in January of 2021. I certainly do. It was everyone and their mom talking about how oh my God, everyone's gonna dump everything. There's this big unlock.
03:11:33.565 - 03:12:13.935, Speaker A: But you know what I think really worked there? Is it allowed for real price discovery. Everyone who wanted to sell could sell and everyone who wanted to buy could buy. And we got to see what is the thing actually worth. And it wasn't some made up number that was manipulated by exchanges and market makers to try and make someone feel good. It's time for the closing thoughts on both sides. Who should go first? You know actually I, you know I'm actually on Touchard's side but I have to steal man the other side. But the fact of the matter is I think we should bring back ICOs.
03:12:13.935 - 03:12:47.143, Speaker A: Well, that's going to be hard to follow up. I had a whole thing about, you know, look, I think a great launch should be liquid. That's what matters. That like that's what public markets are about. They're about liquidity and they're about price discovery. And the baseline that you're looking for is really find out what is this thing worth. Everyone who wants to buy should be able to buy.
03:12:47.143 - 03:13:15.885, Speaker A: Everyone who wants to sell should be able to sell. And let's let markets figure out what the value is rather than trying to decide with a small group of people how much things should be worth. This is the root of capitalism. I also think a great launch should be fair. I think it's important to give people equal access. I think that's why we're here. That's why this industry exists, is to democratize access.
03:13:15.885 - 03:14:08.437, Speaker A: And I think token launches are one of the big wealth creation events that we should democratize access for. So, look, the status quo just doesn't lead to that. And I hope we see the regulatory clarity and the change that'll lead to the exploration of the design space for ICOs. And I think we can do so much better than IPOs do, where IPOs are just, you know, a bank going to a handful of big hedge funds who set the price and they're automatically in the money on day one. I think we can, you know, explore interesting structures and allow markets to play a role here. Yeah, I mean, the fact of the matter is the most successful project or asset in the last, I don't know how many decades in terms of return is in fact Ethereum. Right.
03:14:08.437 - 03:14:39.775, Speaker A: 2014 ICO, they raised $18 million. And then over the subsequent decade, Ethereum data 10,000x and everyone on the planet could have access to Ethereum and buy into the ICO. So I for sure, I think unbalanced ICOs is better, is a net positive. Now we need proper disclosures, of course. Right. Like, I think that's a critical thing. And I don't want to say that all ICOs have been good.
03:14:39.775 - 03:15:19.097, Speaker A: There have been some really scammy ones. They make promises and, you know, I think you need proper disclosures. You need to understand who is involved. And I think that comes down to the market. The market should, like Chow was saying, the market should demand these disclosures and don't participate if you don't have that full information. Do you guys want to guess which ICO in 2017 actually built a good product? A product that works, that people love? That's a good argument against. Actually, it is.
03:15:19.097 - 03:15:44.685, Speaker A: That's. That's the argument against. You can't think of anyone, right? Can you think of one? Did I just hear something in the argument? Did you hear Your name? Chainlink. ChainLink did the ICU in 2017. 0x is one, yes. BNB is another one. And there's probably only a handful.
03:15:44.685 - 03:16:09.735, Speaker A: The vast majority did die, although the investors did well. What's that? Tron. Tron, yes. Ave Ave was 2017 Eastland. That's right. So there's probably only a handful that did really well that built a really good product. The vast majority died.
03:16:09.735 - 03:17:02.615, Speaker A: So that's ultimately the argument against it, the empirical evidence against it. All right, well, thank you everybody for listening, you know, appreciate it. And thank you. Ciao for being a good sport and taking the harder side of the debate. So thank you, Tushar. Thank you. This next speaker is a core contributor to one of the most beloved Defi protocols on sl.
03:17:02.615 - 03:17:49.227, Speaker A: The Camino team is firing off on all cylinders to create a new financial layer that reshapes the lending landscape with novel primitives, powerful automation and next gen security infrastructure. Make some noise for Marios. Hello, I'm Marius. I'm one of the core contributors to Camino. Camino Land. Back in last Breakpoint a year ago, Camino Land was some product enclosed beta. We had a previous product which had about 10 million in TVL but was not producing many fees.
03:17:49.227 - 03:18:28.225, Speaker A: And we were really thinking if this thing is going to work out and where are we going to be in the next six months? After Breakpoint, we know what happened. Everything took off. Seoul had the massive pump and Camino became one of the biggest protocols in Defi. We have a, we have a 2 million, 2 billion market size. We're the second highest fee producing protocol in lending protocol in defi. Lots of users, lots of open positions and actually I met lots of you here at Breakpoint telling me that you have way too much money in Camino. So I want to thank you all for that and for the trust.
03:18:28.225 - 03:19:10.149, Speaker A: We've always had the vision that Solana is the chain that will scale and will grow Defi from what it used to be a year ago, two years ago. And the reason is because of the. The high throughput and low cost of transactions. And we've seen what happened in the past year. We've seen the market correcting and the Solana growing being the most successful story of the last year. And we think that Solana is ready for the next leg up. We see institutions, we see degens, we see more than 20,000 memes created per day on pump function.
03:19:10.149 - 03:19:55.655, Speaker A: And we have plenty of commitment and intentions from institutions wanting to come and use Camino. So we're ready to go to 10 billion. We published the roadmap a few weeks ago and that's why we've designed Camino Land V2 to onboard the next leg of adoption in Solana. Caminoland V2 is made of two primitives. It's the market layer which will aggregate, which will create all sorts of markets for all risk profiles. The vault layer which will simplify liquidity provision and the next generation risk and Oracle infrastructure and the whole redesigned ux. There are two more products that are still currently in design, but we haven't announced them yet.
03:19:55.655 - 03:20:27.315, Speaker A: The market layer is basically the Camino Land that you know and love. It's been live on mainnet for over a year. It's taken us to 2 billion in market size. It's, it's, it's fee producing, it's going great, has been battle tested and we want to build on top of that. We want to double down on that. Battle tested those battle test smart contracts we will communal. The modular market layer will allow us to create many more markets for lots of risk.
03:20:27.315 - 03:21:44.197, Speaker A: Risk profiles for stable coins, for real world assets, for meme coins, we will be able to onboard all assets from all over the risk spectrum. However, the property of multiple markets is that it fragments liquidity and therefore we have designed the vault layer which will allow risk curators or different front ends or different wallets as well as the Camino front end to simplify the liquidity provision for users. There will be all kinds of vaults that will make it simpler to earn yield or to provide liquidity in different markets. We're already working with plenty of partners that want to create vaults on Camino, excited to reveal them in the next few weeks. As part of coming online v2 we basically have a whole new UX redesigned from the ground up that will make it much simpler for people to use to access leverage, to go long to go short. And one of them is spot leverage, which is a product that is currently missing in Solana or in the form we think it should exist. It will tap into the risk profiles enabled by the new markets, but into the depth of liquidity created by the vault layer.
03:21:44.197 - 03:22:37.375, Speaker A: And it will simplify being responsibly long on Solana. As a djinn myself, I want to be long for an indefinite period of time without having to pay crazy fees or being exposed to a complex set of rules that Perth protocol offer. So very excited to reveal spot leverage in the next few weeks. And lastly, you know, there's this like false dichotomy in crypto that you have to build for institutions or build for degens. But the last year has proven us that institutions are just degens in suits and just have higher size. And we're building for all of them in different size and we're really excited. That communal end will basically allow anyone to go long, go short, earn yield and access liquidity.
03:22:37.375 - 03:23:11.933, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Thank you. Coming up, we have pith with the one and only Mike Cahill round of applause. All right, excited to be here. Hi. Break point. I'm Mike Kahl.
03:23:11.933 - 03:24:04.245, Speaker A: I'm the CEO of Doral Labs and we're building the pith network. And today we're going to talk a little bit about a new product update. The mission of the pith network is to supercharge defi infrastructure so that apps can compete with dapps. It does this across three cost, speed and trust by relentlessly removing inefficiencies so that better application types are possible. I'm incredibly proud of where the network has gotten to at this point. So far, 400 applications have been built using Piff, over $100 billion in transaction volume in July alone. $700 billion in transaction volume of all time, a number that's up tenfold year over year.
03:24:04.245 - 03:24:57.215, Speaker A: But we got to keep things in perspective. Defi is still relatively small compared to CFI. Today we're introducing Pith Price Feed's V3. V1 offered synchronized Oracle updates, the fastest blockchain, so that new application types were possible. This was a giant leap forward and we saw the evolution of what was possible on chain. V2 brought the fastest Oracle updates to all chains at solana speeds available to over 75 different blockchains. V3, we're introducing Oracle Integrity staking price feeds with protection.
03:24:57.215 - 03:25:50.345, Speaker A: What if application developers didn't need to worry about inaccurate data? Oracle Integrity staking for the first time will cover all price feeds on all chains, from any sort of misprice based on the staking from publishers to the quality of their data. But what's more is that this is open for anybody participating to stake to a publisher and earn up to 10% yields. In the world of Defi, the strength of the ecosystem depends on one foundation. Truth. But who stands guard over that truth? Pith does. Through Oracle Integrity staking, pith keeps data pure and unbroken. How can I be a part of this? Stake your pith to become part of the movement.
03:25:50.345 - 03:26:30.863, Speaker A: The guardians of Defi are rewarded for their vigilance. All right, it's live today. Go to the website. Oracle risks are a thing of the past. Thanks, guys. Next up, we have Another product pitch, this time from Ranger. Please give a warm round of applause for FA2GM.
03:26:30.863 - 03:26:54.595, Speaker A: GM. Can everyone hear me? Can everyone hear me? All right. Welcome everyone. Thank you for coming today for Ranger's keynote. And today I'll be presenting what Ranger is actually about. Ranger's vision is to unlock the potential of markets. And the way we want to do so is to solve for fragmentation.
03:26:54.595 - 03:27:29.445, Speaker A: Fragmentation. There's three different levels to fragmentation. Firstly, data fragmentation. Secondly, liquidity fragmentation, and thirdly, market fragmentation. Data fragmentation is a large problem in Solana and also in the whole crypto space. The way we want to solve for data fragmentation is to harmonize the data access as well as aggregate defi data on Solana. In the end, we want to be a hub for all defi data on Solana.
03:27:29.445 - 03:28:20.075, Speaker A: Now, liquidity is always a very large issue. Fragmented liquidity especially this is because liquidity moves from one place to the other because of various factors. Firstly, it is due to new protocols coming up or secondly, incentives at Ranger. We want to solve this by having a smart order router. Now how does it work? It's pretty simple. A large order comes in and we break it up into smaller pieces which we routed to multiple dexes. Now, how are you as a user going to use Ranger? The first thing you want to go to is the data page that and you'll see that the funding rates of Jupiter and Flash are the lowest.
03:28:20.075 - 03:28:51.345, Speaker A: You want to place an order, so you head over to our trading page and let's say you're a big whale. You want to place a massive order, so you place a 4.2 mil order on Ranger. It's because we can spot it. You place the order and we show you the available routes which we previously mentioned. Jupiter as well as Flash. We will also show you the price impact as well as the available liquidity on both platforms.
03:28:51.345 - 03:29:46.655, Speaker A: We execute the order for you and just like that, you will be able to see both positions on Ranger. Speaking about liquidity, we also want to push the boundaries of liquidity. This is why we're announcing a strategic partnership together with Asgard. We want to introduce spot margin and for you you'll be able to trade spot up to 10x. Now we'd like to share some stats with you we've achieved over the past few months. Firstly, we managed to come close to 40k signups on Ranger as well as up to 100mil monthly committed volume. Now, solving for data fragmentation as well as liquidity fragmentation are just two steps to our bigger vision.
03:29:46.655 - 03:30:41.635, Speaker A: We want to unite defi and the way we are doing so is to introduce your three other perp Dexes into our Smart Order router, the Spot and spot margin, a P2P OTC, as well as on and off ramps. We hope that you can join our journey into unlocking the potential of markets. Thank you. Round of applause for Ranger. Up next, we have everybody's Happy Clouds, Sanctum, Building the Seoul economy with lst. Huge round of applause for the legend fp, co founder of Sanctum. Holy shit, there are a lot of people here.
03:30:41.635 - 03:31:24.019, Speaker A: Okay, okay, thank you guys all for coming to my talk. I can't actually see all of you because the lights are so bright. Anyway, I've been at Breakpoint and I've spoken to over hundreds of people, and I think the general consensus I've gotten is that people are super optimistic about Solana, but very pessimistic about crypto. And, you know, in general, people are like, well, what's the point of 1 million transactions per second if all we're doing is trading shitcoins? And, you know, this is like people are asking for something real. People are feeling fatalistic. They're feeling, like, hopeless. They look for something real.
03:31:24.019 - 03:32:05.165, Speaker A: And so we gotta fix that. I think the truth is that crypto needs more than just speculation. We need ways to spend, save, and create value. So one of the things that we're launching today is Sanctum Creator Coins. So what are Creator Coins? Well, Creator Coins allow anyone to build, grow, and monetize their community. Now, how Creator Coins work. Actually, there are LSTs under the hood, but when I say LSTs, nobody knows what that means.
03:32:05.165 - 03:32:29.667, Speaker A: So what you need to know is that one Creator Coin is one sold always. This is backed by Sanctum's unified Liquidity layer. When you hold a Creator Coin, your staking yields go automatically to the creator. And if you don't like the creator for whatever reason, you can exit at any time without losing your money. Creator Coins are permissionless. Anyone can create their own coin. They're unruggable, and they're sustainable for the creator.
03:32:29.667 - 03:33:10.773, Speaker A: Depending on the price of sol, you receive roughly around a dollar a month for every coin held by your supporters. So. Oh, sorry, one sec. So, Creator Coins, there are obvious use cases for artists, influencers, creators. But when I say creators, I actually mean in a broader sense when creator doesn't mean just, you know, someone who posts on YouTube or whatever, but a creator means someone who delivers value, right? Creates value in any way. And so one interesting idea of how someone could use a creator coin is FloJo. Now, Paul, who's the founder of FloJo, him and his wife were super burnt out on crypto.
03:33:10.773 - 03:33:47.881, Speaker A: They wanted to build something that would solve this burnout, help people focus, right? Building an energy drink that is actually good for you. And so he's a Web3 native, but he's building a very Web1 product. And the creator coin lets Flojo skip kind of like traditional advertising where you have to pay, you know, all the Web two incumbents. And he's able to build a loyal community directly, you know, us, without paying the middleman. And as you'll see later, the closure coin lets him reward holders as well. One of the other ones by our community members is Bank Shark. So Bank Shark is one of our earnest, most earnest community members.
03:33:47.881 - 03:34:17.425, Speaker A: He, one of his family members tragically passed away because of a clinical error. And so he started a clinic of his own to try and fix this problem, to offer high quality, like really high quality diagnostic tests. And this is an event where he kind of gave. He ran his clinic in Surabaya. He gave everybody who came, like free tests, free blood tests and free medication if they needed it. Here are some photos here them doing the thing. And you know, here's this.
03:34:17.425 - 03:34:43.787, Speaker A: You know, this is. I mean, he printed all of this, right? I didn't do it. And this is really cool. Why am I telling you these stories? I think that the reason is because, you know, creator coins. Behind every creator coin there should be a creator with like a story. And we're giving this kind of new money Lego for people to play around with it. And we see, you know, because they're permissionless, they're composable, we're excited to see what people on top the next thing.
03:34:43.787 - 03:34:59.775, Speaker A: Oh shit, sorry. Here's the QR code. You can scan it and we're opening signups. It should be live in next two weeks. But please scan the QR code if you want to create your own coin. Okay, the next thing I want to show is the cloud card. This is a.
03:34:59.775 - 03:35:41.353, Speaker A: This is a card that is the first world's Solana debit card. So it allows you to spend stables and Sol in 100 plus countries. And this is a collaboration between Based App and Jupiter, my two favorite protocols. Right. So we're super happy to have them on board and I think there are a couple of announcements about debit cards today. I think what we're trying to do is build a card that you actually love. And you know, Solana's composability lets us build Something that's really like delightful, something that you have fun spending and you can see as I've said about the creator coin, if you holding the creator coins you can claim your rewards here.
03:35:41.353 - 03:36:03.147, Speaker A: Be it Free Flow Joe and potentially Native Token in the future. So that's what we have for the card. This is the QR code. Join the waitlist today. I will wait like five seconds. Three, four, five. So to wrap up what we're doing at Sanctum, we want to let people spend safe and create value.
03:36:03.147 - 03:36:50.385, Speaker A: And that's what I wanted to show you guys today. And there's one last thing. Yeah, Wonderland is coming. Thank you very much. Up next we have starting in 2022 as a summer camp hackathon project for all you OGs. Huge round of applause for Arnold Lee, co founder of you know it, Sphere gm. Gm.
03:36:50.385 - 03:37:40.225, Speaker A: So I'm Arnold, co founder of Sphere. We got our start on Solana way back doing crypto payments. And what I'd like to talk to you about today are some of the lessons that we've learned building a payments company. Usually ask people what they're bullish on for real world use cases within crypto and they'll tell you payments. And that was me too until I decided to build a crypto payments company. Then you start to run into some obstacles which I like to call great filters that show you why getting money in and out of chains today is extremely hard. Today we, you know, work with a lot of amazing Solana companies, Helios, Helium Squads, Latitude List goes on.
03:37:40.225 - 03:39:02.717, Speaker A: But over the last year a lot of our focus has been in cross border payments, especially in emerging markets where through happenstance the DNA of the team really concentrated. When crypto is down bad, we do orchestration. We're essentially a money transmission aggregator and really get into the low level of bank messaging. Over the last few years a lot of my conversations have been with bankers, regulators, compliance officers, risk officers and trying to convince them to more natively support the amazing things that can be built on top of open loop permissionless chains. So you know, what are some common I suppose, obstacles that we see when interfacing with these types of counterparties. I like to call this a suffering from success because as these ecosystems have grown so much in size and you know, now all of you are here, I remember a couple of break points ago, it was a much smaller crowd. Reputational risk becomes quite important because the quiet part out loud is that it's very hard to move a lot of money recurringly in and out of crypto because of the open risk vectors that exist within open loop permissionless chains.
03:39:02.717 - 03:40:10.801, Speaker A: And why is that? Well, you know, it turns out if anyone in the world who has a computer and an Internet connection can kind of do what they want on chain, there's good stuff and there's also bad stuff. And you know, it's a separate question of philosophy, of what you define as good or bad. What I will say is that there is a category of activity that is considered higher risk because you know who you're interacting with, who is building your block, who is confirming your transactions, who are you paying fees to, who is interacting with your account and sending you coins. When it comes to the Bank Secrecy act, this law that has driven money laundering and counter terrorist financing principles across many different countries, this notion of risk starts to really matter. So you know, people make up trilemmas without formal proof. So I'll give you another one which is between regulators, blockchains and banks. It's really hard to get all three of these counterparties to give full approval on allowing you to move a ton of money in and out of crypto.
03:40:10.801 - 03:41:01.545, Speaker A: You've probably wondered why isn't there a way for me to just use Apple pay and get a lot of money into crypto? Why, why do I have to kyc so much? Why are the auth rates so low? And it's in convincing and finding the overlap between these three, the blockchains that want to with banks and the regulators that oversee bank activity. Here are a couple of examples that you probably know of. You could have a CDBC appease regulators and banks. There are centralized exchanges like previously FTX that found the middle ground between regulators and blockchains. And older chains like Ripple that find the middle ground between blockchains and banks. Despite that, it's still really hard to move money in and out of crypto. Satoshi's original vision was a peer to peer payment system.
03:41:01.545 - 03:41:42.525, Speaker A: And yet 8 billion people, how many use crypto today? I'm going to introduce a couple of key things that we are part of, we think are part of the solution. Naturally you want a very high performance virtual machine. There's a ton of TPS in the world. You want fixed and nominal gas fees. Something that people don't really talk about is that regulated institutions that have to report their financial activity each year are hesitant to hold coins that could go up and down in value and where source of funding is unclear. And the last is built in privacy and compliance. This is the way that you make this technology truly interoperable with the fiat with the real world.
03:41:42.525 - 03:43:01.315, Speaker A: One analogy that we like to use in order to describe the system is a decentralized wise where you have local experts coming in from all different jurisdictions, regulated by different agencies in the world and you give them a credibly neutral platform in order to find each other. That's one of the biggest headaches as a fintech trying to service things that are happening on blockchains. So this is a QR code for what we'd like to publicly introduce today more formally, which is spherenet. If you're a fintech in the crowd, you might have heard me talk about it. It's a way for us to bring us all together leveraging the most performant distributed system that humanity has ever created, Solana Virtual Machine in order to make it so that that the users, the app builders who are trying to innovate in open finance, consumer apps, gaming and so forth, now have a clear channel with the banks and the infrastructure that is required to really make this technology mainstream. If you're interested in contributing as a regulated institution, as a fintech, we'd love to talk. Some of the greatest challenges that we've seen can come down to language, culture and in convincing foreign entities to really give you the best service possible without it taking a lot of time and money.
03:43:01.315 - 03:43:30.407, Speaker A: So thanks for listening and I hope that some of this was mildly interesting to you. Round of applause for the legendary Arnold Lee. Up next we have payment OGs. They've been processing billions. They are new to web 3. Give a huge Solana family welcome to the legends from reap, Kevin and Felix. Felix and Raphael.
03:43:30.407 - 03:44:35.019, Speaker A: I did not mess that up. Felix and Raphael, round of applause. Hi guys. Hey guys. Hey folks. I'm Felix. I lead the biz ops team at reap.
03:44:35.019 - 03:45:24.837, Speaker A: I look after all strategic partnerships around financial partners, international expansion and our general corporate development functions across the organization. Hey guys. I'm project lead arip and we work on building better financial tools for web3 projects to operate and to grow. So what is REAP? So REAP is a technology provider that provides connecting the on chain and off chain networks of financial payments into one platform. We enable this by meshing both stable coin issuers on chain and also the banking partners we have. This enables us to optimize financial flow on and off, both on chain and off chain. So the current offerings we have are what we call the REAP card, which is a Visa card that is stablecoin enabled so you can repay the bills using your stablecoins.
03:45:24.837 - 03:46:37.957, Speaker A: We have REAP pay which is essentially a B2B payments product that allows you to use stablecoin as a way to pay a merchants to Fiat. So if I want to pay my lawyers, I could use stablecoins to fund it directly. And all in all, we have a reporting function that enables to aggregate all that data to give better reporting to your financial teams. So obviously in the last six years we've been working very, very hard and combining both our banking partners and also the on chain financial partners to actually mesh both things to allow USDT and USDC to move on and off and able to make payments move around the world very easily. So right now what we can do is collateralize stablecoins and make vendor payments, immersion payments using the Visa card and obviously making also local payments, making payments to merchants and vendors that only take Fiat and cash by making connecting all those partners directly into those rails. So obviously from year to date, in the last 12 months we've done over 2 billion just through using stablecoins and fiat on and off as well as we've experienced over 5x in growth in the last year. Yeah, so I'm going to show you quickly exactly how it works.
03:46:37.957 - 03:47:04.847, Speaker A: So this is my REAP account. I've just onboarded my projects on it. I have a virtual card, but I can also have physical cards like this one. I saw some of you guys already have one. I can go ahead get my Solana wallet address right here and I can deposit Stable coins on it. So USDC and USDT on Solana. So here I just want to use my USDC to operate and some of the Fiat word.
03:47:04.847 - 03:47:54.885, Speaker A: So for example transactions being just processed on chain, I can go back to the tool, I can go around and in a couple minutes my account will be funded. So we give you the Fiat equivalent to collateralize your card. I have $15 just here and I can use it right away. So as soon as the money is credited I get my credit line. I can go ahead, I'm just going to go ahead and buy a calendly subscription for my team for example, right here and boom, using the card detail that I just got, I just have the transaction process by reap. So super easy instant and I can use it right away because it's a Visa credit card you can use everywhere in the world. Now I can also make payments so I can for example pay a contractor.
03:47:54.885 - 03:48:22.935, Speaker A: I have an invoice I need to pay for my contractor. I have Stable coins that I want to use on my treasury and they want to receive fiat from example. So here I can either find Payments using RIP card or maybe directly using Stable coins. So for the demo I just top up like 50 USDC directly on my wallet here. I'm going to send just 200 Kong$. We support all the major currencies. Upload the invoice.
03:48:22.935 - 03:48:46.595, Speaker A: I have a breakdown of the payment. I can just use the USD we directly convert into fiat and then reap is processing the payment using the just the traditional banking rails. Right. So coming back to my dashboard, payment is completed. The RIP team has processed the payment and send the funds. And I can even show you on HSBC account funds have been received. Right.
03:48:46.595 - 03:49:21.027, Speaker A: So key takeaways we use, we empower you to use your stablecoins to operate in the fiat world. You can collateralize your card, you can repay your bills, you can send funds very easily. We are very excited to finally be integrated with Solana to help your community and your projects to grow and to operate. So we're after this. Me and Raf will be around so if you guys are interested in learning more, feel free to scan on telegram QR codes and also meet us afterwards. Yeah and go to on RE Global to sign up. See you guys.
03:49:21.027 - 03:50:30.555, Speaker A: Thank you. Cheers. Thank you. Round of applause, His Holiness, the one, the only Prophet has arrived. Who's into it? We know we are. Prophet is here to spread the gospel. Round of applause for the one and only His Holiness.
03:50:30.555 - 03:51:20.765, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Profit and I am a contributor to metadao. Metadao builds markets for decision making. So I'm a big market nerd. I love markets. And recently many people have come to the conclusion that markets are a pretty good way to aggregate information. Poly Market being the notable example. Some people even go so far as to call polymarket the truth machine of who's going to win the election or whether Monkeypox is likely to spread to the us.
03:51:20.765 - 03:52:16.805, Speaker A: And if we have a truth machine, it would make sense for us to try to use that truth machine to make decisions. And so that's what we're doing. So how it works is you can imagine with an example of IBM deciding whether or not to fire the CEO. So the goal of IBM is number go up, right? They want to maximize shareholder value. And so you could create two markets. One, on what would be the price of IBM stock if you were to fire the CEO and what would be the price of IBM stock if you were to retain them. And say the market says that IBM would be worth $97 if you retain the CO and $106 if you fire the CEO.
03:52:16.805 - 03:53:02.397, Speaker A: So the market is Saying that IBM would be more valuable if you fire the CEO and you should fire him. And so this is live only on Solana. So this is an example proposal that Dean's list out did where it was a proposal to revamp their tokenomics. And it turned out that the Dean, the people who bet in this market said that Dean would be worth more if the tokenomics proposal passed than if it failed. And so it passed. And what I'm excited to share is that soon we will have decision markets for any metric. So any possible decision.
03:53:02.397 - 03:53:51.737, Speaker A: So a startup, for example, could create a decision market on what's the probability that we're alive 12 months from now if we pivot to this new business model, a company could create a decision market on what would be our revenue if we add this new product or this new marketing campaign. Or a government could measure what would be the expected lifespan of our constituents if we were to adopt this new healthcare policy. And so we believe that markets can re architect civilization. We think that the whole world will run on markets. This starts with metadow. Metadata is the world's first market governed organization. We don't have a board of directors.
03:53:51.737 - 03:54:28.535, Speaker A: There's no metadata labs. It's code running on Solana where people trade on whether or not individual proposals would be good or bad for the native token. And if they're good, they pass, and if they're not, they fail. And we are early contributors to this dao. And if you would also like to join, we are looking for engineering contributors. So you can go to this site or to Docs Metadow Phi if you just want to learn more or trade or to spin up your own market governed organization. Thank you.
03:54:28.535 - 03:55:34.737, Speaker A: Hello, friends. Oh, my goodness. Break points. Are we so bullish? Yes, we are. Hi, friends. I'm Rebecca from super team Germany. Where are my super team family at? Yes.
03:55:34.737 - 03:55:59.721, Speaker A: All right. We have an extra special Fireside Chat. These are absolute legends. We have Ben from Bybit and the one and only Lily from Solana Foundation. Incredible badasses. Put your phones down, open your ears and get ready to listen and have your minds blown. Round of applause.
03:55:59.721 - 03:56:25.091, Speaker A: Lillian. Ben. Yeah, that's you. All right, Good. All right. What's up, Ben? It's great to be here. Amazing event.
03:56:25.091 - 03:56:39.291, Speaker A: Amazing event. Yeah, it's. It's awesome to have you here. I think the first time we actually met in person was this time last year. Yeah, yeah. Actually we gifted Ben one of the Saga phones, which ended up being actually pretty valuable. Memento.
03:56:39.291 - 03:57:07.549, Speaker A: Yes. Very, very good. Yeah. So I'm curious. You know, BYBIT has been breaking all sorts of barriers and doing an incredible job over the last couple of years. I even wanted to learn for myself what is, how did you get into crypto? What's your background? What's like the founding story of Bybit? So yeah, we founded in 2018 back then. Well, my background, I was running a retail forex exchange.
03:57:07.549 - 03:57:42.457, Speaker A: So I was always facing retail, doing kind of an exchange part of the business. By 2017, you know, I really got into crypto because all these ICOs lost a bunch of money. And I want to find out an area that I'm good at. I want to devote into the industry. At the time there were only two exchanges being bitmax and okx that offers derivatives. For me, my forte is on the margin and derivatives trading. When I look at the exchange at the time, it was really very simple compared to now, it was really just a website.
03:57:42.457 - 03:58:11.203, Speaker A: And typically whenever market moves there's overload, you simply kind of open the exchange. So for me, I felt like traders deserve a much better trading experience. And that's how kind of BYBIT was founded. Idea was trading everything by Bitcoin. So by bit or we say trading the world bit by bit, that's kind of our initial slogan. But now we're a whole ecosystem. We have spot, we have fiat, we have pretty much all the products.
03:58:11.203 - 03:58:54.263, Speaker A: Yeah, got it. And for folks here, it sometimes seems like exchangers are all kind of very similar to one another. And so what's different about BYBIT versus other exchanges? Yeah, that was a good question. I think at least for the top players, we have different strategies. I think with the last kind of previous Circle on how exchanges position themselves. Is that actually in this industry position? Well, exchange has been the mean kind of center. The stage where I see, we see exchange should be the one setting up the stage and let the ecosystem, the projects go on the stage.
03:58:54.263 - 03:59:28.577, Speaker A: So we see ourselves as completely infrastructure players. And this is why Bybit, we don't have our own ecosystem or in a way that we don't have our own chain, our own type of this type of web 3 play. But we take clients and field web 2 adoption to Solana, to other ecosystems. That's one thing. And we've been always very open on working with different partners. By was the first one to work with Circle at usdc. We're the first one working with Athena USD where the now we are.
03:59:28.577 - 04:00:02.691, Speaker A: I think we want to be the big supporter of Solana ecosystem. So we've always been working with players that's I think one of the main differences. Got it. And how do you think about. Sometimes people think that centralized centralized finance or CEFI and DEFI can even be competing with one another. Because after all, one could say that liquidity, there's only so much in the ecosystem. And so what's your perspective on that? Where they are collaborative and where they may also be competitive with one another? I think to our perspective, they are not competing at all.
04:00:02.691 - 04:00:23.685, Speaker A: It's complementing our job. Again, we build the road, the bridge to take people to wherever they want. And this is why Bybit is launching. We were building the Web3 wallet. We also see the other exchange are building their Web3 wallet so that I think at the end of the day, you know, we don't build the city. Solana, you are the city. We take clients to you.
04:00:23.685 - 04:01:04.761, Speaker A: If it's for example, new clients who don't know much about crypto, they need something that's familiar with the email registration they can get access to, then we take them there. At the same time, if you want to explore web3 and you need something similar, the exchange offers that as well. Because typically you see that with Web3 wallet you need a lot of investment, a lot of infrastructure. And this is where the central exchange have the resources, the manpower to build these big massive web3 wallet to support these type of functions. Yeah, got it. So recently there's been a couple of new LSTs on the market. BBSoul joking.
04:01:04.761 - 04:02:05.341, Speaker A: That's our new baby. Yes, yes, yes. And so how does that play into, you know, the CEFI defi, like the Web3 strategy of Bybit? Again, we don't really distinguish. It's one of the biggest asks from our community, from our users is that, hey, you know, there's all these different Solana LSDs and Solana being one of the most adapted ecosystem and you have a lot of token holders on Bybit who want to use Solana to trade as collateral, but at the same time earning a yield. So for us it's quite normal and very easy just to say, hey, we discussed with the team how do we participate in this LSD ecosystem so that allows our users, while holding Solana can earn the yield and trade at the same time. So it's really from that perspective. But I think the team is also talking to Solana team extremely close to figuring out what are some of the other ways we can take this forward.
04:02:05.341 - 04:02:55.697, Speaker A: So I mean, what's your perspective on Exchange? I think all the major ones are launching LSDs. What's your perspective and what do you think these hours, these place in your ecosystem? I think it's great because I think that Solana has one of the most diverse staking ecosystems by longshot. Right. And one of the most diverse and also one of the most innovative staking ecosystems. And as it is, I think, what is it? Over 200 million users in crypto are using centralized exchanges. It still is the number one kind of channel of adoption and product market fit, user market fit in this entire industry as the additional use cases get built out. And so given that having sort of diversity of assets that provide users with what they want, I think it's pretty cool.
04:02:55.697 - 04:03:45.293, Speaker A: In addition, I think that the more there's representation of those assets in the primary venues of liquidity, the more that you can create people in the start to create interesting products like using. Using LSTs for collateral and that helps also in my mind boost the entire ecosystem. So it's all about once you have liquidity, certain asset and there's a lot of economic loops that can be built around that. So yeah, one trend we're seeing is the moment we're launching BBC which is the Bybit lsd. You start to see other clients who are not holding Solana will be switching to Solana because they want to be earned a yield on top of whatever they're trading. Because now all these changes are supporting multi margin system. So you can use any token to trade anything, whether it's Bitcoin or Ethereum.
04:03:45.293 - 04:04:50.139, Speaker A: So it's really kind of helping the token holders that if you believe in the system, you believe in this ecosystem, you can just hold and keep earning. And that kind of gives Solana competitive advantage compared to other tokens that don't have the SSE so easily. Yeah. So what's next on you know, Bybit's radar? Not necessarily as regards Solana ecosystem, but what are kind of like the next few things that you're focused on? Yeah, I think one area we want to really focus on is the Web3 wallet. Currently I think you have other exchanges doing a really good job. We think that we really need to invest into this aspect more, giving our self custodian wallet more of a capability, more infrastructure to connect into multiple ecosystem as well as offer users some airdrops and basically the extra layer of safety. One kind of innovation we're doing is that how can we help clients to prevent scams and fraud on a self custodian wallet.
04:04:50.139 - 04:05:33.493, Speaker A: So what we're doing is using a centralized way. Basically if client is inputting an address that we labeled in our big data system as a scam. We will have a big pop out to tell users this is really a scam address, you gotta be careful. So this is done by a centralized team. At the same time the team is looking into, potentially if a client is already transferring a big sum amount, we could have another team hijacking the price, the fees to block that transaction for the users. So these are some of the centralized ways to handle, I guess from our perspective to help the clients a bit. But end goal is to protect users and make sure they have a better experience.
04:05:33.493 - 04:06:10.369, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. So Bybit having started off as derivatives exchange and now expanded into other trading products, what do you think about this sometimes critique of crypto which is that the only use case of crypto is speculation. That's a debate we had yesterday. Well, it's a good thing. Well, I think whatever drives users into this industry, I wouldn't criticize it. I mean without, I want to be honest, perfect honest, without the speculation, maybe a lot of us won't be in this room at least without that first part to get us into the industry. Right.
04:06:10.369 - 04:06:41.339, Speaker A: So I think that part is probably the first for a lot of people who find out about this industry and learn and then they start to notice technology can really change the world, can really do many different things. And this is why we start to really get involved and get into the whole thing. So I think it's one way to look at it. But anyway it's good to get users in. So our job is to, you know, get users in, fuel mass adoption, whatever way is can be done. We don't really care. Yeah.
04:06:41.339 - 04:07:48.169, Speaker A: And what do you think about the evolution of various financial use cases beyond more the trading and liquidity oriented stuff as people get into payments and into a number of other folks in the industry have put together people payment networks and those types of kind of like, you know, extensions of the financial ecosystem. What do you think about that? Yeah, I think crypto is becoming so big now that different parts of the world views crypto in a very different way. Give you example, we have a crypto card in Argentina and it's been adopted really fast. Reason being is the local currency is not doing so well. We cannot imagine if there's no crypto what the local people do with hyperinflation. So you can see their behavior is very different than let's say Japanese users on Bybit. They would switch their salary immediately into stable coins or Solana or these tokens and they will use it as A bank use Bybit as a bank app to daily access, use the credit, use the cryptocurrency to buy, go shopping and buy coffee on doing really that aspect.
04:07:48.169 - 04:08:38.205, Speaker A: So for these countries cryptos really become their day to day and replacing their financial systems. So I think that's one way. And you have other countries that's really good at airdrops, other countries really good at trading, you know, so it's more covering different aspects. Yeah. And here in Southeast Asia and really this part of the world, what, what are the primary use cases and how do people use crypto here in Southeast Asia? Southeast Asia, it's also quite different. I would say Chinese users, Korean and Japanese are mainly using for trading purpose. So I would say majority of these retail users view crypto as a way to get rich quick basically.
04:08:38.205 - 04:09:35.321, Speaker A: So a lot of leverage, high level trading, a lot of new listed asset trading. So whenever there's new listings, new projects being listed on exchange, these countries are typically get very hyped up on that. And then I think for Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand they actually actually focus more on spot, they very into like new token meme coins, these type of things, not so much on the derivative side of trading. So you start to see different kind of patterns of different players. I don't know what is your perspective on Southeast Asia users from Solana Perspective? Yeah, well it's something that I'm trying to learn more about. My perception of Southeast Asia is that you have a lot of like currency fragmentation replace like Southeast Asia. So you have relatively mature economies, a lot of, of currency fragmentation that also sit between hegemons of I guess the South Asia and North Asia.
04:09:35.321 - 04:10:13.115, Speaker A: Right. So I wonder, I wonder even though this is potentially interesting, you know, you come from an FX background, but I wonder at some point, I wonder if when are we actually going to start to have FX markets come on chain. Right. Right now it's all. I don't know what the dominance of USD stablecoins are but it's significant, it's extremely dominant. Will there be actually FX markets on chain or you know, back to the other? Is it really just all about speculation which means it's going to be a US dollar oriented economy? No, we were seeing. So typically for the markets the clients are very good at trading, they have that desire.
04:10:13.115 - 04:10:48.247, Speaker A: We actually listed, we have a new product called MT5 that's listed and we start see these countries I mentioned, like Japan, Korea, Europe too are very good at trading Forex. So in the product we have Forex, especially as in last week with the US Fed dropping rates. Yeah, there's a lot of volatilities with  USD and gold. So these clients are trading. So for exchange like us, we have traders that are hardcore and looking for volatilities. If you ask them what's new token, this ecosystem, they're like well I don't care, I don't know, I'm just here for the volatility. So.
04:10:48.247 - 04:11:22.209, Speaker A: But then you have, I think your audience is more into the tech, the ecosystem play and so it's different, very different players. Got it, got it. So lastly any, anything new on the near, near term horizon for Bybit? Any alpha we can share with the crowd here. We need to support Solana more so we want to see more projects coming in. So let us know guys. You see, I gotta say also thank you very much for Bybit for just being such a big supporter of Solana ecosystem. It's really been great.
04:11:22.209 - 04:11:52.295, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you. Thanks guys. That round of applause was not big enough. Once again for Ben and Lily, the legends, the OGs. Our minds are blown. Thank you.
04:11:52.295 - 04:12:32.297, Speaker A: Next up we have a batch of product keynotes, 5 minute pitches. Get ready. Hold on to your seats. I hope you're drinking Red Bulls. Up next we have moving at the speed of light, maybe as fast as Solana Flash trade. Please give a warm welcome to co founder of Flash Trade Anas. Hello Break Point.
04:12:32.297 - 04:13:15.725, Speaker A: I hope you had a great day so far and let me take you to the next level by talking about the most important thing in our industry that are tokens. Tokens play a really important role in a decentralized protocol to grow and flash trade. At Flash Trade we are trying to revolutionize the way token economics are done and changing the game for good. And before we dive into the token economics, let me go through the major pain points as token holders that we go through while holding tokens. So let me go through the three main points. First point, money raised. Most of the teams that have raised money till date, there is no transparency to what the money is used for and no specific path on how the money is spent.
04:13:15.725 - 04:14:29.985, Speaker A: Second point, token unlocks. Majority of us might have gone through the mundane vesting schedules where the team gets the token irrespective of their contributions or the will to get to the next level because the linear vesting schedules just blocks you out of the, out of buying any new tokens because you always like there is a huge overhang supply and you're like oh my God, should I buy or not? So this is something that we really want to address and the third part is Governor governance for the sake of doing, for the sake of launching a token. This is also has been a major, major pain point lately where it's been, it's been dragged on since the late 2020 where every token that has been launched, they launched for the sake of governance, nothing else. So we are about to change the game. And let me just get started with it is like Flash is launching the token, the token that we have built after understanding and running the protocol for the past 10 months, which is aimed to basically, you know, work with the protocol and grow at this, like get more users and distributions. So the idea is to change the game for good. The idea here remains is we will never have any linear vesting schedules for the team.
04:14:29.985 - 04:15:32.403, Speaker A: The team will only get tokens when we launch new products or features which are all governed by our token holder. The token holders control the protocol and the future of the protocol and the governance that we have will not be the governance for the sake of just voting. All the governance, all the voters will always have yield attached to their voting proposals. Basically when they vote, they'll get the yield that is generated from the treasury that we will be raising by selling a major chunk of the protocol. So basically the idea is to create a flywheel effect where the treasury grows, the protocol revenue grows and the token holders are more aligned to use the protocol because the team only gets the tokens when they launch new features. So we are just trying to create a new flywheel effect which is a revolutionary thing and haven't done before. And moving to the next point is so what has, what have Flash achieved so far? So Flash has in less than 10 months, it's actually nine months if you discuss month of September.
04:15:32.403 - 04:16:40.087, Speaker A: But in the last 10 months we have done more than $11 billion in volume while generating more than $10 million in fees, all the while being fully bootstrapped and community aligned. We are the only protocol right now, like amongst the few protocol that haven't raised a single dollar from the market, all by surviving by all ourselves since day one, since the FTX saga happened. And we would love to take this legacy to the next level by doing, by launching a token that will be the most community line. And it has a flywheel effect which keeps us as aligned as the community that we have. And we grow and our community grows with that. And the next part is, yeah, I do get a lot of questions like, why do people need a token? Right? You know, like, it is a question that a lot of people ask like, but if you are able to, you know, like create a token that surrounds about three things which is like that we have designed revenue, utility and governance. There is a flywheel effect that goes around and as the team, as the protocol grows, Sorry, the token holders also earn a lot.
04:16:40.087 - 04:17:33.425, Speaker A: So yeah, let me get just to the token. So it's not just about the token. We are also launching three new things later this year which is the margin engine V2, which is going to be the most efficient margin engine that you're going to found on any blockchain with the least amount of fees and margin fees with an interesting funding mechanism model. And the second thing that we are working on is a limit orders. Those limit orders are not just going to be on a perpetuals, they are also going to work on spot tokens as well. And the third thing is the most interesting thing that I'm just going to keep under wraps because it might shock a lot of people. And I am so far really thankful for the community that we have found around Flash Trade which has helped us to reach to the levels that we are today by remaining fully bootstrapped and getting as much as good feedback from all the Solana ecosystem.
04:17:33.425 - 04:18:22.925, Speaker A: And so with further ado, I just want to thank you all and yeah, have a good one. Up next, we have we the CEO of Coins PH bringing on Chain FX to Solana. Round of applause. Hey guys, good afternoon. Thanks for having me here. Before I start, I want to give a huge shout out to the super teams from Philippines. Not sure if you guys are in the audience.
04:18:22.925 - 04:19:01.185, Speaker A: And then also the super team from Southeast Asia. You guys have done a wonderful job in terms of promoting Solana and the community. A little bit about myself. I'm the CEO for Coins ph. We're the largest regulated exchange in the Philippines with about 4 million plus users, KYC users and then, and then trade about, you know, close to a billion dollars a month in terms of trading volume, but less about Coins Ph but more about Philippines. And then sort of the overall, I would say the FX market and how we're going to bring some really cool stuff to Solana. Philippines is, as you guys, as you guys know, is the 15th most populous country in the world with about 120 million people.
04:19:01.185 - 04:19:29.591, Speaker A: But the median age demographics wise, half of the population are under age of 30. The median age is only about 25. And then from a crypto adoption perspective, I think it's ranked sixth from a percentage penetration. So we're basically seeing a very young and dynamic audience. And then second of all, what makes Philippine Also really unique is actually the penetration of the importance of remittance. From a global remittance perspective. It's about, you know, almost a trillion dollar market annually.
04:19:29.591 - 04:20:27.371, Speaker A: And then of that Philippines is the fourth biggest remittance intake in country in the world, about 40 plus billion dollars a year. So and then it's really big in terms of if you look at all of the Southeast Asian countries, Philippines is actually has one of the currencies that's actually more free floating versus a dollar versus like Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, which has certain levels of currency control. So the peso, the reason being is that because we have this massive remittance coming in, it makes up about 10% of the economy and therefore what we see is huge potential I think for bringing pesos on chain. Right. The average daily volume for pesos to US dollar is about a billion dollars. But if you look at sort of the overall global FX market that's, you know, that's in the trillions on a daily basis. And so to a certain degree, I think what makes Philippines unique versus the other Southeast Asian countries is given the sort of more liberal FX rules, we actually have a huge opportunity to actually bring FX on chain.
04:20:27.371 - 04:21:15.225, Speaker A: And the first step of doing that is to actually have a stablecoin. And the stablecoin is we have. So we launched our state stablecoin in July, it's approved by the central bank and it's fully backed by cash or cash equivalents. And you know, some of the use cases that we've already been seeing is more so on remittance. But I think FX is the next big area that I want to look at. And so we really right now only supported on Ronin for gaming and then also Polygon. And so what, what I want to announce here is that we're going to launch PHPC on the Solana network next quarter and in doing so we're going to bring PHPC and USDT as well as PHPC and USDC liquidity pools to Solana.
04:21:15.225 - 04:22:12.735, Speaker A: And what's really in this case, I think what's really cool then is that what makes us as coins ph, as a unique partner in terms of working with Solana and working with PHPC is that we actually have a, you know, licensed and legal on and off ramp from PHPC into sort of the real world in the Philippines. So whether you're selling digital items on chain or you're selling physical items in the real world, technically you don't really have to have a local bank account to actually start payments. When you start selling these goods and services into the Philippines. You can actually have your users pay directly into Peso, into basically your PHPC account with Coins or even. And then we can actually make that conversion for you directly and then. But I think that's more so on the cross border side. But I think on the effect side, what makes this product really interesting then it opens up what I call is basically a fiat node on Solano.
04:22:12.735 - 04:22:54.835, Speaker A: One of the sort of the pain, not pain points but one of the sort of uniqueness of the FX market is that most of the, most of the trading is actually done on an OTC level. Right. And then this was, this is what I think actually makes up the. Makes the liquidity pools on Solana actually becoming more transparent and then becoming more available 24,7. So you actually brings I think both transparency and I think a certain level of pricing advantages I think. But you know, really happy to share that with you guys and then looking forward to discussing Coins, PH and PHPC with all of you guys and then as you want to expand your products, protocol and services into the Philippines. Thank you.
04:22:54.835 - 04:23:44.235, Speaker A: Wei is not the only super team maxi we have with us today. Next up we have the incredible Scott, founder of Fluxbot with all sorts of alpha for you. Big round of applause for Scott. Hello. So welcome. Welcome. So this is the Fluxbeam keynote today we'll be going over some of the stuff we've been up to in the past 12 months along with a brand new product we'd like to launch today called Fluxbeam Infinity.
04:23:44.235 - 04:24:37.811, Speaker A: For those of you who don't know, we've been kind of Solana builders in the defi and tooling system for over the past two years, mainly focused on kind of promoting Token extensions or token 22 as it was back in the day. So we started off with Fluxbeam. We built out a Dex and a tooling ecosystem so you can mint manage and maintain every aspect of these token extensions. We're also fortunate enough to be part of the global ecosystem adoption rollout for token extensions along with some great teams from wallets to explorers, other protocols and aggregators like the Amazing Jupiter. From there we realized there was a real core issue occurring on the underlying belly of Solana, around more and more rugs and scammers coming into the ecosystem. So we built Rugcheck. Rug Check is Now monitoring over 50 on chain metrics and we've also augmented this with a proprietary network graph allowing us to track these scammers from end to end.
04:24:37.811 - 04:25:25.543, Speaker A: And I'd like to think we've been pretty successful at this. With over 100 million token reports generated over the past 12 months, and with over 2 million users accessing RogCheck, we now believe that we're able to catch and track these scammers before they have a chance to. And then finally, last year we announced fluxbot, the first Telegram trading bot with advanced functionality such as copy trader and limit orders. And that also won the Solana hackathon last year. And from that it got us thinking, what other pain points could we fix in this ecosystem? And from there we decided that there were two kind of key issues that we wanted to address. One, unfortunately, we're human, so we have to sleep at some point. And when we're asleep, there's a lot of issues that could go on or missed opportunities that we can't get into because we're having to rest on the other side.
04:25:25.543 - 04:26:40.575, Speaker A: When we look at the data layer, we've noticed there's a huge delay between users clicking a UI and that data being transmitted onto any other trading interface that you're seeing. So that's got us thinking, how can we improve the trading experience for traders across the ecosystem? And today I'm very excited to announce Flux Beam Infinity. This is a brand new token trading interface designed from the ground up to focus on giving traders the absolute edge when it comes to trading, whether it be meme coins or any tokens on Solana, we've achieved that in a few ways. Firstly, we've managed to aggregate all disparate pieces of information, whether it be on chain data, off chain data, news or even rug check reporting data and access to our network graph all into a single one stop data terminal, meaning you no longer need multiple tabs open to see exactly what's going on. We've augmented this even further with truly real time instant data. So you're notified the second a token is minted or a pool is launched, giving you even higher chances of getting in there early. And finally, of course, we've got Fluxbot fully integrated into this, allowing you to use one click swaps and access to our bandwidth markets for instant transaction delivery, making sure your transactions land before anyone else's.
04:26:40.575 - 04:27:12.973, Speaker A: We've even further augmented this with what we call advanced limit orders. This is one of the most highly requested pieces of functionality we've had in the past 12 months. Traditionally, this was limited to one protocol. We've managed to get that to work across over 22 platforms, giving you the access to the deepest liquidity and the highest chances of these limit orders landing. So whether it's a trailing stop loss or a take profit, you can now sleep. Rest assured that when the profits are there, they're locked in or your downsides limited by the trailing stop loss. But we didn't stop there.
04:27:12.973 - 04:28:00.225, Speaker A: Building on what Toly said last year about making sure that Solana will be the data backbone of the world, we've also liked to announce signals and automation. And this is a fully automated algorithmic trading platform, a where users can come in and they can trade on any data and trade on Solana. And when I say any data I really do mean any data. Signals allow you to trade anything from your standard trading indicators like the 200 day moving average of Bitcoin, social sentiment from X and news, even simple stuff like token price change or what traders are doing, even smart money movements. All of this can also be applied to custom logic and web host. So if you've got your own custom data pipelines, you no longer have to worry about building all the Solana integration. You can simply plug in and play all in a lovely ui.
04:28:00.225 - 04:29:05.885, Speaker A: So the great news is this is available today for our Fluxbot power users. If you're not a power user, this will be available in the coming weeks for the public as we scale out the capacity. If you want to get in a little bit earlier, do join the Fluxbeam telegram channel and build up your points and you should see a beta invite appearance you relatively soon. Thank you very much for listening, have a great day. Up next, there is a little startup that you might have heard of, Kushal is here to give you some updates about Binance. Round of applause for Kushal everyone. I'm Kushal Manipati, Marketing director at Binance.
04:29:05.885 - 04:30:30.275, Speaker A: So what am I doing here? Here Binance as always has the goal of enhancing user experience and with this user focused approach we aim to revolutionize the DEFI experience as we strive to make every transaction effortless for users. We understand that the path forward involves integrating with ecosystems. Forums like this prove that innovation is the heartbeat of progress and I met like so many people here like creating like groundbreaking projects, inventing and nurturing new things here and we are committed to fostering a culture of growth and creativity and we are dedicated to this innovative journey. Enhancing liquidity for users will allow rapid adoption of any ecosystem and one of the ecosystem is Solana of course and Binance plays an active role in making this happen. We want to unlock the potential of partnering with developers such as you to build a scalable and secure ecosystem and push boundary of what is possible. Leveraging Binance's global user base. You might have heard about the number.
04:30:30.275 - 04:31:12.951, Speaker A: We are not just expanding a project or a single ecosystem reach. We are actually accelerating the adoption of multichain ecosystem. Together we are here to shape the next few years of industry. So fun fact. Before web3 industry adopted me like years ago I was a friendly neighborhood Web2Guy. So one of the things that Web2Guys have not figured out yet like be it e commerce, be it messaging, be it social media, even our favorite like banking is interoperability. Maybe at least they haven't figured out it.
04:31:12.951 - 04:32:15.405, Speaker A: Well let's say that envision a world where the boundaries between ecosystems dissolve seamlessly connecting like Solana, Ethereum, BNB Chain and other networks like never before. And an industry like I think we have made tremendous progress on this. I think we should. We should agree with that. But we will have to provide more reasons to the users to accept this and increase the utility of it. Like in a deck in an expanding multi chain ecosystem like developers on one side face inconsistent tooling and users on the other side grapple with like single chain dapps and this results in fragmented liquidity and sadly suboptimal UI UX Cross chain interoperability emerges as a key solution here. Imagine a landscape where defi experiences transcend individual platforms.
04:32:15.405 - 04:33:17.329, Speaker A: We believe in innovation that spans multiple ecosystems that can build value to the users. And this becomes possible when we foster environment where developers such as you from different blockchain ecosystems can share ideas, build products and create value. All these initiatives are designed to foster healthy competition, drive innovation and increase experimentation. This is how we will be able to push boundaries of what is possible, ultimately benefiting the users. Our aim at binance is to create unified, accessible and user friendly experience that makes blockchain ecosystem blockchain technologies technology intuitive and engaging to the next billion users. Thank you. And if you would like to explore more about liquid staking on Solana, feel free to find colleagues on the floor.
04:33:17.329 - 04:34:10.025, Speaker A: I think they'll be happy to help you. Thank you. Fabrizio is here, the co founder of Legion. He is bringing compliant ICOs to Solana. Give him a big Solana family welcome please. Fabrizio hello. I'm going to start off with a hard truth.
04:34:10.025 - 04:35:05.385, Speaker A: Web3 promised you ownership over the products you use the things you believe in instead. Today you're being used as exit liquidity. The best teams follow an unspoken rulebook Multiple private rounds by VC's points program to showcase adoption day one coordinated centralized exchange listings with market makers who control most of the float and drive and promote Volume that with token unlocks leads to down only price action. This system is spawned by misaligned incentives. The result? Token prices inhibit community formation. Retail investors are left burned and disillusioned, exiting the ecosystem en masse. VC's constantly evaluating exit liquidity options.
04:35:05.385 - 04:35:54.595, Speaker A: They don't want to be the last one holding the bag. The crypto fundraising system isn't just broken, it's toxic. You have to ask yourself, is this really the future of finance? If you can remember, there was a dream and that dream looked like accessible early rounds based on value you can bring and things you believe in. Not only for the elite. Rewarding value based on merit, not net wealth, fair price discovery, not disconnected fully diluted valuations and investors and projects alike held accountable. It's a legion of value add individuals and groups, community VC projects working together to create something beautiful. However, this hasn't been possible.
04:35:54.595 - 04:36:19.974, Speaker A: There's no clarity on legal legislation, there's no way to say if investors are good or bad on mass. And there's absolutely zero accountability for many projects and for almost all investors. Until now. Introducing Legion. It's regulatory compliant. It supports pre TGE fundraising. So before tokens even launched as well as token launches.
04:36:19.974 - 04:36:58.975, Speaker A: Not a good looking site. The unlock the enabler. Much like in 2018 how regulation shattered the ICO landscape. Today Mika is here to revive the idea the ethos of initial coin offerings. This new EU focused regulation allows teams from anywhere to fully compliantly raise and sell tokens to anyone in eu, qualified or not. Pre liquid token or token launches. The breast projects can now raise fully compliantly again from the users that use the products as well as VC at the same time.
04:36:58.975 - 04:37:43.463, Speaker A: However, it's not just about compliance, it's about better quality. The Legion reputation system ensures no bots, sybils and value extraction ensuring you get very high quality Value add network participants as part of your token holders and your equity holders. It keeps those investors accountable as well as projects for the founders. We aim to minimize overhead while maximizing the value per dollar invested. If you participate in an ecosystem and you bring value, Legion is your chance to make it. Let's have a quick look at Legion in action. So I'm a new user onboarding to the platform here.
04:37:43.463 - 04:38:08.723, Speaker A: I can come connect social accounts if I like. This is fed in to kick off my initial Legion score. My reputation layer I can connect wallets to show my on chain activity. Am I a perps user? Do I play with meme coins, etc. You can connect to developer your GitHub if you like. For contribution, there's some compliance checks. We capture some information.
04:38:08.723 - 04:38:34.212, Speaker A: Are you active? Are you passive investor? What's your main value add and why? You can fill out this more later on. You also have an option to showcase some of your achievements, both on chain, both clout or developer. Once you've landed, you can see any investment. You can track them. From here you can complete more of a detailed investor profile. We introduce this two way opt in that you typically get in private markets and bring it to the public markets. This is an example of an investor profile.
04:38:34.212 - 04:39:05.913, Speaker A: Typical check size, main value add what I'm looking for. You can also showcase if someone's chosen to make something public, their achievements. In this particular case, contributing to a GitHub repo and being followed by Laura Shin. Of course, you can track investments as well. That's just a quick sneak peek and I'm excited to announce that compliant ICOs are coming to Solana very soon. If. If this excites you, follow us.
04:39:05.913 - 04:40:04.261, Speaker A: Join the Legion at Legion CC or legiondot CC on Farcaster or Twitter. Thank you very much. Oh my God, you guys. Are we having too much fun? Yes, the answer is we're having too much fun. Rebecca, thank you. It's day two of Breakpoint and I have a problem. I've gotten too much merch and my suitcase is too small.
04:40:04.261 - 04:40:53.115, Speaker A: Anybody else? Oh, you guys, you've fallen asleep. All fine. Next we have two legends that are going to tell you all the alpha, not just they're going to ask where is the alpha? Is it liquid or is it venture? We have Joe from Asymmetric and we have Arthur from Defiance Capital. You guys, wake up. Give a huge round of applause. Please do it for yourself. That's right.
04:40:53.115 - 04:41:13.999, Speaker A: What's up? Yep. Okay. I think probably just a quick intro and then we get started. I'm Arthur, the founder and CEO of Defiance Capital. We run a crypto hedge fund right now investing in crypto assets, liquid venture strategy. Yeah. Joe, founder, CEO and CIO of Asymmetric.
04:41:13.999 - 04:41:35.153, Speaker A: We're digital assets investment firm, but we actually operate more like a macro shop. And we have two hedge fund products and two venture funds as well. Yeah. So I think let's get started on the main topic. Right. Like where's the alpha, Liquid or venture? So for context, we have two funds. The first one we did both liquid and venture.
04:41:35.153 - 04:42:16.817, Speaker A: And the second fund I've been focusing on like liquid only. And there's a lot, I got a lot of question asked that why don't you keep doing venture? You guys obviously have Invested a lot of great company in the past. So what happened is we realized, let's talk about Solana specifically. We invested in around 12 Solana Venture bets and we realized that it massively underperformed. So over the past three years, that's because we half of them didn't make it. And even for those who survived, it's hard for them to outperform Solana. So I think that's kind of like a big decision for us to really just focus on liquid and combined with the fact that you can do risk management on the liquid side, it just becomes really powerful.
04:42:16.817 - 04:42:46.875, Speaker A: But I think, Joe, you, you guys run both the liquid and venture side now. Love to get your opinion on this. Yeah, yeah. I mean, look, so the key difference obviously is the duration of the fund. So most venture funds in general crypto is no different, have about a 10 year lockup. And the reason is you're buying like a long dated call option on the investments that you're making. And in theory those that work out have exponential type returns.
04:42:46.875 - 04:43:51.401, Speaker A: Whereas a hedge fund is typically like a one year lockup. Sometimes it's a little shorter, maybe a little bit longer. So with that type of liquidity profile difference, if you're running a hedge fund, you will have opportunities to outperform a venture fund just given the constraint of the time associated with the lockup for your investors. On the flip side, because crypto venture is unique in the sense that these projects become liquid faster than traditional vc. I mean if you look at something like Stripe, for example, this is a company that's traded between 70 and $100 billion valuation on the private markets, still not public. It's been around for like what, 14, 13 years or something. That would never happen in crypto because you end up with you know, either a token, generative, token generation event within a year, two years, three years, the notion that you're going to be waiting say something like 10 years for some liquidity invent in crypto just doesn't really happen unless you're buying pure equity in a business that doesn't have a token.
04:43:51.401 - 04:44:37.731, Speaker A: Yeah, I think another fact that has to do with the capital size you are allocating to crypto as well. And it's my firm opinion that if you are actually allocating less than 100 million to crypto, you always get a, almost always get a better risk adjusted return in liquid. But obviously if you have more than 100 million to deploy, you want to get the longer term, kind of like a growth of the asset, it start to make sense into venture fighting. For most of us in the stage, that is a very good problem for us to have. And so like yeah, I think in most cases, yeah, I just think that liquid outperform and when you look at most of the venture fund returns, they actually struggle to outperform even Bitcoin. That doesn't matter which vintage you look at 2018, 2021, 2022. So I think for most of us, like liquid is still where the alpha is.
04:44:37.731 - 04:45:29.287, Speaker A: And historically basically when you see all the exponential growth of crypto public asset like Ethereum, Solana, all this thing like you can get in Solana, what's the lowest price you can get in Solana? It's like 18 cents or $1 each. And right now Solana is like 140, $50. Yeah, I mean look, the interesting thing about liquid fund investing and the size you describing is like if you're running less than 100 million bucks and you're just kind of like a long biased or long only fund, you can just basically buy spot tokens in a bull market and do extremely well. The problem of course is the bear market. And I think that this is where we at Asymmetric are somewhat differentiated. Myself, my trading partner, have about 50 years combined trading and risk management experience. But we also trade a lot of options and derivatives.
04:45:29.287 - 04:46:17.619, Speaker A: And so that enables us to take a bearish view through fixed risk, through things like put spreads versus just being naked short. Because if you're naked short in crypto, I mean that's how you get your head blown off. And there's been many people that have blown up just being short and caught on the wrong side for no apparent reason. You can actually do a really good job of building a sizable portfolio through options, especially when you calculate what's called the options adjusted delta in that portfolio with a fixed amount of risk. And so the beauty of this is that, you know, at Asymmetric we started eight figures of aum, we're now at nine figures of AUM through capital appreciation. And that has mostly to do with trading options and derivatives. The options and derivatives markets.
04:46:17.619 - 04:47:11.391, Speaker A: Even last year in 2023 when spot volumes were basically anemic, falling off, you know, a cliff, options, open interest and volume would kept hitting new all time highs. And so part of the reason we're very comfortable trading much larger sizes is because as the market is increasing in terms of open interest and volume, that favors our strategy. So we could run say our fund up to easily like a billion dollars of a liquid fund, which if you're just A long only spot, you know, trading fund, it's next to implement possible. Yeah. And I think another fact that is you do not really get a market like crypto where as Joe mentioned a project have a token at a very early stage of their life cycle. Like usually most project that launch a token are like series A or latest like series B in terms of the life cycle. So you're actually still getting a bout of the venture skill return even when you invest in a token that has launched.
04:47:11.391 - 04:47:45.739, Speaker A: And I think this is something that you don't really see in the public traditional equity market. So to me that you're actually also getting a venture skill return but with the capability of managing the risk. I think this is very important. Like I think in crypto a lot of times we mistook incentive driven growth as a real product market fit. But it turned out that certain sector is like we are like five years too early or like 10 years too early. And if you do venture you can't really manage this risk. But in liquid you're able to rebalance according to the different macro condition, the different ecosystem.
04:47:45.739 - 04:48:17.589, Speaker A: And I think when it comes to ecosystem it's even more important. Like we have such a huge extreme power law. Like certain ecosystem are gonna do so well related to the others. And if you don't really have sufficient exposure to like Solana ecosystem one year ago or layer one ecosystem B and what are you going to do? Your fund is fully deployed and Solana turn out to the best performing ecosystem and you have no exposure. So I think this something is something very valuable. Yeah. And I think we'd like to switch the topic to a little bit like on the meme coins.
04:48:17.589 - 04:49:08.045, Speaker A: Right. Your favorite, I think one of the key thing is like how does meme coin fit into the portfolio both from like obviously it's liquid in nature but can you actually. Do you think that venture way of thinking about meme coin is actually possible? Like can you build like a three year, five year position in meme coins or like it's just pure trading. Like you know, whoever you know the big KOLs are talking about, you know, like I don't know, I'm not a meme coin expert, but yeah. Yeah. So at Asymmetric we kind of sit at the intersection of technology, capital and culture and this is what's enabled us to, you know we were probably the, I think the first kind of institutional fund that actually invested in meme coins back in October of last year. We identified Bonk at a $28 million market cap as an Unbelievable asymmetric opportunity.
04:49:08.045 - 04:49:40.435, Speaker A: And that worked out and there was a lot of reasons why we made that investment. But at a kind of core level, my job as a hedge fund manager is to make my investors money and they actually don't give a shit what I'm trading. They just want to see the returns. And so I think what you end up seeing in a lot of cases, and you can actually see a lot of VCs bloviating online about why Meme Coins are terrible. Look at their bags. If they've invested billions of dollars in a dozen different L2s on Ethereum and Meme Coins are outperforming them, oops. Right.
04:49:40.435 - 04:50:29.855, Speaker A: You better have a good reason why that's the case. I don't think that there's a case to be made around like should have, should a VC fund invest in Meme Coins? Because that's. It's somewhat counterintuitive, right? Like everybody in this audience right now, if you pulled out your phones, you connect your wallet to pump fun, you can create a Meme Coin. Simple. It's trivial. It just doesn't exist in the context of venture related investing. So I would argue on the liquid side, and I've argued this for quite some time, having exposure to what we would call meme coins, culture coins, celeb coins, whatever you want to call them, the non traditional sort of utility based tokens or governance tokens for protocols and applications, you're foolish if you don't have some exposure to that in your portfolio because the asymmetry and the upside of these positions is enormous.
04:50:29.855 - 04:51:13.899, Speaker A: And I think that if more and more people understand that if you want to actually outperform something like buy and hold Bitcoin, buy and hold Ethereum, which pretty easy this year total three. That's what we use internally at as our benchmark, you have to have exposure to something like Meme Coins because if you look at the last cycle, Dogecoin was crazy outperforming so many of these like you know, thesis driven VC investments. And by the way, I'm a vc. But like let's be clear, like look at the returns of something like Dogecoin last cycle. You mean to tell me you're not going to have something, some exposure or at least a point of view on expressing that in your liquid portfolio. It'd be crazy not to do that. So I don't think venture investors make.
04:51:13.899 - 04:51:37.571, Speaker A: It makes a lot of sense for Meme Coins because you know, 99.9% of meme coins are just, you know, like Flash in the pan, topical. At that moment there are going to be meme coins. There are meme coins that are blue chips. Right. And there will be meme coins that will become blue chips. But as a venture investor, most venture investors don't have a pulse on culture and that's ultimately what meme coins represent.
04:51:37.571 - 04:52:21.207, Speaker A: So it makes sense in my opinion to have that in your liquid portfolio versus something like a venture fund. Yeah, I think actually speaking something adjacent to this is very relevant to Solana. So we have been bullish on Solana ecosystem for a long time and we are more of a fundamental driven investor. So we look at all the data, the on chain transaction, TVL volumes, whatever metrics we can find to form a fundamental view about the protocol that are building on top of Solana. There's all the solana DeFi project DEP and whatever. And one of the counter arguments I receive from more the more like trading, active trading crowd is like if you're bullish on Solana, you do the barbell portfolio of you long sold and you long to solve meme coins. You don't touch anything in between.
04:52:21.207 - 04:52:46.321, Speaker A: And that's kind of sometimes a bit demoralizing for all the, you know, builders that are building the real stuff on Solana. Like you build the deepin, you build a defi. But you power all this speculation and all this usage on Solana. But nobody's buying the token. People just meme coins also don't touch anything in between. And empirically Meme coin has definitely outperformed all these so called Solana outs a lot. I can't think that will change.
04:52:46.321 - 04:53:17.595, Speaker A: But I don't have a very clear answer. What will be the trigger? I mean I always think that, you know, we invest over like a few years. Fundamentals do matters and eventually matters. But what do you, what's your take on this? Like, yeah, I mean look like. Sorry, if people like to speculate. Like people have been gambling forever and in fact there has never been an industry or market exists without speculation as the necessary in sufficient condition to start that. If you look at the United States for example, the late 1800s, people were speculating on this thing called a railroad.
04:53:17.595 - 04:54:07.803, Speaker A: This has been going on forever and it's not going to stop. And in fact speculation actually leads to new use cases. Did you know in 2023 that 75% of all of the revenue for Las Vegas Strip casinos came from non gambling revenue? That means a casino, casino that is literally designed to make money off of speculation is no longer making money off of Speculation. So the notion that people speculating on meme coins is somehow, you know, deleterious to the industry or it's shitting on the founders that are putting in work, chewing glass, building amazing stuff. That's just nonsense because people are going to do this no matter what. There's no difference between say buying a meme coin and hoping that it goes up a thousand X versus buying a lottery ticket. And that's why 99.9%
04:54:07.803 - 04:54:37.821, Speaker A: of all the meme coin traders on Pump Fun have not made money because it's a lottery ticket. It's speculation for the hope of becoming like a headline on one of these crypto media outlets that's like 17 year old kid put 100 bucks in whiff and made $10 million or whatever. Right. People love to see the those headlines, especially media companies. It's the same concept with lottery ticket. So I think, you know, last night myself and Iggy Azalea announced that we were putting on a motherland casino. Right.
04:54:37.821 - 04:55:44.211, Speaker A: There's going to be way more use cases beyond just a casino that we're going to be putting into that product because we see speculation as like the beginning for other use cases that can come from things like meme coins, celeb coins and culture coins. Yeah. I think the one last topic we should touch upon is very relevant is the US election. It's like less than two months away and in my opinion as non Americans, I think this is the first time the politics and crypto in us are just so closely intertwined. And I actually think the long term structural impact of the Republican presidency versus Democratic president, it's very big because you're going to get a very friendly SEC regulatory and political policy. But short term, you know, what do you think is a pinpack? I think we are going to see like a 20% difference in market cap of crypto within like few days after you get a result like Trump market probably go up by 10% and if we get Kamala market down by 10% that seems to be close to where the option market pricing in as well. The volatility, I think it's 12%.
04:55:44.211 - 04:56:21.573, Speaker A: But yeah, how do you think we should manage to risk like. Yeah, look, I don't think it actually really matters. It's a coin flip right now for who's going to win the presidency of the United States. I think the bigger issue is that what happens if one other side doesn't actually acknowledge that the other person won? That could trigger a constitutional crisis in the United States which would enter like a Lot of risk and volatility into the markets. The good news is, guess what benefits from that. Bitcoin. Typically when you have chaotic markets like we saw in March of 2023 when there was a regional bank crisis in the United States, bitcoin went from 19,500 to 31,000 in six weeks.
04:56:21.573 - 04:56:49.151, Speaker A: So do I want a constitutional crisis in the United States? Absolutely not. If it happens, it actually is still net positive to crypto, at least from my perspective. I think if Trump wins, bitcoin goes to 100k pretty quickly. I think that's pretty self evident and consensus view at this point. If Kamala Harris wins, you know, bitcoin maybe trades up close to all time highs. It just takes probably longer for bitcoin to get to 100k. Yep, yep.
04:56:49.151 - 04:57:39.915, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's it. Yeah. Yeah. This is fun. Thanks. Yep. All right, friends, the podiums have returned.
04:57:39.915 - 04:58:10.421, Speaker A: That means we have another debate that is going to get heated on the Breakpoint stage. Do you guys like the debates? Can we have a round of applause? Do you like, you like, you like the debates? Yeah, it's a fun format. Honestly. Breakpoint is next level this year. The event organizers, everybody that puts us together is on fire. We love them and we have some, I believe they're called gigachads. So we have a debate.
04:58:10.421 - 04:58:31.635, Speaker A: It's all about Deepin because Deepin is obviously overhyped, right? Wait, no, Rebecca. No, it's not. We love Deepin. Sorry. So Abai from Helium is here, Matt from Pantera is here and Shion from Multicoin is here. This is a big deal. Give them a round of applause.
04:58:31.635 - 04:59:03.925, Speaker A: Check, check. All right. Sick. Sweet. We're here. Super excited to jam on Emotion that is very near and dear to my heart. I think I have some version of this debate five times a week.
04:59:03.925 - 04:59:31.299, Speaker A: So we have some gigas, as was rightly put on stage to reason about some of this stuff. With us. We've got Matt head of research at Pantera and Abhay from Helium. And so we're going to get right into it. We don't have a ton of time, so I'll lay some broad structure and some ground rules. I've been told that I can do whatever I want here, so let me lay it down a little bit. I have this gong.
04:59:31.299 - 04:59:49.805, Speaker A: Anytime there's a banger, I'm going to hit the gong. Optimized for bangers. Most debates crosstalk is not recommended. I highly encourage crosstalk for this debate. So, you know, take your, take your time but be civil. If you can. And so run of show.
04:59:49.805 - 05:00:18.425, Speaker A: I think we start with opening statements, as all good debates must, and then we'll kind of get into the specifics, the operative words here, which are hype and capital inefficiency. And then to the end, we'll try and get into some meta questions about what we're all doing here. Right? So maybe we'll start with opening statements. Matt, as you're defending the motion, we'll start with you, and then we'll go from there. All right, thank you, everybody. I am your resident depin skeptic here on the left end of the left curve. So thank you all.
05:00:18.425 - 05:00:39.031, Speaker A: I'm research partner at Pantera. We have DEPin investments. My life is better if DEPin works. I will be working with our portfolio companies to make it work. So I am. I'm in good faith here, but I'm here representing 2019 me. So I was a PhD economist, and I came up in the trenches working in tokenomics for IoT early wave depends projects.
05:00:39.031 - 05:00:56.737, Speaker A: And I was, you know, I ran into some problems. And the problem was you would often find these things that were. That had some questionable designs. And then you'd sort of have a big Rube Goldberg thing built around it. And you'd have to talk to the one person in the organization. Organization who understood that because they made it. And it had grown too complicated for anybody to criticize it anymore because only one person understood it.
05:00:56.737 - 05:01:35.643, Speaker A: And I'd have to sort of talk them down and find the game theory model it was. And so that's why I'm wearing my token engineering shirt here, is that's where I'm. That's where I'm coming from. And I would say the reason depin IoT projects were especially susceptible to this sort of Rube Goldberg buildup is that usually under capitalism, you will find that capital hires labor, right? And the exception to that, when labor hires capital, which is what Deepin's kind of trying to do, right? Your decent, decentralized ownership is when monitoring costs are really low or when capital costs are really low, actually, I should say, and monitor monitoring and capital costs. So think of like a law firm, right? A law firm. Everybody's a lawyer. You can kind of see what each other.
05:01:35.643 - 05:01:48.541, Speaker A: Each others are doing, right? Because you're all lawyers. Each person's billing by the hour. So there's a sort of market metering of what each person's doing. You're not trying to, like, figure out the complementarities of the skill sets. And so you can be a Partnership. Also, what do you have to buy? Paper and a pen. Right.
05:01:48.541 - 05:02:06.173, Speaker A: A computer. Pretty easy, right? Unfortunately, I think depend fails on these two counts. Generally speaking, monitoring costs are high. Right. Depend by its definition is a big Oracle problem with a token incentive putting pressure on this already fragile Oracle problem. Right. And then two capital costs, which I don't know how I'm doing on time.
05:02:06.173 - 05:02:28.075, Speaker A: Might have to talk about it. Next question. But I think capital cost, it varies, right? Some projects can be a little better and a little worse on this, but my fear with Deepen is that the overall long term capital trajectory is still pretty high capital. So I think there are challenges. I think they can be worked through on a case by case, kind of like case law basis. But in general, I'm pretty skeptical of Deepin as the name of a category. To me it seems like naming a problem, not a solution.
05:02:28.075 - 05:02:47.985, Speaker A: Thank you. All right. Okay. All right. Well, yeah, so, you know, the thing that I was thinking about a lot with this, with this topic is that I think Matt and I actually truly agree on a majority of things, except I totally disagree with you here. So that's what we're supposed to do. Right.
05:02:47.985 - 05:03:28.101, Speaker A: So I'm going to start like set the tone with a couple of broad statements. You know, I think crypto in general is not a human scale industry. We have not built the thing for every single human on the planet yet. You know, I can tell you a couple of reasons for that, but you know, I'd rather you just give me your 12 seed words like every other rug site out there and you know, maybe that's, that's the faster way to do it. And I think that like, you know, human needs really, like when you're building something that's human scale, you need to solve something for human needs. And I think it's pretty well represented in Maslow's hierarchy. You know, at the base layer, you know, you want half sort of physiological things taken care of, you know, food, clothing.
05:03:28.101 - 05:03:52.395, Speaker A: I would add connectivity, water and power to those things because these are our basic human needs. On the physiological sense, then you need things like safety, shelter. And I actually think crypto does do something here as well, you know, specifically around financial security. It's not just job security. Right. So there's an opportunity there as well. And then you have things like love, belonging, you know, that's where maybe things like social fi come into play.
05:03:52.395 - 05:04:25.805, Speaker A: You know, esteem, crypto, Twitter, like obviously self actualization. I don't know, whatever Vitalik's on right now with that song. Like that's that's probably it. So, you know, I think crypto has the opportunity to really solve for Maslow's hierarchy. And you know, for me, I think deepen is really the only real point of all this infrastructure we're building in crypto. So just with that base argument, I think that there's, of course it's, it's, we need this capital in here, we need this hype in here. Because ultimately crypto is for deepen, not the other way around.
05:04:25.805 - 05:04:41.467, Speaker A: All right, Some bangers in there. All right, so let's, let's start with the operative words here. Right? But let's, let's do capital efficiency first and then we'll talk about hype. Sure. Billions spent. Yeah. Only millions in revenue.
05:04:41.467 - 05:05:15.373, Speaker A: What's the gap? How do we make this happen? Are you talking as a investor right now? No, no, I'm talking as a general macro. I mean the point stands, right? Like tokens are an expense. We're building out all this infrastructure. The demand side seems to be picking up and the ramp is there. I think some people are more optimistic, some people are less. So tell us a little bit about what gets us there and I guess I'll make a lot of arguments in the connectivity space. It's the thing that I spent most of my time on.
05:05:15.373 - 05:05:55.319, Speaker A: I'm sure that we can make similar arguments in other spaces, like energy or maybe even water someday hopefully. I think that one way that I look at this is that US ISPs have basically spent almost $2 trillion between the 90s and 2020, roughly. It's self reported, so you gotta take that with a grain of salt. But like that's roughly how much they've spent. Right. And like in the last several years you're seeing anywhere between like 60 to 80 billion dollars being spent every year, which is insane. Right? What have we actually got? And I'm just thinking about this in the US Again, like it's, we're in Singapore, so maybe it's not the best argument, but like, you know, like that's how much money has gone into building connectivity infrastructure.
05:05:55.319 - 05:07:05.085, Speaker A: And this is a core, but again it's core to what we need as a humanity. And traditionally you think about this, governments are the ones that are the ones that are making a lot of these investments as well. And you have things like the FCC spending anywhere between 5 to 10 billion dollars over the last 10 years. You have the USDA trying to get all farmers connected, you're trying to get all these places connected, but ultimately there's still like almost 5% of the US population that's uncovered by broadband. That's, that's nuts, right? And you know, you have the IRA that was recently passed in 2021 and you know, I forget exactly how much they put in there, but it was on the order of like 50 to 70 billion dollars for just for broadband when they were really focused on something like putting fiber into, you know, into every single home. And fiber is insanely expensive, you know, tens of thousands of dollars just to serve an urban environment per mile. And then if you're thinking about a rural environment, you're talking 50 plus thousand dollars just per mile to get, you know, one farm for broadband connectivity.
05:07:05.085 - 05:07:35.731, Speaker A: If we're going to talk about capital inefficiency, let's talk about that first. I think fundamentally Depin is another way of building this kind of infrastructure. Infrastructure. It's complementary to what's being done out there and it is certainly it seems to be a lot more capital efficient so far, but we haven't seen the end yet and that's why it's worth investing in it right now. Matt, can I take the other side? Yeah, I mean, so I'm with you. From an empirical standpoint, it's too early to tell, right? We're in venture. It's a time honored tradition to chase a network effect until it hits an inflection point.
05:07:35.731 - 05:08:00.765, Speaker A: Like, okay, yeah, it doesn't look like you've gotten as much as you spent so far. I think that's totally fine. I think conceptually I'm a little more concerned capital wise because of the way a lot of these are structured. I'm not talking about helium here obviously. I think, I think just in general, more of a deep end thing. The issue, right, is that like the actual value that accrues to the network is usually not the network itself, meaning it's not what the people who are buying the devices are usually getting. Right.
05:08:00.765 - 05:08:38.461, Speaker A: And I think the reason for this is most of these industries are kind of dynamic. They require what are what we call like dynamic capabilities where some new tech is going to come and you're going to have to upgrade to 5G or something like that. Right? And so you're going to have to coordinate this mass of people who, you know, look, it's already hard in a blockchain space to convince people to accept like a free network upgrade, right. If you're a validator to make them pay for new hardware is its own new challenge. Right? And somebody's coordinating that. And then maybe more importantly, the structure of These things where you're, you're having to design network incentive or incentives that are constantly fighting against spoofers or hackers or spammers, you know, which people do really well. That's a specialty.
05:08:38.461 - 05:09:06.897, Speaker A: That's a dynamic capability that is going to remain within the organization and that's going to be hard, a hard thing to decentralize. And so that's sort of like in the economic sense, the capital I think that accrues in the business is one that's going to be hard to decentralize unless you become a dao. Right. And I think that winds up being the kind of like long term vision for Deepin is that the D is going to have to stand for DAO at the end of the day. Right. And that the economic capital in it is going to. Only the only way you can decentralize it is if you decentralize something that can then manage these dynamic capabilities especially.
05:09:06.897 - 05:09:50.381, Speaker A: Right. The upgrading capability, generating new hardware, convincing people to get it, et cetera, and then defending the Oracle being the two big ones. But isn't one of the problems that like the Depends are trying to solve and one of the sort of more success, some of the more successful deep inside are effectively telling people, hey, you're going to be deploying this thing for yourself anyway. You're maybe deploying this thing for your neighbors anyway. So like, you know, I don't completely agree with that upgrade problem argument because I think that, you know, if you have a coffee shop and you want to provide connectivity to your customers and maybe also provide connectivity to your neighbors, like you're going to do that anyway and you're going to, you know, run really great fiber to the, to the site. You're going to put up a WI fi router. Why not also support Helium mobile at that point with you 100% on that.
05:09:50.381 - 05:10:04.613, Speaker A: So Helium does latent capabilities then. Sorry, it does like latent things like if you have a spare compute. If you have a spare device. I do think that's the better approach. Yeah. And I think that is the end goal of all Depends is to align existing latent supply. It's not necessarily.
05:10:04.613 - 05:10:19.143, Speaker A: Sure. Greenfield deployments are really, really important, but ultimately that's what it's for. And the best Depends should be doing that. Yeah. You know a thing or two about spoofing. Of course. Of course.
05:10:19.143 - 05:10:39.315, Speaker A: Well, I guess to that point. Right. Like Helium is one of the OGs, but arguably the first in this. Please. Kept my cane off so that I can get off stage. Yeah. I was telling someone the other day, if you compare the deep end market map from 12 months ago to the one that exists today, the one today is about 10 times as big with 10 times as many names.
05:10:39.315 - 05:11:25.241, Speaker A: How do you feel about that? I mean I think that. Well one, I love experimentation. I've been in startups since God knows how long. I am also just as old and you know, I think that like if you're thinking about hype, if that's like kind of where we're headed, it is important for the market to support a lot of experiments at the same time so we can finally like kind of resolve to some like let's say true price or true, true value, you know, sort of output. And you know, I think about like I spent some time in the, in the food delivery space and the, and the ride hailing space a little bit and that was another one of these examples. Right. We had at least in the US but also I guess there's some like great companies here too.
05:11:25.241 - 05:11:45.291, Speaker A: Doordash, Caviar, Postmates, Uber Eats here in, you know, you have Grab. I've been using Grab the entire week and it's been awesome. My God, it's better than Uber. Like, sorry, Uber. But like you know, it's been, it's been really great. And like they've raised, they raised so much money. A former company of mine acquired one of these, that's where I spent my time on this.
05:11:45.291 - 05:12:10.221, Speaker A: And like, yeah, they raised like $30 billion and maybe there's like $100 billion of market value right now. Right. And I think this is what happens with some of these cycles. It, it is necessary for there to be experimentation. Different companies are going to take different approaches. Doordash started in suburban environments whereas Caviar and Postmates started in urban environments. And we have seen how that resolves to Doordash, at least in the US is the winner.
05:12:10.221 - 05:12:45.127, Speaker A: Grab appears to be the winner here. You'll get winners and you'll get a couple of other entrants that are support them on the side. So I think this is the nature of experimentation, it's the nature of investors investment and that's we should see more of these kinds of things. Matt, what's the case if there's too many of these things? The case for what? The case that there's too many deep ins, that there's too much going on, there's too much hype around this. Yeah, I mean I think the overhype thing is like, like I said in the beginning, I think it's naming a problem not A solution. And so just generally speaking, calling it that, it's hard for me to get too excited about it as a meme, I think it's kind of cursed. And so, like, to go back to what.
05:12:45.127 - 05:13:26.083, Speaker A: To what Abby and I were saying earlier, right? Like, the reason we were talking about latent hardware versus, you know, devices that people already own versus having to acquire them is that's going back to that second point I mentioned at the beginning, where I said that these things tend to work only if monitoring costs are low and capital costs are low. One way to make capital costs low is to make them zero, because people already have the capital. Right? So I do think within the spectrum of depends stuff that is making capital costs low by focusing on latent infrastructure that people already have. That's. That's something that we look favorably on, and I look favorably on as a researcher, for sure. But generally speaking, right? Like, you still do have this other piece, which is the monitoring piece, and I think the monitoring piece, we just don't. We have no general solution for it, right? It.
05:13:26.083 - 05:13:50.265, Speaker A: The solutions are case by case. These are oracle problems, and then most of the time, we're making them worse with these token incentives. And so you will see deepen projects which have clever solutions, they add frictions in some important or interesting way, and that is cool. Right? But generally speaking, as a category, there's just no answer to that question, right? It's. It's each case. And for that reason, I think DPIN as a. As a category is a cursed category, even though there are some good projects within it.
05:13:50.265 - 05:14:01.877, Speaker A: I disagree. But that was a banger. That was a banger. That's a banger. Yeah. Okay, so we have about five minutes left. I think it's worth doing definitions for a bit.
05:14:01.877 - 05:14:17.087, Speaker A: I've had bitcoin described to me as a dependent. I've had Visa described to me as a depend. Let's talk like table stakes a little bit. What is. What are the. What does the word mean to you guys? So we can, like, start defining the category a little bit more, maybe. Matt, you want to take this one and start? Sure.
05:14:17.087 - 05:15:06.843, Speaker A: Well, look, the bitcoin thing, I think is interesting. I actually use that as a question to hire researchers is what? Why does bitcoin use useless work? Right. I think one of the first things when you open up your little. What is a blockchain explainer and you read, oh, bitcoin's wasting all this energy on these puzzles that don't do anything, you're like, well, what if we made that Useful, right? Why don't we do that? Proof of useful work is one of the first things you think about when you learn about, you know, the way we architect consensus, you know, deepen is trying to do something like proof of useful work. And it's an interesting question to figure out where that, why that's not a good idea or why that's a difficult idea, or why say Satoshi didn't do it. And look, I said this is a question to hire researchers, but I'll give you my take on, on it is literally when you say useful, what you're trying to do is you're trying to introduce an externality, something that the protocol can't see, right? That's the Oracle problem that you're introducing, literally there, right. The reason you do useless work is because you don't have that.
05:15:06.843 - 05:15:25.229, Speaker A: If you do useful work now, you just have a thing that you don't understand at the protocol level. Right. And so you have to have somebody sort of telling you about it. Right. So I think that winds up being the definitional reason why it's different. So depend for that reason. I said the D should be a dao and I think the physical infrastructure network to combat this Oracle problem.
05:15:25.229 - 05:15:42.133, Speaker A: Right. I mean, it's ultimately just case by case. Right. Ultimately these things just are whatever people are telling it, it is in the real world as it lives on the blockchain. That's the pin part. And so I think it does resolve to just being a DAO if it's going to be decentralized. And so my movement would be to say physical infrastructure network.
05:15:42.133 - 05:16:12.969, Speaker A: Yeah, if you can solve the Oracle problem. Decentralized. Yeah, if you can make it a dao. These things are daos. Would you say solving the Oracle problem is a skill issue? Would you say that that's just a thing that we can resolve? I mean, I think it is a skill issue on a long enough timescale is maybe the best way that I think about it. I think like all of these networks are trying to actually, to Matt's point earlier, trying to take some latent supply and apply it to a new problem. Not all of them, but yes, a lot of them.
05:16:12.969 - 05:16:48.163, Speaker A: Sorry, the good ones. Yeah, the good ones maybe. But like, yeah, that is one of the things we're trying to solve. And DPINs specifically, we're trying to take like off the shelf hardware and you know, say that it's a secure device and try to build a root of trust around that and then eventually turn it, like solve the Oracle problem through that Root of trust. You know, there are other dpins out there that are trying to solve that by putting like a, you know, ECC chip down in the sensor level and maybe that, you know, solves the problem. But, you know, show, show me a, a secure piece of hardware and give me a little bit of time and I can show you how to break it. Like so.
05:16:48.163 - 05:17:10.121, Speaker A: Yeah, so of course it is a skill issue. It's also, and it's going to be sort of this constant battle to try to figure out how to solve this problem. And I think it only really is. I think it only really works if you sort of economic align it as well. Right. Ultimately, like if you, if you're economically aligned to civil something, you're probably going to do that first. Right.
05:17:10.121 - 05:17:31.219, Speaker A: It's, or at least some edge of your, of your user base is going to do that. And I don't think this is necessarily a deep end problem. I think that's just a human scale problem. But back to my earlier point, I think that's what we should be building. Makes sense. All right, we have about 90 seconds left. I think, you know, just to wrap things up, Matt, you've taken different sides on this.
05:17:31.219 - 05:18:23.783, Speaker A: I think looking forward, the question is maybe, Matt, what would you want to fund that's adjacent or relevant or similar? Like what are you excited about if not for deep ins, what does the application layer, what does the sort of layer of new set of economic coordination problems, what does that look like? And if not for Deepin, how would you categorize? What would you call it? And for you have, what do you want to see get built in this space going forward? What problems need to be solved? What categories? How do you want to continue evangelizing this movement? And we'll start with you, Matt. Yeah. So just quickly, I would say I really love the ambition and energy of Deepin projects. I mean that's consistently the most exciting thing about them. So it's always very interesting to look and figure out if they do have these other things buttoned up because it's very cool to try and solve these real world issues. And look, I mean the ambition of these things is fantastic. Aside from that, I'm really bullish in general.
05:18:23.783 - 05:19:03.913, Speaker A: I think you asked this, right? I mean, I think stablecoins and crypto AI and all kinds of other exciting things going on in the blockchain space. So of course I remain super excited about it. But Deepin in particular, I would say is especially just case by case. It's one of those things where I'm always excited about the ambition. And then I always want to figure out have you thought about these two? The monitoring and capital cost thing especially? Well, sweet for something like very practical. And what I want to see more of, I mean I want to see more people exploring the mobile space. I mean I think that although that sort of talks against my own book, I guess in some way, like I think it's important to have more experimentation, more competition, new ideas of how to deploy these kinds of networks outside of the existing ones in mobile.
05:19:03.913 - 05:19:45.973, Speaker A: And there's some hype around energy right now, which is kind of interesting. I mean I think there's a lot of opportunity in manufacturing. You know, when I build hardware, for example, it takes such a long time to get like a prototype in my hands that I can play with. It would be really, really great if there were, you know, many companies like you know, three dos is a good example of this that are building that you can just sort of like write a little like thing in AutoCAD and make a little spec and send it over and the next morning you have the prototype in your hands like that, these kinds of things. And I think that could be applied to, to other use cases as well. Not just for physical things, but also in the biomedical sciences space and more. So I'd love to see things like that in Deepin.
05:19:45.973 - 05:19:51.265, Speaker A: Amazing. I think we're at time. Thank you so much for taking the time to do this. Thank you. Shayhan, great moderator. Appreciate it. Thanks Shannon.
05:19:51.265 - 05:20:53.787, Speaker A: One more huge round of applause for the future of Deepen and the legends Matt Shion and Abai. Thank you. And up next we have Yan, the co founder of Rome connecting the people roaming around the world. Round of applause. Thank you everyone. I'm Weidi from Rome. We are located in Vancouver, Canada.
05:20:53.787 - 05:21:31.285, Speaker A: Canada. So excited to roam into Singapore. Connect the great people here together in Breakpoint. What is roam? Roam is a global roaming network. Essentially we are free to use Telco because we are building and validating the network together. When you talk about free telco, most of us think about public WI fi. Yeah, but public WI fi, they are typically not encrypt.
05:21:31.285 - 05:22:03.535, Speaker A: Whenever you go you have to redo the login process. That is not the Roam is offering. Rome is offering a secure, seamless, decentralized Network. Were connecting 600 million public Wi Fi into a united one. So. Oh, sorry. Hey, sorry, sorry for the video thing.
05:22:03.535 - 05:22:41.265, Speaker A: Oh, never mind. So we started launching our network last year in July. Thanks for the Solana ecosystem to help. In the past year the network grew dramatically These numbers, our last year, our last month's number. Right now we already have over 600,000 nodes in 200 countries. Our larger users is already nearly 800,000 users. That's amazing.
05:22:41.265 - 05:23:41.395, Speaker A: So why it happens is everything coming from solving a small railroad problem? With all the problem public Wi fi has, the industry has something called open roaming essentially. But the adoption of open roaming has a problem. That's why they need our deep into help. With roam, you create a DID and you have your open roaming profile. Quickly you can start enjoying the seamless wi fi and Web3World. How do we build and evaluate the network together? You either provide your gateway access point, all your valid networks. So we call checking process every day we have more than 400,000 public checking from you and me.
05:23:41.395 - 05:24:29.195, Speaker A: That's amazing because we do work together. That's why we can have this free telco for everyone to join. Some people call physical, I want because we bring network users to the blockchain. The typical journey is you provide a gateway, you collect incentive. But because the network provides you real world revenues from cdn, VPN ads. So we together by receiving the incentive, the real revenues, we can return a free service to people. So with the WI fi we solve the problem when you're at home, in the office, in airport, in the restaurant.
05:24:29.195 - 05:25:38.885, Speaker A: But what happen when you're on the go? So Rome is offering ETHIM packages. Whenever you do a check in, you get a free 5 megabytes ethim data package in 198 countries, you can redeem them for real connectivities. So with the WI FI and ESIM together we provide an entire solution for the free telco. Thanks Solana to leading the sponsorship to our project and also like Samsung, other big players. As for today, we have some very nice news. Number one, we announced a 20 million Rome token airdrop to all the backers including the minor holders and ft holders. And two days ago PayFi and Deepin got together first time with the Houma Finance and Polyfollow two leading PayPal protocols were providing buy now, pay later services in the countries where strong demand for our ROM networks.
05:25:38.885 - 05:26:08.211, Speaker A: Let wait for the TG to burn the points for tokens. Let's bring this free to use telco to everyone in the globe. Thank you very much. Please feel free to download. Enjoy the better connectivity together. Thank you. Let's give it up for Yan Zong one more time.
05:26:08.211 - 05:26:58.461, Speaker A: Thank you so much. And next up from Gradient Network, Yung Gao. Hello everyone, my name is Yuan Gao. I'm the. I'm the Co founder of Gradient Network Today I'll be sharing three things. First, our vision to become the open layer for Edge Comp on Solana. Second, our approach to make that.
05:26:58.461 - 05:27:45.185, Speaker A: To make that a reality. Last but not least, I also want to introduce our first product, the Sentry Node, which we just launched nine days ago. So what is Edge Compute? Edge Compute is about bringing processing power closer to the user. The key word here is low latency. The real time user experience is a very essential aspect of many of the emerging compute use cases. Unlike the traditional cloud services which are focusing more on the centralization and scale, what Edge Compute requires is very different. What it requires is locality and also dispersion.
05:27:45.185 - 05:28:57.935, Speaker A: So that's where Deepin comes in. It offers a way to efficiently organize compute resources on the edge and form a unified compute layer. So we see Edge Compute as one of the most exciting areas in deeping, with huge potential. To fulfill the ever growing demand of real time compute, we have established a framework to identify the the verticals with very high potential in the space, guided by five core principles. First is market size, edge efficiency, cost reduction, minimum viable scale and also stainless of the compute. The three key verticals we have identified so far are serverless functions, CDN and streaming, and also AI infrastructure. So for today, due to the time limit, I will not go into the specifics, but we'll be releasing a very lengthy article to explain the outline of our framework and also like our deeper analysis of all these three verticals that we have identified so far.
05:28:57.935 - 05:29:49.005, Speaker A: So next I want to talk about how will the building blocks to achieve our vision to lay the foundation. We want to build a pervasive connectivity layer for Edge Compute. It doesn't make sense to have a relayer in between because that will wipe out all the potential benefits of Edge Compute. What we really want is peer to peer connection. It's more efficient, it's more resilient and with no central point of failure in the middle. We want to build a homogenized compute layer. What it does is it virtualize and commoditize heterogeneous compute resource into a single unified compute layer that different kinds of use cases can access to.
05:29:49.005 - 05:30:40.591, Speaker A: On top of that, we also want to build a very robust adaptive orchestration layer that different use cases can use. So regardless of the nature of the use cases, every use cases can tap into the compute resource layer seamlessly, effortlessly and also permissionlessly. So that's the three main building blocks of our project. Here is a bird eye view of all the building blocks, all the products that we'll be having in the future. But for today I will be focusing on the Sentry Node. Sentry Node is our first product. It's a lightweight client that in the form of a browser extension.
05:30:40.591 - 05:31:47.237, Speaker A: What it does is it can enable a peer to peer connection between two arbitrary nodes in a world and measure the latency in between the connection. So it mainly serves two goals. First, we want to establish a global and local connectivity topology map that would help us a lot when in the future we want to orchestrate services, we want to match processing power with users. Secondly, when our ecosystem grows, there will be a lot of decentralized roles in our ecosystem. Sentry Node will help to safeguard the liveliness of all those decentralized roles in our ecosystem. So here is a snapshot of what we have achieved. Seven days after our launch, we have 70k verified nodes in more than 117 countries and regions and we have already completed 400 tabs.
05:31:47.237 - 05:32:17.349, Speaker A: That's the peer to peer connections between nodes. So that's most of my presentation today. Please feel free to try out the Gradient Century. All comments and suggestions will be welcome. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give it up one more time. And next up, data transfers at the speed of light.
05:32:17.349 - 05:33:02.607, Speaker A: The speed of light, yes, Sorry. And let's welcome David Rodis from Permissionless Labs. Hello, I'm David Rodes, founder and CEO of Permissionless Labs. We're the maker of Pipe Network. I'm going to move really quickly through this talk because of the limited time. So my team consists of top engineers from companies like aws, Valve, Crunchyroll, Palantir. So we've got decades of experience building high performance software.
05:33:02.607 - 05:33:41.185, Speaker A: So we're dedicated to making Pipe Network the next evolution in content delivery. Pipe Network is made for any application. So Pipe CDN users access data faster than any other way. So whether it's video images, large language models, my bold north is to deliver data in 3 milliseconds plus the speed of light. Anyone could run a pipe node and contribute bandwidth. So traditional CDNs, they operate in data centers, so they're typically about 150 miles from the end users. This causes significant latency.
05:33:41.185 - 05:34:18.223, Speaker A: So the Pipeway pipe uses hyper local nodes. These are within like 10 miles of the user. This significantly reduces latency by shortening the distance of light between the data and the end user. So we're going to switch over and do a quick recorded demo. So using a recording, the void punishment from the demo gods. So we're going to log into the client portal. This is as a customer.
05:34:18.223 - 05:34:38.855, Speaker A: Right. So we've got three origins configured to play egress out of. We're just going to add a new quick origin so we support S3 storage today. Give this like a quick name. We're going to save it. It'll give us an endpoint that the customer will embed in their application. So here we're going to switch over for a quick video test playback.
05:34:38.855 - 05:35:21.793, Speaker A: So we're going to place them video this is being distributed across all the Pipe Pop nodes so loads very quickly targeting the closest pipe nodes to us. So here we're going to quickly add a new pipe pop node. Let's run a quick install script, restart the Linux service. This will join it to the pipe network. Here we're just going to quickly look in the logs, grab the node ID and we can see now it's attached to the network. So we'll switch back to the slides and yeah so currently Pipe Network is in private beta. Stay in touch for upcoming announcement about our testnet.
05:35:21.793 - 05:36:12.415, Speaker A: You can join now by running a Pipe pop node or using Pipe CDN to deliver data faster than ever to your users. Scan the QR codes to join us to today and thank you so much. Give it up one more time for David Rowe from Bin Bishop Labs. And next up we have Project Zero. Let's welcome together Alan Chang from Fuse Zero. Let's give it up. Hi, my name is Alan.
05:36:12.415 - 05:36:43.321, Speaker A: I'm the founder and CEO of Fuse. We have a big energy problem. Approximately 80% of our energy, our carbon emissions, comes from energy use and production. Now if the solution was simply to build more renewables, that would be easy. But the problem is with accelerated electrification. Electricity demand is higher than ever and the grid is extremely constrained. For example, if you want to build a large project that consumes or produces a lot of power, it takes years to connect.
05:36:43.321 - 05:37:15.865, Speaker A: Think data centers, think warehouses, and even renewable projects. This is not just an energy or climate problem, it's also an economic growth problem. We need to make energy clean, affordable and abundant. And we need to do it now. Introducing Project Zero. It's a decentralized energy network that does not depend on the grid, where you can do simple actions to help decarbonize the grid and help unblock the grid as well. So let me give you some examples of ways you can earn and contribute to the network.
05:37:15.865 - 05:37:52.755, Speaker A: First, let me. Let's start. It all starts with the Fuse Energy app. It's a licensed retail energy supplier already powering tens of thousands of homes today where you can see real time Energy usage and in the future, your token earnings too. One of the first use cases is you can earn when you help the grid. For example, when the sun is not shining, wind is not blowing, you can help butt the grid and earn simply by reducing energy usage. Also, with public EV charging, you can earn when you drive an EV and access tens of thousands of charge points with our partners.
05:37:52.755 - 05:38:42.283, Speaker A: And thirdly, you can earn when you electrify your home. We're building a fuse installer marketplace where you can simply with one click, get solar batteries and EV chargers. Think Amazon for installations. Now let's talk about how you can spend and burn the token. So when you burn the token, you can get access to incredibly cheap renewable energy as well as discounted solar battery, even ev as well as energy efficiency upgrades. So we designed the whole system so that even if you earn and burn the token, every single action you take contributes to the renewable transition. So let's talk a little bit more about how we expect the network to grow as we incentivize more decentralized renewable generation.
05:38:42.283 - 05:39:28.815, Speaker A: We expect a higher price spread between renewables and coal and gas prices. So let me explain how that works. Once you set up renewables, the marginal cost of production of renewables is basically near zero. For example, you get basically, once you set it up, you basically get free solar and free wind energy with very little maintenance costs. The same cannot be said with coal and gas with obviously high fuel costs as well as high maintenance costs. So the way the energy markets work is it prioritizes lower cost energy technologies over higher cost energy technologies. So what that means is as we see more and more renewables coming online, renewables will be prioritized and coal and gas will turn on less often.
05:39:28.815 - 05:40:15.975, Speaker A: But running a coal and gas plant has high fixed costs. And what that means is when the sun is not shining, wind is not blowing. When it turns on, it has to bid at a higher price in order to recover fixed costs such as labor and cost of capital. Also, a downstream impact of more all renewables coming online means increasing the percentage of your electricity consumption during renewable hours. And as a network contributor, more it gives more opportunity for tokens being burned and to access cheaper renewable hours, which can lead to higher token remand and higher demand shifting returns. We're backed by great investors. Last week we announced Multicoin with total raise of $90 million.
05:40:15.975 - 05:41:02.515, Speaker A: We also have a team with very good track record. For example, I myself was employee number three and chief revenue officer at Revolut, now the most valuable company in Europe. Plus we assembled top engineering team from Jump, Citadel and Tesla. We also seeded by as the first contributor to Product Zero Fuse, a fully integrated energy company. Think renewable version of standard oil from constructing and building utility scale solar, wind and hydrogen. We already have 18 megawatts operational today, plus 300 megawatts along the way as well as being a licensed utility. It's a big project but many hands make light work.
05:41:02.515 - 05:42:02.415, Speaker A: Scan to join Product Zero and be announcing a points program as well as a roadmap in the next couple of months. Thank you, thank you so much. Anna Chang from Q0. Next up, Frodobots with Michael Cho. Frodobots, let's give a round of applause. Hey guys, my name is Michael Cho, I'm the cook co founder of frodobots. We're a deep in project working on the intersection between robotics and gaming.
05:42:02.415 - 05:42:48.607, Speaker A: Our goal is to advance robotics AI or basically embody AI by crowdsourcing, hopefully the world's largest real world data sets with robotic gaming. So this is our first gaming title, it's called Earth Rovers. The best way to describe this is think of it as playing Mario Kart, except that you do this in real life with a sidewalk robot. So it's kind of like an RC car except that it has 4G connection. So because this is connected over the Internet, so you could be a gamer, let's say sitting in Singapore and yet control a robot, let's say halfway across the world in New York while taking on real world navigation missions. So this is a browser based game. You don't need to download anything just on the browser and there's a speaker microphone as well so you can literally talk to people around the world robot.
05:42:48.607 - 05:43:36.631, Speaker A: And we've been testing this for the last two years in various conditions, rain or snow, day and night, and actually now actually more than 20 cities. So here's a quick map of like some of the robots. So we're just under 100 robots now by over 20 cities and some more video footages from cities like Madrid, Auckland and Vienna. So along the way some of our social media actually went viral and with that we actually have a bunch of players who show up and actually some of them do buy the game pass and actually started paying us to play the actual game. And today I'm super excited to announce that we actually just dropped this kind of scavenger hunt gameplay mode. So the idea is that now you can actually just pick up this robot, just kind of like a toy, like for $300. And with that you can play basically something like A Pokemon Go kind of gameplay again in real life.
05:43:36.631 - 05:44:05.545, Speaker A: So you can be driving your board in your neighborhood and then on the map you see locations with loot boxes and you drive towards it. It's some nft, right? Half the time it's poop, but if you get lucky you can actually get some rare nft. And we think there's a lot of very interesting AR element that we want to continue to build in the coming months. So yeah, this is like a collection. So obviously some of the rare ones will be in the legendary collection. And so that's all the gaming side. But I do want to talk a fair bit about our traction on the AI side.
05:44:05.545 - 05:44:32.825, Speaker A: So a couple of months ago we open sourced this data set. So it's about 2000 hours of real world driving data. So that's about 2 terabytes collected in the real world from a dozen city. And turns out this is already the largest robotic urban navigation data set in the world. And so and we are super excited to be working with an AI lab from UC Berkeley. So they are working on an academic paper now and they should be publishing in a few months time. That would be about 5 terabytes of data.
05:44:32.825 - 05:45:13.615, Speaker A: And even more exciting is this Earth Rover Challenge that we'll be organizing next month in Abu Dhabi. So IROS is actually one of the biggest robotic conference. And the setup of this competition is basically we have five human gamers and so on that front we partner with ygg. So for the last couple of months we have a lot of gamers from YGG basically grinding the game and we are taking the top five gamers to represent humanity. Then on the other side there are five AI teams. And on that one we are working with five really good robotic labs from the likes of Carnegie Mellon and UC Berkeley. And just to give you a snapshot of what's happening, so this is like real life capture from two of the teams.
05:45:13.615 - 05:46:00.875, Speaker A: So one from us and one from Korea, two separate AI models controlling our robot right through our SDK and really trained using our data set. And so the event is going to happen next month. The whole thing will be live streamed as it is an esports event. So do check it out. And also a quick shout out to exabits who actually providing compute support because even at that two terabyte you start to use need to use something like a H100 to train the model. And this competition actually is not just organized by us, as you can see, we are actually doing it together with in my view some of the best robotic AI Researchers in the, well, most of them coming from Google DeepMind, as you can see, but also academia and meta AI. So the question is, why would researchers of their caliber want to partner with some project like us? Definitely not because they love crypto.
05:46:00.875 - 05:46:46.045, Speaker A: It's because I think we provide them with two things that is kind of game changing for them. Number one of course the data. But more recently we realized that this concept of evaluating their models in the real world, that's actually something that they never get to do do. So right now when we show up to them, hey, we have 100 bots in 20 over cities that allows them to evaluate how good or how bad is the model. That's just something that even, you know, the best labs in the world, even Google DeepMind won't have. So we think of researchers as really leading indicator of where this field is going. So we'll hopefully continue to work in the intersection where we can create fun gaming experience for the humans while making sure that the data that's generated is also very useful and in fact critical for embodied AI research advancement.
05:46:46.045 - 05:47:08.765, Speaker A: So anyway, if you're interested, follow us on social media. The game is free to play, at least there's a free version. And if you're so interested, just pay a couple hundred bucks, pick up our robot and try to maybe collect some poop or some rare nft and that's it. Thank you. Some local love for Michael. Thank you so much. And next up, a really exciting project.
05:47:08.765 - 05:48:19.309, Speaker A: Crunched out is in the house with Jean from Crunched Out. Give it up for, Give it up for Jean. Hi everyone. Thank you so much for being here today. I am absolutely super happy to be here today. We're going to talk about Crunch Lab and Crunchdao. So if you didn't heard about us Guy, Crunchdao is the largest decentralized AI community.
05:48:19.309 - 05:49:01.375, Speaker A: We have about 6,000 active machine learning engineers on the platform. We have about 600 PhDs and our community is currently based in more than 100 countries. CrunchDAO is currently crowdsourcing and selling machine learning models to some of the largest financial institutions on the planet. To give you an example, last year we've been working with the research lab of the third largest, largest sovereign on the planet. We've been selling models to the Broad Institute of Harvard and mit. We've been working with a Nobel Laureate last year as well. And recently we just cut a deal with one of the largest investment bank in Australia.
05:49:01.375 - 05:49:56.495, Speaker A: So Crunch Dao is often kind of compared to a Palantir with a token because we find a way to monetize AI and generate revenue out of our models. But the truth is that we are kind of something closer than hugging face with a token. Because our community are uploading models on our platform. We are hosting the models and then any of our customers can come and trigger the model to get their output. Now another very cool thing at Crunch is we put together the incentive mechanism that allowed to coordinate 6,000 researchers around the world to solve some of the problem of our customers. And actually we have pretty good numbers. So the core team and I are pretty sure that the CrunchDAO is going to be one of the leading voice in the decentralized AI conversation.
05:49:56.495 - 05:51:08.145, Speaker A: So what better place to host this project than Solana? We have this first announcement to make today, but there is a second one. Having very good machine learning model is very important, but it's actually not enough. If you think about the improvement that you can have with one of the best machine learning model on the stage, you're going to have maybe a double digit improvement. But some of our customers actually come with question like how can we get to the three digit improvement? Right? Can you guys kind of leverage your collective intelligence network to for example create an infinite amount of unique insights that we will be able to use on financial markets? And actually this is a multi billion dollar question. Having good model is a good thing, but the data behind is actually even more important. Now we started to think with the guys, how could we actually generate this infinite amount of unique insight? We started crunching and we came with PI. PI is our latest product at Crunch.
05:51:08.145 - 05:51:46.083, Speaker A: So with PI, anyone, doesn't matter if you know how to code, doesn't matter if you know how to compute some correlation. You just have to come with a simple question to generate a data set. And I'm going to show you how to do that. Okay, perfect. So here on the screen you see the latest version of PI. So PI is basically a prompt and every question that you're going to ask to this prompt is going to be asked to any relevant documentation that we can find online. So first we had to focus on some kind of problem that we wanted to solve.
05:51:46.083 - 05:52:37.567, Speaker A: So we decided to focus on the largest market. Largest market today is foreign exchange. Basically it's where country exchange value with each other. So if you can find a question here that kind of correlates with some of the leading economic indicator, you can generate revenue. So let me come with some random question out here. This question here is currently traveling 10 years of documentation and he's trying to get an intuition about the answer to this question and the line that you're going to see appearing today is a time series that didn't exist before, right? This is in no data set of no banks. It takes a bit of time, the travel is a bit long, but basically this is what you will have.
05:52:37.567 - 05:53:23.655, Speaker A: So, so here you can see that my time series actually correlated with some leading indicators. And if we manage to altogether come with hundreds of thousands of questions here, we have an opportunity to unlock a $1.2 billion a year opportunity. Guys, so what about we get that bread, you guys crunch that come on the website, connect your wallet and start asking questions to buy. Thank you very much. One more time for Crunch dk. How's everyone doing? Everyone? Super tired.
05:53:23.655 - 06:07:43.445, Speaker A: Can I get all together guys before we take a break? We're going to come back at 5:30. If everyone all together wants to support all the people behind the technicians, behind the people who built this stage, beyond all the visuals, all the engineering, if all together you can bring both of your hands and make a beautiful heart to show the love to every single individual who participated in this amazing, amazing conference all together. All right, thank you so much. Come back at 5:30. We have some really good keynotes and amazing debate as well. So stay tuned and see you very soon. SA SA SA SA SA SA SA it sa.
06:07:43.445 - 06:10:30.783, Speaker A: Yeah. What can I say? Oh baby, I was getting bored. Solana family, are you still alive? We still have three extremely exciting keynotes coming up and we have the up and coming long awaited fiery debate. So please stay tuned. It's going to be absolutely awesome. The next keynote we have is talking about one of the oldest industries in the game, wine, 6,000 years before Christ. And by the way, fine wines can get you up to 7 to 10% yield on an annual basis.
06:10:30.783 - 06:11:42.935, Speaker A: So we're really excited about this next keynote. So without further ado, we're going to talk about how Devin is tokenizing the wine industry. So let's give a round of applause to David Garry from Devian Labs Money Hour, everybody. Hi, I'm, I'm Dave Garrett. I'm the co founder of Devin Labs. We are tokenizing the 1 trillion dollar global wine asset class. For the last three years we've done pilots with more than 70 wineries and we've tokenized about 2 million dollars worth of wine already.
06:11:42.935 - 06:12:39.435, Speaker A: Wine isn't just a. Wine isn't just a huge industry, but it's also a decentralized industry. There's about 30,000 independent little tiny winemakers around the world and about 10 million little tiny independent middlemen. And what that means is that there's no real source of truth for the industry. So by tokenizing wine, you're solving a lot of problems. You're solving an authenticity problem, you're solving anti fraud and anti counterfeit, you're solving chain of custody, you're solving supply chain data, consumption data, and most importantly, you're solving customer acquisition and loyalty. So I could talk to you about how we're doing all of those things, but I only have five minutes, so I'm going to show you.
06:12:39.435 - 06:13:27.093, Speaker A: Do we have any mad lads here? Anybody? So yesterday we dropped a champagne NFT for every mad lad. And what that NFT is, is it's a digital twist twin for a physical bottle of champagne that's right now sitting in Bordeaux City Bond. That bottle has your unique lad right there on the bottle as the label. And there's a Vincoin airdrop attached to that bottle. And starting October 21st, you'll be able to ship that bottle anywhere in the world for free. It's cool. It's the biggest liquid airdrop in history, but we didn't want to leave you folks out.
06:13:27.093 - 06:13:56.269, Speaker A: Okay, so everybody in the room is going to get a chance to earn an airdrop as well, but you have to work for it. Okay, so let me tell you how it's going to work. Back in May, we put 4,000 bottles of champagne on a boat and sent it to Singapore. Now, just to that, you know, like. Yeah, that's what the bottle looks like. Just so you know, like, we sent the good stuff. If you don't know, ask around.
06:13:56.269 - 06:14:22.047, Speaker A: Like, we do the good stuff with the wine. So there's 4,000 bottles of champagne here, and as you leave, you can grab a bottle. But let me show you how to get your airdrop. It's actually really simple. We just unlocked all of the bottles, all of the digital corks in the bottles about two hours ago. Go. So the first thing that you do is you tap the NFC sticker, that little gold sticker, that little gold sticker.
06:14:22.047 - 06:14:58.925, Speaker A: You tap that with your phone and that will let you claim the nft. It'll put the NFT for that bottle in your wallet and then you'll have a digital asset, right? You'll have a digital twin for that bottle of wine. You'll own a real world asset. And then you, you can put it in your suitcase and take it home. Then when you're ready to drink the wine, you tap that button again or you tap the NFC tag again. And when you tap it, it'll open our app and it'll open the nft, the digital cork. NFT in the app, and you can just hit the open button.
06:14:58.925 - 06:15:28.131, Speaker A: And when you open the physical bottle of wine, you're also opening the nft, the. The digital cork. Now, that's an important moment because something really important happens when you do that. Because you're opening the bottle, we're actually burning the digital asset, right? Because it's no longer an authentic asset. You've opened the bottle, but we're minting you a new token. It's called a tasting token. And that tasting token comes with rewards and status from the winery.
06:15:28.131 - 06:16:08.109, Speaker A: And most importantly, in this case, it comes with 2000 Vincoin. Now, this transaction is really important. That's kind of the heart of what we do, because what's happening there is the winemaker, in this case it's us, is paying you in vincoin in exchange for data. Because when you click open the bottle, now, the winemaker knows that that bottle has been consumed, and they know kind of when and in general where that bottle has been consumed. And if you opt in, that winemaker has acquired a new customer, which is very difficult and expensive for the winemaker. So now the winemaker has data about their wines in the world, and they've acquired new customers. So it's a really important transaction.
06:16:08.109 - 06:16:55.413, Speaker A: And it's a way for. It's a viral way for winemakers to grow their customer base, to acquire new customers, to get really good data. And it's a way for Devin to invite 250 million wine enthusiasts from around the world into the Solana ecosystem. But wait, but wait, there's more. Because here's the thing. Unless you're a professional like me and my team, you really shouldn't drink a whole bottle of champagne by yourself. So when you open that bottle with friends, they can also, once the bottles open, they can tap that thing and then they get a tasting token, and they also get a little bit of vincoin.
06:16:55.413 - 06:17:22.261, Speaker A: They get 150vincoin themselves, and then you get a little taste. So it's a really a great way to get really. For winemakers to purchase data from the wine from the consumers. I'm wrapping up now. We went live on Jupiter this morning, so Vincoin is available on Ju, Jupiter lfg. If you scan the QR code, you can find out more about that. Thank you very much, everybody.
06:17:22.261 - 06:17:46.485, Speaker A: Grab your wine on the way out. Don't not grab your wine, and then we'll see you at the closing party. Thank you everybody. A literal cheers and figurative cheers to David Garrett from TV Labs. Thanks again. Next up, our topic is Desai breaks ground on Solana. Welcome Paul from Molekul and Bio.
06:17:46.485 - 06:18:28.015, Speaker A: Woo. Cool. Hi everyone, my name is Paul Koss and I'm going to share with you today around how Desai decentralized science is kind of breaking ground putting a flag on the ground on Solana. Actually, some background about me. I've been in crypto since 2016 building and I used to be anything or maximalist. And so this is my first break point and I just want to say the incredible energy, the warmth here is absolutely infectious. So we're really excited to bring scientific research onto Solana.
06:18:28.015 - 06:18:50.821, Speaker A: Clicker. Oh, there we go. Okay, so we live in a world today of we live in. No, I think I clicked too many. Sorry. There we go. We live in a time of science friction and not science fiction, unfortunately.
06:18:50.821 - 06:19:31.205, Speaker A: So the scientists, we work with scientists all over the globe and we help them tokenize their research. We create decentralized biotech organizations on chain in fields like longevity, fertility research, and a lot of biohacking communities. And the scientists that we work with often say they spend 80% of their time applying for funding and 20% doing the science. Imagine if you were doing that in software development. Most of the world's scientific talent remains untapped. So there's scientists all over the world that are essentially just not getting funding for their research. Desai stands for permissionless science.
06:19:31.205 - 06:20:12.965, Speaker A: So in dsci, we really want to connect creators that are scientists with users that are patients that want their products. So we all want to live longer. And what if there was a game that gives users time? We'll actually hear from the next speaker, Brian Johnson, who is super deep into this. But so testing new compounds for longevity literally takes a lifetime. So the question is, what if we could run experiments at the speed of pump fun? So what we what we've built, it's going live today. We let people fund, run and trade their own tokenized longevity experiments and they can own the outcomes. So this is Warmbot.
06:20:12.965 - 06:20:36.155, Speaker A: We partner with a company called Aura Biomedical to do this. They mix different compounds with worms. This is C. Elegans is a test that's often done in biotech. You get automated imaging resulting from that and then computer vision in real time detects the survival rate. So essentially you get a live stream and kind of the death and survival rate of these worms takes about 20 days and costs on average three to five hundred dollars to run. An experiment.
06:20:36.155 - 06:21:17.155, Speaker A: So we're super excited to introduce pump Signs. What you can see on the right is essentially a marketplace of different early stage longevity cocktails or compounds that you can now test live in worm experiments. So let me tell you how it works. So there's a researcher that has a new longevity cocktail idea. You can then list it on Pump Science. He can fundraise for that experiment with a bonding curve or the liquidity that is raised automatically goes into to fund that experiment. It's then tested in worms and then you can trade the live data stream on Pump Fun.
06:21:17.155 - 06:22:07.415, Speaker A: And so what it does is in essence, this creates prediction markets for early stage biotech experiments. What would come after this? Like, how does this actually work? The next thing would be testing in flyers. After that you could run mouse experiments that are now tokenized. And ultimately, if you all take this a step further, you could even apply personal testing so people could safely test longevity compounds on themselves and kind of report the outcomes. So what do these tokens actually represent? Is this a meme token? No. So these tokens actually represent real world IP governance, rights to the underlying compounds, data to the experiments that are being traded. And in the next step, even in the interface that we're building, you could kind of auto deploy a patent around this patent application.
06:22:07.415 - 06:22:53.887, Speaker A: Token holders control the treasury management that is raised. They can define the experimental roadmap and help with commercialization of any of the interesting compounds that come out of this. You can imagine kind of direct to consumer place where token holders now get early access to these new longevity compounds and treatments. The first two markets actually went live to trade about, I think, 15 minutes ago. And again, the way that it works is when a market cap on any of these compounds that you saw earlier crosses $10,000 on Pump Fun, then the experiment data is deployed live on Pump Science. So on Pump Science essentially provides you now with a live stream of how the worms are doing. Cool.
06:22:53.887 - 06:23:34.581, Speaker A: We're launching today. You can already find two markets that are live and deployed. And the hope is really that kind of this empowers biohackers all over the world to begin deploying their own experiments. You could kind of come on Pump Science, you could say, I want this compound to be listed. And then within hours, if you get other people interested in that idea, they can begin trading it live. I want to, if you're interested, to learn more or connect with our team member, we literally built this in about three weeks. You can connect with Benji Labo on Twitter, huge shout out to the Solana foundation that Provided us a grant in building this and a huge shout out to our friends at Builders for making this happen.
06:23:34.581 - 06:24:19.897, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Thanks so much, Paul for Molecule in Bio. Next up, we have Brian Johnson from Blueprint. Let's give him a round of applause. All right, you motherfuckers. We're talking about sleep today. How many of you have slept more than four hours per night this week? Five? Six? Okay, this is bad news.
06:24:19.897 - 06:24:36.179, Speaker A: Everyone stand up. Stand up. Okay, we are going to change your relationship with sleep today, okay? We're going to talk about five habits. Reach up, get into a different mind state. You're ready to change yourself. All right, Back down. Okay, five habits.
06:24:36.179 - 06:24:56.451, Speaker A: Okay, Now I demonstrated the world's best sleep score. Eight months of perfect sleep. No one has ever done that before. So here's five things for you to do. Number one is you're going to be a professional rejuvenation. You're a professional sleeper, okay? So you don't sleep when you have time. You don't sleep when you're done with work, you don't sleep when you're done with the movie.
06:24:56.451 - 06:25:31.017, Speaker A: You sleep because you are a professional sleeper, because you know that sleeping is the highest value thing you can do to be a great builder and human in life. Number two is a wind down routine. So if your bedtime is at 10, when 9pm comes, one hour to wind down screens off, you stop working. And so what I do is I activate sleep Brian mode. So if I activate sleep Brian mode, I go to bed at 8:30. So 7:30 comes, screens are off, wind down routines start happening. Now the moment that happens, ambitious Brian's going to say, I have this new idea that I want to do the following thing.
06:25:31.017 - 06:25:58.581, Speaker A: Sleep. Brian says, thank you, ambitious Brian, we really appreciate you. We have all day tomorrow to work on the following thing. But for that hour of time, you've got to basically take your ambitious self and all the worries you have and push it out to the next day and get yourself ready for sleep. So professional sleeper wind down routine. And in that duration of time you want to do a meditative practice, breath work, go for a walk, read a book, something to wind yourself down. Number three is consistency.
06:25:58.581 - 06:26:19.077, Speaker A: So your body really does well when it can expect what's going to happen. So when I was doing my perfect sleep routine, I would be in bed within plus or minus one minute every night. And it was remarkable that moment would come. My body would just fall into sleep. It was just incredible. So for you, plus or minus 30 minutes would be great. 60 minutes is okay, but not much longer.
06:26:19.077 - 06:26:34.877, Speaker A: Number four is lighting in your environment. Blues. Things like this is going to wreck my sleep tonight. This is so much blue. This is the most blue I've had in, I think the entire four years. But I'm doing it for you. So light matters a lot.
06:26:34.877 - 06:26:59.919, Speaker A: You want to eliminate blues. And if you can get a red light bulb, put it into a lamp. And then in that hour, wind down routine is going to calm you down. So if you want to pay attention to the Kelvin, it's like roughly 3,500 Kelvin. You want soft yellows. And number five is your last meal of the day. So if you can eat your last meal of the day roughly two hours before bedtime, that's great.
06:26:59.919 - 06:27:35.741, Speaker A: If you can do three or four or five, even better. So what I found out is the further I move my last meal of the day back, the better my sleep became. I now have my last meal of the day at 11am you don't need to do that, but it works. So you'll see that it takes roughly six hours for your body to have primary digestion. And so the body has to assign metabolic processes to digest food. And so when it's done with that, it can take all of its metabolic abilities and apply it to sleep. And so by the time my bedtime arrives, my body is entirely done with digestion and it's ready to sleep.
06:27:35.741 - 06:28:04.191, Speaker A: So if my resting heart rate is 47, then it's going to be a perfect night's sleep. I know if I eat something two or three hours before bedtime and if it's even heavy like a pasta or a pizza, I don't do it anyways. But if I did, it would cost me roughly 35 to 45% of my sleep. It's very algorithmic. Now if you do these things, you're going to have five attributes in your sleep. One is when your head hits a pillow, you're going to be asleep by in roughly five minutes time. That's the kind of routine you want to have.
06:28:04.191 - 06:28:35.565, Speaker A: When your body says I'm ready for sleep, you hit the pillow, you're out. What you don't want is for your head to be on the pillow and to be rotating like all the things you have in your mind of the things you want to get done, you're going to get done, things you're bothered with, et cetera. Two is you're going to be up in the night less than 30 minutes. You'll have roughly two hours of REM and roughly two hours of deep sleep. Those are the metrics you want. Now, who here is a founder that doesn't believe what I'm saying? That does not get into the sleep routine. Raise your hand if you're not going to do it.
06:28:35.565 - 06:29:04.855, Speaker A: Why? Yeah, he says it's very hard. Okay, I agree. I understand the situation. It is very hard. There is a myth that somehow you're a better founder if you sleep less. It's not true. Less sleep makes you a lesser person.
06:29:04.855 - 06:29:27.757, Speaker A: Yes. And you guys play this silly fucking game, holding each other to ridiculous standards of not sleeping. You tell stories about people who work all night or do whatever their thing. They're amazing. They can only survive on three hours of sleep. That's not true. Okay.
06:29:27.757 - 06:29:52.675, Speaker A: My speed of aging is 0.64. That means I celebrate my birthday every 19 months. You guys have a birthday every four months? Crypto. Except accelerates aging. Is this not true? Yeah, it's brutal. So we humans want to be part of a tribe. We want to belong.
06:29:52.675 - 06:30:14.135, Speaker A: We want to participate in the social activities of life. So when we do it together, we relieve the pressure of fomo. We want to be involved. So as a community, if we can say we value sleep, so much better. So can I get a raise of hands? Who's in on this? Yes. Yes. I hope you guys feel it.
06:30:14.135 - 06:30:36.097, Speaker A: I hope you feel that there's permission to get eight hours of sleep. And you don't need to feel shame by getting it. Great. Thank you. That was good. Okay. All right.
06:30:36.097 - 06:31:01.745, Speaker A: So that's first part, sleep. Now, I'm going to tell you what Don't Die is about, because I think we could do something cool together. I'm going to go through this really fast. I've been doing building Don't Die for the past couple years. Normally this takes two and a half hours to get a group of people together and sit down and walk through the entire thing. We're going to do it in seven minutes. That means it's going to leave you with a whole bunch of questions and you're going to not agree with any of it, but that's okay, because the seed is going to be planted.
06:31:01.745 - 06:31:24.575, Speaker A: Okay, here we go. All right. So most people think my endeavor is about boners. It's true, actually. You know what? So this is relevant if you have. Okay. So when I did the boner thing, so, yeah, my nighttime erections are the length of Titanic.
06:31:24.575 - 06:31:45.827, Speaker A: Three hours and eight minutes per night. That is better than the average 18 year old. Thank you. Thank you so much, everyone. Did you know so many of My friends messaged me. They're like, wait a second, I'm not having any boners at night. What does that mean? They're not sleeping.
06:31:45.827 - 06:32:02.255, Speaker A: When you don't sleep, you don't have boners. And guess what? When you don't have boners at night, you're 70% more likely to die early. It's a really big deal. And women, you too. Women, you have the same number of erections as men do every night. They're just harder to measure. The penis is much more accessible.
06:32:02.255 - 06:32:39.447, Speaker A: We have sidetracked. So anyways, sleep has a direct correlation with nighttime boners, and that is a significant biomarker for your health and wellness. All right, so what don't die is really about is, is this idea that the most important thing happening on planet Earth right now is we're developing AI and whether you're bullish or bearish, it's pretty fast. In fact, it may be faster than we can really understand and may change reality more than we can imagine. Like, you know, like, big deal, probably the most important thing on planet Earth that's going on right now. And so there's a big question. What do we do? And you look out through the world and everyone's got an idea what to do.
06:32:39.447 - 06:33:02.377, Speaker A: Like, China's doing their thing, usually doing their thing within China. Companies are different things. The California legislature wants to regulate it. But like, as a species, we kind of have 8 billion different ideas on what to do with AI. Sometimes we're scared, sometimes we're happy. But basically it's like, state of affairs. And my hypothesis is no existing framework of human thought is equal to this moment.
06:33:02.377 - 06:33:32.643, Speaker A: Not democracy, not capitalism, not socialism, not Christianity, not Islam, not Wokeism. Nothing, nothing in existence actually addresses what we do as a species. Don't die, I will propose, is the only framework in existence that is actually equal to this moment. And so it's don't die individually, don't kill each other, don't kill the planet. Align AI with don't die. It's this observation that don't die is the most played game by every human on this planet. Every second of every day.
06:33:32.643 - 06:34:02.981, Speaker A: It is your 0th order priority, every single moment. Now, when you're not dead, you do crypto stuff, right? But otherwise. Otherwise it's your metabolic priority to do it. Now, that's true across all the biomass on planet Earth, animals and plants, etc. It is the preeminent game of alignment that we don't want to die. Okay? So if you think about this from like a much Bigger context. So, like, through the swath of humanity, like, what are the big ideas that have come about? Like, Buddha's like, hey, like, life kind of sucks.
06:34:02.981 - 06:34:19.949, Speaker A: We should probably detach ourselves. Muhammad is like, we should submit to God. Jesus was like, I'm the son of God. Adam Smith was like, hey, there's this invisible hand. There's markets. The Americans were like, hey, we the people are gonna solve this. But like, these really big chunks of ideological understanding that drive our existence.
06:34:19.949 - 06:35:08.097, Speaker A: And so the proposal here is that in this moment as a species, ideologies rise that are equal to the moment in technological abilities that don't die is a system of politics, economics, morals, ethics, social everything. And so, for example, smoking a cigarette costs you 11 minutes of life. You can do the same math that a fast food meal is also 11 minutes of life. Burger, shake and fries. So it's a number, it's 11 minutes. That means the ideology is reducible in a computational form. And this is why I'm here to talk to you guys, is the ideologies we have today, like democracy and others, they're not reducible to math.
06:35:08.097 - 06:35:42.035, Speaker A: They're not reducible to computation. They exist in the abstraction with language. Don't die is a mathematical reducible construct. It plays very well with the blockchain. In fact, if we say that the future of language is actually math and it's everything you're building, we should say, is there an ideology in existence that actually is suitable to work in politics and economics and morals and morality and ethics. And so that's what I've been doing for the past three years. I've been trying to become the most don't die person in human history.
06:35:42.035 - 06:36:08.409, Speaker A: And so we measured every organ of my body, every single one. Liver, pancreas, heart, brain. We took the biological age. By the way, my left ear is 64, so my heart is 37. My left ear is 64, my diaphragm is 18, so my whole body. You heard about my erections, right? Like less than 18, but like the body has all your 70 organs have different ages. And then we took all the best science, we applied the science to my body.
06:36:08.409 - 06:36:50.225, Speaker A: And then we tried to say, can we slow down my speed of aging? And can we reverse the aging damage? But you can reduce the entire thing into numbers, which is so beautiful. Then we repeat the process again and again and again. And so as a system of intelligence, you can take all my biology and reduce it to this numerical system. You can then bridge it to other things too. You can do the same Thing for coral reef. You say when coral reef dies, it creates a different marine environment, which means the marine environment dies and et cetera. You can apply a die score of what happens when coral reef dies, or you can say what happens when a certain level of microplastics are in the food and water we eat and drink.
06:36:50.225 - 06:37:28.465, Speaker A: What does that mean? Or a politician could say, my district or my country is the most don't die country in the entire world. So these concepts bridge very naturally from daily habits of self, of health and wellness, to political systems, economic systems. In fact, it is the natural progression of economics where you say the world is kind of broken out into two different markets die and don't die. So alcohol and cigarettes are dye, smoke detectors, seat belts, building codes, crosswalks. That's don't die. The don't die economy is potentially growing a lot faster than the die economy. So money supports this.
06:37:28.465 - 06:37:47.939, Speaker A: All right, so what we're doing tangibly, and this is the bridge to how we can work together, is we started a don't die app. It's an alpha mode. I'll have. I'll give you a QR code. We're trying to socialize this idea of numerically. So, okay, quick tangent. I came up with don't die when.
06:37:47.939 - 06:38:21.137, Speaker A: When I did a thought experiment, I imagined being present in the 25th century, and you're there among them, and they're communicating in whatever way they exist. And they're saying, can you believe how extraordinary existence is? Like we are expanding throughout the stars. We exist in 10 dimensions. Like, it's just this unreal existence. We are so grateful to humans who existed in the early 2000s. They existed in that moment, that precarious moment when they were giving birth to superintelligence. And they could have fucked it up.
06:38:21.137 - 06:39:14.105, Speaker A: They could have just destroyed everything. But you know what? They actually punched through and they made it happen. What did we do in that moment that allowed intelligence to thrive in this part of the galaxy? I think what they'd say is, they'd say they had the wisdom to say we're transitioning from death being inevitable to having some unknown horizon of being able to extend our lives into something more magnificent than we can imagine that we saw this moment. Schopenheimer quote, talent is the ability to hit the target no one else can. Genius hits the target no one can see. What is the genius move for us as a species? I think it's seen that we are transitioning, death inevitable to some unknown horizon. And what do you do? You align all of intelligence on the single thing we can agree upon is we don't want to die right now.
06:39:14.105 - 06:39:43.497, Speaker A: So I want to build with you guys. There's a way to build a lot of incentives around this. Through all systems of society, we're going to expose the don't die score. So every day you can track in the very beginning very basic like sleep and exercise and motion. We can add other things like biomarkers, speed of aging, MRI imaging, a whole bunch of other stuff. But we can basically build this throughout the world and hopefully be the power check on all things. The goal is that a billion of us are going to be a self identified or don't die.
06:39:43.497 - 06:40:51.119, Speaker A: By 2027, we will be in every organization in the world because we think this moment is special. Thanks everyone. Oh, and go to bed. Beautiful work, Brian. And what a timely T shirt. Don't die. I was literally brain dead this morning.
06:40:51.119 - 06:41:33.049, Speaker A: But thanks to all the love and the energy that you guys are bringing here today, you have resurrected me. And because we're going to reach the final debate, one of the most interesting talks across the entire day, I want to get your energy and love and spread it across the room so that all the people who are feeling fatigued will feel reenergized. Is that cool, guys? So we're gonna do a countdown. Three, two, one. And then I'd love for you guys to scream on the top of your lungs, Solana. Okay, can we do that, guys? For all those to spread the energy and the love. Ready? As loud as you can.
06:41:33.049 - 06:41:57.869, Speaker A: Three, two, one. Beautiful. All right. All right, super excited. So without further ado, let's move to the debate. As you guys all know, we have the Solana foundation should be dissolved debate. So if I may call up our amazing moderator, Joel John from Decentralized.
06:41:57.869 - 06:42:30.231, Speaker A: Let's give him a round of applause. And Dan Albert, executive director, Solana foundation. And Victor Fisher from Rockaway X. Good evening, guys. Hello. All right, let's get this started. So as you may have heard, we'll be discussing whether Solana foundation should be dissolved.
06:42:30.231 - 06:42:56.289, Speaker A: For the motion is Dan from Solana Foundation. Let's go. That'll be interesting. And against is Victor from Rockaway X. All right, so the way this will work is both parties have about 3.5 minutes to discuss for and against. We'll have about 10 minutes of Q and A and then we'll be rotating stances and concluding.
06:42:56.289 - 06:43:46.405, Speaker A: So done. On to you. All right, so depending on the outcome of this debate, many of my employees and team members in the audience are going to wonder if they still have a job after this. So I hope this is worth your while. So why should we dissolve the Solana Foundation? I want to start with just a little bit of background, like where did the foundation come from and what's its origin story? The foundation was created with the launch of Solana mainnet. Some tokens were set aside for its operations and to fund its grant programs at Genesis. This allocation of funds has been the Foundation's only source of funds from day one, and it continues to support everything we do, including throwing breakpoint, doing all of the grants and programs that the foundation does.
06:43:46.405 - 06:44:40.895, Speaker A: It pays my salary and my teams and everybody here. The foundation deploys the treasury to support grant funding and staking programs and supporting the evolution of the Solana Network. We fund developer tools to make development on Solana more accessible and easy and secure, and engage communities, builders, companies, and governments all over the world to raise awareness about Solana and its potential. However, the token allocation for the foundation, this makes the Solana foundation unique in that it is the only entity, the only entity on Earth that did not earn its soul. Everybody else, including everybody here, everybody who has a stake in the network in Solana, had to put something on the line. Labor, talent, capital, in hopes of some success. The Solana foundation operates in reverse.
06:44:40.895 - 06:45:45.199, Speaker A: We received our funding at the outset and have to endeavor to make retroactively the value and trust put in us by the network worth that cost. But is it worth the cost? This may have been true in the early days, but perhaps less so now. I've always told my whole team, everybody at the foundation, that our job is to work ourselves out of a job, find scalable ways to support the network, support the ecosystem, and then get out of their way. The ecosystem has grown and matured, and now there are fewer than ever existentially important needs that the community cannot solve on its own. And they can potentially do so in a way that's more efficient than how the foundation operates, as clearly evidenced by what we've seen this week at Breakpoint. The network, the ecosystem, stands so strong on their own now. And by whatever metric you want to use, I still want to see Solana 10x, 100x, a thousandx from where it is today.
06:45:45.199 - 06:46:39.787, Speaker A: And there's no way that an organization, or any single organization like the foundation, can or should grow its headcount and its costs to support proportionally that kind of growth without becoming some inefficient bureaucratic monstrosity. The Solana Foundation's relative importance in the ecosystem is in decline. And I think this is an incredibly healthy development. And to extrapolate that to its natural conclusion, when the ecosystem can do everything that the foundation can do and more, that is a job well done, and we need to recognize it for what it is. And rather than this organization clinging to life indefinitely, I think it is only right to consider and moving forward with its dissolution. Okay, nice. So thank you, Dan.
06:46:39.787 - 06:47:13.019, Speaker A: I respectfully disagree. You know, I am fortunate enough to be part of the solana ecosystem since 2018, since the project was called Loom. And even, like already back then, even now, you know, I was speaking with many of you during the two days here at Breakpoint, like, should we dissolve Solana Foundation? And all the answers were no. And when I ask why, it's because Solana foundation is like a family to us. So when I think about the family, I think about, you know, a couple of things. Number one is values. We have a strategic direction.
06:47:13.019 - 06:47:42.473, Speaker A: We have, you know, we are building a giant state machine instantly replicated globally. But other foundations, I don't want to name them. You know, they are an RWA chain. And then they are next week, AI chain. And the week after they are like a chain abstraction, chain, another foundation. I don't know if you remember, but beginning of 2024, they started to buy meme coins because they wanted to to piggyback on that trend. So we don't have that.
06:47:42.473 - 06:48:06.099, Speaker A: We have one single direction since white paper 0.8.12. Secondly, it's love. I think Solana is a chain which grew out of bear markets. You remember all the hackathons that Solana foundation was organizing. We had the ignition hackathon in 2020. We had the Riptide. And then the brutal bear market of 2020, we had Grizzly tone.
06:48:06.099 - 06:48:28.195, Speaker A: Yeah, like massive bear. And actually developers were participating. We had like 700 developers, 1,000 developers. You remember hacker houses. So the first unofficial hacker house was in lisbon during Breakpoint 2021. And then the official one, we partnered with Solana foundation and we did it in Prague. We booked a train from Berlin to Prague.
06:48:28.195 - 06:48:45.485, Speaker A: 400 developers. So, interestingly, first we called German Railways. Hey, can we like rent a train? They're like, no way. So then we called Czech Railways. Can we rent a train in Prague, go to Berlin, put in some people and then go to Prague. And they're like, of course it's going to be expensive. How much? $40,000.
06:48:45.485 - 06:48:59.955, Speaker A: So we actually rented the train. We put like Solana stickers on the train. It was amazing. We had like a dj, we were coding programming. You know, this love. I think it's maintained by Solana foundation and that's why it needs to stay. Third thing is protection.
06:48:59.955 - 06:49:28.345, Speaker A: I think Solana foundation needs to protect us from, for example, censorship. And the fourth one is grants and, you know, money. I presented two days ago a Fazer by Aki and it was sponsored by Solana Foundation. So thank you very much. Stay with us. Yeah, it's family. All right, I'm going to just start off with some questions.
06:49:28.345 - 06:50:20.229, Speaker A: Right, so what I took from you is that Solana, Solana Foundations contributions to Solana could probably be behind it. What I hear from you is that on the flip side, the foundation runs it closer to what a family is. Right. I want to hear from both of you as to what is the ideal end state, as to when would a complete dissolution make sense. And you know, that's. So if your argument is that Solana Foundation's contributions are already here, how close are we to that end state? And if yours is that we are not close to it, then how much more needs to be done? What is the foundation doing towards getting there? I think it's actually a pretty complex question. I have this graph that I show to the team at foundation which is like my ideal sort of future vision for the world as the foundation relates and it's influence versus time.
06:50:20.229 - 06:52:01.061, Speaker A: And it shows Solana being the network, the community, the economy, right? In this incredible growth parabolic arc. And Solana foundation sort of like kind of hanging out, you know, somewhat linear, maybe tailing down a little bit. And it's so clear that the crossover point for the ecosystem, ecosystems, growth and explosive growth, we're in the throes of it and we have so much further to go. And what are the areas where we try today to focus our efforts are what are the things that the community either cannot do on its own or will not do on its own? And usually these are capital constrained things. Right? The foundation has the treasury that it has and is I think today one of the only organizations, maybe the only organization with the willpower to put significant sums of capital towards very expensive endeavors like R and D for the network, for the protocol, you know, against these things, which will hopefully benefit everybody in Solana. But at what point does that become no longer true? Right. If there is a team that is maintaining a FL fleet of validators or road a validator client, or has a multi billion dollar profit business built on top of Solana, those companies and those teams have the economic incentive to make sure that the network remains performant and decentralized and secure, and that developers can come and we may not have reached that quite critical mass yet, where there is some entity that is not Solana foundation foundation, you know, that's willing to put the kind of resources into the network with no expectation of return yet.
06:52:01.061 - 06:52:17.421, Speaker A: But I think we're. We're approaching that point. I mean, one argument is that you wouldn't reach that point until you finally make that leap. Right. So, yeah, I think I'm still arguing for, like, no dissolving. Yeah. So I guess, like, very practically.
06:52:17.421 - 06:52:57.105, Speaker A: So Nana foundation delegation program is delegating roughly, I think, like 70 million SOL tokens to 70% of validators. There was a study by Helios done in August. If we stop the Solana foundation delegation program, 60% of validators will not be profitable anymore. That's why we need foundation number one. Number two is just being a single point of contact for, for example, you know, governments and PayPal and Franklin Temple, you know, like the Treadfly Boomer, sorry for the word. Like, they need someone to call, and we need that, you know, governance slash coordination entity. I don't think we can survive without that.
06:52:57.105 - 06:53:26.535, Speaker A: We also need protection from. For example, you know, I'm European. I don't know what's going on in terms of regulations in the us but if SEC designates Solana Sol Token as a security, who's going to protect us? I hope it will be Foundation. You mentioned the delegation program. And this is something I've been very involved in for over five years now in all of its forms. And it's true, we absolutely support a lot of validators. And I'm proud of the work that that program has done.
06:53:26.535 - 06:53:59.565, Speaker A: And I think what is really important to make the distinction is you're right. If we stop doing that program, right, if we stopped the staking strategies that we do to support validators, would that change some of the validator distribution? Absolutely. Would Solana Network go away? No. Yeah. So I would say our engagement, while I still believe very beneficial and helpful, is no longer existentially important to Solana Network, nor to the community. And I think this is an incredible sign of maturation. Right.
06:53:59.565 - 06:54:43.005, Speaker A: I don't think that this is a failure of the Foundation. I think it is a difficult conversation and I'm glad we're having it, but one that says, hey, are we mature enough that we can look at, you know, can we add sufficient value to justify an organization like this existence, knowing that if we did nothing at all, if we said, I said, okay, however many of my team is here. I love you. You're fired. You know, that would be pretty uncomfortable, but Solana would persist indefinitely and I think that is an incredible accomplishment. Thanks to everybody here. So that's why it needs to stay.
06:54:43.005 - 06:55:33.745, Speaker A: All right, I'm just going to ask the next question. Right. So both of you guys have mentioned coordinating entity, Solana foundation as a coordinating entity. At what point in time does a coordinating entity that contributes to research and you know, all the other nonprofit initiatives that are required becomes a cause for centralization relatively? Like, do you see that as a risk at all? I really don't. I think really important distinction and something that is, that is lost on the blunt instrument that is Twitter. The ability to coordinate is not the same thing as centralization. And so I think the foundation as a coordinating entity, which is something that we pride ourselves on in helping people wayfind through the ecosystem and find resources and get connected to other teams, is certainly valuable.
06:55:33.745 - 06:56:26.405, Speaker A: And again, to my point, have we reached a point or will we in the near or medium term future where even the, you know, the coordination that we provide, are there other ways that people can find that way more efficiently? I would say look like I don't think documentation is done. I don't think developers relations, we have really finalized the work we have to do. I think yes, we are now just, you know, doing formal verification of Solana code. I think we should also do fuzzing of Solana code and who else will do it if not the foundation? All right, Right. There's a term that you use that's a bureaucratic monster at some point in your initial thing. Right. What makes you think Solana foundation can potentially be a bureaucratic monster as it stands today? I think we've fortunately avoided a lot of the bureaucracy.
06:56:26.405 - 06:57:02.933, Speaker A: You know, we're still an organization of people and you know, we make the decisions we make. We're far from perfect. But I would say the fact the foundation is a much smaller organization than I think a lot of people believe that it is. We have about 60 full time, 60, 65 full time employees today. And the Swann ecosystem measures in however many devs and users. Thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of users. And I really want to like always would want to see that ratio of, you know, number of things in Solana validators, users, developers.
06:57:02.933 - 06:57:37.037, Speaker A: Right. As a fraction of the spend or the headcount at foundation should always increase. And if that increases asymptotically or to infinity, like what does that imply for what is this sort of Fixed costs that one could say that the foundation imposes on the ecosystem by taking community funds and throwing awesome events like this one. So I think great job. I think like 60 people. That's actually very efficient if you compare to other foundations. Ethereum foundation is 300 people.
06:57:37.037 - 06:58:02.701, Speaker A: Lido foundation is around 150 people. I actually just tweeted like an analysis with it across different foundations, not Solana. I don't have the numbers, but I would say as an investor, like, I need more transparency. That's for sure. Like, and I think Arbitrum foundation is probably the benchmark where like twice per year they publish reports. I can see their budget 1.7 billion.
06:58:02.701 - 06:58:16.805, Speaker A: I can see that they have 31 people. And I can see that they are spending $70 million per year. And I see exactly on what so. But congratulations. 60 is not bad. Thank you. All right, I'm gonna have you guys change stances.
06:58:16.805 - 06:58:33.123, Speaker A: Yeah. Pick it up, pick it up. It's done. So now's your chance. Oh, wait, did I do it wrong? Oh, all right. This is why you need the foundation. Thank you.
06:58:33.123 - 06:58:56.385, Speaker A: Exactly. All right, so yeah, we reversed answers. Right. Explain why we need foundation. Other than the fact that I really love my job and my team. I think while. And I will stand by the points that I've made, I think the job is not done.
06:58:56.385 - 06:59:43.009, Speaker A: I think the need for a neutral coordinating entity within the Solana ecosystem exists now and will persist for quite a long time. The. Even. Even on the network level, which really is the most important thing for all of Solana. If the blockchain doesn't work, we can all go home because we failed. Right? There are at least that I could list off five separate teams, five separate companies working on Solana validator software which is going to run runs the whole blockchain. And the one thing that I think we can do best in this broad, high context organization that we have is bring the right smart people together to have these conversations to help push the network forward.
06:59:43.009 - 07:00:53.975, Speaker A: Everybody has their own opinions and desires on what we should do with the protocol. How do we make this faster, how do we fix that? And one thing that Solana has done incredibly well over its lifetime is ship incredibly efficiently, route ruthlessly fast, perhaps too fast occasionally. And our ability to simply say, hey, let's get the right people in the room, sit down, open a beer, you're not leaving until we figure this out and let the brilliant people that are out there in the ecosystem have their voices heard, come to consensus, and then we can all say, okay, this is what has been decided? Let's move forward. Acting in this coordinating fashion I think while not existentially important is a tremendous accelerant to the continued growth that we're seeing in Solana. So okay, I'm gonna try to take the other side. It's tough but I think, okay, I think Solana foundation should be dissolved and I think we should burn the 80 million tokens that Solana, I assume they hold. Actually don't know the number but it's the delegation program and you know, burning tokens would be good for soul holders number go up and.
07:00:53.975 - 07:01:27.905, Speaker A: I told you it was going to be controversial. Secondly, I think we need to create something like a Linux foundation which yes, was created 20 years ago but has an annual budget of $260 million and they are revenue generating entity. 50% of that is membership. I think, you know, Visa, MasterCard, PayPal, they should pay membership fees. Platinum membership at Linux foundation is $500,000 per year. I would rather them to pay for these services than us, the soul holders. Secondly, I think.
07:01:27.905 - 07:02:06.195, Speaker A: Thank you. Secondly, I think, you know, we are in a stage where like a space X rocket where like the main rocket is arriving to mesosphere. We are at 50,000km and we are now at the main engine cut off. And it's not like a Soyuz rocket where like the main engine just goes down and crashes. I think it needs to like go down and you know, softly land near the Houston control center. But we need some kind of self funded entity where, you know, which we could call and say hey Houston, we have a problem. You know, we have a censorship problem.
07:02:06.195 - 07:03:10.485, Speaker A: Or you, we have a SEC problem. Or you know, we can for example need a lender of last resort if a liquid stake token has issues. So we need an entity but I think it should be financed differently. All right, we have one last question and that's for you. Right when and how would the Solana foundation, you know, when would you feel comfortable dissolving the foundation? When is the work done? When is the work done? Well, I don't know if the work is ever going to be done for Solana and we've seen the functions of the foundation evolve and actually somewhat contract over the last year or so, which is great. Actually we've had about six foundation employees that have left with my congratulations to go start or join other projects in the ecosystem, which is where that talent belongs. Building more talent in the ecosystem, whether they come through foundation or whether they come from any of the other places, I think is tremendously important.
07:03:10.485 - 07:04:18.375, Speaker A: And the various ways that we can coordinate and bring the community together, I think are just going to be really important for a long time. As an example, if I might, to everybody here, did you all enjoy Breakpoint, brought to you by Solana Foundation? All right, we're off on time and with that, we'll wrap up. Thank you. Thank you. Wow, wow, wow. What a debate. Can we get a thumbs up if you think yes for the Solana foundation should be dissolved and a thumbs down if you think it shouldn't be dissolved? Show us your thumbs.
07:04:18.375 - 07:04:55.025, Speaker A: Thank you so much. And speaking of thank you, we're moving on to the final words. Let's re welcome Dan Albert from Solana foundation for your thank you and goodbye message. All right. Oh, my goodness. Break point 2024. Wow.
07:04:55.025 - 07:06:11.825, Speaker A: Wow. This is the fourth year we've done this and it gets better every time. I have had the luxury of being on this stage a number of times, and it's really, it's really so humbling to me, all of you here supporting this idea, this vision, this crazy thing called Solana and the brighter future that I believe and I think we all believe we can build together. And so I just wanted to say thank you all so much for being here this week, for being with us on Twitter, on Discord Online, at the hacker houses, whatever that thing is, being with us for the ups and the downs and all the drama and all the challenges, it just really means so much to me. You know, I was just here talking about Solana foundation and all the stuff we do and are we good? Are we bad? But ultimately, Solana is what matters, and you are Solana. And so whether I'm at Foundation or somewhere else, like you all will always hold a really special place in my heart. So thank you.
07:06:11.825 - 07:06:56.905, Speaker A: And I just wanted to give a couple quick call outs. Breakpoint. This year, this has been our biggest break point ever. This has definitely been the best break point ever, possibly, if Twitter is to believe, possibly the best event in crypto ever. This week we had over 6,000 attendees from all over the world. Over 75 product announcements, 8 ancillary summits, single day side events, and 700 conference extensions. We really have critical mass and Breakpoint feels like a big family reunion.
07:06:56.905 - 07:07:48.925, Speaker A: And it's just so awesome to see people who've been here, new people that I got to meet for the very first time, people that I've seen for years in cities and countries all over the world. Solana is family and it's really, we're building something great together. So this has been an Incredible Break Point 2024, and it's been great to be here in Asia, in Singapore, and we did Breakpoint for the last three years in Europe. We were in Lisbon for a couple years, Amsterdam last year. Now we're here in Singapore. And for us and for the Solana community and for the growing global community, it's really important that we keep breakpoint going. And I'm really excited to tell you about Breakpoint 2025 coming next year.
07:07:48.925 - 07:08:47.435, Speaker A: It's not just important for the community that Solana is global and breakpoint is global, but that we can showcase and partner with and support regions and jurisdictions that support the technology that we're trying to build, that are working proactively to pass regulation and legislation that is in support of all of the things that we love and all the things that we believe in. And so really excited to bring to you next year. Breakpoint 2025 in Abu Dhabi. It's going to be super exciting, y'all really excited. And we wouldn't be here without you guys. So thank you from the bottom of my heart. This means so much to me.
07:08:47.435 - 07:08:59.525, Speaker A: This concludes Breakpoint 2024. We will see you for the after party. Check your email, check your apps. All the information is there. Thank. Thank you. Good night.
07:08:59.525 - 07:17:29.555, Speaker A: SA SA SA SA SA SA SA SA.
