00:00:14.200 - 00:01:06.334, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered. Today's episode is going to be a bit of a different format. We are joined here today by Lamar, who has quite an extensive background in finance and most recently caught the crypto bug this past cycle and has been bringing some fresh eyes to this question about how does one value an l, one asset? And this question is top of mind for a lot of people in the solana ecosystem. Just because it's one of the most common sources of FUD, I guess, is the best way to put it. Where people say Seoul has poor economics, and on the Ethereum side, there's always this meme percolating around about it being ultrasound, money. People have the bat symbols emoji in their Twitter profiles. And so I guess with this episode, we're just trying to think out loud about how to value soul, if that's even possible, or what kinds of questions we should be asking.
00:01:06.334 - 00:01:28.366, Speaker A: Dave, I know you've been thinking about this for a while now, so maybe I'll kick it off to you. Dave and Lamar, feel free to chime in. How do you guys think about this?
00:01:28.510 - 00:01:54.572, Speaker B: Yeah, I also think it's particularly pertinent at the moment, given all the confusion that's going on in the US, just about trying to classify what these assets actually are. Are they commodities? Are they securities? And the fact that the CFTC and the SEC don't seem to be able to agree on it, I think really that is a symptom of the fact that these are brand new assets and we do have to think about it in a new way. What are your views, Lamar?
00:01:54.708 - 00:02:15.900, Speaker C: Yeah, I agree. I saw, you know, I mean, it's a pertinent week for all of this, right. With some of the SEC stuff, I saw someone post something that there should be quarterly reports on these blockchains, the Q, you know, if you want. And it just, you kind of laugh at that because I think it's just so far from a. All the data is real time on chain, right? So anyone kind of wants to.
00:02:15.972 - 00:02:20.188, Speaker A: Look, I want to get away from that. So that's why I got in crypto. No more quarterly reports, you know.
00:02:20.276 - 00:03:02.572, Speaker C: Yeah, so. But I think you're absolutely right, Dave, and that these are hybrid assets, you know, and you'll talk eventually about the triple point, you know, thesis with some of this, but they really are combinations of startups and economies and commodities. And so there's different frameworks that you can apply across those different vectors and, and they'll, you know, I think we've got to use a bit of all of them, and there's no magic bullet right now. And because the asset class is so speculative, I think the only thing that we can be certain of is that these will never be fairly valued. It will either be overvalued or undervalued. And that's just because a lot of sentiment plays into this category, and particularly speculative assets. But we can at least try and create some degrees of frameworks to apply.
00:03:02.748 - 00:03:20.098, Speaker B: Raoul, you were making a really interesting point before you came on, Lamar, that you're relatively fresh into crypto 2020 2021. How have you viewed the current state of affairs in terms of how people think about valuing these assets and maybe biases that they might hold?
00:03:20.266 - 00:04:14.948, Speaker C: Yeah, it's amazing. So I come from the background of investing in startups, and so invest in a lot of early stage companies. And I think that for the most part, particularly when you're looking at layer ones and there's Dapps and protocols on top of layer ones, but I feel the most comfortable investing in layer ones because they're the horizontal layer. Right. You're not kind of taking any of this vertical risk, you're taking more of a horizontal risk. They're very similar to startups, and you need to optimize for growth and adoption and ensure that you're building a foundation that ultimately creates unique use cases that can then drive users and protocol revenue, which we'll talk about in a bit. And I think what I've noticed, because I looked at all of the layer ones and tried to build KPI's and understand how to value these from a metric standpoint, is that there's an incredible amount of over inflated values and under inflated values.
00:04:14.948 - 00:05:09.470, Speaker C: If you look at daily average users, dollars per transaction, dollars per dev even, which I know is a weird proxy. And what I found is that the most overvalued ones are the ones that are coming from prior cycles that have this cult like following. And there's just this weird dynamic where fundamentals don't really matter because it's just narrative driven and it's bag holder driven. And so it can become really hard to understand what fundamentals are in crypto because you've got, you know, if you're looking at comps, there are some that are incredibly overvalued, and they've been through a few cycles, there's some that are super undervalued. But, you know, if they don't have the right narrative and no one really cares to buy them, then they'll continue to be undervalued. So it is not a rational category, which you all know. But it's just been interesting to kind of see the disconnect between traditional approaches to valuing these things and where they're actually valued.
00:05:09.662 - 00:05:50.154, Speaker B: Yeah, I kind of feel that those historical assets that are just sort of rolling from bull market to bull market and somehow reaching these crazy valuations, it's almost similar to the memetic, the meme qualities of doge and things like that. It's got this following. People are ready to fall on the sword for a particular token. And you wonder if some of these tokens, which were big in 2017, have done very, very little since then, but still occupy a position in the top 20. Surely part of this has to be this sort of meme quality almost, that's also propelled doge into the top ten, top 20.
00:05:50.894 - 00:06:25.072, Speaker A: Depends what part of the cycle you're at before we get into some of the frameworks. Just help me understand this. Obviously, ETH is expensive to transact on, and that's great for the protocol in terms of generating revenues for the protocol. But what I get hung up on is Solana is super fast and cheap. Is that even the right question to be asking, like, how the Solana protocol accrues value? Because even if it scales, like, it's just never going to be as expensive as something like Ethereum. So then how does one think about how to value Solana specifically?
00:06:25.198 - 00:07:25.900, Speaker B: Initial views are that supply on Ethereum is effectively constrained, and as a result of that, the supply demand dynamics, lots of people want to transact on the ethel one. And therefore that pushes these transaction fees up to crazy levels. In the long run, transactions on Ethereum should move to the l two s, the l three s, the l 69s, whatever. And at that stage, they are going to be trying to get those costs down as much as possible, getting those transaction fees down as much as possible, amortize a huge number of transactions so that you can still have, like, large transaction fees hitting the l one with its relatively constrained throughput. But the actual fees that the users are going to use are going to be very, very cheap, is the broad idea. And to me, that's not really very different to what Solana is doing. It's just that Solana is starting with a much higher supply, and therefore it can offer those sort of cheap fees right from the start.
00:07:25.900 - 00:07:28.424, Speaker B: Lamar, what do you think about that?
00:07:28.844 - 00:08:36.524, Speaker C: I know people love to compare Ethereum and Solana, and I just don't know if I fully like the comparison is very different. Right, because you've got a, you've got a layer, one that, you know, what is it, five years older? It's substantially older, which in crypto time is essentially like 30 years older. And, you know, I think that where Ethereum is in its phase of the evolutionary arc is they're starting to, you know, they're optimizing for profitability, right? Because just think about it as a startup where you're in this j curve and you start where you need to find product market fit, you need to invest in that, you need to really maximize for adoption. And then once you hit that curve and you've got that, you say, okay, now we need to make sure that this is sustainable and actually monetize that layer. And Ethereum is at that point where they had some degree of critical mass. We can all argue that whether the adoption is where we think crypto can go or not, it, it was within crypto critical mass. And now they're focused on how do we ensure that our validators and our holders are getting rewarded for all the efforts that we've done over the past 510 years.
00:08:36.524 - 00:09:04.736, Speaker C: And so I would put that as it's in the maturing category, Solana is still very much in that. We're trying to break things. We're trying to take a different approach. We're trying to build mass adoption, and they're okay burning. I mean, think about Amazon, right? Amazon took nine years and spent $1.5 billion before it reached profitability. And now look at it, right? And so, you know, if you compare these things to startups or tech companies, it is okay to burn money in the early stages.
00:09:04.736 - 00:09:49.274, Speaker C: It's okay to not have the unit economics fine tuned perfectly. But if you have a north star of what you're optimizing for, which Solana is scalability, low fees, then that's, you know, stick to that North Star, you'll figure out the other things later. It's just, I think it would be a lot of people right now point to Sol as having value accrual issues. And that's like saying that a startup that's growing, you know, 500% year over year should focus on getting profitable. And those two are not, you know, they're inversely correlated sometimes, and they're not the right focus. And so, yeah, I just, I struggle with that argument because I just don't think that's where Solana is in its growth curve.
00:09:49.394 - 00:10:38.564, Speaker A: To double click on that thought. Actually, this analogy with startups, which is interesting, I dont think ive ever thought about l one s this way, whether its Amazon which was losing a lot of money for a lot of years and eventually got in the black through some combination of people paying for prime kind of putting AWS aside. And maybe they just, over time, could enhance margin, or Uber even did that with the pandemic where they flipped the switch and now everythings way more expensive and maybe theyre making more money or Uber eats or whatever. But I guess what I'm trying to understand though is what is that thing for Solana or for an l one quote, unquote, that would enhance the unit economics? Because as far as I understand, it's just, we're just sending doing transactions on chain. And so the only lever they have to pull right is the actual fee or is there some other piece to this puzzle?
00:10:38.864 - 00:11:20.186, Speaker B: I just don't think that the current demand is anywhere close to what it hopefully will be in 510 15 years. Solana right now, the user transactions are about 450 transactions per second. It's really not very big. I think in tradfi, total trades that occur is about 25,000 transactions per second. And all of the high frequency traders, they're always placing and canceling orders all the time. And the ratio for those which on a blockchain, you would have to submit all of those as transactions, the ratio is like 20 to one. So it's something like half a million TPS just from traditional trading.
00:11:20.186 - 00:11:48.330, Speaker B: And so I think if you start thinking that the other lever, if you like, is just huge TPS hitting these systems at very low fees, all of a sudden that can be a very big number. And I mean related to that because I recently did a model and I put 200,000 tPs as this sort of potential end state. But I was listening to Kevin Bowers, the lead on fire dancer on the validated pod the other day. Really, really interesting. Interesting. Yeah, KFB.
00:11:48.402 - 00:11:49.626, Speaker C: Yeah, KFB.
00:11:49.690 - 00:12:14.214, Speaker B: And I think he said that basically, Solana right now at 10,000 tps, it's interesting. It's quite interesting for some financial applications. Put another note on that, 100,000 tpS. It doesn't change it that much. But he said, put another one or two noughts on top of that. So we're talking million, 10 million tpS. He's like, that's when it gets really interesting from financial application perspective.
00:12:14.214 - 00:12:30.194, Speaker B: Suddenly you can go to these stratfi firms and say, there's something really interesting here. So I think potentially it's the TPS, which is the thing which we're going to see this hockey stick curve on, as opposed to necessarily that the fees need to be $10 per transaction.
00:12:30.494 - 00:13:18.330, Speaker C: Yeah. To add on that, and I think that's where my mind goes as well, is adoption and transactions and just optimizing. Again, back to where Toli and Raj and Solana ecosystem is really focused on is scalability and scalability intentionally so that you can actually find use cases to onboard massive amounts of people. Now, I think what's important here is that is what they're focused on right now. Right. But the future is incredibly uncertain and maybe ultimately there is some degree where technology just doesn't, you know, the blockchain doesn't get the adoption that we expected and there's not billions of users that are ever going to transact on a blockchain. I think the important part here, and the comparison to startups is they can pivot, right? Like they can change the fee model.
00:13:18.330 - 00:14:01.890, Speaker C: And if right now they're optimizing for this, and I think it's the right thing to optimize for because this is their shot at mass adoption. And, you know, we can talk about DPIn for a while, which I think has a ton of potential and can be that wedge for broader adoption with, within consumers. And, you know, my core thesis is always, the more you abstract the blockchain interactions with the consumer, the higher probability of adoption, because most people just don't want to be in a wallet or whatever, they will go down this path. And I think in two or three years or whenever, if they're not seeing, you know, early indications that this is really working, then, you know, we can pivot the fee model. And that that's not something that's set in stone. Eth did this. You know, I think it's just, again, this is why I use the startup comparison.
00:14:01.890 - 00:14:36.606, Speaker C: People take a static view of something as it exists today and extrapolate that as if it's going to remain static. And that is not how startups work. That's not how early initiatives work. There's constant pivoting. And so what you really need to bet on is the approach and the team. And if you believe in the approach, in the team, then that creates a lot of optionality for the future. And I, I think that's part of, one of the things that I love about Solana is the team seems strong, the approach seems very solid, and it creates a lot of optionality for the future of how they can grow.
00:14:36.606 - 00:15:12.024, Speaker C: And I think a lot of the builders on top of Solana are hyper focused on what I'll call like hybrid web two, where they're thinking about very specific use cases like helios with like the payment side or tip link, which, you know, you can send a link to someone and all of a sudden they're getting paid. There's some really interesting kind of scrappy use cases that are very focused on consumer applications, but also just very practical applications that aren't beholden to the next uniswap or the next decentralized exchange. That's an option, but I don't think that that's going to get us to the millions of TPS.
00:15:12.724 - 00:15:46.688, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think it's worth noting that, as you say, just to reiterate, that Solana can increase their fees, but Ethereum can't reduce their fees once they've had a speck of demand. Frankly, in the last few weeks with meme coin season, fees went up to $250 on the l one and tens of dollars on the l two. And they can't really do much, obviously, as things progress, they're making changes over the next few years. But at the moment, the most bearish thing for Ethereum would be a bull market right now, in my opinion.
00:15:46.856 - 00:16:53.744, Speaker C: Well, and Dave, that gets to the point that we have discussed a little bit on the different stakeholders and different desires, right, with an l, one where you've got the users that they're consuming the token and they want it to be as low fee as possible, and then you've got the validators who, and the holders who want it to appreciate in price. And so when there's a linear relationship between the token price and the fees structure, particularly if the fee structure is high, as it is with Ethereum, that is counterproductive and creates friction with adoption. And so there's this weird dynamic where holders want fees to be high because that means there's more burn for eTh, which means they appreciate in value. But the higher they are, the less likely there is to be adoption on the chain, and the less likely there is to be adoption, the less likely the demand will be there for the chain. And so it becomes this weird dynamic where if you're starting with too high as a fees, it can really handicap your ability to scale and create a demand in the near term future.
00:16:59.004 - 00:17:53.424, Speaker A: I remember back in the day when it was super cheap to use ETH, like, you know, back in 20, like 17, 2018, 2019, where because the last company I worked for, we used to shape shift, it was instant asset exchange, and the most common pairs obviously involved either bitcoin or ethnic, but the issue was bitcoin fees at the time were super high. Actually. And so I would do all this math, and I would kind of almost treat ETH like the way we treat Solana today, where it's like, if I want to send my friend $100 to make a bet, like, I would always prefer not to use bitcoin specifically because, like, the fees were tens of cents, $0.50 maybe. And now we've kind of transformed into this. ETH got so much bigger after the last bull run, and now that's the defacto expensive chain. It kind of took the place of bitcoin in a lot of ways, where people called EtH a Ponzi back then, and bitcoin was the ultrasound money, and now EC ultrasound money.
00:17:53.424 - 00:18:20.244, Speaker A: And, like, basically any new l one is a Ponzi that's cheaper. And so it's just interesting to think about it from that lens, is that ETH was never intended to be that. I think they kind of just stumbled into that position now because so much has happened on it and so much, I guess, like, economically important applications are built on ETH. Just the base level to interact with that chain is now. Hi. I was even sending USDC the other day. I had to bridge it from Solana to ETh.
00:18:20.244 - 00:18:32.196, Speaker A: And on the Solana side, obviously, fees are super low. And as soon as I touch EtH to send three grand, it's, like, about $20. It's just basically the same price as a wire at that point, which is just insane that we got to this position.
00:18:32.380 - 00:19:23.174, Speaker C: Well, you were here during it, Saul, but is that a bear market thing in the bear market, when there is all this doubt and uncertainty about the future of all of this stuff? Right. Were the holders kind of pounding the table and say, we need to figure out a better value accrual model? Because I kind of feel like people go through these stages of incredible, incredible doubt in the category during bear markets, and that's kind of what they come to. And I even looked at Solana, right? Like, Solana back in November, December, there were people pounding the table saying, we need better value accrual. We need better value accrual. And totally, very much was like, no, we're not. Like, we'll do priority fees, but we're not going to do that. And I wasn't here for the ether like arc, but did Vitalik or the team say, okay, we'll do it? Like, I just.
00:19:23.174 - 00:19:25.350, Speaker C: I would love to hear more on that.
00:19:25.502 - 00:19:57.742, Speaker A: The first time I ever heard the term value accrual was post 21 bull market back then. No one talked about that at least the circles I was in. It was just never a thing that was ever mentioned or even discussed, at least amongst the people that I was hanging out with. Maybe in the more like academic side, someone was thinking about this. But what I suspect is that this might be kind of a side effect. And this is actually a good segue into one of the questions I have here. I think it's a side effect of just the fact that eth, for all intents and purposes, was more or less kind of.
00:19:57.742 - 00:21:02.496, Speaker A: It's an ICO, like fairly distributed. There was a bit of an insider holding, but not nearly as bad as most of the new l one s that come out since then. Were VC's and insiders own like 60% of the supply or even more. And so I think that point we're talking about, this whole conversation is kind of a side effect of the fact that small groups of people own so much of the token, and so many institutions just care about thinking about these assets in terms of, oh, can I dcf it? What is like the fundamental value here? And so it's been like a newer narrative I've noticed with all of these, let's call them alt layer one tokens, precisely because so many insiders held these tokens and a lot of them are holding the bag now. And so that's kind of one of the questions I have is, does that kind of mess up the economics, so to speak, of Solana compared to ETH? Because, you know, VC's hold all these bags very very, very high stake percentage, like 70 ish percent for Solana versus maybe it's 20% for ETH. You know, somewhere in that ballpark, a lot more ETH is circulating and can be used in Defi.
00:21:02.640 - 00:21:50.538, Speaker B: I think inevitably things will decentralize over time and tokens will disperse amongst hands. Once we're five years further down the line, then I hope that there'll be better distribution of the sole token. But just something that you mentioned there about the staking. I think on Solana it's high, but I think it's basically in line with the other proof of stake chains. I think it's more a case of on Ethereum it's incredibly low. And that's really a hangover from the fact that the last two years you could stake but you couldn't unstake, and you didn't know when you could unstake and you could hold a liquid staking derivative, but again you didn't. Firstly, I don't think they were receiving, then they were receiving rewards and the peg wasn't tight.
00:21:50.538 - 00:22:25.646, Speaker B: It actually broke after the lunar crash because it was backed by a staked asset, which you couldn't unstake. So I think it's more a case of that Ethereum staking rate is super low. The other point is that you have to have a validator to stake. If you don't want to get a liquid staking token, you have to run your own validator with 32 ETH, which is about $60,000. In order to stake on Solana, you can stake one Solana with any validator of your choice. So it's just much simpler, much more frictionless. So I think that's part of why that stake rate is high.
00:22:25.646 - 00:23:01.444, Speaker B: But that all brings me onto another point, which is I think that liquid staking tokens need to improve on Solana because it's super low now. It's like one or two or 3% or something. People are holding elixir, staking tokens. As soon as everything moves over to that, suddenly you can use that staked Solana in Defi, and suddenly you can have a far more flourishing defi, especially if Solana does well in the next bull market, gets up to a decent valuation, suddenly there's a lot of capital there, which you can deploy into Defi and just sort of get the gears moving a bit.
00:23:01.864 - 00:23:07.208, Speaker C: I don't know, David. I think we'll always be the poor chain, but maybe. Maybe we'll break out.
00:23:07.376 - 00:23:23.762, Speaker A: I think you're saying, though, we need more adoption of liquid stake in derivatives because we have good ones. We have marinade and light o and solana. But you're saying, just, is there an. It's an awareness thing, maybe that people. So my. My thesis is. And again, I don't know who's right or who's wrong, but, like, you're right.
00:23:23.762 - 00:23:59.146, Speaker A: Like, Solana's staking ratio, I know I have it pulled up now. It's 60% Cardano 60, avalanche 60, Tron 40, Polkadot 40, Polygon 40. Right? Like, these are all pretty high, although interestingly, you know, the last three are like 20% lower, and ETH is down about 16%. BNB chain, 15%. Interesting. So my thesis with all this is, it's like a lot of factors that influence what the staking ratio is for the l one, but one of them has to be opportunity, cost of capital, and, like, let's get even more. Less technical willingness to ape.
00:23:59.146 - 00:24:33.164, Speaker A: Like, what else can I do with this thing? You know, for Solana, it's really just the NFT stuff. There really isn't a ton happening on deFi, whereas those other chains have orders of magnitude more happening. Binance, smart chain, even that pancake swap, that's basically, in my opinion, that's the number two. Because, Tron, I think that's pretty much only used for the USDT settling between asian exchanges. And I know people send them to each other in Asia and stuff, but I wouldn't call it true defi, the way that maybe bsc or arbitrum are powering these days.
00:24:33.464 - 00:25:00.204, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great point. There isn't much to do with your soul outside of nfts, and, you know, in the past three months, it's a great way to lose money. You know, what's interesting is. Yeah, eth. To your point, Dave, I think there was that weird locked dynamic. I believe when the lock ended, it was like ten or 11%, maybe 12% staked, and now it's up to 16, and it is. It's growing nicely.
00:25:00.204 - 00:25:46.004, Speaker C: But I think the important point here is the higher that percentage growth, the lower the yield is on the staking side. And so I think EtH likes to kind of create this ultrasound narrative of, we've got a burn mechanism. It's deflationary, and by the way, you can stake it, and it will replace bonds and all of these financial narratives, which are partially correct, but the more people that do that, the lower the yield and the lower the burn mechanism is. And so it's almost like you're trying to promote this thing, but once adoption occurs, it reduces the rewards for everyone. It will be interesting to watch the next few years unfold and how that changes some of these dynamics.
00:25:46.164 - 00:26:18.084, Speaker B: And just to double click on something you said there, but, yeah, on Ethereum, the more people that stake, the more tokens get issued, the more inflation there is. So your point being that? Because I think it will have to increase, the big hype at the moment in the Eth community is LSTFI. That's all that everyone's talking about. We're going to have finance around these liquid staking tokens, and that's going to push the percentages up. And I wouldn't be surprised to see it 40, 50, 60% over the next few years.
00:26:18.204 - 00:27:17.514, Speaker C: Yeah, Lido is, what, a third right now of all stake? So, I mean, at a certain point, right, like, it's not an individual. Now there's multi bunch of different parties within lido, so it's not. You know, I don't necessarily agree with all the arguments that ETH isn't decentralized. Because, you know, Lido is so large, but there will become a risk at a certain point if Lido becomes 60, 70% of staked, more protocol risk of, you know, just of that magnitude. So, you know, it was interesting, I was listening to another podcast the other day, and they make a good point that, you know, the more efficient and more effective these liquid staking tools become, the more centralized staking will be, because ultimately you'll have one or two of these protocols that, you know, take lion share market. And so it's a little bit of a counterintuitive dynamic of you're trying to create an easier staking mechanism for everyone to participate, but you're actually aggregating and centralizing the chain when that happens.
00:27:26.314 - 00:28:38.648, Speaker A: What does mainstream crypto adoption look like? Does it look like abstracting away as much of the blockchain side as possible so that consumers have an easy user experience, which is effectively what these LSD tokens do, right? They handle all of the delegation to various validators and all the ugly work of doing that. And all you have to do is click a few buttons on the UI and you get this nice wrapped token in exchange, and they'll handle the staking for you as this derivative proxy. Okay, well, that's effectively a centralizing force. And by definition, there has to be stuff off chain that's happening to make that all work. Even like the consumer apps that use crypto. If someone isn't aware that they're receiving a payment in crypto, is that really the end game we're aiming for? Because my view has always been, not always, my view has shifted over time where I think I've settled in this middle ground where this technology is only really powerful if people are signing transactions with keys that they own. And absent that, we start producing these artifacts that just look like slightly different versions of what we've always had.
00:28:38.648 - 00:29:15.150, Speaker A: Like centralized exchanges are a great example of binance and Coinbase. They're basically just banks that have. Have fully reserved assets and use crypto, but they don't have a really strong on chain footprint. And so they're not necessarily advancing the industry or giving people true economic freedom. And so the view I've taken more recently is, and I'm hopeful that this is true. I don't really know if it is, is that people will kind of meet us in the middle here and start learning about self custody and signing transactions and even learning how to stake directly instead of using an LSD. It's unclear what, what path is going to win out.
00:29:15.150 - 00:29:32.274, Speaker A: You know, certainly the easiest path forward. And with all the centralizing forces we just brought up, it's a lot easier for people to use. Then it creates all these side effects that, you know, ultimately might hurt the very reason why this industry was created in the first place.
00:29:32.854 - 00:30:37.924, Speaker B: Yeah, I think, I think water rolls, runs downhill and either, yeah, there probably is going to be a very large centralized LSD which people use, or wallets sort of automatically stake on your behalf. It's just a simple, you have your wallet with Solana in and it's just an option to say, oh, I always want to state this, but it's hard to abstract away because if you stake directly with the validator, then you're locked up for until the end of the epoch which lasts two and a half days. So it's a hard thing to abstract away, which is why my view is that the liquid stakeholder, liquid staking tokens are more likely to get mass adoption because it's almost like there's a two tier system of equity, if you like, one which gives you dividends and increases your percentage ownership in the total shares, and one which does not receive a dividend and all you need to do is just swap between them. And to me the obvious thing is that everyone's just going to be holding these dividend receiving tokens. Obviously not dividends. Gary, get off our backs.
00:30:40.744 - 00:30:44.564, Speaker A: Yeah, what's, what's the word we use instead?
00:30:44.904 - 00:32:01.182, Speaker C: I think that there is the, the ethos and the initial kind of purpose of crypto which got the early adopters and was, was great. But I think so long as these chains are always purely applying themselves to those use cases, it will remain niche like because there's just, there are not enough people to create adoption for all of the chains that we have that want to own wallets and keys and stake and all of these other kind of nerdy things that we do. So I think that the only way for this to really gain mass adoption is a something like a step in, right? Like it's abstracted, it's layered into the consumer daily habits. They don't really need to think about crypto at all. They just know that they're getting paid to do something that naturally fits in. And that's what I mean. That fundamentally is why I believe deep in decentralized physical infrastructure is going to be the next wave of adoption, is because the Uber, like a decentralized, uber decentralized wifi, helium network creator, decentralized storage, all of these things are, are activities that people might want to do and get paid in fiat.
00:32:01.182 - 00:32:40.982, Speaker C: But the most effective way and efficient way to do it is on chain. And like, you just have to. The biggest bottleneck there is these on ramps, off ramps, of how you kind of abstract that you're doing any of this on chain. But inherently, the advantage to blockchain is it's much more efficient. It's much more efficient and much more effective with smart contracts and automated protocols. To do it this way, there's much lower middleman take rate, and so there will be Defi and all of these. The banks have already rejected that they want to sit on a chain or do any of this because it takes away from their dollars and they're very protective of their dollars.
00:32:40.982 - 00:32:52.364, Speaker C: So it will be like this niche. Anyone who wants to use DeFi and live outside the infrastructure of financial system will use it, but that's not going to be a ton of people. So we need to find alternative use cases.
00:32:52.704 - 00:33:25.444, Speaker B: We literally just dropped an episode. I'm not sure if you've listened to it yet, with the founder of Teleport, which is trying to do a sort of decentralized uber type of protocol. It's super interesting. Definitely give it a listen. And we spoke in there, that it's these sorts of things which could bring 100 million people on chain, holding a wallet, signing a wallet without realizing necessarily, the other great property of Deepin projects is you lose that friction of the onboarding. Friction. You don't have to do KYc through Coinbase.
00:33:25.444 - 00:33:42.288, Speaker B: You're just receiving crypto tokens for doing work in the real world. And you're in. Welcome to the party. You can just straightaway start using on chain protocols. I think on this show, we've done a few episodes now on deep in projects, and likewise, we're super excited.
00:33:42.416 - 00:33:48.604, Speaker C: Cool. Well, I don't need to tell you guys then. That's an exciting aspect of crypto.
00:33:53.824 - 00:34:04.240, Speaker B: Why is there so much confusion around how to classify these assets? And why are people so confused about how to value them as well? So both the classification and the value. Yeah.
00:34:04.272 - 00:35:07.750, Speaker C: So I think what is challenging, and let's just use layer ones as the example, right? Because we can do it to Ethereum, Solana, apdos, or sue or whatever these new chains, and we don't need to talk about how we feel about those valuations or other fundamentals. But what's confusing is that unlike bitcoin, they're more than just store value. They actually have protocol fees and protocol revenue. And I think when you're approaching that dynamic from a traditional finance background, you immediately say, oh, I can run a DCF and I can actually look at demand side and I could think about this as future cash flow and get to some degree of present value. And so you go down this path of how do I think about a bottoms up build like I do with other companies, and value like this, this like a traditional asset. And I think, you know, and Dave, you did a fantastic job with Solana. I think fundamental challenges with that approach are, is there's a lot of circularity with regards to fees and price of token.
00:35:07.750 - 00:36:01.622, Speaker C: And so you quickly realize that if you're trying to project fees, the fees are in the native token. And in order to convert that back to dollars, you have to assume a price at that point. And so that's just a more of a mechanical issue, but it is still an enticing. The other thing that you've seen emerge through DeFi llama or some of these other is they look at protocol revenue multiples, right? And like, what is the, you know, what's the protocol like, what is the layer one valuation divided by their annualized fees? And what does that give us from, you know, an earnings or revenue multiple or whatever? And so it is an enticing metric, and to some degree it is a fundamental metric, because this develop like this is the sustainability of the platform. If you're a validator, these fees are coming back to you. So it is somewhat of a proxy to cash flow. I think the big challenge there is that these assets do not trade on those multiples.
00:36:01.622 - 00:36:45.988, Speaker C: And there's a few different reasons. Right. The first is what I discussed historically, which is you've got some of these legacy bag holders that, you know, they've just been so disconnected from any of the fundamentals that they'll be overvalued into perpetuity and there'll be more of a meme coin. I think the second piece is that these tokens are not just revenue generating assets. They are also used on a daily basis to participate in the ecosystem, to kind of live on chain and do these activities. And so they start to look a lot more like an economy, and that they're the currency that's being used on this on chain economy. And so what we were talking about earlier is the users don't like price appreciation because they don't like fee appreciation.
00:36:45.988 - 00:37:39.352, Speaker C: And so think about it as a tax on that economy. And if the tax increases, citizens are very upset. And so you have to think about it from a currency dynamic, purely because it does play into a little bit of supply and demand if more people want to be in this ecosystem and on this chain, they're going to need to acquire some of this currency to participate on chain. And ultimately that creates a supply and demand dynamic. The other thing which I think is interesting, and this is where there's been some newer metrics for Solana, which I do appreciate, which is this whole TVL, and TVL is incredibly low. And people love to talk about that on Solana, but there's high velocity of the TVL on Solana. And like, I think that velocity component is really important because you can look at developing countries and there's, you know, the whole currency theory called velocity of money, which is essentially, you know, GDP is over a certain degree of circulating supply.
00:37:39.352 - 00:38:08.704, Speaker C: Like, there's a natural downtrend in what that ratio is. And in developing countries like Colombia or way back in the day, they had very high rates of velocity of money, but ultimately they come down to like a three to four ratio and so on, is still very high. Like, it's still very high in that. In that area. But, like, ultimately, we'll need to come down. And if you think about the numerator and denominator price going up is what brings that denominator, like, the number down. And so that's more of the supply and demand side.
00:38:08.704 - 00:39:07.314, Speaker C: And then I think the third kind of framework, which Dave, you and I can kind of talk through is this whole idea of this is a network, right? And so the more users that are on the network, the more valuable inherently the network is. It's called Metcalfe's law. You know, there's nuances to using this, but it's just another framework that you can look at a lot of tech companies and, you know, whether it's social media websites or some of these other things, that engagement inherently adds value to the system. And if the system has a lot of engaged users, that ecosystem is more valuable. So I think you kind of bucket into traditional finance approaches, monetary system approaches, and valuing it like a currency or commodity, and then this whole tech network approach, and there's no right answer. It's really cool to look at all of them. I think intentionally, you kind of need to use all three of them to think about triangulating what value should be today.
00:39:07.854 - 00:39:45.424, Speaker B: I love that. Super interesting. I really like mental models to try and work out what's going on with these assets. Firstly, there's this concept, which has been pushed largely by the ethereum community. There was this guy, Robert Greer, and he said that basically every asset is in three buckets it's commodities, it's capital assets like stocks and real estate, and it's store value and money and things like that. And these layer one assets are basically the first asset ever to encapsulate properties. From all three of these asset types, there's never really been an asset which falls into every single bucket.
00:39:45.424 - 00:40:21.084, Speaker B: So I think that firstly is really interesting. And if you try and think of an analogy, the closest I could come up to is it's something like an Apple share where you're receiving dividends on your apple share. Also, Apple are buying back and burning some of the token spy that's out there. But also they're telling you that if you want to buy an Apple product, you have to pay for it with this Apple share. So that's sort of the equivalent to buying block space with the tokens. If you want to buy Apple products, you have to buy it with the Apple share. And then also on top of that, we've got this huge flourishing app store ecosystem.
00:40:21.084 - 00:41:01.362, Speaker B: And by the way, if you want to interact with that, all your transactions are going to be in Apple shares. And a lot of the applications are going to use Apple shares for collateral or for purchasing digital assets and all this sort. And you start to realize that this isn't like, you can't just do a DCF on this just to capture the revenue portion, the dividend portion, if you like. There's so many other layers and drivers like supply, demand, and people wanting to hold it as a store of value and people wanting to use it as money, all these things. And that's why it becomes really, really difficult to try and actually put a price, a sane valuation model, really, on these assets.
00:41:01.538 - 00:41:40.324, Speaker C: Yeah, this is all theory as well. Like, I think we have yet to. And this might ruffle some people the wrong way. Ethereum has not held a price purely because the demand is there to buy Ethereum to interact with the ecosystem. The majority, and no cryptocurrencies have, right, like the majority of it, is still highly speculative around future value. But we have yet to see a layer one break out to the point where price is held at a certain level because there's so much activity on chain that the demand side is just there. And at a certain point, it's an equilibrium of price to demand.
00:41:40.324 - 00:42:03.378, Speaker C: We have not seen that play out. It's still a highly speculative category. Now, I think ten years we might like there might be a chain that is so in demand and so used that is not going to have massive fluctuations in price because ultimately there is just a set level of demand that grows over time. These are still highly speculative assets and these are just theoretical models to use.
00:42:03.506 - 00:42:32.538, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it reminds me of the early bitcoin days when I got into. I got into it in around 2013. And the first comment I would get from people that weren't familiar with it is just looking at the price, how volatile it is. And I was like, no, no, you don't understand. It's going to eventually settle down and become stable and people can use it. Here we are exactly ten years later, and it still isn't really doing that. More stable than before.
00:42:32.538 - 00:43:03.694, Speaker A: Sure. But I guess what I'm getting at with that is maybe the question then becomes, where do these l one s go from here? Here? Like, are they overvalued? Are they undervalued? Do we think, like, Solana is going to moon? Should it? I mean, I think I've seen multiple tweets from Anatoly saying that's not really the right thing, not the right question to ask. Like, there's really no reason why it should go to a thousand or something like that. I'm just making up the number. But what are the right questions to ask then?
00:43:04.034 - 00:43:40.204, Speaker C: A lot of crypto valuation is relative, and the only way we can really look at it in certain aspects is relative. And so. And that's two things. It's relative to prior cycles, prior prices, and it's relative to each other. You know, comparing l one to l one to try to assess fair value of sorts, I think that you can, you can see under or overvalued across those two frameworks. You can't discern whether it's over undervalued based off of fundamentals. I think the majority of crypto constantly lives overvalued on current fundamentals.
00:43:40.204 - 00:44:06.666, Speaker C: But the issue is that because it's such a forward looking asset, people aren't valuing it on current fundamentals, they're valuing it on what they think it could be in five years. And so I think that it's. That's not really an answer, other than I think the majority of people look at relative valuations and look at future value and think about what it could potentially be worth at that future value. And a lot of it's priced into today's post race.
00:44:06.850 - 00:44:44.234, Speaker B: I feel like a lot of Toli's suggestions are that it won't be a money, he's not trying to make it a money. It's not a store of value. And a lot of people take that at face value. But moneyness is not something which you can just inscribe into the code. Ethereum does not have this clever money button that they've flicked at some point. It's just simply not how it works. The way you become money, the way you get that sort of premium, the money nurse premium, is just by having an enormous ecosystem where, frankly, people don't really need to leave it, you can do everything with the asset.
00:44:44.234 - 00:45:30.884, Speaker B: And then suddenly all this price volatility, it doesn't really matter as much. Because if you're receiving your income in, say, Seoul and you're paying a lot of your expenses in Seoul, it's just like the us dollar. You're not like, oh God, it's down 10% against the chinese yuan. It doesn't really bother you because, you know, you're getting paid in us dollar and you're paying your expenses in us dollar. So that's sort of how it's going to accrue that moneyless premium. And totally saying it will never be money is, I personally just don't buy it. I think, if anything, I think Solana has a really good chance of it, but purely because of super low fees, and I think that that can really help onboard.
00:45:30.884 - 00:46:01.954, Speaker B: Huge amounts, huge percentages of the world's population, because even on eth's l two s, they're a couple of dollars. Most of the world can't afford that. And I've looked at John Charbonneau's done, it's not a valuation model. He's been very adamant to tell me that. But he has done a forward looking model on Ethereum. And if you look at it, the fees that everyone will be paying on average, just for the base fees is about $0.25 roughly.
00:46:01.954 - 00:46:22.920, Speaker B: And I think that's still too much for most of the world's population. Whereas if Solana remains at sub $0.01 transactions, and hopefully order of magnitude lower than that, I think it's got a real chance to be used by enormous amount of people in the world. And that's how you accrue that, that money monetary premium.
00:46:23.072 - 00:46:31.600, Speaker C: Yeah. Was it Vitalik who said, I forget when, but he said, even $0.01 is too much for digital money. Like the fees on digital money.
00:46:31.712 - 00:47:07.124, Speaker A: Yeah, something like that. One question, actually, I have that we've kind of alluded to a few times here, is this is such a new asset class. There's not a ton of historical precedent to, like, evaluate this stuff, but we've seen this story play out before. Forward in the nineties and two thousands with Internet companies. And all these new kind of metrics came out around SaaS, multiples, LTV over CAC, ARR, things like that are there. And I think you mentioned one was like velocity of money in Defi. Are there any other kind of metrics or ways to think about these l one s that maybe can paint a more complete picture other than just looking purely at fees?
00:47:07.544 - 00:47:52.816, Speaker C: So eventually they'll all need to have solid economics, right? They'll all need to have sustainable kind of value capture eventually. That doesn't need to be today. But I think ultimately for sophisticated investors to feel comfortable that they're acquiring an asset that's sustainable, there needs to be some degree of this is a money making enterprise. So I think that's the end state. I think some like when you're evaluating these early stage l one s, there are a lot of KPI's that can tell you whether they're making progress towards that end state or there's an ultimate vision that they could hit that end state. And I think some of that is kind of daily average user and growth. And looking at that on chain, I think that there's also transactions, right? Like TPS.
00:47:52.816 - 00:49:03.694, Speaker C: You know, it's a technical tool and a technical term, but it's a really important term to look at what, you know, what could this be from a technology standpoint? What can this support? I don't find TVL incredibly valuable. I think that a lot of it is a, it's, it is circular with market cap to a certain degree, but then b, it's just, you know, it's a lot about, you know, how old the system is and how juiced the system is. And if you look at the high TVL kind of chains, it's either like Ethereum, which is magnitudes ahead of others, and it's a legacy chain that has had a lot of time. Or it's one of these newer chains where there's a lot of incentives to do TVL or something like that. So I think that's not as good of a tool to kind of look at. One thing that you can look at, and I've looked at is what is the, what we'll call enterprise value or market cap per transaction, right? And if you look at Visa or Mastercard or some of these others, you know, it's like $600 to $900 per transaction is what the market cap to transactions are. And so, you know, I've looked at that across chains and you know, I think Solana is the one of the few it's like $200 per transaction or something valued at.
00:49:03.694 - 00:49:45.196, Speaker C: And so I think that that's an interesting KPI to look at, just because it kind of gives you a. It looks at a payment network that are public companies, it looks at payment networks that are layer ones, and you can kind of get a proxy. But I think a lot of it is, just as I was saying earlier, relative valuations. You look at the l one market caps divided by some of these KPI's and see who stands out as low and who stands out as high. And then, you know, you look at the ones that are relatively lower and you dig in and try to understand why. And I think generally that will, if you're doing that analysis, you'll create some good bets, assuming that there's not huge narrative disconnect or headwinds to whatever the chain you're looking at is.
00:49:45.380 - 00:50:33.378, Speaker B: I think there's another aspect which people don't really pay enough attention to, and that's there's this idea that the ecosystem can accrue value, but it doesn't necessarily mean that all of that value is going to go to the base asset. And so just working through a few examples. So something like Cosmos, obviously, on the cosmos hub itself, atom is the base asset, and that's where you pay the fees in, and that's what you use. Class rule. But all of the other blockchains within the cosmos ecosystem use their own assets. So the value on those different blockchains is accruing to those assets. The idea at the moment is that the new blockchains in the cosmos ecosystem pay like an airdrop to atom, but it's not very sustainable.
00:50:33.378 - 00:51:15.010, Speaker B: And also it's only going to be a small percentage of the value that some of those larger blockchains are going to accrue. Something like ethereum. It wants everyone to move over onto the l two s, the l three s. So what's going to happen there is the fees are going to be paid at those levels, and the fees paid by the users are split between the l one, the eth asset effectively, and the l two s. So at the moment, the centralized sequences on arbitrum and on optimism, they are receiving a portion of the fees of the value which is accruing to the ethereum ecosystem. Now, you go to something like Solana, where everything occurs on a single shard, single monolithic chain. All of the value, all of the fees are accruing to Sol, the token.
00:51:15.010 - 00:52:03.178, Speaker B: All of the mev accrues to sold the token. So I think it's another aspect which often gets overlooked and also, sorry, just going back to Ethereum, but the MeV, if 98% of people are on the l two s, you know that Mev is getting captured at the L two level. And if it goes to the l one, if it's going to accrue to eth the asset, it's relying on there being maybe thousands of l two s all competing to get onto the ether one. That's the only way, really, that ethereum, the asset, is going to be capturing much of this mev going forward. So there's a lot of potential doubts and potential issues with the value accrual of etH, the asset, and certainly cosmos atom the asset compared to Solana, stablecoin.
00:52:03.306 - 00:52:22.666, Speaker A: Market cap for the chain. Seems like there's some decent correlation between, I think, people who use it. Tron is such a weird example there, though, because. Because it's literally all just USDT, but it's just. It's a lot. Ethereum's at 66, 68 billion, Tron's at 45 billion. Then the next one's BSc at 5 billion.
00:52:22.666 - 00:52:44.354, Speaker A: Total stables market cap. But yeah, arbitrum kind of came out of nowhere there at 1.85. Then Solana is number five at 1.52, and then polygons after them at 1.47. So. But I think it's an important one to look at, too, because that's how a lot of people are paying each other. Dovetails nicely into Defi and stuff like that, too.
00:52:44.734 - 00:52:49.822, Speaker C: I didn't realize Solana was that high. I thought we were going to be in the gutter, just like with TVL, so.
00:52:49.918 - 00:53:06.794, Speaker A: No, no, it does. It does well with the stables. I think it used to be four, actually. It's one of the reasons why teleport decided to build on Solana. Among many scalability, but also was stablecoin market cap es of accessing native USDC for sending payments and things like that.
00:53:06.914 - 00:53:40.014, Speaker B: And Lamar, I just wanted to touch on you'd previously spoken about Metcalfe's law. I think the official calculation is basically the value is like the square of all the nodes which are plugging into an ecosystem. I'm just wondering, do you think that that gets impacted on, for example, Ethereum, where people are going to be spread across loads of different l two s, and the cosmos ecosystem that added friction? Do you think that that has an impact on Metcalfe's law and the value accrual that that can produce?
00:53:40.754 - 00:54:11.850, Speaker C: My understanding of ethereum is that they. I'm not going to say they've sold their soul, because I don't think that that's the right term, but I think that they have double and tripled down on this. We are a secure settlement layer. And if you're a secure settlement layer, then it's not necessarily like you want a ton of users on that layer, right? Like, it's one of the layers of many in the Internet. And there's a ton of layers in the Internet. All they want to be is that settlement layer. And so I don't think that.
00:54:11.850 - 00:54:59.816, Speaker C: I think what that does is it removes the network effects of that, and it purely relies on, can you get a ton of l two s to adopt and have those network effects? And that's where the l two s will kind of see value. All ethereum cares about is those l two s are paying us the settlement layer money. And if you're paying us the settlement layer money, then we get the protocol fees and, you know, the burn, etcetera. But they. They have very much. Again, I'm going to create my perceived narrative of this, and I wasn't there, so this could be totally wrong. I think Ethereum realized that they could not scale the base layer in a way that competing l one s could, and so they had to create a monetization strategy and a scaling strategy that recognized that.
00:54:59.816 - 00:55:31.056, Speaker C: And l two s were the cleanest and modularity. And I think there's a lot of merit to all of that. And I think they could be a successful scaling strategy. But they knew that the layer one would not do it standalone. And as a result, I think they recognized that network effects would not accrue to the layer one, so they had to optimize for the financial dynamics. So the short answer to your question, Dave, is I don't think there'll be a ton of network effects on Ethereum. I think it's very possible in five or ten years.
00:55:31.056 - 00:55:53.454, Speaker C: No one is really on base Ethereum, other than the high net worth individuals that are collecting art or, you know, some of these, you know, the whales, as you call them, the Bakken people, will be on l two s. And I think that's the consensus. I think it's TBD whether those l two s actually perform and can lead adoption. But that's why we're on Solana, right?
00:55:57.634 - 00:56:56.032, Speaker B: Because there's sort of this incentive almost with the individual l two s to not necessarily work together. You're almost seeing at the moment with optimism they're building their, I don't know, super, super scaling solution. I forget the name, but they're trying to build these apps that, you know, you can use the optimism SDK and you can build apps which will interconnect with each other as long as you're on the optimism. Rails and arbitrum likewise are doing their own. So it's almost in their interests to not allow these connections to flourish, really, between the l two s, because understand where they want to get those monopolistic tendencies going and try and dominate the l two space. So I think it's an interesting potential second order effect, if you like, of this scaling via l two s. What's it going to do to the network effects and the Metcalfe's law?
00:56:56.208 - 00:57:48.920, Speaker C: There's a lot of excitement about layer zeros right now, and the layer zero protocol, which I think is some communication protocol across tokens. I really haven't done a ton of work in it, but I think the analogy that I use there, Dave, is imagine if you had a city and every part of the city you went to, you had to use a different currency. And I think the challenge that would be a frustrating dynamic, and ultimately, there'd be different l two s are going to optimize for different things, you'd think, to differentiate themselves. And so you'd go to the entertainment section of the city and you'd have to use one currency you go to the financial section of the the city and you've got to use another currency you go to. And so that creates friction just inherently. Now, a layer of zero could potentially solve that if somehow it's abstracting all the different. You know, I have no idea how it works, but I think in theory, that's how it's supposed to work.
00:57:48.920 - 00:58:13.884, Speaker C: But if that's not a successful strategy, I think it's really hard to build a compelling city when you're telling the citizens that they have to use five or ten different currencies for different activities within the city. Now, that also assumes that citizens go to each part of the city, and it's very possible that there are people who just come for DeFi or people who just come for the entertainment, and then it becomes less of a problem.
00:58:14.004 - 00:58:27.912, Speaker B: You might come for DeFi, but if everything's on a single chain, you might have started looking at nfts and whatnot. Whereas if there are friction points to move to that specific chain, then maybe it's like almost cross selling. Yeah, yeah.
00:58:27.928 - 00:58:58.390, Speaker C: And that's network effects, that it kills the network effects. Right. Like, ultimately, and I think, again, this is a startup term, but like cross sell, right? Where if you've got multiple products and you've got a customer that comes on and you can cross sell or upsell that customer, that's fantastic. And efficient growth, like that's. That's just accretive in every dimension in l two s, there's not a lot of cross sell because there's friction to it. Like it just creates. It creates a dynamic that delivers a lot of friction to the end customer.
00:58:58.390 - 00:59:02.594, Speaker C: And so you're not going to be able to get that efficient network effect.
00:59:09.774 - 00:59:49.700, Speaker A: Kind of a close out question here because we covered a lot of ground, but I think one of the core points that we've underscored throughout this discussion is that there's different ways to design these l one s. And one of the interesting points you brought up, Lamar, is that ETH maybe isn't optimized for the users. They almost create these weird incentives to optimize for the holders of the asset. And so my question is, given what you've seen so far in crypto, what seems like a more sustainable architecture for the l one to kind of benefit all the stakeholders while still preserving good economics?
00:59:49.812 - 01:00:30.112, Speaker C: Yeah, well, let me. I actually just had this thought, which is the reason that ETH is able to demand a premium on its block space is because of the security, right? And you could call it the Lindy effect, but essentially no one kind of doubts that if you're interacting on the Ethereum blockchain, it's going to be a secure transaction. There's not going to be those issues. I think that with time that security premium erodes as other l ones prove themselves out. And then I think inherently block space becomes commoditized. Right. If you're building into a digital space, block space, and the prices of block space will be erased to the bottom.
01:00:30.112 - 01:01:19.956, Speaker C: And so I think the question that I ask in five or ten years is why would an l two continue to operate on Ethereum if their fee structure is lower on something like a Solana and their similar security? And if there's not a clear answer to that network effects, liquidity, etcetera, then the answer is they wouldn't. You know, that's a tax that they pay willingly for the security and it's a badge that they can show their consumers that they're rolling up to this secure l one. But as the security premium reduces and prices of blocks get commoditized, you have to imagine that there's real questions that emerge of why is this fee structure so heavy for this blockchain versus this blockchain when I see them as fairly similar. I dont think I just answered your question. This was just something that popped into my mind.
01:01:20.060 - 01:01:42.704, Speaker A: Preston. No, actually, just quick follow up. Do you think there is some threshold at which another l one can achieve that kind of security parity with Ethereum? Is it total market cap todays? I don't know. It's like $220 billion or something like that. And Solana is maybe like 20. I don't actually know. I haven't checked in a while.
01:01:42.704 - 01:01:44.280, Speaker A: But it's orders of magnitude smaller.
01:01:44.312 - 01:02:07.024, Speaker C: I think it's like eight. Oh man, we're small right now, which is, you know, so I think it's time based. Right. I think it's time without outages or any sort like Solana has shot itself in the foot. You know, partially because they are being aggressive on improving the tech, but partially because, you know, they just. They've had outages. Right.
01:02:07.024 - 01:02:50.682, Speaker C: And so I think that no real defi active user trusts Solana because in that rare event that there's an outage, when there's a liquidation occurring, you get screwed. And so there needs to be a solid amount of time that goes without outage. And then I think it's a combination of liquidity rising so that, you know, there's actually liquidity and it's proven in that way, and then big names building on top of it. And I think that it's time. It's liquidity and it's reputation and external validation that eventually let's fast forward three or four years. Let's idealistically assume Solana hasn't had outages, and all of a sudden there's $50 billion of TVL on it. And Apple decided to launch something.
01:02:50.682 - 01:03:24.254, Speaker C: I think the security premium of Ethereum isn't nearly erased at that point. I think you start to question, why am I going to pay the gas fees that I would for Ethereum? Now, that's all incredibly hypothetical. There is also a very high probability scenario that Solana doesn't get any adoption. These are all very risky assets. But I think if you forecast that mental framework, and that's the conclusion you can come to, then it causes you to really think about how stable and secure Ethereum's position is in the market and their competitive moats beyond just security.
01:03:24.714 - 01:03:47.122, Speaker A: Awesome. Very thoughtful response. And I think a good way to kind of think about things and honestly just come up with more questions to dig into all the differences between how these l one s are architected. We said this at the beginning, but no one really has the answers just more thinking out loud and trying to figure out what makes sense and what doesn't. Yeah. Appreciate you coming on today, Lamar. This is a super fun combo.
01:03:47.122 - 01:03:56.100, Speaker A: I think we're definitely gonna have to do another part to this and maybe tailor it for another specific topic as we dive into this question that's burning in so many people's minds.
01:03:56.212 - 01:03:57.084, Speaker C: Yeah, this was great.
