00:00:00.240 - 00:00:15.830, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Cardano refuel, where recap the latest news in the Cardano ecosystem. I'm your host, Charles Hodgkinson. And today's the 1 April 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. Alright, that's it. About the news about the Cardano ecosystem. Thanks for checking in.
00:00:15.830 - 00:00:34.496, Speaker A: Okay, okay, enough. Enough of the jokes, guys. It's April Fools. Just quick April Fools joke there. I actually read a tweet from Harzu before saying all the bitcoin April fool's jokes are about Ethereum and all the Ethereum. April Fool's jokes are about Cardano, but had this in mind all day. And before I saw that tween, before I saw the Cardano April Fools jokes flying around.
00:00:34.496 - 00:00:55.960, Speaker A: So I'm just going to, you know, stay with that. I think it's quite funny, but, uh, yeah, I hope you guys got a kick out of that, uh, that there. And, you know, I actually really hate April Fools in general. I think it's really silly. Um, it. I. Even though I know it's April Fool's Day and I experience it twice because I experience it once in Australia and once in, uh, we know when America wakes up and when Europe wakes up, so it's just like a mess.
00:00:55.960 - 00:01:13.688, Speaker A: Like 48 hours of not being able to trust anything. That's why I kind of, like, really don't like the. I mean, it's not even a holiday, right? It's just like a gag, really. And, you know, there's a lot of. A lot of jokes out there, but I always. Not always, but sometimes I'll like, look at it and be like, oh, God, like I fell for it again. Right? And it always be something that catches you.
00:01:13.688 - 00:01:28.862, Speaker A: It's kind of. Even, as I said, even if, you know it's April fools, there's always something that catches you. But anyway, I'm gonna move on from that. There's a bunch of updates to get through here, so I'm gonna go through them now. All right, just a quick shout out. I'll be doing a live stream with David Hoffman today. You can check out the link here.
00:01:28.862 - 00:02:24.804, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description. This is our first live stream in a while, actually, so hopefully you can catch it. If you can't, you can obviously watch the recorded video once it's published on YouTube, immediately after the live stream. Hope to see you all there. All right, so there's this european regulation that I spoke about, I think, last week on the refuel. I think it was maybe earlier this week, it was recently, but basically Patrick Hanson here, who has been following this quite closely, put out a tweet today or yesterday saying the econ and l I be committees of the EU parliament voted in favor of this basically new regulation that would crack down on unhosted wallets or I guess like non custodial wallets, entire regulation draft to be voted on later today being later, I guess, on the, when he, when he tweeted this, but will certainly go through, and then he kind of breaks down what this is, who voted for, who voted against, blah, blah, blah, all that sort of stuff there. So this is obviously not ideal.
00:02:24.804 - 00:03:19.486, Speaker A: I think that the EU has a pretty bad history of voting against kind of like technologies and missing out on technologies. I've read a few people saying that the EU also missed out on the Internet because they just like, were really heavy handed early on. And this seems to be following the kind of like pattern here with, with them doing this. Now you can, as I said, read this thread for more details on this. But as I said, like, I think it was a few weeks ago now when I was, I was trying to like, um, get my point across to you guys about regulation in general and about how I think that, look, there's going to be shitty regulations in some parts of the world such as this, and then there's going to be other regulations. Other parts of the world is going to be unenforceable ones like this one. How can you enforce this? Right? Like, how are you going to, what, you're going to make it illegal for people to withdraw funds from centralized exchanges to their own crypto wallets? Well, what's going to happen is that all the exchanges are just going to move overseas and they're just going to allow their customers to do it from overseas.
00:03:19.486 - 00:03:50.436, Speaker A: And it's, it's just, it's so unenforceable and unpoliceable. It's so backwards and it's so like anti innovation that it's just insane that these things happen. But they do, right? Like, they can happen for numerous reasons. Maybe there's some politicians that are being lobbied by the existing system and being like, you know, you need to shut this down. Or maybe the politicians just have absolutely no idea what's going on in crypto and they just see the headlines and they only know it for the scams and the get rich quick stuff and they think, ah, you know, we need to heavily regulate this. That happens a lot. Don't get me wrong, guys, like, it's not a, it's not a thing that, it's a rare occurrence.
00:03:50.436 - 00:04:20.140, Speaker A: It's actually a common occurrence. So there's a million reasons why this stuff can happen and unfortunately it plays out like this. But at the same time you need to kind of like dig deeper into this stuff as well. Like as Patrick says here, this was kind of like voted on and it's a kind of, it's a draft that went through. It hasn't become law or anything yet in the EU. It's not like in a kind of, of like enough quote unquote official regulation or anything just yet. And I think that it might go through if it ends up going through later in April or something like that.
00:04:20.140 - 00:04:36.204, Speaker A: But definitely read the thread for more kind of, I guess, context. Yeah, but just wanted to update you guys on that and what, where that's going there. As I said, this is unenforceable, unpoliceable. It's anti innovation. It is really, really stupid. It's going to get challenged in the courts. It's, it's a losing proposition, really.
00:04:36.204 - 00:05:17.400, Speaker A: It just, these sorts of things are just a waste of time at the end of the day because I look at this and I'm like, how much time is now being wasted thinking about this, covering this, you know, having to fight this just because some politicians either don't understand what they're kind of, I guess some voting on or trying to push through or they're just in the money of, sorry, they're in the pocket of the, the existing industries, which I mean, both things play there. Or maybe they just hate crypto in general. Right? There's that, there's that aspect to it as well. But definitely check out this trader, I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. Alright, so the theorem.org website has a new L2 section, which is absolutely awesome. I mean guys, like, as I said to you, I think yesterday or the day before, ethereum.org
00:05:17.400 - 00:05:38.992, Speaker A: is like the one stop shop resource now for everything you need to know about a theorem at this point. And here's a L2 page for you to kind of like dig in deeper with everything. Layer two, obviously l, two b is already out there and that's an incredible resource, but this is just another one for you to dig your teeth into. Now, you could spend so much time on this. I mean, look at this like you scroll down, there's links to everything. More on ZK roll. Like go to optimistic roll up.
00:05:38.992 - 00:06:02.752, Speaker A: ZK roll up. Here are the pages read all about optimistic rops have links to everything else. We're gonna have the amount of links that are here. Same with zero knowledge roll ups, pros, con. I mean, there is so much here, guys like this is an awesome resource and I'm sure they're gonna keep updating it. You can explore all the, the current kind of like generalized L2s, a specific L2s, you know, side chains, validiums, alternative blockchains, all this sort of stuff here. So very, very cool to see this.
00:06:02.752 - 00:06:19.568, Speaker A: I'll link this in the, in the, in the YouTube description below. You can go check it out. And actually, I just noticed this, there's actually a how to get onto a L2 section as well, where you can kind of like select from this drop down menu. If you want to go to optimism, you go. It'll link you to the optimism bridge. Want to go to arbitram? One will link you to the arbitrary bridge. That is really cool.
00:06:19.568 - 00:06:52.040, Speaker A: And you know, getting funds off of an exchange as well, you know, onto a L2 that they kind of list the supported exchanges here. That's actually a really cool feature. So kudos to the ethereum.org team for putting this out. It's very, very cool. All right, so Eduardo here from the DaP node team has shared an update that they have pushed to kind of like the Dap node here, where basically you can change your ETH two client or validator on the fly here, or the one that kind of like listens to requests from. So you can see here in the video that they're going from Lighthouse to prism in a click of a button.
00:06:52.040 - 00:07:32.340, Speaker A: They're going update here. It's kind of funny that they've gone from Lighthouse to prism when we've been trying to get everyone off prism because it's the majority client. But, but obviously you can go from any client to any client here, which is very, very, very cool. I wrote the delegate newsletter about this today and about how we need to really make Ethereum staking much more simple. But not only staking your ETH, but also doing everything got to do with, with kind of like staking your eats, such as managing your validators and beacon nodes, being able to change your kind of like client on the fly without having to go through all the complicated stuff and be at risk of slashing, you know, protecting yourself from being a slash. Maybe you want, if you want to set up redundant setups and stuff like that. There's, I mean, there's a lot that goes into this.
00:07:32.340 - 00:08:12.160, Speaker A: I think that as long as we can make it super easy for people to stake their ETH, whether it's on their own or through a pool in a decentralized way. We've done enough, but people will say, okay, well it's already really easy to stake with rocket pool or with, with Lido. And I kind of like say okay, yeah, I mean, it is to an extent like if you don't have 32 ETH, and if you do, if. Okay, so if you have 32 ETH is actually not that easy to stake on your own. You can either do it from scratch, which means you're setting up your own hardware, setting up all their own software, or you can do it using something like dap node, which is actually pretty easy. I say easy when I say like dead simple, I mean like click of a button sort of thing. And that's basically what centralized exchanges offer.
00:08:12.160 - 00:08:30.280, Speaker A: And that's why they're so popular, because they'll just have a button. All user has to do is click it and they're eat these staked. Essentially everything happens in the background. Now, I don't know if we can get to that point for solo staking. I don't think we can because solo staking is definitely more involved. Like you. There are, there are things you have to do as a solo stake up to get into staking that are just unavoidable.
00:08:30.280 - 00:09:05.700, Speaker A: You can't have a one click thing there. But you know, if you have 32 eats a stake, I would assume that you would be wanting to stake it on your own instead of going into a pool and you'd be putting up with a little bit more work you have to put in in order to stake. Now we can make that whole process easier. Mind you, it doesn't have to be all command line. We can make nice graphical user interfaces, things like that. But if you have less than 30 tweet, even getting into rocket pool or lido with ST ETH or 8th, that's still not dead, dead simple. Like, I think the simplest way it could be is if you had like a centralized exchange integration with it where people could just buy Reth or Steve on a centralized exchange.
00:09:05.700 - 00:09:36.512, Speaker A: That would be like with fiat, that would be the simplest way. But there are other ways to do it. Like, I know Argent, the wallet supports it, but again, Argent is, is very simple to use, but it has a much lower customer base right now. And it is also, you know, I guess like, I don't know, it might be harder to use for some people or they might not, they might not trust it as much as something like a coinbase, for example. So anyway, there's a lot of work to do here. The ETH staking industry is going to be massive, guys. I don't think people have really digested how big this industry is going to be.
00:09:36.512 - 00:10:26.418, Speaker A: We're going to see a lot of ETH staked. I mean, the validator queue leading up to the merge now is already, you know, I mean, still at 12,000, there are still lots of ETH being staked each day because I think people finally clued into the fact that, you know, the mergers coming, and that means yields are going to spike up a little bit there and you're going to be, you know, obviously earning more ETH and ETH going to be really bullish going into the merge. I think just more and more people have woken up to staking their ETH. And that validated queue right now is, I mean, 12,000 validators. That, that puts the queue at, geez, what is it, like two weeks or so, something like that? If I'm doing my head math correctly, that's, you know, then that means, like, if you were to put in your ETH today, you would have to wait two weeks to, to get your validator active and to start earning rewards. So, yeah, I just, and I feel like, you know, even if there isn't a validator queue, there's going to be tens of millions of eats. They mean there's already over 10 million each state.
00:10:26.418 - 00:11:05.574, Speaker A: I feel like we're going to teleport to 20 million ETH leading up to the merge. And then after that, if the rates, the staking rates are over 10% or something like that, because the fee revenue, the unburnt fee revenue is quite high and maybe MeV and stuff like that, we're going to see a flood of ETH coming, guys. Like, I, I could actually see 30 million ETH staked within the next year or so, to be be honest. But we'll have to see, you know, depends on the ETH price as well. I mean, look, if we go really bullish, I mean, imagine ETH going to like $20,000 and then you wanted to stake with 32 ETH. That's a lot of money, right? That's, that's $240,000 just, just to stake on your own. So when you, when you think about it that way, it gets, it gets quite, quite crazy.
00:11:05.574 - 00:11:30.748, Speaker A: But we'll have to see what happens. But cool, cool. For DAP node, to make it just really easy to switch clients here, which obviously is very, very good for client diversity, all right, another banger thread from pseudo Theos today talking about how he believes that cross chain is a technological dead end. A dead end. Either the future is mostly secured on Ethereum with roll ups or multi chain, a long but worthwhile thread. Now, it is a long thread here. Basically pseudo theos going through.
00:11:30.748 - 00:12:09.080, Speaker A: You know why they think cross chain is not the future in his technological dead end, why it's insecure. I mean, very similar to Vitalik's blog post about this that a lot of people have shared, and I'm sure you've read it at this point, and how kind of like the future is probably going to be mostly secured on Ethereum with roll ups or multi chain. Now, I totally agree with this. I think that roll ups today, with their bridges and everything, aren't where we want them to be. Obviously they've still got centralized controls in them in place and stuff like that. But once they haven't, once they're in their kind of like steady state, in their end state, they are much better than these really shitty bridges that we have going to other ecosystems in a cross chain way. They are much more secure.
00:12:09.080 - 00:12:37.806, Speaker A: They, they're much easier to reason about. And I've obviously, I've talked about this a lot, a lot in the past. And I think that, look, as much as I think that the cross chain stuff might be a technological dead end, there are still going to be people that, that use this stuff. There's still going to be ecosystems that form, that aren't secured by Ethereum. And I think that's okay as long as the risks are understood. And you know, Arjun here from connects has been a big kind of proponent of this. And he wrote a blog post today about optimistic bridges and what he's calling a new paradigm for cross chain communication.
00:12:37.806 - 00:13:33.752, Speaker A: So he thinks it's, you know, cross chain communication can actually be done in a secure way. And he's obviously building a protocol around that with Kinext. I definitely recommend reading this blog post for a different take as opposed to what pseudo Theos and maybe Vitalik was arguing. Cause it's always good to get both sides of the argument, but for me as well, like, it's not just the bridge thing when I say that I believe the future is going to be basically Ethereum with roll ups, it's also a scalability thing. Because as I've explained to you guys before, I believe the modular way to scale a blockchain is the best way forward. And I believe that Ethereum is basically at the forefront there in terms of having, I guess, like the demand, right, to use its blog space, block space, having the community, having all the smartest people working on this sort of stuff, and also having the, the roll ups maturing at a rapid rate that are all based on Ethereum right now. And I just think that, that they're going to win just based on having better technology at the end of the day than these monolithic chains and cross chain just.
00:13:33.752 - 00:14:19.930, Speaker A: And also cross chain is very, it's harder to reason about and it's also the fact that it's, it's less composable. Like, Polly and I goes on about this a lot, but when we're in the steady state, when we have like dank sharding and blob carrying transactions, and we can share state between the roll ups through dank sharding, you basically have a multi chain world, but you have them sharing state, which means they can actually compose with each other and talk to each other and interoperate with each other with relative ease. And you don't get that from cross chain. Cross chain is actually much harder to do. I know there's other projects like layer Zero focusing on this, but I mean, they've got a lot of big promises and we're going to have to see if that pans out. But from what I've seen from the smart people that I follow, they think Layer zero's approach is interesting. But also it may not be enough to kind of like, get rid of all that complexity that we're used to in the cross chain world.
00:14:19.930 - 00:15:06.716, Speaker A: So we're going to have to see how it plays out. This is not something that's going to happen overnight. I think we'll see these play out over the next few years to see who's right and who's kind of like thesis was right and, and in the, in the steady state, like bridge hacks right now, I don't think are enough proof to prove, to, to prove the fact that the cross chain is, is, um, necessarily like maybe a dead end or completely kind of, um, you know, out of the realm of possibility of gaining adoption. Uh, because these bridge hacks can happen to L2s as well. Because, for example, uh, if a roll ups keys were compromised, right, the centralized keys that the team owns were compromised, well, then the same thing could happen if that function existed. So mean, in the, as I said, in the steady state, rollout bridges in, I mean, in theory and in practice should be more secure than across chain bridge. But we're not there for most of these things today.
00:15:06.716 - 00:15:39.580, Speaker A: So something to keep in mind. Definitely read pseudo theosis thread and Algernon's blog post. I'll link them both in the YouTube description. So polynomial protocol announced that they have launched polynomial urn on optimism mainnet, which is built on Lyra finance and synthetix. Synthetix has had a renaissance lately. Guys, I don't know if you have noticed, not just the price of the SNX token, but the whole ecosystem there on optimism seems to be doing very, very well. And it's awesome to see because of the fact that synthetix didn't do very well for a long time because they were limited by layer one, right, that the scalability really hurt them.
00:15:39.580 - 00:16:18.892, Speaker A: But now they're on L2 and they don't have to worry about that anymore. They've got like lots of scale, it's really cheap to do everything on there, and there's a lot of projects building on synthetix right now. So just really cool to see this. But what polynomial launched today with polynomial polynomial earn is it's the first DeFi options vault project to execute on chain via an ammonia, all with the speed and cheap transaction powered transactions powered by optimism. So today they launched Ste, or, sorry, SE, covered call and cash secured put selling vaults with a cap of 300 SE and 1 million s USD respectively. And you know, starting this Friday, the vaults will start selling options directly to Lyra finance AMM in batches. So it's all composable within the synthetix ecosystem here.
00:16:18.892 - 00:17:03.428, Speaker A: This is really cool. I think this was the original Synthetix vision and the original Vision Kane had. And as I said, it just couldn't play out on layer one, but we're seeing it play out on L2. So I mean, I'm very bullish on the synthetics ecosystem guys, and obviously the optimism ecosystem, but I think that it's really proving to people that DeFi, or a lot of Defi, was limited by layer one. And once they get started to get going on L2, once people actually realize that these things are super cheap to interact with now compared to a layer one ethereum, really magical things are going to happen. And I've spoken about this before where I said that there were just a lot of things that were not possible on layer one due to both the costs and the speed. I mean, the fastest transaction you can do on layer one is in one Ethereum block in 13 seconds, right? The fastest transaction you do on a L2.
00:17:03.428 - 00:17:30.073, Speaker A: I mean, it's already about 1 second, but apparently arbitram, nitro, they're promising even faster than that. And I'm sure optimism has speed improvements up this leave as well. It's basically instant. So when you take all that into account, it's no wonder that these things like Synthetix and other apps are kind of like having a bit of a renaissance here. And I hope to see this continue for other defi apps out there. So definitely go check out polynomial protocol here. And with their new earn feature, it'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:17:30.073 - 00:18:35.134, Speaker A: So I missed this the other day, but balance have announced that they've got a new ve ball token, which is live, and the new ve ball governance system has also kicked off. So this is following on from a lot of these kind of like ve token schemes that I think Pioneer, and there was a bunch of others out there that have been doing this and basically a way to, I guess, lock up the kind of like tokens and basically drive more value to the token and have more participation in governance as well. So you can read the thread for, for a description here and read the blog post for it for a deeper dive. But basically what Bal holders can do is lock their battle to receive ve Bal and get a host of benefits, such as long term alignment with the balance of protocol users, fully automated battle minting protocol revenue distribution, and plug and play compatibility with curves ecosystem. So more details are available in the blog post on this. But yeah, if you're a battle holder, you should definitely be checking this out. I think the funny thing is about a lot of these ve tokens is that it doesn't make much sense if you plan to hold them for like a year or two years, it doesn't make any sense for you not to lock for that long.
00:18:35.134 - 00:19:16.174, Speaker A: Like, if you've actually said to yourself, okay, I'm gonna hold this for at least a year, and before I'm not even gonna think about selling it, well, then you should lock it up. I think the problem becomes when people start locking up these things and then they go down like 90%, and then they're like, oh, I didn't plan to hold it for this long, now I can't sell. So yeah, there's always the kind of like trade off there. You get the benefits. But I mean, some of these tokens like, have gone down a lot, you know, maybe since you locked them and, and you're kind of like locked into a position here. But if you do believe in balance, our balance is a great project, and if you do believe that bow is going to go up in value, then it makes sense for you to lock it here. So I mean not, not investment advice guys, but yeah, definitely check out this blog post for a uM, deeper dive on all that and how it all works.
00:19:16.174 - 00:19:53.904, Speaker A: Alright, so a big announcement out of maker today. So the first real estate deal of from Six s Capital LLC with Tesla involving a die loan to a maker vault to fund the project. So I think what's happening here is that Tesla is basically as Toucan spam says here, tesla's renting this real estate which was originally purchased via a dye loan through maker. So this is cool. I mean like it's, it's, it's really cool because we're blending the real world with kind of like the, the crypto world right now. I mean makers been a pioneer here of this. They've been wanting to do this for quite a while, blending in real world assets into, into Defi protocols.
00:19:53.904 - 00:20:25.650, Speaker A: Obviously there are things that need to be worked out before this stunk. These things can be done like at scale obviously. Like how do you secure the real world asset? Because it's still secured by the contracts in the real world, right. And then you have to kind of like have it in the contract that says that this is going on in Defi with their blah blah blah. But you know, there are people working on this, there are organizations working on this and it's really cool to see it just out in the wild and it's really cool to see that, that Tesla's basically the tenant here from what I understand. So yeah, it says here Tesla as a tenant, as a collision center. This $7.8
00:20:25.650 - 00:20:57.608, Speaker A: million closing was financed by six s capital partners with a series a. And they closed the deal, repaid the loan and sold the project to an investor with an expected exit cap rate. So they've actually repayed the loan from what I understand as well after buying this real estate. Very, very cool. I think, I think we're going to see more of this as time goes on for sure. As I said, scaling it is kind of hard but I think if anyone's going to do it, it's going to be maker there. You know, the thing about Maker is that there's such a core and important protocol of Ethereum Defi, but they don't get much attention or love because the MKR token doesn't really do anything.
00:20:57.608 - 00:21:33.412, Speaker A: And I mean I get it but at the same time like regardless of what the token is doing, you should definitely be paying attention to what make is doing as a project. How they're kind of like pushing Defi forward, especially with real world assets and things like that. All right, so ETH Global has announced the twelve Aleph grow finalists here. So there's a thread here of all the projects and kind of like what they are. I haven't had a chance to go through them just yet, but they look quite cool here. So there's projects like Mad Finance, which is basically, I mean, the LF grow hackathon was for web3 protocols, guys. So you're going to see a lot of web3 stuff here.
00:21:33.412 - 00:22:02.010, Speaker A: This, this is mad finance, which is the lens reference module that enables real time monetization of your content. So kind of like as blending defi and web3. There, there's iris, yeah. Which is a messenger of the gods, Twitter x Patreon, x Twitch, x TikTok, built on lens. So lens protocol being the protocol out of AavEt for a decentralized social media that I've talked about before. Lens collect auctions run Dutch, decreasing in English, increasing bids, auctions for collecting lens posts. I mean, this is really cool, guys.
00:22:02.010 - 00:22:52.832, Speaker A: Like, I think, I'm pretty sure all of these were built on lens from what I can see, or at least most of them were. But I definitely recommend checking out this thread and kind of like reading through each of these projects and checking them out yourself and going and using them, because these hackathons usually give birth to the next billion dollar protocol. So if you want to see what's coming down the pipeline, if you want to be ahead of the curve when it comes to what projects are actually going to be, you know, coming to Ethereum, other than maybe DeFi projects, but more specifically in the web3 space, you should definitely pay attention to ETH global finalists and, and just people building in ETH global in general. So definitely check this out. So element finance today have announced the launch of the element Dow and the distribution of their Alfie tokens. So claiming we'll go live at the theorem. Block name number 114 million 496,292 at approximately 04:00 p.m..
00:22:52.832 - 00:23:04.760, Speaker A: ET. Now, I don't know what the current block number of aetherium is. I don't know if we're at that block. I'm gonna, let me, let me have a quick look for, for right now. Yeah, we've actually passed that block number. So claiming has already gone live. I don't believe the tokens are liquid yet.
00:23:04.760 - 00:23:27.782, Speaker A: You can't trade them or anything. But if you are part of the initial airdrop, you can, you can, you can claim it. And the first 2000 claimants and that delegated their voting power was actually able to mint the Elfie verse nfts that I covered the other day as well. So very, very cool to see this. And I should disclose here, guys, I'm an investor in element finance as part of their last round there series a. So I don't have my tokens or anything. They're all vested and stuff like that.
00:23:27.782 - 00:24:04.680, Speaker A: But I just wanted to disclose that there for you guys. But I mean, you guys know I've been a big fan of the element finance project for a while now. I actually really like the way that they're handling their dow on how they're kind of going about it, which you can read more about in this blog post if you want to kind of learn how they, they're doing it with like a governance steering committee and kind of like having a council and just basically doing it right from day one. I think a lot of projects think of daos as kind of like a. And something they can deal with later and afterthought, when in reality it should be the something that you're thinking about from the very, very start. Especially if you're kind of like going to be governed by, by token holders. Because you need to make sure that you build a really healthy and sustainable community from the start.
00:24:04.680 - 00:24:24.780, Speaker A: You need to make sure that your token distribution is healthy and sustainable and you need to make sure that you have good governance participation for your dao to actually work. So cool to see this. Definitely give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, finally, here we have another thread from Trent Van Epps, this time talking about rewards and penalties in Ethereum. Proof of stake. There's more than just slashing.
00:24:24.780 - 00:24:50.952, Speaker A: Now, I've spoken about this before, guys. There's slashing, there's inactivity leaks. There's inactivity being the offline kind of like leaks. There are kind of like different levels of kind of, I guess, like leaks depending on if, you know, if most of the network is offline, you're gonna lose more than if just you are offline. And same, same goes with slashing. And then when it comes to rewards, you actually get like a bigger reward. The more it's kind of like, sorry, the better your validator is doing.
00:24:50.952 - 00:25:20.772, Speaker A: So if your validator is getting the information out the fastest it can, if it's got like, you know, 95 plus percent, I think. Sorry, 95 plus percent efficiency. Efficiency, I should say, then you'll get, you get the full reward, I believe. And there's a bunch of more information from Trent here as well. You should definitely check out this, this thread. But also, people get rewards for whistleblowing as well as part of kind of like slashing and things like that. So yeah, this is really good.
00:25:20.772 - 00:26:13.850, Speaker A: I mean, the funny thing about a theorem proof of stake is that it's actually a complex system in that there's a lot of moving parts to it, but it's very elegant in its design. And if you want to learn more about it, this, I mean, about the rewards and penalties, this is the thread to read, but you can go deep with this sort of stuff. And this is why I'm looking forward to fully reading Ben Edgington's kind of like book that he's doing on the beacon chain because there's so much that goes into it. Like, as I said, guys, this was like the, the biggest chain is a result of so many years of research and development, and not just research and development for the sake of it, but trying to build something that is a truly decentralized, sustainable, healthy proof of stake protocol, not just at the technical level, but at the social level as well. And that's what gets me most excited about a theorem, to be honest. Guys like that, like that kind of dedication to the core protocol really does breed greatness. You know, extra protocol, whether that be at, at L2, whether that be within defi NFTs web3, the community in general, anything.
00:26:13.850 - 00:26:37.914, Speaker A: At the end of the day, I think that as long, you know, the fact that we have it coming from like the ground up, the fact that it's kind of like a bottoms up approach instead of a top down approach is very, very healthy. But I'll link this thread in the YouTube description for you to check out, and I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
