00:00:19.770 - 00:02:23.530, Speaker A: So I'm going to talk about NFT use cases, implementations but more importantly going back to fundamentals. So my name is Diane Brini, I'm software architect at MetaMask and I'm mainly working on on chain reputation and trust scoring to build permissionless system. So yeah, it's a big concern within MetaMask and before that I work within consensus on several NFT drops and yeah, I have concern about. So the purpose of this talk is to explore how we can build valuable use cases for people, for the society, for the real economy. So first I invite you all to take a step back about what are NFTs and even going further about what are our non fungible possessions. So from credible to grave, we have possessions but we were born without any possession and we will die without possession but yet we are having lot of possessions all along our life and yet we are craving for possessions. So why? And I would say possessions are real or is it just an illusion? I think it is, but it's really important for our society to protect people and in general possessions are just the outcome of our work, they are also inheritance.
00:02:23.530 - 00:04:36.982, Speaker A: So we need to have possessions to protect that, otherwise it will be the law of jungle. So yeah, when you were born before you don't have any possession, but just a little bit before you have a first position, it's your identity, your parents give you a name, you have some identification like your gender and then you were born and you start having your first position. You have toys, you have family, you grow up and then you have for example a car, a degree, and then you buy a home, you have real estate and so on and then maybe there are souvenirs about you but yeah, all that are like non fungible possessions. So first it's obvious that nonfungible possessions are unique assets that are not increasingly exchangeable. So yeah, it's all about I. So when you say I, it's what is SOLBone to you in general and what is might all your possessions that you have all along your life and then you have all others that have positions that you care or not, and in general not so much, but in term of position. So as I say, you have your identity that is core but you have also credentials like degrees and so on and you have real estate, you have your car, you have relationship and we need to ask ourselves what is the proof? What makes something a possession? For example, you have, I don't know, a cap, you have shoes, what makes this a possession? Actually sometimes it's quite simple.
00:04:36.982 - 00:05:38.790, Speaker A: So you need a proof of ownership to prove that something is your possession. And when you have non very valuable goods, just having it, it's enough, you just have something we offer you, you have it, it's enough. And then you have more valuable things like your computer, I don't know, you have a cell phone, so then you have invoice or you have artwork and then you have a certifying paper. So this helps protecting yourself, but it's not enough for valuable, very expensive or valuable things. So this is where we introduce ledgers and ledgers introduce the proof of ownership. So we all live with ledgers. So if you have a real estate, just having the keys is not enough.
00:05:38.790 - 00:07:39.422, Speaker A: So you have Landslowed, you have Cadast, if you have copyright, you have less SM in France that enable to keep track of your ownership. But now we have a decentralized ledger and this brings a lot of new use cases that we could have, but without some specific implementation, some specific protection about the real ownership, the immutability and so on. So all that is key for valuable assets and laws is helping a lot on that because if you have a dispute you rely on lows, but sometimes your asset is directly on chain for example, and then you don't need anything than the proof on chain. So it's all about ledger for valuable assets and you can have virtual or like physical or immaterial assets and a ledger like a blockchain or any centralized ledger is just a pointer that shows that you own something. So it's a proof of ownership and what is important is to have an issuer that is relevant, that have the legitimacy to issue this ledger. So for decentralized ledger you don't need to trust them for the long time just at the issuance times they need to have a legitimacy because if you have anyone that say okay, I'm publishing a ledger and this ledger will be the land registry. Yeah, if there have no legitimacy, it doesn't make sense.
00:07:39.422 - 00:08:58.170, Speaker A: So yeah, it's important to have the relevant issuer and then the ledger is linking an asset so you have an Identifier for real assets, like a physical asset or immaterial asset. So yeah, the entry in the ledger is not the asset, so it's true for immaterial and material assets. So an avatar in blockchain for example, an NFT is not the avatar, it's just a proof of ownership. So I think it's really important concept and then you have the identity and access management that enable to prove that you are related to this asset. So just in term of implementation, decentralized ledger. So initially with Bitcoin it was just one use case, it was about monetary system and exchange of value with money fungible assets. But now with smart contracts you can implement any use cases, just deploying and anyone is free to deploy a smart contract.
00:08:58.170 - 00:10:41.654, Speaker A: Be the ledger with some standards that exist today and yeah, this is just a self executing program with storage and functions and then you can implement any use case. So yeah, let's come back to our person that was born and then add like an identity so you can have the identity that is related to the person in the decentralized ledger or real estate after it you can have the Identifier of the real estate so the parcel and then some owner so what will identify the owner? So for decentralized ledger it's the account and you have the private key that proves that you are owner of the account and then you can have all the state transition mechanisms in order to manage your ledger and then you can deploy it on any decentralized distributed ledger technology and with metadata and so on. So to build use cases we came up with several standards that help standardizing so it enabled to have interoperability between the different NFT implementation and so on. The first one is a yeARC 721. But you can see that depending on the blockchain, you have different standards. But basically it's quite simple. It's an Identifier that will identify the assets and an ownership for a multi nonfungible.
00:10:41.654 - 00:11:52.990, Speaker A: Token that is well known with, ERC, 1155. So here you have an Identifier with an address, but with an amount because it's semifungible fungible. So you have some copy of the same asset, let's say. And then you have salt bond tokens that are quite relevant in real society. Use cases where you can have something that is born to your address so you can have your identity, you can have your reputation, you have badges, you have your degrees and so on. So yeah, it's an artifact that enable to create use case that go beyond financial and that can be leveraged for social network and so on. And yeah, you have composable tokens that enable even for social use cases, but gaming and so on to compose NFT with other NFTs and then you can bring like an infinite number of use cases.
00:11:52.990 - 00:13:05.330, Speaker A: So now we have another kind of standards. So it exists like a long time before. But we know that all the data, the personal data are sensitive and you don't want to have everything on chain. So verifiable credential enable to provide some credential like your identity, a degree and so on without putting it on chain but you have a proof, a signature proof that enable to record it. So you can have it in your wallet, for example and then you can prove everything with it so you can go to a bar, for example, and prove that you are more than 18 without sharing your age and so on. So you can have a lot of use cases and with attestation you can basically provide any trust attestation about someone. Or any artifact and this is leveraging decentralized Identifier and all that are composed with an issuer and subject and a claim.
00:13:05.330 - 00:14:24.930, Speaker A: So it's enabled to create some graph trust graph so it's really key for any reputation based use. Cases like borrowing or like permissionless mechanisms. Let's say a wallet that enable extensibility by the end users, for example, for extending capabilities and you have also some ERCs that enable to mint as Solborn token verifiable credentials and then you have lots of way of implementing the different features. And I won't deep dive on it, but yeah, with all that, you can see them as building blocks to create any valuable use cases. So yeah, my favorite use cases are the identity as I told before. So you can see the implementations that you can use to implement this kind of case. Identity basically is everything from your name until your national identity and so on, social network with social graph, reputation and trust credentials and so forth.
00:14:24.930 - 00:15:40.730, Speaker A: So yeah, my main area of exploration is a decentralized society and this enable these kind of use cases. So yeah, it's my last no, it's nearly the last slide. So here it's an example of what we can do with the social graph that you can build with attestations with Verifiable credentials. For example, me as Diane, I have some identities that are characterized by my lens profile, by my ENS and I have also I have DOA membership, PFP and so on and then I have lot of people that I follow through decentralized social network that I attestation from to attest that I have some skills and so on. And yeah, with that you can build like recursively, you can build trust and you can implement a nearly meeted number of use cases. So yeah, this brings this benefit. So yeah, true ownership and control of your personal data.
00:15:40.730 - 00:16:06.060, Speaker A: So you disclose only what you want to disclose data portabilities for social graph, for example, you can use your data for any social network data immutability. So the intermediaries can't remove your data forever and enable any permissionless mechanism. That's all, thank you.
