00:00:00.200 - 00:00:33.033, Speaker A: I'm happy to introduce Vianney brewert from ENS Leon talking about the genetic composition of supercritical branching populations under parallel mutation rates. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay, perfect. So first I would like to thank all the organizer for this really nice workshop. So actually as you can see with my title, I come from a more theoretical background and I really, I have really learned so much during this week. So I would really like to thank you.
00:00:33.033 - 00:01:25.595, Speaker A: And so yeah, last week I was based in the ENS de Lion in France and next week I will move to Bath in order to start a postdoc there. Okay, so I wanted first to give some details about what is a birth and death branching process. And what is great is that Jason mentioned it during his talk. But we do not have the same notations. So maybe I will still present a little bit this slide. The model is really easy, it's just that if you are at, if you have some a certain number I of cells, let's say, then you will need to wait a certain random time, which is exponentially distributed, where the parameter is linear in I. And then you have the sum of the two rates, Alpha which is a birth rate, and beta, which is a death rate.
00:01:25.595 - 00:02:21.515, Speaker A: And then after this time you have an event, a birth or a death. And you just need to choose between a birth and a death with probability with respect to the rates alpha and beta. And what you can see here is just that due to the rate in the exponential time, you wait after the next event, which depends on I, then if I is high, then you will just wait a smaller time. And this gives you the exponential growth. And for that you just need to introduce the growth parameters lambda here. And what you can show actually is that when you have a birth and death process that you rescale by an exponential with rate lambda, then you can converge to a random variable W. So here it's the same notation as in JSON's talk.
00:02:21.515 - 00:03:07.815, Speaker A: And the law for W is really easy. Just the product of two independent random variables. The first one which is a Bernoulli, which will give you if you survive or not, and then an exponential distribution. Okay, so now I can present a little bit about what will be my model. So the aim is just to capture the genetic composition of the population of cells during calcium zone genesis. And for that I will really look at the simplest model one can think of, which is for my trait space I just take a certain amount of traits and then I put some edges between these traits. So I have a graph and the edges will be used for the mutations.
00:03:07.815 - 00:03:51.855, Speaker A: And for simplicity, I just say that I have one specific vertex called zero, which will represent, let's say, wild type cells. And then all the other traits are mutant traits. For my dynamics, it's just that a cell. So a cell has a trait, and then it will divide according to birth, and so it will go. Sorry. So each cell has a trait, and then according to your trait, you will follow a birth and death process whose rate will depend on your trait. So alpha and beta and your growth rate lambda will also depend on your trait.
00:03:51.855 - 00:04:22.745, Speaker A: And then during a division event of a cell, you have two daughter cells. And independently from each other, each daughter cell can mutate according to a certain probability mu here. And the only thing that needs to be considered is that you can move only to a neighbor in the graph structure. And we will start with one cell, one wild type cell. So. So a trait zero cell. And the first assumption is just that lambda zero is strictly positive, otherwise you won't survive with probability one.
00:04:22.745 - 00:05:02.209, Speaker A: So it is a really easy representation of two compartment models. So I have only two traits, zero and one. And what can happen during the dynamics of the model? It is the following. So. Yeah, sorry, what? Okay, so a cell of trait zero can die with rate beta zero, it can divide with rate alpha zero. And then you can have both daughter cells that do not mutate. One of them mutates to trait z1, and the two of them mutates to trait1.
00:05:02.209 - 00:05:51.371, Speaker A: And then for trait1, you can die with rate beta1, or you can divide with rate alpha1. So when you observe a tumor, generally the number of cells you have is like really, really high. But the mutation rate per base paper cell division is really, really low. Yeah, just give some numbers. But it's not the same depending on the, on the cancer you observe. It's just to say that approximately what you can observe is that the tumor size times the mutation rate is something approximately constant. So as a mathematician, what I would study is to introduce a scaling parameter which will go to infinity and scale my mutation probability using the scaling parameter such that let's say something as the product goes to a constant.
00:05:51.371 - 00:06:33.267, Speaker A: But here I just take a more general setting, which is not the product, but I give a label on the edge. So the little L. And I say that my mutation probability needs to so will scale as, say, a constant divided by N to the power L. Okay, so it's a really low mutation probability. And now I will introduce a sequence of my previous model using this mutation probability. So yeah, tumor size. Is that something that's important in your detective denial? Yeah, because the aim is really to say you will see in the next slide, but it's just to say that we'll observe the tumor because it has a certain size.
00:06:33.267 - 00:07:24.727, Speaker A: And can we have some ideas of what is the genetic composition over the different traits? Yeah, it doesn't matter. It's just to say you have. Yeah, yeah. Okay, so here is like the previous. If I go back to here, so this was my trait space and I just give it a different representation using the scaling for the mutation probabilities, which is to say that I can give different scaling for all of my edges. And here the larger the edge is, the easier the mutation is, which means that the smaller the label is. Okay, so now we'll just introduce two stopping times.
00:07:24.727 - 00:08:28.495, Speaker A: The first one, sigma is the first time that your total population will reach a certain size. So power of N and to the poverty. Let's say that this is because I introduce this because let's say that you see, you observe your tumor because it has reached a certain size. And the question you can ask is what is the genetic composition of all the different traits in your tumors? And then another stopping times which can be interested is imagine you can observe a primary tumor because it has reached a certain size. And you can ask yourself what is the size of the secondary tumors. So we will look at what is the genetic composition at specifically these two random times during the talk. So yeah, new mutation always going on in slightly different traits.
00:08:28.495 - 00:09:11.993, Speaker A: Not necessarily, it's just that. So imagine you have a cell of trait zero which divides and one of its daughter cell will mutate according to this edge or this edge. Let's say it takes this edge. So now you have a cell of trait 2 which can divide and again during the division you can have a mutation according to this edge or this edge. So a background mutation to zero or a new mutation to a trait three. But here the trait space is finite, so you can't have an infinite different traits. Okay, maybe I'm the only one not getting it.
00:09:11.993 - 00:10:22.463, Speaker A: So what are the motivations for the different scaling? For example, how do you fix them? Is there some biological concepts behind it? So I would say that so in eugenm in you can have some areas where it's more likely to mutate compared to others. So you will have a larger scale mutation scaling in this case, which can be represented here. For instance, from this trait to this trait, it's really likely to mutate. Okay, but for instance, for this trait to this one it's really not likely. And then it's just that when I've done the mathematical computations in order to study this model, it's just that you can take this really general scaling with different L and everything works well. Okay, so this model has already been studied in the literature. And for that I will just present one result done for a really simple graph.
00:10:22.463 - 00:11:26.583, Speaker A: So I have one wild type and one mutant trait. And then I have this scaling for the mutation. So in blue is the representation, the graphical representation for the Y type growth, so an exponential one with rate lambda zero. And then I am in the T log N timescale, which is a natural one. If you want to observe power of N size for the wild type population, since the mutation scaling is 1 over n to the power L, you will need to wait for a certain size, a total size which is N to this power, in order to see some mutations, which means that before the time l divided by lambda 0usize is like negligible compared to N to the power L, so you won't see any mutations at all. And then at this time U size is of order N to the power L, so you will start to see some mutations. And you can capture the law of these mutations.
00:11:26.583 - 00:12:58.653, Speaker A: So the number of them is Poisson distributed. So with the K star, and then each of them will start a lineage following a birth and death process. And at time L over lambda 0 in the log n time scale, what you can show is that all these lineages, they add a certain amount of time to grow up to time L over Lambda 0, and this amount of time are exponentially distributed independently from each other. And what has been shown by David Chick and Thibaut in two articles, so the first one in 2018, published in Annals and of Applied Probability, show that the number of mutant cells at this specific time L over Lambda 0 will converge to the Luria Delbruck distribution that was mentioned in many talks during the week. And I think that this is the first time that a rigorous mathematical result was obtained for convergence to the Luria Dalbrook distribution. And in 2020 they just generalized this kind of result to a more general setting. Okay, but the question is, what happens for larger times, typically when the size of the wild type population is so high that the number of mutations generated at each time is already a power of N and not a finite number of mutant cells? Because previously what we obtain is Luria Delbruck distribution, which is random, but it's only a finite number of mutant cells.
00:12:58.653 - 00:14:06.609, Speaker A: And we would like to observe an infinite number of mutant cells. Okay, so for this parallel mutation rates regime, there are many, many articles about this regime. And here is not an exhaustive list of articles, but I would say some of many of them are really important ones where the models are really, really different. But let's say the first one was about the moron model, then another one with studying crossing a fitness valley, and then some models with horizontal gene transfer, and then adaptive dynamic setting, and so on and so on and so on. Okay, but one common point for all of these articles is that the quantity they are studying is called the stochastic exponent or the optical transform. If you come from a more deterministic point of view, which is to say that you will look approximately as the log of your population. So you accelerate your time scale by log n, because you want to observe power of n sizes.
00:14:06.609 - 00:15:07.859, Speaker A: You take the log of your population, you just add one, because if you take log of something equal to zero, it's minus infinity. So just the one is here. And then you risk A by log n. And if you, you rewrite this, it just means that your stochastic exponent is approximately the power of N for your population. And what they do is just that, they track over time this stochastic exponent. And we can just use the techniques from all these articles to show that in the branching case you have that your stochastic exponent for all your population will converge to a certain deterministic function times the indicator that W is strictly positive. This just means that the wild type population needs to survive if you want to observe some mutant cells due to the scaling, mutation scaling, because you need to reach a size which is really high in order to see some mutations.
00:15:07.859 - 00:16:16.063, Speaker A: And if you do not survive, you won't reach this size. And this function xv, the limiting function xv. You can obtain the forms using an algorithm, but it's a quite complex one, so I haven't written it down here. But what you can actually obtain quite easily is that you have some, let's say, so tv, you have tv. For each trait V, you have a constant TV related to trait V, which says that before time tv, you won't have mutant cells of trait V. And after this time you will start to grow exponentially fast due to XV strictly positive. And maybe I can just explain in the algorithm for understanding it, but in a really simple case where I have so a wild type which can mutate according to the scaling N to the power minus 2 to a type 1, and then you also have a backward mutation to the wild type.
00:16:16.063 - 00:16:52.905, Speaker A: But here the scaling is N to the power minus 1. So in green is the X0. So the limiting behavior for the Y type population, so you grow at speed Lambda 0, which is a growth rate, okay? And then you reach the size 2. At this time it means that you have approximately N to the power two wild type cells. Due to the mutation scaling, you will start to see some mutant cells and then they will grow at rate lambda1. Here lambda1 is larger than lambda0. Okay? So this is a yellow curve.
00:16:52.905 - 00:17:33.905, Speaker A: So it grows, it grows. And then it will reach the size one. And due to the background mutation you will start to see some wild type traits. But due to the background mutations, and normally the lineages of these cells should grow exponentially fast at rate lambda zero. But what happens here is that you always have some mutations from trait 1 to trait 0 due to the background mutation, meaning that this subpopulation will not grow exponentially fast at rate lambda zero, but at trait lambda one. Okay? And so this gives the pink curve. And then you can have the crossing between the green and the yellow curve is just that.
00:17:33.905 - 00:18:45.985, Speaker A: Now the total population is driven by the mutant trait. And then you have another specific time, which is when the green and the pink curve intersect. And at this time what happens is that now the trait 0 population is driven not by its inherent growth, but by the subpopulation of wild type cells that was obtained due to the backward mutations, meaning that the total wild type population, the asymptotic curve, is the maximum between the green and the pink one. So in the algorithm you have two different events that can happen. First is that one trait that was zero cannot grow with a certain rate, which is what we've seen here with the yellow curve. And then you can have an update for your growth rate for your curve, which is what happened between the green and the pink curve here. It's just that now your inherent growth, so it's just that now your growth is not driven by your inherent growth, but due to a mutation given by another trait which grows faster compared to you.
00:18:45.985 - 00:19:27.825, Speaker A: But there are many steps that are not captured with the stochastic exponent. And the first thing that we can think of is that potentially our population, so it's not potentially our population have a stochastic factor. So let's say wt, which is not captured. You can also add some other factors that will depends on N, but not as power of n. So for instance log n or log n square or stuff like that. And this could be quite interesting because if you only have results on the stochastic exponent. You can't have a characterization of the evolutionary effective pathways on your trait space.
00:19:27.825 - 00:20:03.125, Speaker A: For instance, imagine you have a trait zero. You want to look at trait V and you have two mutational pathways, so the blue one and the green one. Imagine that for the green one you have a log n square factor. And here you also you have a log n factor, meaning that the trait V here will be driven by the mutation path, the green one and not the blue one. Okay, but the stochastic exponent result for the blue and the green one are the same. You just capture the xv. So you can't say if the green or the blue will contribute asymptotically.
00:20:03.125 - 00:20:42.377, Speaker A: So that's why we wanted to look at the first order asymptotic and not the stochastic X. And for that I will just give you some heuristic in two specific case. So the neutral and the deleted use cancer evolution. Which means that again, I'm taking the simple graph. I just say that the growth rate for the mutant trait is smaller or equal to the one for the wild type trait. So again I'm in the log n timescale in blue is a wild type population. I would like to understand what is the size of the mutant population at time T.
00:20:42.377 - 00:22:01.879, Speaker A: And for that I will just need to look at what happened for time U before time T and so at time U. What I know is that the size for the wild type population is of order N to the power U and due to the mutation scaling which is N to the power minus L at time U, the number of mutant cells that are generated is approximately of order N to the power U minus L. Okay, then all these mutant cells, they can grow up to time T during a time which is T minus U log n divided by lambda 0, and they will grow exponentially fast at rate lambda 1, which means that the lineage of the mutant, sorry, the lineages at time tish in the log N accelerated timescale of the mutant cells generated at time U. It's just that the number of lineage I add so n to the power U minus L times, let's say an approximate deterministic growth for each of the lineages, which is an exponential one with rate lambda one during the remaining time. So T minus U log n over lambda 0. And if you just do the computation of this quantity when you are in the neutral case. So when Lambda 1 equals Lambda 0, what you obtain is N to the power T minus L.
00:22:01.879 - 00:22:58.081, Speaker A: And here this result is completely independent From U, meaning that at time T all the lineages between L and T will contribute. So you need to integrate the contribution over time for all the lineages. And what you will obtain at the end is that you have the N to the power T minus L that we captured times the integral term, which is t minus L. But since we are in the log n timescale, you will capture also a log N. Okay? And for the deleter use case you can do the computation here. So when Lambda 1 is smaller than Lambda 0 and you obtain this kind of complex form, what you can ask yourself is when this exponent here is the largest with U. And what you obtain is that the maximum is reached when U equal to T, which means that only the mutation generated item T will contribute.
00:22:58.081 - 00:24:09.955, Speaker A: And this is quite natural if you think of a deleterious mutation, because it's better for you as a cell to stay in the compartment where your growth is the largest, so to remain a large wild type cell, and then at the really end to mutate to your new trait, which is a deleterious one. So what we obtain with the heuristics, we can also obtain it for a mono directional graph. So what we said is that after a time, which is a label on the on the edge, you will start to grow exponentially fast at rate lambda zero, and you will capture a power of log n which is log n to the power if your mutation is neutral or not. Now imagine you have two mutations. Then the time you will need to wait is just the sum of the labels on the edges. And then the power of log n you will have is the number of neutral mutation you have on the path, which is 0, 1 or 2. If you have 0, 1 or 2 neutral mutation, and you can do the same up to any trait I, you sum over the labels and you count the number of neutral mutations.
00:24:09.955 - 00:24:54.977, Speaker A: So that's why I introduce these two notations. Sorry. So the sum of the labels on a path and then the number of neutral mutations. But what can happen in your general trade space is that from trade zero to a trade a pink trait, here you can have many different pathway from zero to the pink trait. And here with the little numbers here it's just the labels on the edges. Okay? What will happen in this case is just that for the blue one, the sum of the labels is so 4, for the green one is 4 and for the red one is 4, 6, 7. So sorry, the red one.
00:24:54.977 - 00:25:28.781, Speaker A: So the red one won't contribute asymptotically, because the time you need to wait is larger compared to the blue and to the green. So it has a delay in time for an exponential growth. So it's a delay in size, which won't contribute at all at the end. But for the blue and the green one you have the same time. And then you just need to count the number of neutral mutations, which gives you the number of so so which gives you the power of login. So only the one with the largest power of login will contribute. And so you just need to count the number of neutral mutations.
00:25:28.781 - 00:26:20.115, Speaker A: And it is the one with the maximum number of neutral mutations that will contribute. And in this case it is a green one. So you have tv, which is just the minimum of the time associated to a path. And then among these passes with the minimum time, you will look at the maximal number of neutral mutations. And then this will give you what I call an admissible set, which is all the passes from 0 to you consider trait, which has a minimal time and the maximum number of neutral mutations. And then what I've shown is the following result, which is so in case of neutral or deleted Use cancer evolution. My population in my deterministic log n accelerated timescale.
00:26:20.115 - 00:26:56.685, Speaker A: So tv so T time after the TV time in the log n timescale. What I have is that if I rescale my population by N to the power T, which is what is captured with the stochastic exponent times the log n to the power the number of neutral mutation. I'll wait converge. So in probability to this limit. In this limit there are many interesting stuff. The first thing is that I have a sum over the set of the admissible set of passes. So this is just the contribution of all the admissible passes.
00:26:56.685 - 00:27:27.205, Speaker A: And then for each of them I have a constant W, which will only depends on the parameters of the vertices on the path. And then an integral term E gamma T, which is the integral that we captured previously. Sorry. Here when I say that for the neutral mutation and I need to integrate the contribution over time. So I got this integral term. And for each neutral mutation I have an additional integral. Okay.
00:27:27.205 - 00:28:33.265, Speaker A: And then I think maybe the most important result is that all these quantity here are deterministic 1. And the only randomness we capture at the first order asymptotic is W, which means that the stochasticity on all the lineages for all my mutant cells, for all my traits, is given at the first order asymptotic by only one random variable W, which is a random. Which is a random random. Sorry, which is A random variable which gives you the large time behavior for your wild type population. Okay. And then you can switch the result from the deterministic timescale to the random one that I presented earlier. So in eta or sigma, so when the total population reach N to the power T, or when the Y type population reach N to the power T, and what happens is that you will again keep the same scaling and the limit will be approximately the same.
00:28:33.265 - 00:29:16.805, Speaker A: So you have the same deterministic dependence and just the value of W is replaced to the indicator that W is strictly positive. So this just means that I need to have the wild type population to survive if I want to observe mutant cells. But the value of W does not appear in the limit anymore because this is already included in the timescale row. Okay, so this was what we obtained for a neutral or deleted use cancer evolution. And yeah, maybe one word about how you can prove that quite easily. So for the first case, it's, I'm just using a Martingale approach. For those who don't know what Martingale is, it's like really easy.
00:29:16.805 - 00:30:08.857, Speaker A: You just look at the expectation of your process and then you will control your variance of your process by choosing some tools which are called Martingale, which allows you to have some really great convergence. So typically improbability in like really nice spaces. And for that you. You use some inequalities that can be applied only on Martingale. Okay. And then for the switching from the deterministic to the random timescale, it's just a technique developed by Jasmine Fu and Kevin Leder that I adapted to this framework. Okay, so now I will maybe discuss a little bit about what we can say right now about the selective cancer evolution, which is far more complex compared to the neutral and deleterious one.
00:30:08.857 - 00:31:45.141, Speaker A: So the intuition is just that when you think of a selective mutation, is that any time advantage you will have for a lineage will confers you a growth advantage. Okay. And that's why in order to understand what will be the size of the mutant cells, we need to understand how many lineages will contribute is only the first one or maybe the two first one or finite number of them, and if so, how many, and how can I say, okay, it's only this number of lineages, and then all the remaining one won't contribute at all. And that is quite complicated to obtain a result for that. And especially the Martingale approach fails. And I can explain quite easily why, as I mentioned, this approach is just that by looking at the expectation and here what you can say is that for a simple graph, when you can mutate from 0 to 1, so the typical asymptotic size you will obtain for your trait one is negligible compared to its expected size, which is quite easy to understand because the expected size is actually given by an event which will disappear asymptotically, which is you have a mutation at the really beginning of the process. So typically when this probability is N to the power minus L, because you have only a finite number of wild type cells, so it's really unlikely this event will disappear asymptotically.
00:31:45.141 - 00:32:59.555, Speaker A: But all the remaining time you have to grow for these mutant cells, and due to this advantage time, which confers you a growth advantage, the size you will reach for your mutant population is so high that this event will drive the order for the expectation, but it won't drive at all the asymptotic typical size. So the Martingale approach can't work here anymore. We needed to introduce a new approach, and that is a work that I've done with my supervisor, Helene Lemond. And for that I can explain what we obtain in a mono directional graph where you have trait one, which can mutate to trait one, and so on up to a trait K. And K is the first selective mutant traits. What we've done is just to say so in my time scale here, I have login with tk, TK is the parameter we captured with the stochastic exponents. And then due to the potentially neutral mutations in the path, I also have another time, which is what I call T minus kn, which is separated to TK log N by something of other log log N.
00:32:59.555 - 00:33:39.215, Speaker A: Okay? And during all this time, I can have some mutant cells. What I know is that. So maybe I can rephrase a little bit. T minus K is a typical size at which the size of the population K minus 1 will start to give some mutant cells for trait K. And we can apply the same results as Davic and Thibautal have done to say that at this time the number of mutant cells is luria Delbrug distributed, okay? And it gives me a subpopulation. And then during time T minus K ntk log N, I can have also many mutant cells. And I can look at another population, ZK2.
00:33:39.215 - 00:34:39.171, Speaker A: And then after this time, I still I continue to have to add some mutant cells. And what we, we have shown is that using different techniques, is that asymptotically our mutant population selective ones, okay? After TK in the log N time Scale. So I will grow as N to the power T minus T, sorry N to the power T lambda K, which was captured by the stochastic exponent. I will also have a log gain factor to a certain power. Okay, And I will converge to the asymptotic limit from the 2 first population here. So zk1 and zk2, meaning that all the mutants lineages generated after time tk log n won't contribute at all. And for that I've answered the previous question, which was how many selective mutant lineages will contribute asymptotically.
00:34:39.171 - 00:35:38.171, Speaker A: So it's not a finite number, it's an infinite number of lineages, but they are all located around TK log n. And this around is of order log log n. But if you are on the log n timescale, this log login range will just shrink to zero at time TK log n. Okay, and maybe I can give you a little bit more details about this limit. So the first one here is just a sum of Luria Delbruck distribution, which is in my previous slide, the number of mutant cells I have up to time T minus K. And then all these mutant cells, they have a lineage to grow. And so asymptotically due to the rescaling, what we capture is just the typical random variable given for lineage of a birth and death process.
00:35:38.171 - 00:36:24.781, Speaker A: And then the second random variable is a bit more complicated. But here is just the asymptotic limit for a birth and death branching process with immigration, where the immigration rate is given by this function where I'm just using the asymptotic result for the previous population. Okay, so this result is quite nice, but the problem is that the asymptotic limit is a sum of two random variables. And for biologists it's not that much interested at all. So we've worked a little bit with Helen in order to characterize a little bit more the random limit here. And what we obtain is the following. So there is one little mistake.
00:36:24.781 - 00:37:10.655, Speaker A: This result is when I condition on W strictly positive. So the survival of the wild type population. Then my the sum of my two previous random variables. They follow what is called a metallic Laffle distribution with a certain tail parameter lambda 0 over lambda K and a scale parameter which is quite complex, but this is the form. But okay, you can forget the scale parameter. What is interested in here is what is a metag left flow distribution. So if you, if you, if X is a metag left distribution with tail parameter alpha and scale parameter omega, you don't have an explicit form for the, for the, for the density function.
00:37:10.655 - 00:38:03.697, Speaker A: But what you can have is an explicit form for the Laplace transform, which is the following one. So a fraction of one divided by one plus omega theta, everything to the power alpha. Okay, and here we obtain this result for our selective mutant first mutant. And actually this form of results is actually observed by an article of David Schick and Michael Nicholson in 2023. The framework is a little bit different here. What they are looking at is they first look at the large time limit with a fixed mutation probability. And then for this limit that they obtain, they introduce an approximate model where they also obtain the limits, the large time limit.
00:38:03.697 - 00:39:36.015, Speaker A: And they say that when you look at the small mutation regime, then the two limits will coincide and they can do some computations on the approximate model and obtain this meta Gleffler distribution in the small mutation region. Okay, but that's quite nice to see that when you both converge time and mutation rates together, you all you obtain the same result as when first you look at large time and then the small mutation region. And yeah, so maybe I can explain a little bit about some perspective on that work, which the first natural one is to say, okay, I obtain a result for the first selected mutant cell, but we can maybe generalize it to any general finite trait space. And we are doing that for now with ln. But it's quite difficult because previously, in order to obtain this result, what we use specifically for this random Variable is an L1 convergence for the previous trait. And here what we obtain for the selective trait is that this random variable actually has an infinite expectation, so we can't apply against the same techniques. Okay, and then we can do some graph inference from data observation.
00:39:36.015 - 00:40:38.799, Speaker A: And this is an ongoing project with Lorraine Coquille, which is a researcher in Grenoble in France. We can also make, I think, some stuff on parameter estimations due to the first order asymptotes. We have many steps to do, and maybe one really interesting point would be to look at a trait space that will also scale with the parameter N. For instance, when you look at an hypercube and the dimension of the hypercube is a power of N, which means that, okay, your probability to mutate is really low, but you can mutate at many places in your genome. And then also here I have an exponentially growing population, but we can add some interactions between the individuals and typically to put everything on the adaptive dynamics framework. And this work has been done by Lorraine Cocchi, Anna Kraut and Shines Medi for The stochastic exponent. But here it's to look at some results for the first order asymptotic.
00:40:38.799 - 00:41:24.255, Speaker A: And another case is when you look at an SIR model with variants where the variants have a power low mutation rates regime. So you have some interactions between the individuals. And that is a project I will start with Emmanuel Scherzer and Francois Agende. And also another future project would be maybe to have some combination therapy and you look at the first order asymptotic of all your population where you switch between therapy, which will change your growth rate and death rate for your different traits. Okay, and that's all. Thank you very much everyone for your attention. All right, questions.
00:41:24.255 - 00:42:33.807, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Thank you for the nice talk. So what decides how fast the convergence is? So you have these nice results for N to infinity. On which properties of the processes does it depend if you need n equal to 20 or n equal to 20,000 to come close to the limits in practice? That's a good question. And so for the selective case, I don't know actually for now, but for the neutral and deleter use case. So yeah, we have a Martingale approach which basically say that our mutant population rewrite it as a Martingale plus a finite variation process. And the convergence for the finite variation process is quite fast actually.
00:42:33.807 - 00:43:28.427, Speaker A: But for the Martingale, I think that in our computations, so this is not the reality because it's just a bound and upper bound, but we can show that is variance goes to 0, where we control the variance by something as 1 divided by log into a power. So it's not really fast, but this is just an upper bound on how it goes to zero. And I think that if you, you do some simulations, then it will converge really more quickly. Compared to the computations on slide 31. You had a Mitteg Laffler random variable. And I presume that Mitteg Leffler random variable is capturing a sum of contributions from different mutant individuals. Yeah.
00:43:28.427 - 00:44:13.111, Speaker A: Do you know anything about the relative sizes of those contributions and in particular whether it's Poisson Dirichlet distributed? What I can say actually is that if I go to this. Okay, to this slide. So what we have shown is that only the blue and the pink one will contribute asymptotically. And so you can, can just look at all these lineages and you. So it's all of them are birth and death processes. And you just look at what are the size at a deterministic time. But since they appeared at a random time, then the remaining time they have to go is a random time.
00:44:13.111 - 00:45:32.379, Speaker A: And what you can show is actually that this random time is exponentially distributed with parameter lambda zero. So I have a sum of. So an infinite sum of contribution of birth and death process, where I look at the size at a random time, which are exponentially distributed and they are independent from each other. And actually I can also say that here the limit which is a metaglaiflo distribution is obtained because we do not condition on any value for W, so the large time dynamics for the wild type population. But when we condition on W, what we obtain is not a metag left flow distribution anymore, but it is a stable distribution where the scaling parameter is lambda 0 over lambda K. And you, sorry, the tail parameter and the scaling parameter is different, but in it looks a little bit like that. And this just means that so you have an infinite number of lineages and so it's just an infinite number of random variables that are independent from each other and you look at their behavior and you obtain a stable distribution.
00:45:32.379 - 00:46:03.935, Speaker A: But when you forget the conditioning on W, what you obtain is this meta Gleffler distribution. Any other questions? All right, so let's thank you again for the very interesting presentation. Yes, so Eduardo is giving a lecture.
