00:00:01.680 - 00:01:06.093, Speaker A: Okay. Hi, my name is Nicol, I'm a technical co founder of Jaguarswap, basically DeFi Hub on Sane Network currently and happy to share today our vision about chain abstraction and current problems in DEFI for further mass adoption. So I'll start from some basically core issues and let's say since 2020 Ethereum turned to rollup centric approach where there's been probably 50 or more rollups spin up such as like coffins and blades, et cetera, et cetera. And I think as much as it scaled Ethereum it made a lot of UX issues for the, especially for the retail and end users who basically shouldn't know and don't have to know about on which chain they are, what are they doing, et cetera. Right now we see the main issue that like if you're using a tax, you don't know right where your assets are. If you're having USDP you can withdraw to probably most of the popular L1s or L2s, etc. If you're going to go with decentralized approach, that's much harder.
00:01:06.093 - 00:02:11.461, Speaker A: And we're addressing the four basically very big challenges in inventory right now, which is fragmented account management in terms of like, you know, if you're a multi chain user you probably should hold balances on multi chains which immediately becomes very painful for not like OG crypto users where somebody who comes from retail shouldn't be knowing even how to know new network to metamask or something else. They also have like a high friction in cross chain ops in terms of like you want to move your assets from one chain to another. That's currently a very heavy operation. Usually maybe on some like cheaper chains that happens faster and cheaper but usually it's a very painful operation. Also lake confirmations are usually slow and costly and there is basically limited composability in terms of myself as a crypto user I would prefer all the actions I do to happen atomically. So just in one transaction we address those issues as a very big ones. Because if we compare this with the web2 approach, do users know if the background of some app is on GCP or AWS, etc.
00:02:11.461 - 00:03:13.737, Speaker A: I think this is the biggest parallel with like you know, current state of Web3 where you know, you, you should know on which chain you are, do you have enough, you know, native, native tokens for the gas on that chain, et cetera, et cetera. We see that as a very big problem and the only way to basically you know, scale DEFI and get to a Further mass adoption and basically get those tax users to use Dex is we need to, we need to solve this. Firstly, likes fragmented accounts. Basically we started with like externally owned accounts like six, seven, eight years ago that seemed to be working. But you know, as we moved forward to account abstraction we already saw like huge advantages with basically using a smart contract as a wallet rather than just a wallet managed by basically which is held behind a single private key. And yeah like that sold something in terms of like you know, you don't have any more. With EOAs you have to confirm each sub transaction, you have to hold balances on each target chain, whatever you want to use them, which is, I still think 99% of crypto users are there.
00:03:13.737 - 00:04:09.365, Speaker A: Then we have abstracted accounts which are a little bit more comfortable in terms of like yeah, they're managed by the smart contract, but still if you're on one chain, you need balance on another chain as well to move your assets quicker. And then we're going to basically state accounts where we see they can abstract gas, combine your balances and make sure that confirmations of transactions are much more flexible. Which is another pain point currently where all those ping pong operations are super hard for users to go. So firstly as we speak about fragmented accounts, there's a very simple user story where John is on ARB and he wants to send ETH to himself on sei. For those who don't know, SEI is a parallelized DVM using the prior examples. If he uses eoa he has a lot of painful processes such as he has to add say as a new network. He needs to usually buy say on some tax.
00:04:09.365 - 00:04:58.563, Speaker A: Sometimes if he doesn't have like USDT or just like something else, he has to swap some assets to USDT and then buy say on tax that has to do withdrawal from cex. There is usually some minimal withdrawals that has to find a bridge between ARB and sei. Usually in most common cases this won't be like just one bridging step, there might be many and then you know, he has to confirm transaction and wait for the ETH to arrive on safe like very painful process. With account abstraction we are facing like first three issues exactly the same. The only difference is yeah, he might not be needing to sign all the transactions that reduces the time but it's still marginal. And then we're going to like state accounts where just imagining it's a decentralized tax, like decentralized centralized exchange experience. Like you know, he doesn't have to add a New network and he doesn't have to know which network he currently is on.
00:04:58.563 - 00:05:31.327, Speaker A: His accounts are aggregated and the gas is abstracted. Doesn't have to find the bridge and he can just use ETH and say. Which is again we're going back to sax experiences where like I have ETH I can withdraw to all supported chains. I don't have to deal with like you know multiple bridging steps. They still have to happen but in the background and myself as a retailer I don't have to know about that. Next problem is definitely the cross chain composability which is like interoperability, asset transfer, shared state and secure security issues which we have experienced. I think everybody saw like first of all I'll start from the.
00:05:31.327 - 00:06:15.805, Speaker A: From the. From the bottom like in terms of security a lot of there's a bunch of steps first of like you know how. How bridges are secure. I personally know a lot of like you know, OG bridges got hacked at least once. Etc then also like you know things are not happening atomically in terms of like you do deposit like you do deposit to the bridge on one on one chain and then you're just waiting for the assets to arrive on another chain. A lot of issues can happen in the meanwhile. Shared state is another problem which is having basically again users a lot of troubles to execute things wherever they want rather than having to literally my account is completely different on all chains currently.
00:06:15.805 - 00:06:44.199, Speaker A: So even if I can have whatever money on like ETH on say I might not have it. Which is another problem. Asset transfer. Exactly. I mean does the same issue and interoperability as basically a problem with communication between the chains. Like currently the there is so many chains and I think that fragmented liquidity a lot as well. So it would be much better than like you know all like I don't know like ETH USDC liquidity is just in one chain or accessible from one chain.
00:06:44.199 - 00:07:21.441, Speaker A: Which means if you want to swap like even like 10 or 20 million dollars worth of USDC there might not be spots price impact. Currently this isn't even doable in municipal given the liquidity fragmentation. So there is another thing, you know Alice is she has assets on CN Arbitrum and she wants to do arbitrage opportunity. So if she doesn't have a shared state she again has to have gas token on each network. She needs to have starting balance on both chains. She has to swap bridge and swap again on the target chain. She doesn't have to do it maybe immediately if she has balances on both.
00:07:21.441 - 00:08:35.227, Speaker A: But At a certain degree she has to do this and that needs to be completed while the arbitrage is open, which is usually a very small time gap. If we get the shared state abstraction, she doesn't have to worry about having gas, she doesn't need to bridge and basically she can just instantly execute the ARB in one transaction which is first of all going to extract much more mev and also it's incomparably efficient than the current approach. There is another problem which is like, you know, cross chain ops is probably the most complex thing and I think this is where the big science comes with the chain abstraction which is basically splitting ops into layers. I guess some of you heard about intents and solvers currently very sexy narrative and there is actually much more work to be done for this to happen. It's not just like I have this intent that somebody's going to solve it for me. So we have to split ops into layers in terms of application layer, permissions layer, solver layer, and then finality which is like on the app layer we just have intent which is I want to swap or I just want to exchange some assets for some other assets. But that's just like the, that's my intent.
00:08:35.227 - 00:09:25.215, Speaker A: Now we're coming to permissions where like you know, then we have intent networks which are going to initiate this action. We have solvers who should route, find the best execution and execute my intent. And then basically the finality, the finality in terms of like there is still a bunch of chains and they'll have different finality in terms of like transaction. Why we choose SEI Network exactly is because SEI is currently probably the, the fastest chain, the fastest sell one which exists with like 380 milliseconds of transaction finality and also high, very high TPS. That's another problem we have to deal with. And as we're moving forward we're getting to cross chain ops which is like I want to swap EAT to USDC but on a new chain. So I need for a certain yield opportunity or whatever, I need USDC on SAML1 and I have eat on.
00:09:25.215 - 00:10:04.377, Speaker A: So and that's actually the best scenario. So you know, I have to basically set up all my wallets, go through basically all the steps we mentioned previously previously with fragmented accounts. Then I have to find the decks with the deepest liquidity. That's again coming to the problem of liquidity fragmentation where there are aggregators but still they can't aggregate everything they're aggregating per chain. And then we have like you know, just complete, we have to complete the execution of the swap. If the accounts were state accounts and then we use solar settlement layers then we would again have already the ETH balances. We just send an intent to swap to USDC and we just get USDC wherever we want.
00:10:04.377 - 00:11:06.125, Speaker A: I know this sounds very simple, it's far from that. But we're just trying to keep it on a very high level as a new concept in paradigm. So that leads us to DSX which is what we at dragasp are trying to build which is basically decentralized centralized exchange we're currently running as a Dex on SEIN network. And what we're doing, we're already leveraging the speed of the chain and transaction finality as well as it's super cheap. But that's far from enough to get to mass adoption and I think mass adoption is what we actually need to scale things further. So we're trying to build DSX which is going to be an aggregated shared state product where basically can serve as initially as a settlement layer but given the liquidity issues probably it's going to be fragmented as well. That's something which is our vision and how we plan to leverage the chain abstraction in the whole defi.
00:11:06.125 - 00:12:00.197, Speaker A: And the last thing we're coming to on chain saxophone workflow trifecta where like you know, if we can get to unified accounts, cross chain composability and cross chain ops, we can hope for mass adoption. And actually the chain abstraction, what we call more or less, that's. Those are kind of like you know, major, major problems we have seen so far. And just to come back to the beginning, like you know, whenever we look at a defi and the whole web tree ecosystem like trade is still like probably the core value driver of the whole defi. And I guess everybody whoever used any different product, he made a trade even like if he swapped some assets or bought some NFT or whatever else, that's all considered as a trade. And that's basically the main purpose of the chains. So you know, as soon as we can come to the optimist trades, much deeper liquidity and aggregated states, we can hope for mass adoption.
00:12:00.197 - 00:13:03.695, Speaker A: And that's the whole kind of narrative we want to get to because right now it's super hard to onboard somebody and tell yeah like you know, you heard about like blockchain but you need to have like to go to add like six, seven different networks to MetaMask, you know, oh, this is RPC. What is RPC? I don't know what is RPC? This is the network ID. What is network ID? Why should I do this? And also this number of like steps for people who are not very familiar with the concept are prone to so many security issues and you know, phishing attacks, scams hats, et cetera. So as soon as we can basically come to the simplification of that and make users just install their account, have shared state and use it, I think we can hope for and get to the mass adoption as a collective more or less. That's everything from my side. I'm happy to answer if there are any questions. Yep.
00:13:03.695 - 00:13:53.971, Speaker A: So sorry. Oh yeah. So basically how we can solve the shared state without centralizing it. Yeah, so it's a. I would say it's a very complex task at a moment. It requires basically an abstract layer in between users and chains where we can still the most of it is going to rely on the intent and solver networks but basically it's going to base completely on the cryptography. Sorry, exactly, exactly.
00:13:53.971 - 00:14:40.625, Speaker A: The layer above. I'm not sure about that. Never heard of it. Yeah, I'm sorry. And like a very like I can understand something like so that way I can like.
00:15:05.895 - 00:15:36.095, Speaker B: It has like sort of a database maybe of like trusted trusted websites services you can use. But in such case it's basically centralization. Right, because what makes you like put every website in the on the Internet like you can choose whatever you want like a developer can, a service provider can use a service they want and maybe they have like some services hidden and not add them to this. So it's like basically. So how do you feel about that?
00:15:36.395 - 00:16:32.107, Speaker A: Yeah, so I mean I don't think that's exactly centralization as long as first of all, speaking of the wallet, as long as user has like as long as I'm the only person who has custody of my account that's initially decentralized enough for me to be comfortable using it. But at the same time I think even now we have a lot of like tools which we can plug into our metamask account or like you know, chain analysis stuff where we can see oh yeah, this is maybe a phishing website or maybe not et cetera but I think that's, that's not a centralization thing, that's more like, you know, actually the UX we want to achieve where we can basically, you know, be able to preview the transaction outcome of all transactions. And with this approach basically what we are signing, we're assigning the intended action. So I'm not coming to any DAPP directly maybe and saying, yeah, I'm just going to press swap, whatever. No, I'm coming with an intent. I'm saying, okay, so this is what I want to happen. This is my desired output.
00:16:32.107 - 00:16:43.015, Speaker A: So I don't know, like I want to swap one yield for exactly 2400 USDC. That's what I'm signing. And that's the only thing which can happen where I'm saying I'm wishing to get at least 2400 USDC.
00:16:43.755 - 00:17:25.642, Speaker B: I mean it makes sense, but isn't it like easy for a person who might use Raid Runner? Like for example, I'm going to Dex, I want to swap some money, right? So I want to some money get out of my wallet and get more in exchange. Like so basically the way of transaction is like giving some money and taking some money back. Isn't it easy for a drainer to do? For example, they can replicate such like what I can imagine in my head is you're giving all your money, like basically. So you are signing a transaction to give money and then you're getting like 00001 of ETH in exchange just to like, you know, to hide the transaction.
00:17:25.778 - 00:17:37.730, Speaker A: Overall, I mean, I'm not sure I get a question and I'm not sure how this is not doable. Like, what's the difference with the current concept and this concept, I'm just saying.
00:17:37.762 - 00:17:42.306, Speaker B: About the simplified permission layer.
00:17:42.410 - 00:17:42.746, Speaker A: Right?
00:17:42.810 - 00:18:00.307, Speaker B: So you're saying that my intent when I go to a service and using such a unified account, my intent is to give some money and get some money back to exchange, basically. And I'm just asking for your opinion, like, isn't it like, how do you feel about scammers and is it going to be easy for them to replicate such cases?
00:18:00.371 - 00:18:21.733, Speaker A: No, I don't think so. I think it's still safe enough as long as we're sticking with parking addresses which are fairly unique still for all the assets, et cetera. Yeah. Yes. With this idea, when can we expect.
00:18:21.789 - 00:18:23.597, Speaker B: To be able to play with it a little?
00:18:23.701 - 00:18:46.891, Speaker A: We're still in the research phase. We're still in the research phase. We haven't written a line of code for those things. We're putting some, I would say math and still things on the paper how this can actually work. But no, not yet. But we're working with a couple of teams which are publicly researching this right now. So I guess soon we'll be publishing more detailed draft of what's about to come.
00:18:46.891 - 00:18:51.215, Speaker A: And this is definitely a big milestone, not something we're going to deliver in a couple of months.
00:18:53.035 - 00:19:24.063, Speaker C: Alpha, I wanted to ask how are you playing on handling errors? Because we have this one transaction which is bundled and effectively is going to interact with multiple chains. Those interactions probably are mostly going to have to be sequential and every part of the way each transaction can fail. And the whole thing needs to be transactional, right? So you either want all of them succeed or none of them to execute. So how do you want to approach that?
00:19:24.239 - 00:20:44.275, Speaker A: So I think that's going to natively and organically drive the market of basically solvers who are going to compete to provide the best execution for the original intent. Because the whole thing here is that this concept is built on top of intent and solver concept initially and I think currently even the intense solver concept is driving the organic demand of solvers to provide the best execution for the desired action. I mean it's same as market making right now, right? I might be trying to you know, seize arb opportunity between two dexes but you know, at a certain degree just somebody might be faster than myself and it's going to fail. But we see market making like working as a concept so I think it's just opening an organic market of competitors to solve the desired reduction in the right way. And definitely for us the main idea is to start with very simple operations, like very simple ops in terms of I just want to use my balance from one chain on another basically call it one account for everything and then get deeper to the exact ops. Because right now, that's the couple of years ago when we were looking at things now I would never believe that I will be able to swap on it for less than $5 or whatever. Now I can swap like you know, 20 cents or even cheaper usually.
00:20:44.275 - 00:21:26.669, Speaker A: And I think that's, that, that's the main thing we need because like I'll give a real world example and how we actually came to this idea a couple of months ago. Basically we are, we're in sei. Sei is kind of a young network still and there is a bunch of yield opportunities right now like a bunch of them with incentives with all stuff. But for a standard retail non whale user to bring his assets to say it's a, it's a very painful process even though they're like, you know, bridges etc but you need to. Some people don't have gas on it so they have to get eat. They go, they need to you know, buy, buy some assets go to Stargate Bridge. That all takes first of all more than like you know, 10:15, 20 minutes and then they're coming to get like, I don't know, like 30, 40, 50% APR.
00:21:26.669 - 00:22:12.351, Speaker A: But if they're buying is like 100 bucks and they paid like 20 bucks of fees, that's, you know, that's not gonna work. And I think majority of like, you know, defi users, they just want to, you know, do things simply because if you're using X or you know, any other social platform and you want to tweet, but it's gonna take like 15 minutes, you're never gonna do it. That's the reality. So here we have additional incentive where there is a lot of yield in the whole web3 space. But I think that yield is exactly here to like, you know, compensate all the UX issues. Because how otherwise you're gonna acquire users on another chains if there is not significant opportunity for them to make money because it caused them to come. And if right now they're like, oh, there is some super fast chain I want to explore, I don't know, whatever, or they're like avalanche subnets.
00:22:12.351 - 00:22:41.525, Speaker A: I want to play a game on a subnet. I should be able to do this much faster than going back to 2005, install World of Warcraft with five CDs, et cetera, et cetera. I think that's behind us and I feel the web tree is now going through like, you know, where web tool was maybe like 20 years ago in terms of UX, et cetera. Anyone else? Yep.
00:22:47.465 - 00:23:06.765, Speaker D: So do you want to build your solution on top of existing ones? So do you want to behind the scene, you know, use those, let's say those, all those mechanisms, those swaps that are currently used manually. Okay, so it sounds like complicated.
00:23:07.185 - 00:23:45.629, Speaker A: Yeah, the thing is like we want to make sure for the retail user everything works under the hood. It's safe, fast and cheap. That's the main goal. So, so RDAX is, you know, where we see the opportunity with RDX is basically the settlement layer. Definitely not for all the trades. Because if you want to swap, I don't know, like half a million bucks of it, you should go to Uniswap, you shouldn't go to Dragon Swap. That's the reality.
00:23:45.629 - 00:24:25.147, Speaker A: But we want to make sure like, you know, our DAX is fitting for the size of trades and all the MEV, which can be extracted by leveraging SAEs fast, you know, you know, it's speed and it's cheap. So those are the two main aspects. And you know, so far by now it has very high throughput, et cetera. That's the thing. That's what we want to leverage and definitely get towards the further R and D, R and D on our side. Because the motivation for this is like, you know, we all know, like, you know, uni is the best and the biggest decks and most of others are just going behind uni, right? Uni does Univ 4. Everybody does unity.
00:24:25.147 - 00:25:04.153, Speaker A: Before, you know, Uni came with CL, we waited for like, you know, a couple of years for the license to expire. Everybody has a cl, so we didn't see any basically pretty innovative concept since unless it's coming from unique. So this is another motivation to, you know, change this and come up with something else which might be very interesting for the, for the people and definitely change something in Web three. Because my, my main thing is like I'm working in the blockchain space since like 2017 lately. I was researching Ethereum for a while, participated to like Go Ethereum, etc. And I feel the main problem is still mass adoption. Like, I know much more people that are using Web3 now than like, you know, five, six years ago, but it's still the same problem.
00:25:04.153 - 00:25:24.795, Speaker A: And if you're like a new user, how you're going to choose? Are you going to go on? Say it? Optimism, Arbitrum, Bayes or Polygon or Avalanche or so many other L1 and L2s. I think that's the main question to end this talk with. Okay, cool. Thank you so much.
