00:00:03.760 - 00:00:57.775, Speaker A: Jam Salana My name is Richard and I'm one of the co founders of Tensor. And today we have some exciting announcements to share with you about the Tensor ecosystem. So for those who don't know, Tensor is the leading NFT marketplace on Solana. To date we've done over $2 billion of volume on our platform. And fun fact, Tensor is actually the number one marketplace across all of crypto in terms of the amount of royalties redistributed back to our creators. So today I'm proud to announce that true to our original vision of creating an open NFT ecosystem, Tensor is now fully open sourced. We have open sourced all five of the protocols that power the Tensor ecosystem.
00:00:57.775 - 00:01:54.955, Speaker A: It includes the NFT Marketplace, the NFT amm, Pricelock, as well as escrow and whitelist. We call this the OpenNFT finance layer. These contracts have been two times audited by top security firms Ottersec and Neodymium. And the other thing is, not only do we spend a lot of time open sourcing these repos, we've actually spent a lot of time making sure that there are great resources for you to look at when it comes to Solana development. So we supported both v2 web 3js as well as auto generated SDKs using the shank and Kenobi frameworks. So first of all, these protocols are truly and fully permissionless, which means you don't have to talk to us at all and you can start integrating on top of these protocols immediately. We have included both JavaScript and Rust SDKs for you to integrate seamlessly.
00:01:54.955 - 00:02:51.685, Speaker A: The second big thing is that we are hosting a free and fully spec'd out web2api. So in theory you could clone our entire front end in a single day and I would invite you to do that. And the final big thing, and I want to emphasize this quite a bit, is that we have completely changed up the business model for NFT marketplaces. There is now a 5050 fee split. 50% of all fees go to the Tensor Foundation treasury and 50% of all the other fees go directly to you, the dev. So whether you're building a gaming marketplace, a Discord bot or a blink, 50% of all fees go back to you. So some of your favorite dapps like Drip and Dialect, and some of your favorite wallets like Backpack and soflare have already integrated Tensor as a first class citizen.
00:02:51.685 - 00:03:50.185, Speaker A: So what exactly can you build on top of Tensor? Well, the first category are vertical marketplaces. So a marketplace for perhaps your in game assets or a marketplace for tokenized collectibles like sneakers or Pokemon cards. The second category might be advanced trading platforms, so you might be interested in building a collateralized NFT lending protocol directly integrated into our marketplace. Or perhaps Telegram and Discord bots to make trading NFTs from the chat a breeze. Third categories are for our degens, so we like to see maybe a pump dot fund for NFTs or chance based NFT games. And of course we're open to all of our ideas, so please come to us with them and we'll try to support you. The second big announcement I would like to share is that Tensor foundation has officially opened up their grant program.
00:03:50.185 - 00:04:40.081, Speaker A: So if you would like to receive a TNSR grant for anything they're building on top of our protocols, please visit Tensor foundation and apply for a grant today. Now I want to call out this tweet that Tully made a few months back and he said, I quote, holy cow, Tensor is just two devs. I'd like to argue that the next Tensor is also just two devs and they're actually sitting in this room right now. So I'd like to invite all of you to check out our SDKs, our APIs, and come build the next Tensor on top of Tensor. Before I wrap up, there's just one more thing I want to say. So we're the Tensor team and we just don't stop shipping there. There's a new product we've been working on in the past few months.
00:04:40.081 - 00:04:51.735, Speaker A: We can't chart just yet, but if you'd like to be one of the first ones to try out this new product, go to Vector Fund today and join the waitlist. Thanks for listening.
