00:00:00.360 - 00:00:38.758, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 31 January 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first on the agenda here we have a post from Vitalik with a quick reminder of what shared security means and why it is important. Now, this is a bit of a lengthy post, not too lengthy, but I suggest going and reading it for yourself if you want to kind of like get the gist of it. But what I wanted to focus on was kind of like this table that he put together here. And I mean, the TL doctor of this post is basically looking at the different security properties of independent layer ones, L2 side chains, all that sort of stuff.
00:00:38.758 - 00:01:27.566, Speaker A: And this goes back to what I was talking about actually last week on the bankless live stream that did with David about bridges and what I've been talking about a lot on the refill lately around bridges and how kind of like your assets are only as secure as where they issued and stuff like that. So you can see here some examples. So if the asset is issued on Ethereum and you were using that asset on Ethereum, then the security level is high because you have Ethereum's security level, you have the miners securing the network, you have a theorem one's decentralization, and in the future you will have the stakers and validators securing the network there. Another example is, you know, your asset is on avalanche. This is an example I used last week, and you were using that asset on Ethereum. The security is low. So if you've bridged an asset from avalanche over to Ethereum, then as I explained last week, with these bridges, it's basically just an IOU because the asset was originally issued on avalanche.
00:01:27.566 - 00:02:22.032, Speaker A: So you really are at the kind of mercy of the avalanche validators and the avalanche network. Not you don't have the Ethereum security for those assets because they're not issued natively on Ethereum. And they're kind of like the differences here between other layer ones and L2s, as you guys know, is that with L2s they don't have their own validators, they don't have their own consensus, their own kind of like validators that come to consensus on things and they're in security. They rely on ethereum for that. So if the asset is issued on optimism, for example, and you are using that asset on Ethereum, then your security level is still high because of the fact that there it's a, it's a roll up, right? That's, that's kind of like the security properties that we like. So I thought this was a really great and timely post because I've been seeing a bit of, um, I guess, fud coming from, uh, some kind of people in the industry about roll ups and trying to redefine what layer one and L2 mean and what roll ups means. And it's all pretty much like lies and misinformation.
00:02:22.032 - 00:03:00.776, Speaker A: It's actually pretty bad. I'm. I'm pretty disappointed to see the things coming out of people, uh, especially from the avalanche ecosystem, both Eman and Kevin, who I know Emmon's a founder, I'm not, I'm not 100% sure if Kevin is a founder of Avalanche, but they're spreading some pretty bad misinformation right now about L2s, roll ups and layer ones and things like that. So I thought these blog posts from Vitalik was very timely and it's very, very accurate. It's basically the industry standard, agreed upon definitions of these things and it basically fits in with the objective kind of reality of this sort of stuff. So I just wanted to kind of like highlight that there. But definitely recommend giving this post a read as it's very important and it's very straightforward.
00:03:00.776 - 00:03:38.312, Speaker A: It's not too technical. It's actually not really technical at all. I think by now, pretty much all of you guys listening to the refill understand what Vitalik is saying in this post. If you've been watching and listening for quite a while, as I've talked about this a lot as well and tried to explain it as best I can, but Vitalik putting it down on paper, I guess, so to speak, is, is a really great way to visualize it as well. So a new all core devs update from Tim Baiko over the weekend. So I did say to you guys, okay, this isn't working. I did say to you guys that I expected a, I guess like a recap of Kintsugi from, okay, it's working now from Danny Ryan, but I think, I'm not sure if that's still coming or not.
00:03:38.312 - 00:04:20.120, Speaker A: It may or may not be, but there was a recap given in this all core devs update from, from Tim Baigo. Timbico. So some stuff about the Kintsugi merge testnet here, some more stuff around Shanghai actually, which I actually didn't realize that we were this far ahead at this point, but apparently we are. Shanghai is going to be the first hard fork network upgrade after the merge goes through and there's already a bunch of eips or features that people want to get into the network and there's already work beginning on this in terms of kind of research and development. So I think the merge is basically at the point now where essentially just kind of like testing and making sure everything's good. The spec seems to be nearing the part where it gets frozen. And by a frozen spec it means that there's no more changes to be made.
00:04:20.120 - 00:04:59.768, Speaker A: That's what's going to go on mainnet and it makes it much easier to kind of like develop around. But yeah, I was really surprised to see the Shanghai updates included here. But this is great. I mean this includes the UX improvements that people have been screaming about, AIP 3074 and I've talked about that before and yeah, I'm pretty sure that's the EIP where essentially it bundles the transaction. So you don't have to do a separate transaction for like an approve, if you're doing a swap for swap of a new asset, you wouldn't have to approve that asset and then swap in two separate transactions. It would happen in one, AIP 4488, which reduces the core data costs which would lower the cost of roll ups by about five x. I've covered that extensively on the, on the refill before and a bunch of other things as well.
00:04:59.768 - 00:05:21.902, Speaker A: So very, very awesome to see that the Shanghai planning has already begun. Maybe we see it end of year. Maybe that's the, maybe the withdrawal was going to Shanghai because as you guys know, withdrawals for stakers isn't going through with the merger. It's coming about six months later. So maybe we see that in the Shanghai hard fork network upgrade. So very, very excited to see that. But I recommend giving this core devs update a read.
00:05:21.902 - 00:06:02.854, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description because it's got a bunch of links to a bunch of other things that you can read as well. So Mike here had a really great little, I guess, thread about roll ups and l one's and l two s and how they scale and visualize that with the bus visualization that I've used before. Here you can see on the left hand side of this image transacting on l one is essentially a bunch of, you know, individual cars and a bunch of people. And those are the amount of people that you fit into those cars. You can see how much of the road space it takes up. Then on the right hand side you have like the same amount of people, but you have a bus. And then this is transacting on roll ups where we can basically pack more transactions into a roll up than we can on l one and kind of like make better use of that l one space.
00:06:02.854 - 00:06:33.950, Speaker A: So essentially making better use of the road, as you can see in this image here. Now, this is a very, I mean, I always like this analogy, but it obviously misses a lot of stuff. Like obviously scaling via L2s is going to give you much more capacity than a bus that does on the road. Like, you know, in reality, this amount of people using, using the bus here, I mean, the amount of road that would be using is very minimal compared to how much roll ups are going to scale. And that's what people like. Using the vertical analogy of kind of like skyscrapers. So basically building the skyscraper up as much as possible.
00:06:33.950 - 00:07:05.134, Speaker A: And then on each level of that site skyscraper, you can have like, you know, as many people as you. I mean, a lot of people, not as many as you want. Obviously, it's not unlimited, but many, many, many people there. And then the horizontal scaling with sharding basically lets you build more skyscrapers, right? It gives you more, I guess, like land to build more skyscrapers on. So people prefer that analogy. But I've always liked this because what I always like to do when I look for analogies is try to try to think like it does. Is this going to resonate with people that have absolutely no context around kind of like l two s? Like they've got basic understanding of blockchains.
00:07:05.134 - 00:07:49.388, Speaker A: They understand transactions. They understand why, you know, it can't be unlimited scale because the, essentially the size that we have to fit transactions into is smaller. But then when explaining kind of like, okay, well, we're scaling via this thing called L2. It essentially packs more transactions in to this thing where I guess in the ZK roll up. In the ZK roll up sense into the proofs. And then in the optimistic roll up sense, I mean, you can already go off on like a really big tangent here describing roll ups, but essentially you get more bang for your buck of the, of the Ethereum block space, right? We're basically condensing those transactions. Exactly what happens in a kind of analogy like this, where you're basically condensing all these people out of their kind of like owned cars into a bus and you get a lot more bang for your buck in terms of kind of like road space and things like that.
00:07:49.388 - 00:07:59.812, Speaker A: So I thought that was a really cool thread. Definitely go give this thread a rate. It's a short thread. It's got a bunch of kind of, like, explanations about this sort of stuff. So. So, yeah, great, great thread here, Mike. I know you're active in the Discord channel.
00:07:59.812 - 00:08:17.016, Speaker A: It's actually where I saw this thread. So. Yeah, great, great work here. I hope you keep doing more of these. So, Rainbow Wallet put out a tweet over the weekend that I wrote today's newsletter about where they said, rainbow supports cheaper networks like Polygon. Optimism and arbitrary out of the box without any need for manual configuration. They just work.
00:08:17.016 - 00:09:00.072, Speaker A: And all of your tokens appear without needing to switch networks. Now, this may seem like something small, but I think this is an absolutely massive ux upgrade from what we're used to. Think about what you have to do with Metamask when you switch networks, when you add a new network, right, to add a new network manually. In metamask, there's all these new terminology that you'll see that we should never show the end user stuff like chain id and RPC URL and block Explorer URL. I'm sorry, but that sort of stuff should never be shown to the kind of regular user. That sort of stuff is power user stuff. Even that, because of the fact is, that's like showing users the IPV four settings and saying, hey, input your ip here or input your DNS.
00:09:00.072 - 00:09:17.728, Speaker A: Yes, you can do that, but most users should never have to do that. It should just work out of the box. That is the secret to mass adoption, and that's exactly what Rainbow has done here. It just works out of the box. You don't have to add your, you don't have to add the networks manually. You don't have to kind of like switch them or anything. It's just all in the background and all working, working nicely there.
00:09:17.728 - 00:10:03.190, Speaker A: And they also have a little, little logo on the, on the asset to tell you what network it's on. Like, I actually sometimes find myself. I mean, I used to, I think, you know, Zappa does this, too, where they put the little logo there. But it used to be kind of like I didn't know where all my assets were, and I had to kind of manually go to a block explorer and find them. That is not any, ever going to be a thing that most people do, and they shouldn't have to do that. It's a, it's a pain in the ass. So just having that logo there tells people, okay, well, you know, you have ETH here, you have Ethya, you have, you know, in this case, matic on Polygon, right? And it just makes it much easier for people to kind of like get a quick glance of where their assets are and kind of like, so that, you know, I mean, they're also going to like have a heart attack if they don't see their assets in like their ethereum l one wallet where they forgot that they bridged them to like arbitram or something like that.
00:10:03.190 - 00:10:36.736, Speaker A: Right. So there's also that aspect to it as well. So I just wanted to kind of pick on that. There's a, the Deli Gwen newsletter today is actually has a bit more about this, and I talked about how like, web two has optimized for clicks and, you know, the shortest amount of clicks possible and stuff like that. So I definitely recommend giving that a read if you want more context around this and more details around this. So hash flow is now live on Polygon, so you can take advantage of the low transaction fees on polygon to slap trade with zero slippage and no mev exploits and earn the best yields without impermanent loss. So easy to get started trading.
00:10:36.736 - 00:11:20.300, Speaker A: You just go to app dot hash flow.com here. Very awesome to see them live on Polygon. I think they're going to be going live on every EVM compatible network, which means, obviously arbitrary optimism and a bunch of the other kind of like alt l one s that are EVM compatible, which makes sense. I mean, this is how the EVM becomes like the standard and become, and just increases its network effect and is actually bullish for like the basically ethereum as a whole. Because think about it, the amount of entrenchment the EVM has means that all these EVM compatible roll ups that we have up driven optimism right now, zkvms in the future, they're all just going to be immediately populated with apps, because the apps are already built in these sorts of things. They're already, they're already kind of compatible with them.
00:11:20.300 - 00:11:48.600, Speaker A: So there's no need to reinvent the wheel here. Uh, but at the same time, as I've said to you guys before, I'm very, very bullish on, uh, efforts being made by other, by kind of like a L2 teams, uh, doing something other than the EVM. Obviously, Starkware is very big there with Cairo and stuff like that, and Stark X and there'll be others. But, uh, you can't deny the EVM's network effect at this point. The EVM's moat, it's just, it's really, really big. It's only getting bigger. And, you know, as people, as much as people think the EVM is inferior technology.
00:11:48.600 - 00:12:14.384, Speaker A: Uh, it doesn't matter, right? It's, it's what works. It's what everyone's familiar with. It's what the app developers are familiar with. It's, and it's basically what keeps getting network effect as time goes on. So little, little tangent there, but definitely go check out this and check out hash flow on polygon if you're a regular user on the pos chain there. So Emperor on Twitter put out a blog post over the weekend. I think it was titled a list of open problems in Defi.
00:12:14.384 - 00:13:09.930, Speaker A: Now I spoke last week about after the Frog Nation fallout about how I think that a lot of what we're seeing right now, quote unquote, defi isn't actually Defi or finance. It's like Ponzi games or money games. And because of that, people are kind of like misattributing things and saying, okay, well this is a problem in Defi, this needs to be solved. And it's like, well, if it's a Ponzi or if it's reliant on kind of like fresh money coming in for it to actually work, and it only works in bull markets, well that's a fundamental underlying issue. That's not like a problem that needs to be solved. That's a fundamental issue that may not even have a solution. Right? Whereas the problems in Defi that I think of immediately, that immediately come to mind are things like relying too much on centralized front ends, right, admin keys, multi sigs, having, having systems that basically are too interconnected with each other, that one, you know, one little one cog in the system is too weak.
00:13:09.930 - 00:13:50.546, Speaker A: And if that breaks, everything breaks like those sorts of things. But in this blog post, Emperor put together a very, very comprehensive list of open problems within Defi that I think is a highly recommended read. Some things around kind of like risk management and risk scoring on lending, borrowing pools, which is something that a lot of users don't think about but is extremely important for the protocols to think about. A bunch of other things around here, around derivatives, which can get out of hand as well. Reputation systems, oracles, you know, oracles are a big thing that power all of Defi and they carry a lot of risk with them as well. So I definitely recommend giving this post a read for more context around, around open problems in Defi. But these are the things that I think can be fixed in one way or another.
00:13:50.546 - 00:14:30.536, Speaker A: The things that I don't think can be fixed, as I said, are the fundament, are the products that are fundamentally built around the fact that they need new capital entering all the time to even work. And once that capital kind of dries up, they fall apart completely. And of course, I'm talking about things like not, not so much Olympus. I think Olympus is making an honest attempt at trying to build something that actually has long term lasting value. But the forks of it definitely aren't. And all the forks have pretty much like dumped really, really hard because the game was up, the musical chairs, the music stopped and there was literally one chair for like, you know, a thousand people. So that I think that those are fundamental issues that aren't going to be fixed.
00:14:30.536 - 00:15:02.192, Speaker A: But even in still, in saying that, I think that there are kind of like ways that these teams such as Olympus can kind of like work around this, find better mechanisms to put in place even if they have to re architect things. And then it could be cool. But these open problems are different to that. Once again, I have to stress the fact that just because something calls itself defi doesn't mean that it's actually defi or finance related. It just, it could just be, you know, saying that it's defi because it's just easy for that for them to market themselves as that. A lot of these things are Ponzi's. A lot of these things are money games.
00:15:02.192 - 00:15:39.288, Speaker A: A lot of these things are not going to be the future of finance, right? Not even the future of France. They just going to, a lot of them are going to not, I mean nothing goes to zero, but a lot of them are going to lose a lot of people money because they think that it's Defi when in reality it's not. But anyway, done with the rant there. Onto the next update from joey here, who announced Tribe turbo over the weekend, which is a new Defi primitive which allows any token to become productive and provide fair liquidity at no cost to the markets that need it most. How is this possible, you ask? Well, Joey has a thread here. Now, this is innovation in Defi. This is stuff that people have kind of like talked about with regards to Defi 2.0.
00:15:39.288 - 00:16:01.832, Speaker A: And you know, as I've said to you guys before, I think the Defy 2.0 branding is just kind of just, that's like marketing, right? It's just like kind of a meme. I think that there's plenty of innovation going on within DeFi and the protocols that people refer to as Defy 1.0, that there's no use kind of like separating them anymore. It's just defi to me and there's no DeFi 3.0 or DeFi 4.0. It's just Defi guys, and we're improving it as time goes on.
00:16:01.832 - 00:16:47.928, Speaker A: And that's exactly what Joey's doing here with Faye protocol by, with tribe Turbo joey, and of course he's team in the community as well. I definitely recommend giving this thread a read for a breakdown of exactly what's going on here, what, what's happening, you know, when to expect it, stuff like that, because it's very, very interesting. So I'll link that in the YouTube description for you guys. So Joseph DeLong actually teased this over the weekend and I just wanted to give a quick shout out here. There is a new protocol coming called Astaria and I have no idea what it does there. I don't think there's any information about it. They have one tweet saying we are all on borrowed time and people were kind of, I think focusing on the word time here and thinking it was reference to the Wonderland project and it was kind of like going to be another Olympus fork, another om fork.
00:16:47.928 - 00:17:23.160, Speaker A: I don't know. All I know is that Joseph Delong's involved, who was the former CTO of Sushiswap and before that he was working on e two stuff. Very, very smart guy. I'm very much looking forward to seeing what this is, but I thought I'd put it on your guys radar because I usually try to point out projects when they're really early on in their life cycle for you guys. So you guys can get, can get on board with it and be kind of like early to it. Because at the end of the day, I think the biggest, maybe not the biggest, the most powerful alpha in this ecosystem is just being early to things that succeed. Now, obviously, being early to some things is not going to get you anywhere.
00:17:23.160 - 00:17:53.670, Speaker A: A lot of projects don't actually succeed. A lot of projects may just have a pump and dump where their token goes up really quickly, then comes back down really quickly. But if you catch that, just, you know, one that you're really early to, you get in really early. Maybe you, you know, you get like a healthy airdrop for being early, or you invest early on when no one else is paying attention to it, or you become part of the team, become part of the community and you get rewarded for that. That is how I've seen a lot of people or pretty much everyone make their fortunes in crypto. I mean, all of my friends are hardcore ethereum people. We kind of like, you know, went through the bear market together, all that sort of stuff.
00:17:53.670 - 00:18:40.014, Speaker A: We were relatively early to eat, and that's kind of like where, how we kind of, like, I got to where we are and also defy the, you know, with defy summer in 2020. That's the same, same kind of story there. There are a lot of people who are very early to nfts and saw what was coming and made the right bets and have kind of, like, ridden that wave up. So you can be, I mean, you could be early. You can. But being late is very easy, too, because you can think that you're early in terms of kind of like the cycle because you got to look at it from like a, in crypto cycle and then, like, out of crypto cycle, there's the in crypto cycles that happen pretty regularly where things can get out of control and then come back down. But you're still early if you kind of, like, take the out of crypto cycle into account, which is a much longer term cycle.
00:18:40.014 - 00:19:11.530, Speaker A: So let, maybe I'm confusing you guys here, but let me just use an example. The way I think about it is ETH went to $1,400 in 2017, then went back to dollar 80 by the end of 2018. That was an in crypto cycle. ETH went from, I guess, what was it, $0.30 in 2015 to now two and a half, or I guess what it, whatever it is, $2,600 right now. That is kind of like an outer crypt out of crypto cycle because that is pretty much because we're not at obviously an all time high. We're not in like the 4000s or anything like that.
00:19:11.530 - 00:19:56.644, Speaker A: But the price that ETH is now, most of its life hasn't been at this price. And as time goes on, as if you're becomes more successful, the obviously, the earlier you were, the more kind of like, return you would have had. But the thing is, is that you can't just look at, like the micro chasm of 2017 and 2018 and rest of the bear market. You have to kind of like, look at the long term, the macro sense, if you want to look at the out of crypto cycle. And I guess maybe that's the wrong terminology to use or maybe confusing terminology out of crypto just basically means that, you know, if you expect more and more people to come into this industry, to invest in this industry, then over time, the assets that you hold or the projects that you're backing, if they're good, should do well. And the same was true for so many kind of projects. I use Aaver as an example, right.
00:19:56.644 - 00:20:21.962, Speaker A: Aave, I think at the bottom of Avez Price, which was known as lend back in 2019, I think it bottomed out at like a $5 million market cap or something like that. Today, I think it's two or $3 billion in market cap. So. And that's after it kind of, like pumped up in 2017 because I believe it was an ICO. But you just got to look at the long term. I mean, this is just a roundabout way of me saying zoom out. But it, you know, depends on your time horizon as well.
00:20:21.962 - 00:20:54.840, Speaker A: A lot of people don't want to have to hold on to something for ten years to make a return. I mean, that's fine. Like, you can go do whatever you want, you know, if you want to make a lot of money within a few months. I mean, that's, it's not investing to me. It's kind of like speculating and gambling, but that's the kind of, like, mindset a lot of people come into this industry with. And, you know, I always find it funny that when it kind of, like, happens like that because the most successful people that I know in this industry and the ones that have made the most money are the long term investors. The short term, they may make some money in the, in the short term, but then they leave a lot on the table, right? It's like coming to a, coming to a table, eating really quickly.
00:20:54.840 - 00:21:30.654, Speaker A: It's like a dinner table or I guess like an all you can eat table, eating really quickly and then missing out on all the other food that is yet to come. Same with these short term speculators that maybe hang around for three months. They come, they make a little bit of money really quickly, but then they miss out on all the money they could have made by being a long term investor, and they could have made, you know, potentially a lot more. So I think, you know, bringing it back to Astaria here. Not to say that this is kind of going to be a project that's going to kind of like, it's going to get you to make it, as they say. But just being early in general to projects like Astaria, if they do succeed, I think is just kind of like the best way to do that to. Best way to make it in this industry.
00:21:30.654 - 00:22:08.664, Speaker A: So definitely go follow the account and keep an eye on it. I'm very curious to see what this project is, is. So the first lecture from Tim Roughgarden called the foundations from his foundations of blockchain lecture series is now available on YouTube. So I think it's only a ten minute video, or at least kind of like the first 1st video is ten minutes here. But as I've mentioned before, I'm pretty sure I mentioned this on refuel. Tim Roughgarden, who is a professor at Columbia University and also worked on ERP 1559 and did it kind of like research paper for it. He's now doing a foundations of blockchains lecture series on YouTube and it's completely free.
00:22:08.664 - 00:22:46.504, Speaker A: So definitely go watch the first episode. I really, really enjoyed kind of like watching it. It was, it was pretty good, even for me, who obviously isn't a beginner. It's still good to go back to the basics and go back to the foundations of things. And there was actually one tweet in this thread that I really, really loved and really resonated with. And I think a lot of people are going to resonate with where Tim says, for us, blockchains will not be about digital money except as a means to an end, but rather a new computing paradigm, a programmable computer that lives in the sky, that is not owned by anyone and that anyone can use. This is exactly kind of why I've been so interested in Ethereum over and smart contract chains in general over something like bitcoin.
00:22:46.504 - 00:23:06.590, Speaker A: I don't think money, or just digital money is the revolution here. I agree with Tim. The revolution is a new computing paradigm. If you just look at the money thing, you're kind of like getting maybe 10% of this industry, or even less than that. What I love about aetherium is that it still has the money aspect to it. It still has a native asset tied to it. That native asset is not just an afterthought.
00:23:06.590 - 00:23:35.212, Speaker A: It is part, is a core part of the network. But the Ethereum network is so much more than ETH as an asset. It is obviously all of the apps running on top of it, no matter what it is, defi NFts, whatever, it's all of that sort of stuff. It's. I mean, it's even beyond that. Like all the research that's going into all the building edge cryptography, it's all the research going into bleeding edge computing, stuff like roll ups and, and stuff like that, and all the privacy stuff we've got going on. I mean, it's so much more than just digital money, which, as Tim says, is just a means to an end.
00:23:35.212 - 00:24:02.220, Speaker A: And I agree with that. But that's not to say that digital money isn't interesting. It's just so much less interesting than the rest of what this industry has to offer. So I just really liked that, that tweet here from Tim, but I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. So just a couple of final things here. L two b announced that they're going to be hosting a conference in Amsterdam called L2 Amsterdam, happening on April 19 and April 20 this year.
00:24:02.220 - 00:24:23.012, Speaker A: And this is going to be happening around ef Devconnect here or Devconnect and also ETH Amsterdam as well. I am going to be at Amsterdam. I know I originally said I was going to be at Denver, but apparently, apparently. But unfortunately, I'm not able to make it to Denver. I am going to try so hard to make it to Amsterdam. I really, really want to go. I'm, you know, I'm going.
00:24:23.012 - 00:24:46.246, Speaker A: I just like, barring any kind of, like, things that stop me from going, maybe at the moment, I don't think I can fly out unless I return a negative COVID test. I think that's the only thing that would stop me from going, is that if I return a positive COVID test before my flight, I won't be able to actually go go. But I'm planning to come and I'm planning to stay in Amsterdam for a couple of weeks as well. Definitely want to see what the. What the city has to offer. But I'm super pumped for this. I'm pumped for, like, everything.
00:24:46.246 - 00:25:11.266, Speaker A: I mean, Devconnect is. Is going to be focusing on the economics of Ethereum as well, I believe, which is super exciting because usually Ethereum conferences don't do that. And then obviously, L2 Amsterdam is going to be from l two beat is going to be focusing on the L2 ecosystem. And then ETH Amsterdam is going to be a classic hackathon. Bunch of different talks from different people. And I'm sure there's going to be other side events happening during that kind of like one to maybe two week period there. So I'm super looking forward to this.
00:25:11.266 - 00:25:28.586, Speaker A: I hope to meet a lot of you in Amsterdam. I was hoping to meet a lot of you in Denver, but that's not happening. So Amsterdam and April is the next best thing here. But yeah, definitely go kind of check this out. I think there's a way to RSvP VP yet, but you should be following the l two beat account on Twitter anyway. L two b, obviously, is that website that tracks all the l two metrics. L two B.com
00:25:28.586 - 00:26:05.742, Speaker A: dot. I've talked about them a lot on the review before, so, yeah, definitely go go check that all out. All right, finally here. I just wanted to give a quick shout out that as you guys know, I'm an advisor to Polygon and I was contacted for by the team because they want some help recruiting someone to lead Dev rel or developer relations in the US. So if this sounds like you, if you think that you can do developer relations, I mean, if you don't know what that is, then, then you probably can't do it. Especially probably can't even. You obviously can't lead it, but if it sounds like you, if it's something that you are interested in doing, it's something that you've got experience in.
00:26:05.742 - 00:26:31.274, Speaker A: Definitely dm me on Twitter. I'll get back to you within the next couple of days and I'll do an intro with the Polygon guys. If you fit the bill and dm me with an intro of yourself, don't just dm me and say, hey, I'm interested because I've got too many DM's to go through. So please just intro with with why you think you're kind of, I guess, like fit for the role. I think this is obviously an awesome role because of the fact that you'll be working with one of the bleeding edge, kind of like ethereum scaling solutions polygons. Awesome. I mean, the team's awesome.
00:26:31.274 - 00:26:57.724, Speaker A: I've worked with them as an advisor for over a year now. I have nothing but good things to say about them, of course. But yeah, if this kind of like fits you, then definitely dm me on Twitter with an intro. If I don't get back to you, it's because it's either that I've got other people that have already kind of like been passed on or who didn't fit the bill. So don't take offense to it, but still, don't be shy. Reaching out to me on Twitter there. Now I have a couple of minutes left.
00:26:57.724 - 00:27:47.354, Speaker A: I just wanted to make a quick comment about the markets. I know I've talked about the markets a bit too much lately and don't usually do it, but quick comment on the markets here. I'm really a little bit frustrated about kind of like what I saw play out on Twitter over the last few months, especially with all of these traders and rotators just shilling absolute garbage to everyone. I just want to, like, this isn't investment advice, but I just want to give a bit of like kind of life advice to you guys. I personally have never, other than my first foray into crypto in 2013, I have never since I got back into crypto in 2017, looked at these people and said, oh, I want to buy this thing because this person shielded to me. As I said to you guys before, if someone is shilling you something, especially a trader on Twitter, they've already packed their bags. They could have packed their bags, you know, ages ago and, like, at a much cheaper price.
00:27:47.354 - 00:28:19.696, Speaker A: What they're doing by showing it to you, especially if they're a trader, they're looking to pump the price up so that they can have exit liquidity, so they can have a higher price to exit at. And so they're not going to tell you that they sold. They're never going to tell you that they sold. And there's plenty of these people who do this. And it really, really annoys me when this happens because I know people get hurt doing this. They buy into it and they get dumped on, and then they're kind of left holding the bag. Two weeks ago, everyone was memeing this thing, this acronym foAN, which stands for Phantom or FTM one Adam and NIA.
00:28:19.696 - 00:28:44.040, Speaker A: Right, the, the, the other kind of like quote unquote ETH killers or the l one trade. Everyone was like, oh, we're going to rotate into these because these haven't pumped yet. Well, they rotated into it, right? It worked for a couple of days, then the market crashed. In two weeks, all of these things are down to 50%. So you lost half your money if you bought at around the time that these people were kind of like shilling this stuff to you. So. And they probably sold, right, because they know what they're doing.
00:28:44.040 - 00:29:09.376, Speaker A: Well, not all of them, but, like, a lot of them do. So just as an example there. I just, I get so frustrated when I see this because I know people are getting hurt. I know people are kind of losing money here. I think that as always, being a longer term investor, investing in things you actually believe in, unless you're a trader. If you're a trader, you can do what you want. But if you're an investor, you shouldn't be following what traders are doing, because if you're planning to invest in something and hold it for the long term by listening to a trader, you're diametrically opposed.
00:29:09.376 - 00:29:33.278, Speaker A: A trader's position is dictated by days, weeks, and sometimes months. A long term investor's position is usually dictated by years. So you're literally playing a different game. So I just wanted to kind of, like, get a, give a bit of a heads up there for you guys because I've seen people kind of like, just. It's just been a mess lately. I've seen a few people kind of, like, really lose some money jumping into this sort of stuff, so I just figured I'd bring that up. But anyway, I'm going to leave it there for today.
00:29:33.278 - 00:29:42.574, Speaker A: So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
