00:00:07.880 - 00:01:45.354, Speaker A: I started in the Chicago derivative space, actually, as a trade checker on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade in 1994. So it's been incredible to see where we were then and where we are today, which is really incredible. And I think this year, especially seeing the Chicago based and actually just the global derivative trading firms all coming together and rallying around the technology that we've all gotten behind here, has been incredibly transformative. And I think for guys like me, anybody here who has kind of been through the derivative space or just the trading space in general in the last few decades, it's almost, like, shocking to see projects like pith and hero and working very hard together to bring together these professional trading firms to work on common elements that can lower frictions and barriers around market infrastructure is truly incredible. And so I think that everybody sitting here, regardless if you're in, like, the kind of the boomer age, like me, or younger people who are just coming up, I think you're a part of something very special right now. So it's really exciting. All right, so I'll get started here.
00:01:45.354 - 00:03:06.602, Speaker A: So what is Hero Network? Hero Network is a professional grade decentralized derivatives liquidity primitive for risk based applications. It's being built and designed to normalize access to a series of smart contracts that facilitate derivatives trading on chain and to perform other hero network functions. Put it simply, what is the mission of Hero Network? It's to become the primary base layer, Dex for all derivatives traded or routed to Solana blockchain. I've been in the space since 2015, and we first started thinking about Hero, and we built a centralized stack when we first started this and first started building it in 2018. And the reason we built centralized was really that the technology at the blockchain base layer wasn't there. And once Solana came on, it really changed the game for all this. So prior to Solana, the idea of building on chain derivatives in a way that could be sufficiently decentralized and that gave an experience that could actually compete with incumbent centralized exchange infrastructure.
00:03:06.602 - 00:03:59.542, Speaker A: It really didn't exist. Let me catch this up here. Sorry. So I think the big key innovation on Solana was really the creation of serum. And in 2019, Serum proved that an order book actually could function on chain efficiently, which was for anybody who comes from the derivatives trading space, on the technology side, you realize the amount of data and throughput that it takes to run an on chain order book is incredible. And it was pretty amazing to see what was built there. And I think maybe one or two of the engineers who were on the founding team that are here hiding somewhere here, but pretty amazing.
00:03:59.542 - 00:05:01.408, Speaker A: And so serum now transacts more than $3 billion a month of trading volume and has more than 50 applications built on it. And this is just in a little under two and a half years. Pretty incredible. So why are we building on chain derivatives? A few reasons. One, from our perspective, DeFi currently lacks a robust, professional, trader friendly venue to connect into on chain derivatives based liquidity hero networks. Really the first attempt at designing a system which lowers the barriers of onboarding both traditional trading firms and centralized operator controlled applications in a low friction and compliant friendly way. We also think that DeFi can work wonders around disintermediating global market risk.
00:05:01.408 - 00:06:27.910, Speaker A: What I mean by that is if you look back to what happened 2008 and Dodd Frank regulations, what actually happened is you went from system that had a systemic crisis, and the fallout from that ended up being where you had about six banks that basically took the responsibility of all financial risk across the entirety of the global financial system. So if you think about how crazy that is, is that you went from a system that had, that was on the verge of absolute collapse, which I guess the silver lining is bitcoin kind of came out of that, but to vesting all of the risk back into six entities. So you're talking about something that happened 13 years ago. Now think about moving forward. There is a great opportunity right now to rethink how global market risk can be disintermediated across many. And decentralization is one method to that. Last point is DeFi ultimately, and we have these, I have these discussions with a lot of traditional market participants.
00:06:27.910 - 00:07:52.514, Speaker A: DeFi is actually just way more transparent. So blockchain based trading, where transactions are printed to an immutable blockchain, is the most transparent way of having transactions live publicly. And easiest way for regulators and other market participants who are looking at that data to view it in a trust, in a trustless manner without it being having any single point of control. And it really solves a huge problem there. So building hero network really is being designed for professional traders and application layer operators. What we mean by application layer operators, these are going to be like third party platforms that are going to live at the application layer that are really responsible for what we would call otherwise top of funnel, so driving retail adoption. And these are the platforms that are really UI UX focused things like that, where we look at Hero network as a true base layer and really just being the plumbing layer with a set of very robust API clients attached to it.
00:07:52.514 - 00:09:05.754, Speaker A: Making connectivity very easy. We do see a growing demand and a need for professional grade on chain trading infrastructure. The network's really designed as an on ramp in decentralized markets for both trading firms and application layer operators. And we think the way to go about this and the way to make it most meaningful to a lot of the traditional players who are now crossing over is really to solve. To solve for getting as close to the most successful exchange, traditional exchange mechanics as possible, and then iterate away those incumbent friction points. In order to really get adoption from these larger firms, you need to create tools that are similar to what they already use, and also build tools that speak to the resources that currently exist within their firms. So if you think about even a moderately sized professional trading firm today, they're going to have something on the order of 20 to 30 at the low end c engineers.
00:09:05.754 - 00:10:36.294, Speaker A: So why does it make sense to go to a professional trading firm and say, here is a rust agent API to connect to? So some simple things like wrapping this otherwise complex infrastructure and things that are easy for them to understand that they're familiar with, is one simple way for all of us to lower the friction points to onboarding these firms into the space. Next point on that is, is really around regulatory. So I think one of the big sticking points that we all, for all of us that are working with more traditional trading firms is getting them across the precipice on regulatory. And so when we think about hero network and how we thought of it from day one, it's taking a very measured, thoughtful, risk based approach to regulatory, which we can get into a little bit later. Reviewing the network as exists today will be more of a permissioned Defi construct. And if you think about it, right now, approximately $260 billion is currently locked in centralized finance protocols. However, it's a decent number, but the market is really untapped by most, still untapped by most professional trading firms and institutions.
00:10:36.294 - 00:11:49.314, Speaker A: Again, this is largely due to a lack of support for enterprise grade risk management and KYC AML tooling. Currently, if you think about open interest just in global derivative markets, it's something on the order of $150 trillion right now. So in our minds, that is the real opportunity set. We're not going to get it over the next six months, but we need to position ourselves now to grow into that if we're ever going to really be a part of the fabric of the global derivatives landscape. Our idea is that you can capture the benefits of DeFi while still maintaining an iterative and reasonable risk based approach to complex operational risks that decentralization introduces, especially around things like regulatory. In terms of the network, it's really been, from day one, a very cooperative effort of our community around it. So the founding participants are really a cooperative of both traditional and crypto trading firms, crypto exchanges, investment funds, and many interested one off community members.
00:11:49.314 - 00:13:32.894, Speaker A: All of the design engineering work across the network really has been a coordinated participation across multiple teams, many that came from these training firms or from hero core team, or just community members who have come to the project and provided some form of resource to the build. From day one, we've always thought about this somewhat related as like, this is one way also to rethink the whole exchange construct. And a lot of you here that I've spoken to before have heard me say this, but if you think about the CME, let's say before it went public, it was really governed by the exchange members. And so you, if you wanted to become a member of the exchange, you purchased the seat, it gave you a vote into decisions that were being made across the exchange and by the board of governors. And then it went public and effectively became very concentrated in who was running and making decisions for the exchange. Take a step back for a minute and think about a decentralized network. When you're staking to the network, it's generally, in many cases, giving you governance, right? So now just replace the concept of an exchange membership with token holdings and you're staking your tokens to the network.
00:13:32.894 - 00:15:06.194, Speaker A: You don't have this kind of closed loop of membership that existed many decades ago when, when you wanted to become a member of an exchange, completely open as to who can participate as a member at the staking and governance layer, and allows anybody to participate and also benefit from their participation in a meritocratic way. So, as I said, the efforts in the build is really made up of hero core engineers, a couple engineers from multiple engineers from different professional trading firms. A lot of insights from traditional finance industry professionals. One of our larger investors, the president of the fund, is former head of futures and options from Citigroup, has been very instrumental with me on the kind of the regulatory pieces. And just even that alone, it's pretty incredible to see somebody cross over into crypto who's had a long, very successful career in traditional finance and start down this path with all of us towards bringing this kind of to the surface. Twelve engineers, five organizations, plus multiple independent contributors. All right, I'm going to get onto the technology here for sake of time.
00:15:06.194 - 00:16:17.644, Speaker A: Hero derivatives are based around an incredibly innovative contract that was built by multiple people here, called dexterity. What dexterity is, is a collection of smart contracts that allows for the creation and exchange of any cash flow generating financial instrument. This encapsulates all traditional derivative contracts. Sorry, let me pull this up here. This encapsulates all traditional derivative contracts, such as futures, options and perps, but also includes fixed income contracts, binaries, prediction markets. Additionally, it interfaces with both with a customizable fee model and customizable risk engine that handles cross product margining and liquidation. Additionally, there's built in support for combo products, which are things like future calendar spreads, butterflies, condors option spreads, all of these being leggable and exchange supported.
00:16:17.644 - 00:17:39.494, Speaker A: What that's doing is it's really by adding that last piece, which is fairly large innovation, it opens up duration based liquidity. It gives the market a way to imply liquidity down the curve, which will come in very handy when you are starting to get into things that will build on top of this, like vanilla options that have duration to it for delta hedging and for other purposes. While Solana natively supports central limit order book with serum, the original serum framework, we felt makes it difficult to support derivatives trading due to the following reasons. One, serum couples the order book matching engine and asset custody components into a single contract. This forces derivative contracts to take the form of fungible tokens. So for a developer, this becomes very unintuitive and very unintuitive interface. And also, when you're trying to solve some of the more complex elements around risk and have to think through elements around that, it gets incredibly complex.
00:17:39.494 - 00:18:45.476, Speaker A: Two, serum requires every order to be 100% collateralized. This is some major implications with respect to the capital requirements of market makers, traders, liquidity providers, LP's on serum need to lock up their funds in order to make markets for tokens. This restricts the ability but market maker to make other investments with that capital, and creates many inefficiencies around capital. When you think about adoption from professional trading firms, one of the top things right next to regulatory is how efficient can we be with our capital? And if we're trying to do things that are making it a familiar experience to what exists in traditional finance. Capital efficiency is, you know, is one of the main things that has to be paid attention to and solve for. Derivatives are created or destroyed when trades occur on Cirm because they're artificial contracts tied to some underlying assets. So this naturally fits well with a callback paradigm when processing events.
00:18:45.476 - 00:19:34.984, Speaker A: However, serum currently does not support the ability to perform specific actions or callbacks whenever trade fills are processed. Because of this, the consume events instruction sequentially processes all events on the serum event queue. So those are some of the constraints around the original form of serum. However, late last year, a project called Bonefida developed something called asset agnostic Order book. So what? And we all call it AAob or Aob. AOB extracts data structure from Serum's order book into its own contract. And this separation meant that using AOB no longer required assets to be tokenized.
00:19:34.984 - 00:20:18.616, Speaker A: This innovation actually opened up the path for engineers, especially engineers working on hero, to create what is dexterity? So we'll get into a little bit of the protocol. Now, the dexterity protocol has five major components. A Dex. Thank you. A Dex asset agnostic order book, an instruments module, fee module, and a risk and margin engine. So let's talk about the DeX first. The DEX is responsible for handling the accounting of order trades, deposits, withdraws, funding that occur on the exchange.
00:20:18.616 - 00:21:25.794, Speaker A: All the product metadata is stored in a large market product group account, and each trader has an associate risk group account that tracks the state of that trader's orders, positions, and deposits in a given market product group. Next, you have asset agnostic order book. The DeX contracts interacts with AOB to keep track of order book, bids and offers, as well as trades from the event Q account. Three is instruments. Instruments is a native contract in the dexterity repo that implements the cash flows of perpetual and expiring options. So if you think about, and this is partially the reason it's called dexterity. If you think about a futures contract, effectively, what a futures contract is, is the same as if you took an option and applied a zero strike to it.
00:21:25.794 - 00:22:42.932, Speaker A: So that was kind of the basis for creating something that allowed a single contract that you can apply an accounting method and a payoff mechanism to and out of, that get the type of derivatives contract that you desired. So it also implements the cash flows of a fixed income contract for derivative settlement. Data is pulled from both pith and the Dex order books to determine the appropriate contract payout. An instruction is then exposed that performs a cross program, a CPI call to the DEX, and to record the funding payments for the given instrument. The market product group that stores the instrument will then be updated accordingly, and the trader risk group with an active position in the corresponding instrument will have unsettled funds that must be applied to any future position changes. You got me? Next component is the fee model. So the DEx contract provides for an interface for computing trading fees, a fee program that implements the interfaces required for setting up the market product group.
00:22:42.932 - 00:24:02.832, Speaker A: Whenever a trade occurs, the DEX contract makes a CPI call to the fee model and then extracts the taker or maker fee, whatever the fee model is, for each trader risk group, and that fee or rebate is then applied to the transaction. The last component is risk and margin, and the next contract provides a specific interface for risk calcs. Whenever an action is taken that could potentially increase the risk of a trader's position. CPI call is then made to the DeX from the risk engine to determine whether the action is acceptable. If it is acceptable, then sorry, if the action brings the trader below the required account health, the CPI will fail and roll back the entire transaction. Important breakthrough on all these, and I'll get to one of the major ones in the risk side in a second. Risk and margin side in a second is that there was a key design decision made to separate the mechanical accounting operations in the DEX and the AAOB contracts from the business logic.
00:24:02.832 - 00:24:51.212, Speaker A: That comes from the instrument module. So sorry, that comes from the instrument module, the risk engine and the female contracts. Common analogy in DeFi compares individual components of composable smart contracts to Lego blocks. We've all heard this concept before. So the goal of the modular design here was to allow customizable legos for any and all kinds of business logic, while keeping the accounting logic fixed. So the DEX ultimately does not know or does not care about fee structure, risk calc or contract settlement. It simply receives data from API calls and performs the basic numerical operations on the output.
00:24:51.212 - 00:26:30.004, Speaker A: So when this contract goes into open source, anybody basically will be able to apply a fee scheme, margining and risk engine, apply it to, and then any type of instrument that has data that is through pith and can effectively spin up a market contract very easily. So risk and margining, this I think is one of the biggest breakthroughs for us, besides the dexterity contract itself. Currently, most deFi derivative protocols are limited to instrument specific margining. So there's no concept really of, of like compression. So what that means for anybody doesn't understand is that if I'm long, two highly correlate, if I'm long, one highly one futures instrument, and I'm short an incredibly highly correlated instrument against it. Most protocols are actually margining you individually. So what heroes risk and margin engine will do is it'll look at both and then give you one risk haircut number based on a margin requirement, based on having that viewed as a position and not as individual legs.
00:26:30.004 - 00:27:37.512, Speaker A: So this is really the first time that you're going to see on chain span style portfolio margining exist. Obviously this significantly unlocks capital efficiencies for single account users, creates better and more sophisticated approximation of overall account risk. And what it really does also is it optimizes and promotes spread and inventory based trading strategies. Where now it's easier to carry correlated instruments together. Like if you're trading something that has pretty extensive duration with tightly linked instruments to it, you can be trading long short on those in spreads, butterflies, double butterflies, condors. And the contract will credit you for the true risk of that entire portfolio. And then the other breakthrough on it is that the risk is actually updated dynamically, so you're not waiting until day end risk.
00:27:37.512 - 00:28:48.644, Speaker A: It is running throughout the day, and we'll adjust margin requirements accordingly by account. So that really covers the high level basics of the dexterity contract. I'll get a little bit into hero network. So hero network is powered by hero token, which when you stake your tokens to the network, it doubles as governance. Staked tokens also receive a percentage of network transaction fees that is paid out daily. And we have created a fairly sophisticated staking contract that actually we think is we actually built it, we designed it and built it with Bonefida, who actually is going to be implementing a very similar staking concept here. And then obviously this will end up being open sourced after Mainnet.
00:28:48.644 - 00:29:42.758, Speaker A: The way that staking works is that there is an inverse relationship between the time that it takes for you to unlock your rewards, your governance rewards, and the amount of time that you're actually staking. So the minimum amount of time for staking is one week. The maximum period for staking is three years. If you stake for the Max three years, you receive your network rewards paid daily to your account, unlocked. If you stake for the minimum of one week, it takes you twelve months before you can claim your rewards. And then obviously there's a sliding scale in between. And so we think what that does is really aligns longer term objectives.
00:29:42.758 - 00:30:51.194, Speaker A: So if somebody's coming to the network and staking for three years, they become a little more pot committed. It's kind of like how someone would feel if they had invested in serum or other things that have things that have long term lock ups. A lot of that really is designed to kind of pull you out and try to see the forest through the trees knowing that it is going, these aren't things. Even though in crypto we get this very fast kind of feedback, positive feedback loop and things are going well, especially around trading that it pulls you out of that and gets you to focus on the elements that us as technology builders and network builders think is very important, which is establishing things that will be here for the long term and then getting real alignment with your network around it. So, a little more about the token. So currently it's actually an ERC 20, it's being transferred to SPL. We're about to start working with the wormhole team on that.
00:30:51.194 - 00:31:27.166, Speaker A: And then the way. So your stake tokens actually generate an equivalent governance token. Also, one last piece of that is the longer that you stake, there actually is a multiplier which will increase your stake weight for voting and for your share of pro rata rewards. And then. Yeah, all right, so two last things I'm going to cover, so don't take any more time. Here is connectivity. So we think about connectivity in two ways.
00:31:27.166 - 00:33:02.494, Speaker A: One is through, is going to be what you kind of consider like DMA. So everybody attaching, connecting to the network via APIs, as we discussed earlier, building very robust APIs for professional trading firms and automated trading systems to connect. And then the other side of the equation, having APIs that allow operators to connect. And so one thing that we're doing that we in the last couple of weeks had just a project that now we're engaging with between us and project serum is actually building a one stop gateway, which will be a very robust set of APIs that will allow an automated user to connect to the network. Really what will end up happening is they will then be exposed to the available libraries to connect to serum spot markets, and then simultaneously to hero derivative markets, which is obviously a very exciting breakthrough for us and for the serum team. And then that gateway will eventually be open sourced so other protocols can come in, start exposing their libraries to it. Again goes back to the idea of doing everything we can to lower the friction points for the firms that are doing the largest volumes on the planet to easily connect to these various networks.
00:33:02.494 - 00:34:20.994, Speaker A: Other side of the equation is operators. And so I want to introduce an idea that Jordan Prince, who is sitting in the front row here, came up with, and I think ideally was built for Metaplex, which introduces this concept of the store. So whenever you have an operator that sits at the application layer, that operator will connect. And most of these operators that you deal with, especially in the centralized side, they don't have a very deep understanding of working with blockchain, which is another inhibitor of onboarding. And so it goes back to this concept of building very familiar SDKs or client apps that make it super easy for these people to connect one element of that, if you were a centralized operator, is you're expecting to optimize your revenue, obviously. So I have a large pool of retail users say I have a million users a month on my platform and I want to connect into this liquidity. I have to understand the benefits of the trade off of connecting into this liquidity versus just running my own centralized stack.
00:34:20.994 - 00:35:40.664, Speaker A: And what we're doing with the store is making it incredibly easy for them on connection to understand very clearly how every transaction fee and every piece of revenue that is going to them, exactly how it's going to go, how fees are broken out and what they receive. It also does quite a bit to protect the network, to make sure that when people are connecting that the network is always kind of getting its base fee that it always needs to get. So that is really broken down between the base network fee and then the operator can actually customize the fee that they put on top of that base network fee. So it's somewhat analogous I guess in the traditional world to a clearing fee and then an introducing broker putting a fee on top of it. And then it also manages network incentive fees. So ultimately when you kind of put all those elements together, the operator is able to aggregate up and they face on a one to one relationship to the network. So this is like kind of best way to think about it is like b to b to c.
00:35:40.664 - 00:36:40.434, Speaker A: And then they can either fully pass through those incentives that they're receiving from the network or have some way of, of putting out some portion back to their users or something in between. So next steps for us, long awaited, but mainnet, and I don't know what I'd do without you right now. Mike, thanks. So just a couple of main bullet points on Mainnet. February. So next month slated to launch permissioned Mainnet Alpha for our futures curves. We're going to launch a couple of futures markets with curves.
00:36:40.434 - 00:37:26.324, Speaker A: And then additionally we'll try to add a couple of options strikes on top of it. It will initially be a closed alpha where a bunch of permissioned groups will end up writing various trading bots to it. We're going to have a couple of UI applications connect as well. And then they're effectively going to try to break the system. And every week we'll reset it. And then hopefully after a few weeks we feel that we're in a place to, to go through audit and then get it into a much more open mainnet. Also alongside of that hero staking and governance, which has been worked on actually and is up on Devnet now and has been worked on by our team.
00:37:26.324 - 00:38:16.862, Speaker A: Really, this week has been one of the big milestones for a couple of our engineers who have been here month. After that, start working on permissioned operator integration. So we kind of can get both sides of the market. We obviously don't want to have an environment that is professional trader to professional trader all day, because I think that to really start creating a reflexive flywheel liquidity, we're going to need to have both professional traders who are willing to compete for deep, robust markets. But in order for them to be competitive, they're going to need flow that will cross the bid ask spread. So then in March, also, european vanilla cache settled. European cache settled.
00:38:16.862 - 00:38:30.334, Speaker A: Vanilla options will launch in a much larger alpha. And then in Q two, we'll hopefully look to launch that the hero serum, open gateway. And that's all I have.
