00:00:00.360 - 00:00:32.510, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Paraswap, the leading aggregator to find best prices across various dexs. You'll hear more about them later in the show. This is a really interesting episode of Empire. I think you're all going to enjoy it. We had the three founders of Skrull, which is one of the least known but most innovative companies in crypto. They're working on CK rollups. Santia and I have just been talking a lot about what we want with the show.
00:00:32.510 - 00:00:55.062, Speaker A: And one thing that's really important to us is we obviously wanna bring you the big names. We're recording an episode with Olaf Carlson. We later this week we've got Kevin O'Leary who came on the show. We have Vance and Michael from framework. We wanna bring you the big names, but we also wanna get really into the weeds of what is coming. Not just in a month from now, but in six to twelve months from now. These episodes are going to be a little more technical than you're used to.
00:00:55.062 - 00:01:16.086, Speaker A: It might be with names that you've never even heard of, but this is the first one of those episodes. It's with scroll. They came out of kind of beta and hiding for like a year and they were just heads down building. It's PhD, folks. It's people who've worked on machine learning and AI at Amazon. They're absolutely brilliant. They just raised their series a $30 million from Bain.
00:01:16.086 - 00:01:31.534, Speaker A: I know Santee's an investor as well. And yeah, because of who Santi invests in and just, I think because of the show and because of blockworks, we have access to some of these names and we want to put them in front of you guys. So I hope you guys enjoy this. And Santi, I'm curious to get your take. What do you think of this episode?
00:01:32.034 - 00:02:18.574, Speaker B: I think this is sort of gets a peek into what I do day to day, which is not just podcasting, but it really is meeting people that you know, from all kinds of walks, super smart people you've never heard of, but are doing incredible research. And there's a number of things that I get excited about when I first met them. Sandy's coming from a pretty successful venture fund. She was an entrepreneur before that. One of the other founders is at AWS and their AI team and another founder was pursuing his PhD and doing really cutting edge cryptography research. To me, it's always really exciting to see that because I think it speaks to web3. And the primary thing that I get excited about, whether we're in a bull market or bear market.
00:02:18.574 - 00:03:12.834, Speaker B: I always look at where are the clusters of human capital, and especially smart people want to work on very difficult problems. And we've heard Vitalik was talking about scalability since day one, and he's been pretty vocal around ZK like zero knowledge proofs are perhaps one of the most fascinating things that have been talked about over the years. It's been very theoretical, but I think we're one step closer and it feels like we're a year or two away from actually seeing really efficient, practical implementations of this fascinating technology. And so it's great. The other element that I love is it's a team that's primarily based in China. So I've always kind of been annoyed to some extent that I haven't seen that many chinese projects. And I think it's by virtue that I'm not chinese, I'm not in the ground.
00:03:12.834 - 00:04:00.218, Speaker B: And for anyone listening, I mean, we had a great episode with Jason who's based there and investing heavily. And so I think this is going to be a great episode because I think you'll be hearing more and more about scroll and what they're doing over time, which it's not to say that it's a winner take all l two market. I think there will be multiple versions and implementations of them, but I think zero knowledge proves credibly. Really take us to like supporting billions of users. I'm going to go on a limb saying billions, but I think this is why this episode is important to get a better understanding of Ken Ethereum scale, which continues to be a recurring theme, especially with these as more applications get built and they just congest the block space and becomes really expensive for users. But scroll and other type of versions can take us there.
00:04:00.386 - 00:04:24.122, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. Like you mentioned, I mean, Vitalik said in the medium to long term ZK rollups will win out in all use cases as Zk snark technology improves and scrolls, really pushing the boundaries of just scaling and ZK tech with their ZK EVM rollup. And so we hope you enjoy, you'll hear from three people here. So Sandy is one of the co founders. She was previously a partner at Fission Capital, which is a crypto focused investment fund. Hi. Chen leads engineering.
00:04:24.122 - 00:04:42.698, Speaker A: He was previously a senior applied scientist for the AwS AI team. And ya ya Zhang is now on leave actually from. He was getting his PhD at NYu. So they're absolutely brilliant. Becomes a pretty technical conversation. Santi kept with them pretty well. I'd say Santi led most of this one, but yeah, we hope you enjoy it.
00:04:42.698 - 00:04:55.450, Speaker A: If you enjoy it. Dm me, DM santiago, follow us. Follow our account on Instagram, excuse me, on Twitter, and just let us know if you like this. If you don't like it. Yeah, Santi is getting on Instagram now. So anyways, without further ado, enjoy the show.
00:04:55.642 - 00:05:03.410, Speaker B: Thanks everyone. For the benefit of everyone, just give us a very basic explanation of what is scroll.
00:05:03.482 - 00:05:23.264, Speaker C: Yeah, sure. So scroll is a Zkevm project, and we're building something what we call native Zke EVM, and it's striving for full EVM equivalency. And we're trying to deliver exactly the same experience on ETH L1 in a Zk setup. So in a much faster and more efficient way.
00:05:24.324 - 00:05:38.236, Speaker B: And I might be familiar with this, Jason might be familiar with this, but we want to peel it back for a lot of the audience. What exactly is, when you say what is ZK? Why is it so important and interesting scalability purposes?
00:05:38.420 - 00:06:41.452, Speaker D: Yeah, maybe I can just quickly introduce what is. Ok, so zero knowledge proof is basically crypto primitive, which instead of re executing the computation itself, the one who executes this computation can generate, mathematically, can generate a proof which is very succinct. For example, for a very large computation, that your proof may be just kilobytes and you can verify this proof very efficiently. And verifying this proof is equivalent to re execution of this computation. So basically, you can get your result in a verifiable manner, like you get your result and you get the proof, and after verifying the proof, you know, this result is exactly the result after you're executing this program. And because of this very nice verifiability, like it can fit greatly into this blockchain space, because blockchain is publicly verifiability. For example, like if you are, you broadcast a transaction in a blockchain, layer one, every node, after receiving this transaction or receiving this block needs to re execute, or those computations inside.
00:06:41.452 - 00:07:21.796, Speaker D: And this is very inefficient, right? Because you have that, that much redundancy. And the more nodes you have, the more decentralized you have, the more computation you need to do. So it's, it's very inefficient to do that. And so the idea behind the keyword is that we can leverage this thinness of Ziki, snark or Theonoli proof to compress this large computation off chain and then on chain, you just need to verify this proof. So the basic workflow is that you can, instead of sending all the transactions to a layer one network, you send that to a centralized L2 node, and this L2 node will generate L2 blocks. And for each block it will generate some proof to proving that all the transactions inside this block is correct. And then it was a misses proof on chain.
00:07:21.796 - 00:07:53.262, Speaker D: And this proof will be verified by some on chain smart contract. And so it's mathematically equivalent to re execution of all those initial transactions. And then after it's got verified, you know, like it's, it means like, you know, it's already included. So this can massively include the throughput of ethereum. And also like for each transaction the gas fee will be amortized because it will only be the verification fee. And like amortize over like maybe 1000 transactions included in this proof.
00:07:53.398 - 00:08:14.082, Speaker B: So hope that can, that's a, that's a good understand. Maybe to start, like, folks might be familiar with rollups, we talk about like optimism and arbitrum. These are some implementations of types of roll ups. How does scroll actually work and how does it compare against something like optimism or arbitram?
00:08:14.218 - 00:08:58.200, Speaker D: Yeah, so basically if you are like, so there are basically two categories for L2. One is optimistic and the other is. So they basically all like the, the high level workflow is pretty similar. Like you send the transaction to a L2 node and it will generate some proof in some format and some proof on chain. But the difference is that they don't know proof. Basically it's a validity proof, which means after, if you can generate proof, which means those computations are already correct, because if they are incorrect or you insert some bad transaction, you can't just generate the proof because your computation is not correct. So as far as you can generate that, it means the competition is correct.
00:08:58.200 - 00:10:02.204, Speaker D: So it's basically only relies on math and crypto. But for optimistic route, they raise a different proof game. It's called fraud proof. Basically it's more like some economic challenge game, which basically the idea is that you can submit your result on chain, and because you also upload your raw data on chain, so everyone who's seen this transaction, they can react to this transaction on their local machine and they can see whether, whether we get the same result or not, if we don't get the same result, which means they want to upload the result, it's fake, or there are some bad transactions, and I can challenge this result. And then they went into some challenge period, and they do multiple rounds of such challenge game. And then finally they just makes all the challenge into just one step, and then on change work, execute this step and know, like, with the correct or who is wrong and then punish some party. So that's also the reason because, you know, your multi run interaction or this challenge game takes a very long time.
00:10:02.204 - 00:10:23.094, Speaker D: So that's why, like, you need a longer time for withdrawing from. From L2 to layer one in optimistic rope. So basically, it's two different assumptions. And so, yeah, but they are more, like, among optimistic routes, there is arbitrage and optimism. And in Zika, there are a lot of players like Zika sync software and.
00:10:23.634 - 00:10:51.634, Speaker B: Right. Maybe, you know, ZK rollups have been sort of the. All the rage. And, like, with true academics, like, it is kind of, like the most ambitious. And, you know, when even I remember talking to, like, the arbitrary guys, like, I feel like most. Most people agree that Zeke rollouts are kind of the way the future to achieve true, true scalability, because optimistic rollups kind of have a limitation at some point. But it's always been, like, the tech is super fascinating, but computationally, it's very difficult to actually get there.
00:10:51.634 - 00:11:36.254, Speaker B: Can you just give us a. I've been hearing about Zika rollups since forever talking to Zuko, and a lot of the leading cryptographers are really fascinated by this, but it has felt like it's been slow at times. But obviously, a lot of people might not appreciate all the research, especially in academia, that's been going on in this field for a long time. I know you guys come from academia, so can you walk us through, kind of, like, what has been the evolution of zero knowledge proofs? How is this moment in time different than perhaps, 2018? How far have we come in the state of ZK rollup research? And how close are we and actually seeing efficient implementations of ZK rollups?
00:11:36.334 - 00:12:16.026, Speaker D: Yeah, that's a very good question. So, basically, like, back in 2018, as you said, you know, zero knowledge proof is not as famous as it is right now. So the most used library is libs, not built by Zcash team. And the most famous application is still Zcash, where you can use proof to protect your privacy and you can make some shady transactions, which is really cool. And then, like, I think the biggest breakthrough happens in 2019. It's actually the second half year of 2019, where there are a lot of new protocols coming out, and the biggest big screw, I think, during that time is the appearance or the discovery of polynomial. So, basically, it's a.
00:12:16.026 - 00:13:05.664, Speaker D: Polynomial is a crypto primary, which is actually, the paper happened, like, ten years ago, but in 2019, cryptographers find that it can greatly reduce the overhead of protocols and some other stuff which also makes this happening is that as I mentioned, like pulling overhead is very huge. But we, there are more and more research on the hardware acceleration. For example there like we use one on some ASIC and IPG acceleration for poor and we also have the fastest GPU pooler implementation. And those implementation can be like an order of magnitude faster than previous implementation. So like you got, you also get very fast prover because proving algorithm is highly higher level. And fourth is that you also got some more efficient construction for recursive proof. So the basic idea is that.
00:13:05.664 - 00:13:24.828, Speaker D: So for one program, if it's really large, you take a very long time to generate proof, right? But you can cut this program into several pieces and you only need to generate proof for each piece. And then you can use one proof to verify multiple proofs and recursive minor so that you can reduce the overhead for each piece and then you get your final proof.
00:13:24.916 - 00:13:31.106, Speaker B: How do you differ from the different other implementations? And you were touching on this earlier, but like Starkware and Zksync.
00:13:31.220 - 00:14:06.938, Speaker D: Sure, sure, yeah. For Stackware and ZK sync we are very different. Like for instance, stockware is. So they are also like we are all building some general purpose Zika route. So it's basically in our Zika app you can write smart contract and you can deploy, but we take different technical approaches and we have different compatibilities regarding to the EVM. For example, like stockware, if you want to, they have a, they have a stocknet which basically you can deploy smart contracting in stocknet. But if you want to develop a smart contract in stockware and deploy them on Stocknet, you need to use their domain specific language called Carlo.
00:14:06.938 - 00:14:46.710, Speaker D: So this language is designed for efficient execution in zero knowledge proof. So it's a new language, it's pretty different from solidity, from those, you know, those traditional, like smart contract developers. It's a totally new language with totally new features, and you have to re implement everything there. And then after you implement your program, their compiler will compile this down to their cargo assembly code, and then this card assembly code can run on their defined ZK virtual machine. So they also use a different virtual machine which is different from Ethereum virtual machine. It's a totally new ZK virtual machine for efficient application. For ZK, for example, you can generally proof more efficiently.
00:14:46.710 - 00:15:13.186, Speaker D: And so that's stuck there. Basically you need to use a new language and compile that down to their virtual machine and deploy there. And there is an external team who builds some external compiler for them. To be compatible with solidity. So the idea is that solidity is turing complete and their cargo is also touring complete. So you can use some compiler to compile this solidity to their readable card code and then you can deploy that on start. Net.
00:15:13.186 - 00:15:37.614, Speaker D: So it somehow achieves, in some sense it achieves language compatible because you like for solid developer you can also compile. But you know, it's like, I think developers, if they really want to deploy on stocknet, they also need to be very familiar with Cairo because it's very very insecure for developers who don't know like you know, what, what they are deploying there and what's a low level execution detail.
00:15:37.914 - 00:15:55.256, Speaker B: And to be absolutely clear and fair you would have to learn Cairo to interact and startware or Starknet, you couldn't like use EVM, use a compiler and then like you have to learn this language to deploy. And is that a correct assumption?
00:15:55.440 - 00:16:28.902, Speaker E: So I think as Ian mentioned before, there's a compiler group on third party called Warp and they can compile some part of the solidity into chiral to give you a bootstrap how to program that. And I think if you want to go very deep you still need to learn what chiral program means and then you need to also make modification at that. And then I think at this point the warp is not 100% compatible with the solidity with all a solidity compiler does. So you still need to manually look at compare the generated code versus your original solidity code.
00:16:29.078 - 00:17:26.260, Speaker D: And for Ziki sync I think they take approach which is more EVM language compatible. And so their approach is that, so they also have their circuit language called Zinc and you can write zinc which is to write some specific circuit. And they also have, because they also want to be compatible with solidity and so they want to be compatible with two languages. So they are using a compiler infrastructure called RVM. So this is a very, this is a commonly used compiler infrastructure in like traditional like programming language or things like that. So the idea is that you can take any high level language and compile down to some our VM IR and then you can do some of these things in this middle layer and then like you can, you can, you can compare that down to different microarchitecture, for example AMD and Intel, they have different ESA. So that's why how you can make different high level language be compatible with different low level VM structure.
00:17:26.260 - 00:18:13.200, Speaker D: So they are reusing this. And so basically they have a compiler, they also have a compiler, but built by themselves to compile solidity or low level u which is a solidity iron and then compare. But from very high level you can just imagine its solidity to this Lvm IR. And zinc will also compare it to this IR and then they will compare this IR down to their zke evm bytecode. So they call this bytecode zkevm bytecode, but it's different from Ethereum virtual machine because it's actually a different VM design. It just has this feature of being compatible with solidity. So basically it's still like compiler and compile down to a different bytecode or different low level style and run on different virtual machine which is different from EVM.
00:18:13.200 - 00:18:42.374, Speaker D: So that's another. But the good thing is that they are more compatible with solidity than software. So I think they achieve maybe 99% of solidity and things like that. And so it's more easier for developer to use that and they have build some plugin in hard hat and for some other for developers to really easy to use that, but it's still not EVM. And yeah, got it.
00:18:42.414 - 00:19:24.934, Speaker E: I can also add to some standpoint the comparison between us and the ZK sync and Stackware. So I think one thing you can take from a more high level way to view this, what your circuit trying to prove. So there's two level of things you can prove the solidity language, like that you can compile the language and then build a different runtime. So the solidity code, the smart contract, they run on the same virtual machine. It's basically the runtime for how you execute your smart contracts. But you can build a different runtime in the ZK circuits. And then you can prove that the solidity code can be run correctly on your virtual machines.
00:19:24.934 - 00:20:03.944, Speaker E: On your runtime, that's like, we call it language level compatibility. And then that's how the ZKsync and software is doing. So they design a different runtime like a virtual machine that's different from the extreme virtual machines. But on the other hand, we're building directly, we're taking the ECM virtual machine specs and then writing the circuit to prove that ECM virtual machine can be executed correctly. So we don't need to care about how you compile your solidity into your asian virtual machine's own instruction set. I would just directly prove that all of the instruction executed in the ECM virtual machine can be correctly verified inside a circuit in SDK circuit.
00:20:04.684 - 00:20:33.154, Speaker B: How difficult was this to put together? I think maybe if you can give us an understanding of all the work that's been done in the background, how the team came together and how close are you when you say a fully EVM, ZK EVM, I would assume that took years to build. Or isn't the process of being built is it already complete? Maybe walk us through the evolution of scroll over last couple of months and maybe years.
00:20:33.614 - 00:21:42.908, Speaker E: Yeah, I think we've been building the ZKE EVM for about around nine months so far. And then we're also working with a community, not only us building the ZKE EVM, also working with some applied TKP team inside XM foundations and then some other community members because that's power of building this open source way that you can have lots of people who are interested, who want to contribute to this, they can build together. So I think so far, so we're building like this. So we have all of the high level designs of how the ZK event should work and how you should write the circuits to prove that. But we have multiple circuits, main circuits are proving the state machine inside the ECM virtual machine can be executed correctly and all of opcodes can be executed correctly. And there's other subsets, circuit, merge circuit that can prove the memory and stack all of the ram can be executed correctly. And then there'd be also some part like they're trying to prove the catch hack the hash function, the shastri hash function can be executed correctly, et cetera.
00:21:42.908 - 00:22:07.726, Speaker E: So I think that so far the progress has like we have, I think like around like the 70% of the opcodes can be already correctly verified and then proved inside the circuits. And then, and then I think we are quite close to getting something like the really working for. We can take a ERC 20 transfer execution trace and then that can prove correctly inside the ZK evM. So far.
00:22:07.870 - 00:22:36.474, Speaker B: That's great. And so if I have this right, Sandy, you were a partner at Fission Capital. You were sort of investing in blockchain. Hi chan, you were previously at AWS, their AI team I believe. And yeah, you were doing your PhD at NYU. So how did all of you guys come together and decide to build it? And who else is on the team? Where are you guys based? Just give us an understanding of how you work. And how did it come together?
00:22:37.094 - 00:23:24.276, Speaker C: I think we met about a year and a half ago, kind of through mutual friends in the competitive math and ethereum community. And once we got together we started kind of as a group group kind of brainstorming what were some of the highest impact stuff that these ZK research could bring to the current kind of overall blockchain environment. And to us, scaling is by far the biggest problem that exists in the space. And if we could solve that, that's easily like the biggest opportunity for the next decade. And so we started kind of toying around with some ideas. And based on some of Jiang Ye's research, we decided, you know, maybe we could have an edge in building something. And then, and then it just all kind of spiraled and snowboard from there.
00:23:24.276 - 00:24:13.684, Speaker C: I think up till this day, like fast forward, we have about 25 people now around the world. And almost everybody is connected through friends or mutual friends, through a kind of a common interest in research and building on the cutting edge of what's possible and also just kind of through of this value alignment. I think everyone we've managed to gather so far are attracted to scroll not because of how high profile we are and also not because of how much resources we have, but it's more just strongly aligned in terms of the interest in the project we were working on and also this common value about building in the open source and sharing the code with everybody and kind of bringing this knowledge to everyone. I think that that's part of our founding story, I think.
00:24:15.104 - 00:24:37.252, Speaker B: How do you think about developing a moat when you are building truly in the open? Because other teams are closed sourced at the beginning, then decide to progressively open source and maybe for competitive reasons. But does this worry you that it could be a disadvantage for you guys if you're building out in the open?
00:24:37.428 - 00:25:14.864, Speaker C: I think part of our moat is the people we've gathered and the skillset and knowledge we have in house. And that part is very difficult to replicate and also the relationships we've built with the academic community. And I think for now, the benefit of building in the open source far outweighs the cons. And I think with more people joining this community and the faster we will go. And it's very difficult for someone who's kind of starting from a closed source setup to be able to move at the speed that we're doing.
00:25:15.484 - 00:26:19.356, Speaker E: And I also have some experience working pretty sick in the open source community. So I think that's very different from building a whole protocols which you are trying to bring some trust with a large community. So there's the community which build ZK EVM and then you can also even expand as community to the developers who are trying to build a new applications on your protocols. I think having the open source, you can start in front, earning your trust and then starting from the beginning and then you can have more people who look at your code who find that piece of the technology is quite good. And also people can also verify that, can audit that, that's looking at the piece of code. And also this is some way like you can attract those talented developers and researchers who look at this piece like a code and they can be very interested and come trying to contribute and then even maybe can join you in the future. So I don't think that's a disadvantage of that.
00:26:19.356 - 00:26:39.914, Speaker E: As you said before, I think building the ecosystem is more of a success. Success of the, to define like a protocol, like a blockchain, a project. So that's like the, so we don't think like we worry a lot about like people forking your code because like the building the community is like the more important pieces. Since then.
00:26:40.494 - 00:27:07.010, Speaker A: I want to get your guys take on something. So we had Vance and Spencer from framework on the podcast the other day, and they believe that every kind of scaled project will eventually migrate to their own roll up to optimize the code for their application and end up adding utility to their own token. It seems like scroll is on this kind of mission to have a general purpose roll up. Do you guys think that apps will end up using scroll for their own roll up? Or like, what is this kind of, what does that relationship look like in the future?
00:27:07.122 - 00:27:49.442, Speaker D: Maybe I can expand more. They are definitely, if you have special needs, you can have your specialized circuits and you can deploy a special like Vikram. But there are multiple problems inside this diagram, like for them having too many applications specifically. So the problem one day is that you miss the most important thing in Defi and in smart contracts is composability. For example, if you build something for Dax, you build something for landing protocol. For each protocol you build some music route, but there is no composability, which means you get some flash alone. You can't just spend that on other application because each proof will only generate for their own circuit execution.
00:27:49.442 - 00:28:16.780, Speaker D: So it's very hard to have compatibility like, you know, between different ZK robots. So that's, you know, very important. And also like, as you, as you said, like, you know, you can have some customized like optimization for your foil, for your program and write some customer circuits, but it's very hard. And like, it needs strong expertise, it needs auditing. It takes you a lot more than just using one universal circuit. So that's another issue here. And the third is that.
00:28:16.780 - 00:28:30.744, Speaker D: So even if we have something very universal, we also plan to explore maybe adding more precompile to our ZK eVM ahead of e three m and support much more than just evM at this stage. So that's our plan.
00:28:34.164 - 00:29:03.044, Speaker A: All right, everyone, quick break from the show to share a big update from our friends at Pariswap. The best platform to stake, swap, trade, farm, and more. Paraswap just launched gas refunds. Based on how much you stake, you can now get up to 100% of your gas refunded on all of your swaps on Paraswap. This is huge for anyone who has spent a lot of time in Defi. Or maybe it's just starting out. You know how egregiously expensive the gas transactions can get.
00:29:03.044 - 00:29:23.930, Speaker A: The gas fees are ridiculous at some points in time, and now you can get those entirely refunded on Paraswap. To participate, all you need to do is stake a minimum of 500 psp. Big shout out to the Paraswap dow for making these refunds possible. Really, it's just. It's tough to beat Paraswap right now. They give you the best prices. They save you money.
00:29:23.930 - 00:29:38.806, Speaker A: You've got this gas refund if you stake PSP. They've got a smooth and really user friendly interface, fast swapping. It's really everything that you'd want from a Defi platform if you don't use them already. Check out Paraswap today at Paraswap IO.
00:29:38.990 - 00:30:11.272, Speaker B: Now let's get back to the show on this point. Oftentimes we talk about, you know, the tech can be fascinating, it can be superior, but there is still a lot of requirement from a BD standpoint to attract projects, to attract community. Obviously, you guys, building an open source is very much aligned with ethos of. I think smart developers appreciate the true open source ethos that you're taking. But talk to us a little bit more about how do you see the competitive landscape in an l two environment. Obviously, we have optimism. We have arbitrum.
00:30:11.272 - 00:30:40.694, Speaker B: We're going to have starkware. There's a few implementations of starkware. You have immutable x. How do you see, broadly speaking, the l two landscape evolving over the next couple of years? Where's your placer? And what is success? What is winning for you guys in this kind of, is it a race to become the best l two? Do you want to focus on particular applications? I'm curious what goes into these internal discussions around kind of winning a market.
00:30:41.194 - 00:32:10.040, Speaker C: I think for the time being, we're just 100% focused on developing the kind of the best solution and the most developer friendly and the most user friendly. And that's going to occupy the bulk of our time until at least like the end of this year. In terms of ecosystem development, I think, you know, a, we're trying to, we're hoping to attract value aligned like smart developers who recognize what we're doing and they recognize that, you know, being peer reviewed, it means we have hopefully a higher level of security guarantees. And then the third part is that, you know, our kind of, my personal hope is that, you know, this, this l two scaling will enable a lot of kind of novel and useful cases and expand beyond the current prism of finance and Gamefi and enable kind of more high frequency transactions and activity on the blockchain. And I think some of the strategies we're thinking about are things that will kind of make onboarding a lot smoother or kind of make the ease of access to l two interaction a lot easier and obviously making the fees as low as possible from a technology standpoint. But we're hoping that all kinds of Dapps will build on us. Hopefully this is going to be a copy and paste really easy experience to migrate and the experience will be so smooth and seamless, you know, everyone will want to come on.
00:32:10.152 - 00:32:27.752, Speaker B: Can you comment a little bit on how is it working with the Ethereum foundation? Like what does it mean? I think they've lent their support to a number of their projects, I think including optimism for instance. But what kind of resources, what kind of experience have you had with the Ethereum foundation?
00:32:27.888 - 00:33:08.248, Speaker D: So basically like when we start scroll like our biggest motivation is that we want to build something general purpose and research. Then general purpose they grew up because as I mentioned, applications perfect, has a lot of problem of compatibility and things like that. And also we want to decentralize our pool because we have done a lot of research related to ZK hardware acceleration. So that's the two biggest thing when our building scroll is EVM equivalent ZK robot. And also we want to support decentralized pooling process to attract even more members to make this faster and generate proof for us. That's two biggest motivation. I sent this draft to Barry Whitehead from Ethereum foundation, who actually proposed Ekirop like years ago.
00:33:08.248 - 00:34:01.342, Speaker D: And I was talking with him and it happens to be the case that he was also looking into this Ziki Ram stuff. Because one important roadmap or end game for Ethereum is that it want to stack everything. So the idea is that for example, even on layer one ethereum you get some blog, you broadcast it into your network and every node still need to re execute a transaction inside this block. To verify that it's correct. So if you directly use the KevM in layer one, which means it will totally change this, you know, this workflow. So basically for example like you have some miner and you generate a block and you will enforce this miner to generate proof for this block and it will broadcast this necessary data for this block and this proof into your network and every nodes. Instead of re execution of the transaction, they just need to verify the proof.
00:34:01.342 - 00:34:51.020, Speaker D: So basically it can scale layer one directly in layer one. So that's their very ambitious goal, like take one existing Ethereum block and generate proof for that and you can even build something which is minuscl. Like you know, you can get one proof to prove the whole history for Ethereum, which is very exciting and they are very interesting to look into this and, but what we found more interesting is that we want to build a more efficient L2, which you know, we have our own account system, we generate proof, our L2 account and submit this proof on chain. So that's basically Zeum had two important applications and we are pretty aligned with because L2 is the infrastructure to scale Ethereum. So we really want to push for the development of Ethereum and so that's from that side we are more value aligned. So this collaboration actually happens very organically. Like Barry asks whether you want to work on this collaborate or not.
00:34:51.020 - 00:35:49.082, Speaker D: And we think, okay, so we definitely want to develop our circuit in an open source miner. And there are a lot of brilliant brains behind apply the KP team and for now there are over 20 people working in this repo in the open source miner. They have around ten people, we have around ten people working with them. You can't imagine a company have 20 very excellent and experienced ZK researcher and working on the same problem. So it's much stronger and much powerful from the community side, from the development side. Like so many great people are working on the same problem and they have, yeah, it's even very hard to hire such a strong team like, you know, for a single company. So that's, you know, it's really great, you know, it's very nice to work with so many, you know, nice collaborators there and we talk, as Hedgehog mentioned, we have some weekly meeting to coordinate different, different process and collaborating on developing all this and or not and things like that.
00:35:49.082 - 00:35:58.250, Speaker D: So that's basically how this works and yeah, so we are co building this, but we are just leaning towards a more efficient layer to version.
00:35:58.362 - 00:36:25.850, Speaker A: Yeah, I want to ask you guys one last question on roll ups before pivoting to talking about China for a second, which is in your guys minds, what is the maybe for folks who are a little less technical like myself, what are one or two big things that you think get unlocked if you guys are successful with scroll? Like, how does the world look different and how does the industry look different than what it looks like today? If you guys are successful, and maybe, sandy, if you want to start here, if I can put you on the spot.
00:36:25.962 - 00:37:29.282, Speaker C: Yeah, sure. I think the successful case in ten years time is, I think, when literally billions of people are interacting with L2s on a daily basis and using it on the back backend of tools that they don't even kind of mentally register as being blockchain based. I think that's the dream. I think we're already starting to see some novel applications where use cases are done, where people are having very, very frequent interactions with it, and it's kind of impacting their off chain life. And we want to be a part of that today, enable those things. And I think a lot of businesses will be built on web3 and we hope that will be built on there too. And I think up till now, because of the financial nature of everything that's been built so far, and part of that is due to the exorbitant fees of Ethereum up till today.
00:37:29.282 - 00:38:35.874, Speaker C: And so once we unleash that possibility with a much cheaper and faster Ethereum, we will likely to see a lot more adoption in the developing world and also a lot more tools and use cases that are beyond finance and beyond entertainment. But I think there's still obviously a huge amount to be built within the financial space and huge amount in the Gamefi NFT space. And all of that will just be fast, faster and better and cheaper. Yeah. So I think we're kind of at the precipice of, you know, the kind of age where just before, like Facebook and the fang companies came about, it's impossible to envisage what would come and how these, like, you know, applications would manifest themselves. That requires a lot more experimentation and imagination and a lot more new talent coming into the space to make that happen. And I think we just want to play our role as an enabler and kind of facilitate and enable those innovations to happen.
00:38:36.294 - 00:38:40.486, Speaker A: I love that. I think that's great. Hi Chennard. Yeah, would you add anything else there?
00:38:40.590 - 00:39:08.884, Speaker E: So I would think like, that if we're successful thinking, like if in the few years we can enable like the ten x, like even higher, more throughput, like per second on the ethereum, then I think that's defines us like as a successful projects for the ECM, I think, and that's our goal also we can lower the transaction fee a lot and then without sacrificing any security guarantee of the Ethereum itself and then enabling more people to use the Ethereum, use the cryptocurrencies.
00:39:09.044 - 00:39:52.584, Speaker B: So just to make it very concrete of what you're saying, obviously recently you saw the ape land sale, that kind of guaya went to 8000 and obviously puts in a question. Of course they could have done some optimizations at smart contract level, but still it puts in a question, can we scale how many users in this? So say that scroll is fully deployed and it's working. How would this compare to, for instance like Solana or some of the other l one s that are claiming higher throughput and more efficiency and yada yada yada. But I'm curious, how many users, how do you measure the, the scalability of Ethereum with scroll?
00:39:53.604 - 00:40:27.450, Speaker E: Yeah, I think that's a good question. So I think the first of all, if you compare the Ethereum versus the some solidity. So I think Ethereum has a diversity of different applications and then there's also a lot of more innovations. I think that's like a stronger developer ecosystem there. And so they're like a more different applications there, but I think like that. But there's also problem with the Ethereum is that it's not very user friendly. So not like user friendly.
00:40:27.450 - 00:41:19.920, Speaker E: I mean like the transaction fee is pretty high and then the waiting time that suit for this not so good for the Ethereum. So I think those like a problem Ethereum foundation, like they're also trying to solve that. And then it's like also what we are doing. So I think if we say we enable higher throughput and then the lower transaction fee cost, I believe the whole ecosystem and the developer community around Ethereum can come up with some more creative ways to build applications to enable to bridge more into the daily use cases, not only the financial applications. I was thinking that's the one thing I think with more infrastructure building, with more this capability of support, higher frequency and lower transaction costs, so there will be more and more different applications to come up.
00:41:20.112 - 00:42:09.294, Speaker B: We had Jason from Folio's ventures, who's also an investor in school, he branched out and his fund is solely focused on capturing the opportunity in China. And it's rare to find, I mean perhaps Dragonfly, but most of the times, you know, statistically speaking, China has a lot of, a lot of really good developers and talent. I think in engineers, at least in web two, you've had a lot of chinese Internet companies build a ton of value. Perhaps a more specific question is, like, we talk a lot about China, obviously in the context of they've been at different times pro crypto and also against crypto. How is it to build a team? How comfortable are you to be there? And what's kind of your thesis of like, what is China's role in web3? And I know there's a whole host of things, but just pick whatever you want to go and then we can riff off of that.
00:42:09.694 - 00:43:36.834, Speaker C: Yeah, well, maybe I can start with a kind of a first person vantage point from our perspective, what it's like to build scroll from the ground up and what it's like to gather a team. I think one of the great things about kind of building in China today is that, you know, there are some great universities and producing fantastic math talents and computer science graduates every single year and they're fairly concentrated and it's easy to get access to that talent pool. So the minute we're doing some working on something interesting, we start to attract talent within this core friendship group of math champions. And that community unexpectedly translates very well in the US, where there's also a similar community and similar particularly in like Ukraine and eastern Europe. And that's how we managed to build like kind of bootstrap the project and create the team that way. And I think from an application perspective, there's definitely a lot of kind of senior and trained talent and building very user friendly products and being able to like, adapt very well to the user feedback and environment. I think that part of the kind of startup science or, you know, the setup of how to use a very user friendly Dapp that's very, very kind of, well, well entrenched within the developer community in China.
00:43:36.834 - 00:44:39.746, Speaker C: In terms of the research community. The research community in China is relatively new to web3, I would say. And unlike America where there are so many like, professor projects, I think a lot of the academics, talent in China have not been so closely engaged with the web3 world until recently. And part of our setup is that we're open sourced and a lot of our researchers are still affiliated with academic institutions and there are no problems with them sharing their learning and sharing their practical lessons with the wider world, and that reduces our kind of regulatory risk to obtain to a very large extent. And yeah, and we're very excited to work with so many kind of experienced talent from web two as well, who are looking to build in this, to build in this environment. So I think, you know, that the last few years has been, has kind of been very kind to us in that sense.
00:44:39.930 - 00:45:28.204, Speaker B: Yeah. Would you say that, like, are there any web3 crypto protocols that have been started in China that you look up to? Because I know there's been a few very great researchers. I think one of them which started nervos, who was early on in Ethereum, like a core researcher, and then started off nervos, which has had, I don't know, questionable success, I guess. But I am curious. Sometimes you need a figurehead that you look up to in your local community. Is that true for you guys? Is there someone in China that you look up to, or is it just or other projects that you want to emulate? Maybe it's web two companies in China that you kind of look at as kind of blueprints to emulate that success.
00:45:29.344 - 00:46:13.816, Speaker C: I haven't really thought about that question, mainly because the way we're set up and the way we're organizing our project is so different from anything we've seen. Obviously, there's been a huge amount of startup success, and there are lots of products that we really, really admire in terms of how usable they are, such as TikTok. And I'm sure ye and Haitian have their version of their kind of projects that they look up to, but there are so many to name, I think Little Red book and obviously, you know, Tencent, which people use every day, and we want to build a product that's in a similar sense that's so easy to use that people don't even kind of think about it.
00:46:13.920 - 00:46:33.114, Speaker B: Yeah, maybe a last question for you, Sandy. You were an investor and now a builder. What do you like more and why? I guess bear markets you'd rather be a builder, and bull markets, you'd rather be an investor. And so right now, I guess you want to be a builder. I don't know, recording this while the world kind of is collapsing, which is kind of great and also comforting.
00:46:35.414 - 00:47:15.744, Speaker C: I think. I was an entrepreneur before I was an investor. And having been investing for about three or four years, I really craved the kind of depth of knowledge that you're able to accumulate by working, like focusing on a singular project. And that was the kind of premises to which we started kind of, you know, researching in the ZK space. And, you know, and then having met ye and Hai Chen, you know, both being fantastic talents and just, you know, complete geniuses in their respective fields. You know, I think I just decided this was going to be the most interesting and kind of high impact role I can play in the wider kind of ecosystem and community.
00:47:15.904 - 00:47:39.804, Speaker B: Before we wrap it up, I'm curious if you could just comment on when can we expect to see kind of the. The first implementation or the beta for scroll. And I know timelines are very fungible in the space and hard to commit to. I'm not asking you to do that, but just give us a general kind of understanding of what are the next. Are we going to see scroll out in the wild like the next twelve months? Is it going to be a couple years? Just curious.
00:47:40.384 - 00:47:53.184, Speaker E: Yeah, I was thinking. So we have different phases of plans. I think the most recent plan. We are having to have some of the proof of concept. And then having like the people can see like the. How to do like the transport using the decay rob. Like.
00:47:53.184 - 00:48:10.264, Speaker E: Or even do like some. Some like the units of like the style. The swap and on the DK Rob. And then that target like there will be around like summer this year. So it'd be like not too far but like the. Afterwards we also need to do like the more like the increment. More full fledged ZKVM.
00:48:10.264 - 00:48:27.212, Speaker E: That's like something like I could be like the adding like the. In the future. And also. Also we're also building like the. Trying to decentralize things. Like the siding like in phases. Like first we want to decentralize the proving networks which helps you to generate the ZK proofs.
00:48:27.212 - 00:48:50.544, Speaker E: And then the next one will be the decentralized sequencers trying to make the whole things. Also have a community removing the trust of us alone. And then all have decentralized things to avoid some of the censorships. And then removing the trust. But I have different faces. I think I will be seeing the next one or two years.
00:48:51.204 - 00:49:20.886, Speaker B: Okay, well we'll have to hold you to that then. This is great, guys. I'm very happy that you came on and gave us for everyone out there, a little bit more familiarity with all the great work that's going behind the scenes. I don't know if there's any parting comments or thoughts that you want to impress upon people. If not, would be great to understand where people can learn more about scroll. I know that you had some really good resources on, you know, in ETH Amsterdam. But I'm curious if there's anything else you want to add before we wrap it up.
00:49:21.070 - 00:50:02.302, Speaker C: I guess our website is the. Is the central reference point for all of our information. And I think one thing to stress is that, you know, scroll is a really unique opportunity for any for people to live anywhere in the world to participate in building ZkebM and literally work on the cutting edge of cryptography and engineering and also possibly like community building and business development. I think that we're blank slate and it's very and you know, this is a hugely challenging project and we're hoping that we'll have more kind of value aligned people kind of joining our mist.
00:50:02.438 - 00:50:39.172, Speaker B: Absolutely. Before we go, a lot of times people think that coming you need to be super technical to work in web3. But it doesn't sound like that's always the case. There are plenty of opportunities to get involved something with you guys as well. Even as a project that I would think of is perhaps on the more cutting edge of research and ZK rollups. Smart people want to work in difficult problems. But for everyone out there I think it's just a reminder that you don't have to be an engineer to go work for protocol because you have plenty of other opportunities for people to co work and help you guys on a number of fronts that are just not pure technical.
00:50:39.172 - 00:51:03.228, Speaker B: So it's kind of refreshing to see. Well, great guys, really appreciate the time. I know it's late for you out there. I know you're in different parts of the world. But I really appreciate all of you coming on and wishing you all the success. And I'm sure we'll have to host you again once you make a little more progress and keep us updated on on the state of Zika rollers, which is fascinating and really mind bending stuff.
00:51:03.356 - 00:51:03.612, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:51:03.628 - 00:51:05.024, Speaker E: Also, thank you for having.
00:51:05.324 - 00:51:07.044, Speaker C: Thanks San Diego. Thanks Jason.
00:51:07.204 - 00:51:08.404, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely.
00:51:08.524 - 00:51:09.044, Speaker A: Yeah. Thanks everyone.
