00:00:06.090 - 00:01:07.140, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, thanks for coming. I hope you guys all had a fun bull market time to time to switch modes, I think, right into bear market mode. So what I'm going to try and do in this talk is, I guess, give you a little bit of a specific overview view of what happened with Synthetics in the last bear market, how we got into it, how we got out of it, some of the things that we learned specifically. But I think obviously with every market cycle, things change, right? So some of the things that might have made sense back in 2018, 2019 may not make sense today. And there's different considerations, different things that you guys are going to need to approach. I think the other kind of question distinction is probably where you're at in the cycle. So I'm assuming if you're here at a hackathon that maybe your project is a fairly early stage, maybe you haven't raised money or you've raised a little bit of money.
00:01:07.140 - 00:01:54.974, Speaker A: Obviously that's a bit different in terms of the lessons that we can take away if you're still in the process of trying to raise capital in this market. Right? Because that's very challenging. But yeah. So Synthetic started as a stablecoin called Haven. It was a crypto collateralized stablecoin. The purpose of it was to basically allow people to make transfers in nUSD, which was the stablecoin, and you would pay fees, right, which was a terrible idea. If anyone suggests to you breaking the ERC 20 standard to do something cool, really consider not doing that because it's not a very effective strategy, it turns out.
00:01:54.974 - 00:02:48.210, Speaker A: So in 2018, we launched the stablecoin, we launched the network, we started growing the network. And at that point, it still wasn't 100% clear in March of 2018 that we were in a bear market. Right? The problem with bear markets and bull markets is you don't really know where you're in the market except in hindsight, right? And so it probably wasn't until like, July of 2018 before we were like, okay, the party's definitely over here, right? We really need to knuckle down and figure out how we're going to work through this stuff. So I think today we're probably at that point, the bear market probably started like, maybe six months ago or something like that. Now, that said, the ETH D Five bear market, if you listen to DJ and Spartan on Twitter, I don't know if any of you guys follow him. He's an snxog. I think by his accounting, we're in like month 20 of the ETH D Five bear market.
00:02:48.210 - 00:03:28.362, Speaker A: Right? So there's always going to be distinctions in terms of where people are, what the cycle is up to. But so Synthetics, we built the stable coin. We were very happy with it. It was really cool. We had a fairly large community back then because we'd done a large AirDrop, which I'll get to when talking about airdrops and token distribution later, but we were really struggling to get traction. And then in the middle of 2018, USDC launched, true, USD launched, and a bunch of the regulated stablecoins launched. I say regulated non tether stablecoins launched, right? And up to that point, it was basically tether was like the dominant stablecoin.
00:03:28.362 - 00:04:10.138, Speaker A: Then Dai launched. Obviously, Dai started to get a little bit of traction. And as we realized we were in this bear market, and as we realized that it was going to be kind of impossible for us to determine when we were going to be in a position to raise capital again, we started thinking like, okay, we need to survive here, right? Like, by July we were like, all right, this is survival mode. How do we survive this situation? How do we ensure we've got enough runway, et cetera? Now, talking about runway for a second, if you have raised capital, hopefully, and I think in this cycle, maybe this is one of the lessons we learned. People have been raising in stables, which is good. We raised 30,000 ETH at, I think, $950 per ETH. Back then.
00:04:10.138 - 00:04:40.162, Speaker A: By the time we got to the bottom, it was $85. So that $30 million, roughly that we raised would have been about $3 million, which $3 million you can do a lot with. Unfortunately, in that year, we'd been spending money the entire time, hadn't really hedged our ETH exposure. Unfortunately, I'm an ETH maxi, so here we are. But I think we did definitely learn that lesson. The flip side, though, is that we learned the lesson of not raising ETH. We learned the lesson of not doing huge, crazy ICOs.
00:04:40.162 - 00:05:52.922, Speaker A: But what we did do is we started raising smaller rounds. So we were doing like 500K seed rounds and maybe a million dollar seed rounds, or like three or $5 million Series A or follow on rounds. The problem with that is there's a lot of projects out there that are actually not even as well funded as synthetics would have been even writing ETH all the way down, right? And so it's really critical as we got into this point where like, okay, everyone, it's a bear market to look at. What are you going to do to conserve runway and to survive? And so one of the interesting stories, I think, about synthetics building in a bear market is that there are actually a lot of people around us building in a bear market as well. And they were trying to work out, like, how do I get some funding, right? What do I do? There's two really good examples, I think, that came out of the bear market that were funded in, I guess, kind of non traditional ways for a startup, right? One of them is uniswap, obviously getting a grant. Everyone else is out there raising hundreds of millions of dollars. And Hayden turns up and gets a couple hundred grand and goes off and builds one of the most important protocols in the world.
00:05:52.922 - 00:06:45.546, Speaker A: So you can get away with if you're willing to be lean and have a couple of engineers and really tighten up the structure, you can get away with surviving in a bear market even with not that much money, right? You're probably surviving on, like, Ramen and something like that, but you can get through it. The other example, which I think is pretty pertinent for this room, is One Inch. So one inch turned up in the DFI community. The two guys, Anton and Sergey, probably like, early 2019, they did a couple of hackathons, but they won the New York hackathon, right? They built this really cool aggregator. It was kind of a simple starting point of what One Inch would become, but basically it just was finding a way to aggregate liquidity, right? We now had, like, on chain DEXes. There was Kyber. There was uniswap.
00:06:45.546 - 00:07:21.946, Speaker A: There are a bunch of things. And so there was this opportunity to put them together. So there's two lessons from that. One, I think synthetics paid them because they would go around to individual projects and be like, hey, we're really great engineers. Do you need anything to be done? Right? And we were like, well, our contracts are the least gas efficient on ethereum, so what do you think you can do there? And Anton, in the space of, I think, like 72 hours, reduced the gas costs of almost all of our contracts by like, 60%. And we were like, oh, shit. We really could have probably done a better job of doing at least one optimization run ourselves before we handed it over to you.
00:07:21.946 - 00:07:53.186, Speaker A: But it did two things. One, it demonstrated to us, the synthetics community, that Anton was an exceptional engineer and so that in the future, when he kind of turned up and asked for us to do things or they wanted to work with us, we were like, this guy's amazing. Whatever he's doing is going to be good. And so we supported One Inch and supported them through the bear market. So they got I think they got a 10,000 SNX grant when SNX was like $0.05 or something like that. And they actually didn't sell much of it.
00:07:53.186 - 00:08:14.010, Speaker A: So that kind of kept them funded for a while as well. And they were able to just keep chipping away. Just two people working, grinding, grinding for like six or seven months. And I don't think they even did their first raise until maybe early 2020. Right? So you absolutely can survive in this environment if you're willing to be lean. And there are other sources of funding. There are still grants out there.
00:08:14.010 - 00:09:12.538, Speaker A: There are a lot of DAOs who are actively deploying capital. And if you can come to them and give them a good idea, it's not just that you get capital, you actually also get kind of connectivity, because that connectivity that Anton and Sergey from One Inch had into the synthetics community, allowed them to leverage that reputationally to really grow much faster than they might have otherwise. The final thing that Anton did is he built the staking rewards contract. So we started yield farming in 2019, where we would pay people to put liquidity in uniswap. And the way that we did it is we would go at the end of the week, work out who had run a little script, work out who had had liquidity in uniswap, put it into a spreadsheet, and then Garth would literally manually send the transactions out to everyone. And Anton came up to us, and he's like, this is insane. What are you guys doing? We can build a contract that just does this, distributes it in continuous time.
00:09:12.538 - 00:09:42.518, Speaker A: So he built that. That contract, I think, has now probably become, like, one of the most four contracts in ethereum. It's had more TVL than almost anything. And again, it's just a demonstration of there are a lot of things that projects in a bear market may not have the time or energy or resources to do. And so if you're a really good engineer and you come into those projects and you start participating in discord, you'll see what those problems are, and you can be like, hey, I can help you with this. I see a problem. I understand the solution to this.
00:09:42.518 - 00:10:29.000, Speaker A: And a, they'll be very happy for you to help them, and b, they'll most likely pay you for it. And so the projects that are still around, the large OG DeFi projects, the ave's compounds, whatever, they're still very well capitalized. And you can leverage that to get capital, get grants, get bounties, keep yourself going, keep building, and kind of make it through that point. So back to synthetics quickly. So we got to the end of 2018, we realized stablecoins were not going to work in that form. And we started looking around, and we said, okay, what can we do here? What are our options? Because the stablecoin thing is not going to scale fast enough. We're not going to be able to survive with the runway that we have.
00:10:29.000 - 00:11:20.674, Speaker A: And we basically looked at all of the aspects of the things that we had done in the bull market, right? And this is kind of the critical thing in a bull market, because attention is so scarce, because there's so much chaos and so much going on. It's a very powerful forcing function to get people to do, like, the dumbest thing as quickly as possible, right? You just want to replicate whatever the narrative is, and you want to do it as quickly as you can. You don't want to think about it. You don't want to deviate. You just go and so if everyone's doing an AirDrop, you do an AirDrop. If everyone's doing 100 million tokens in their token supply, you do 100 million tokens. It's how bull markets work, right? You don't have a choice, because if you do 85 million tokens and someone turns up and they're like, oh, this is weird.
00:11:20.674 - 00:12:22.614, Speaker A: 85, I'm out. Sorry. 85 million tokens. Even if it has no relevance whatsoever to the project and what you're doing, you just don't have the opportunity to deviate from the playbook, right? The bull market playbook really kind of solidifies, and you end up in a situation where you're forced to do maybe not the optimal thing. So the nice thing is that in a bear market, you can really stop and go, wait a second. What were the things that we did that were really dumb? And so in synthetics, one of the things that we found that was really dumb and there were a number I mean, too many for a half hour talk, definitely, but there's probably a couple of key ones. One of them was this fixed token supply, right? So we had a fixed token supply because, of course, Fabian says, like, when you start an ERC 20 token, you put in a number that says, how many tokens? And then you click the button and that's how many there are, right? And we kind of looked at and we said, this is a bit weird, right? Why do we have a fixed supply token? What is it that's we've distributed? All the tokens.
00:12:22.614 - 00:12:56.626, Speaker A: The tokens are all out there. There's no way to incentivize people to use this thing. And so it was actually Livepeer who had kind of started this. Like, I can't remember they had a weird name for it, but basically they needed you to run this software and they would pay you tokens to do it. And in a bull market, noticing what Livepeer was doing was kind of impossible, right? I'd kind of heard the name, but I'd never even read what they were doing or even looked at it or whatever. And then in a bear market, I was like, let's look around and see what's happening. And one of the things was, Live here, and I was like, Holy shit, this is really cool.
00:12:56.626 - 00:13:24.240, Speaker A: They're getting traction. They're incentivizing people to do what they need to do. What if we were to change the monetary policy, go from a fixed supply token to an inflationary token and pay people to stake? Right? So that was one of the key things. And again, you are kind of not able to do that in a bull market, right? If we had tried to do that in the bull market, it would not have worked. People would have been super skeptical of it. They wouldn't have paid attention to it. But in a bear market, we can make it work.
00:13:24.240 - 00:14:51.746, Speaker A: I think a second thing that maybe in this environment, there's probably two things that are worth questioning. One is airdrops. That's been part of the playbook for the last three or four years, right? But particularly when it came to DeFi Summer compound started DeFi summer with this compound token distribution, yield farming distribution, right? Then uniswap really jacked it up by doing an AirDrop on top of it. I actually think at this point, and I've been talking to some of the projects that I work with, that we might have gotten airdrops wrong. Like airdrops actually may not be a thing that we should be doing right. And that we maybe should go back to first principles and say, wait a second, we want to get tokens in people's hands, but a bull market is able to kind of fool you sometimes into thinking that you're doing a good thing when you're actually doing a really dumb thing, right? And so I kind of have this sense that if you are looking to do a token distribution right now, we've kind of got this pie chart that everyone's agreed on, right? And it's like you can tweak the numbers a little bit, but it's pretty much you're kind of locked in, right? Like there's a certain amount for the contributors, there's a certain amount for investors, there's a certain amount for yield farming, a certain amount for an AirDrop, et cetera, et cetera. I actually don't know about the yield farming and AirDrop side anymore.
00:14:51.746 - 00:15:39.670, Speaker A: I kind of feel like we might be in a position where there are going to be some people and some opportunities in the next, like six to twelve months where you haven't launched a token yet, right? And so Quinta, I actually had a conversation with the Quinta team this morning and I was like, I know you guys want to do an AirDrop and I know your community is very excited about it, but we've seen how airdrops can go wrong, especially in a bear market, right? Because if you give people free money, they're just going to dump it. They don't value it. So there's, I think, some things that we could potentially tweak. Really the key thing in a bear market is to stop and look at what has happened over the last 18 months, let's say. And I guarantee you there's no one in this room. Every person that I've spoken to in the last two weeks has brought up something that I've never heard of. They're like, oh, what about this thing? And I'm like, never heard of it.
00:15:39.670 - 00:16:29.542, Speaker A: And they're like, how could you have not heard of that? I'm like, there's absolutely no way. And I had a conversation, I think there were four or five of us who were like in Yams. I don't know if any of you guys remember Yams, but every single one of us was like, oh, I'm so excited about this new thing that launched a few months ago. And the five of us, none of us knew what the other people were talking about, right? Like, that's how chaotic it is. So there's an opportunity now for you to do two things to kind of slow down, go back, do the primary research, see what's existed in the same way that we saw that Live peer had launched. And they were doing this interesting thing, and we obviously tweaked it a little bit. But had we not done that, had we not gone back and wait, what's going on with this live peer thing? Why is it working? Why is it getting traction? We wouldn't have changed our monetary policy.
00:16:29.542 - 00:17:42.602, Speaker A: We would probably be dead, to be honest. Right? Like Synthetics, if we don't start that staking reward system, I'm not standing here today, or I'm probably doing something else, I'm a different project. But Synthetics just wouldn't have survived. Right? So, yeah, I think going back, doing as much research as you can, finding out what's launched, looking at things that are interesting or different or novel or whatever, and working out how to combine those things or how to take them and tweak them is a really powerful thing that you can do in a bear market, which in a bull market you can't do for two reasons. One, if you do something weird, no one will pay attention, and you can't almost do anything weird because it's impossible to actually see what's going on because there's so much noise, right? And if you're on crypto Twitter, I think one of the best indicators of this is that the narrative and the conversation has kind of condensed over the last month or two, where we're actually all talking about the same thing for the first time in a long time. You go on crypto Twitter and your whole feed is all talking about the same thing, whereas it used to just be like people screaming nonsense constantly about whatever, but now we can actually sit down and have a conversation, which is what used to happen. We'd be like, hey, compound just launched their token.
00:17:42.602 - 00:18:32.766, Speaker A: What do we think about this? What are the bad things, what are the good things? And we would talk about it for like three days on crypto Twitter, it'd be like a whole conversation for the last twelve months that's just been impossible. Right? It's too much noise. So go back, look at everything that's happened, take the good examples, the bad examples, the weird things, the things that you don't quite understand, how they work or that don't make sense, look at them and try and work out, like, how can I apply this to my project? How could I take this and tweak it? I was just talking to someone here just before I started that was talking about structured products and derivatives. There are multiple different examples that people have built of structured products, especially tranching, like setting up like junior and senior tranches of things. No one's using them, there's not a single person. I mean, they might be I haven't gone back and done the research yet. Who knows, there could be 50 people that are doing this.
00:18:32.766 - 00:20:03.862, Speaker A: But as far as I can tell, no one has taken any of these structured products and combined them with something like an ave or a compound or whatever to try and create some novel composable solution. So even that, and there's myriad examples of this. So benefits of building a bear market, things slow down, you can take your time, you can go back, do research, you can slow down, and you can also explain things to people, right? A lot of the things that we're doing in DeFi are pretty complex, right? And if you have to dumb everything down to the absolute lowest common denominator, most crazy Djen speculator on Twitter, it's extremely hard to actually explain what's happening, right? And Synthetics had this problem for a long time as well. You couldn't get someone to pay attention long enough to tell them what we were actually doing in the bear market. We were able to through 2019, as more people came into the community, they were like, wait, okay, so how does this work? And you would go through and you'd build a very comprehensive explainer of this is how staking works and this is why it works, and this is the debt pool and these are all these things. And you can really get people who have some specific interest and want to be engaged and bring them into the community. And that for us has been the thing that I think has kind of allowed us to keep going this long is that our community is very open.
00:20:03.862 - 00:20:45.100, Speaker A: We have a bunch of different things that people can be interested in talking about. We give them in discord an individual channel. If they want to talk about mechanism design, there's a place to talk about mechanism design, they want to talk about shitcoin trading, there's a place to do that. If they want to talk about price, there's a place to do that. So we give people a place to kind of have that conversation because now is the time when you can foster it. Previously it was really hard, but I think over the next like six to twelve months, it'll be possible to start a dialogue and start a conversation with people. Let's see here.
00:20:45.100 - 00:21:48.670, Speaker A: So just talking about Synthetics a little bit and what we are planning to do for this bear market, how we're approaching the bear market. So one thing that we're going to do is rebuild the protocol from scratch, right? So again, this is kind of one of the things that happens in the last four years. We launched Synthetics, the current contracts in December of 2018. We have been iterating on those contracts over the last three or four years, but we've never been able to kind of stop, slow down, rebuild them from scratch, right? Because it's just impossible. Everyone wants the next shiny thing immediately, right? They want more synths, more this functionality, that functionality. And so you're forced to just race as fast as you can to kind of keep up with the market. In a bear market, we can now stop and this is one of the conversations we've been having internally, is like, we can stop and spend six months redoing the platform, building V Three.
00:21:48.670 - 00:22:49.374, Speaker A: There's huge opportunities to not be racing and not do the expedient thing. And so for us, what we're doing is we're rebuilding the entire architecture. We're also rebuilding the perpetual futures product. We're spinning out more projects. So things like quinta thales, et cetera. And those projects now are kind of independent on their own, having a chance to kind of scale out themselves. And then I think the other interesting thing that we're trying to do is and this is probably in my mind, the biggest gap that we had, the biggest thing that was thrown out through this bull market was governance, right? Because governance doesn't really pay, right? Governance theater is very easy to do, and it's fun, and it makes it look like you're doing the right thing.
00:22:49.374 - 00:23:26.294, Speaker A: But really, a lot of the stuff that's happened in this bull market is utter bullshit when it comes to governance, unfortunately. And so Synthetics, even though we've been decentralizing and we've gone through and we've removed our foundation dumb thing, don't do a Swiss foundation. I think we all understand that now, but back then, it wasn't that clear. Don't do a foundation. Get rid of any entities. Go pure dow, work on your governance. But in spite of that, in spite of all of that progress that we've made, it's still a fucking multi SIG at the bottom, right? And even though we've got a lot of structure around who's on that multi SIG, how they get on, how they get off or whatever, it's still a multi SIG.
00:23:26.294 - 00:24:15.770, Speaker A: And if you look at the kind of state of the art of where governance is up to, you basically just have a bunch of multi sigs spread everywhere, across almost every protocol. You've got a couple of protocols that have things like the compound governance module, right, where it is fully on chain. But the actual governance input is really poor because they use the weird delegation model where it's hard to get people to kind of engage. So Synthetics is working on building a new governance module, which is V Three GM, and that governance module will be fully on chain, but it will also be delegated. Right? So this is, I think, one of the critical things, especially if you're early stage, you cannot expect your entire community to engage in every decision. It's not possible, right? But you need to be able to continue to iterate. You need to be able to make decisions quickly.
00:24:15.770 - 00:24:59.574, Speaker A: You need informed people in charge. And so our delegation model, what we do is we basically have eight people on a council. Those eight people are like senior leaders. They're not necessarily contributors to the project, but they're senior leaders within the community. And those eight people sit on a council, and they make the decisions about what the protocol will do. The problem is that there's this discretionary element where they decide something and then they go to this other shadow organization and say like, hey, can you actually execute this on chain? And so what V three GM does is actually remove that so it says you can have a council of eight people, and those people will actually be able to make the changes on chain that are needed to happen with the protocol. But you will have veto power by token holders.
00:24:59.574 - 00:26:00.240, Speaker A: You'll have a whole bunch of functionality. And there's other people working on governance as well, right? There's a number of different platforms that are going to emerge, but one of the things in a bear market that I think you have the opportunity to do is get your governance, right? And we did this throughout the bear market. We invested in decentralization, we invested in better governance, we invested in all of these things, which in a bull market, there's no payoff. There's no payoff for investing in governance. But in a bear market there is. Because when you come out the other side, if your governance structure is working, if you've got the right level of decentralization plus good decision making, it's extremely powerful. And now synthetics as we've kind of come through into the bull market in the last twelve months was able to lean on all of that investment that we made during the bear market and be able to really out execute a lot of people that were kind of stuck with their old governance processes that didn't really invest in it and didn't really know how to navigate this process.
00:26:00.240 - 00:26:38.074, Speaker A: So, again, it really comes down to, I think, two key things. Take your time and make sure you survive, right? If you slow down, slow down decision making, think things through, you'll be in a much better place. Don't rush things. But then you need to survive, right? And there's a whole bunch of things you can do to survive. Bounties, grants, all kinds of stuff. But those are the two key things for the next, like six to twelve months. I'm not going to predict the price of ETH or how long this bear market is going to last or whatever.
00:26:38.074 - 00:27:07.934, Speaker A: If you want those predictions, you can follow me on Twitter. But I do think that we're in for at least another six to twelve months of this, and you need to be preparing for that. So if you've raised money, look at your runway check to see where you're up to cut things back. Be a little bit leaner. If you haven't raised money yet, it is still possible to get money. It's just harder to go out and raise equity capital or money for tokens or whatever. Look for the alternative funding mechanisms.
00:27:07.934 - 00:27:39.920, Speaker A: Look for EF. I think there's someone from the EF coming after, right? Like the EF is actually paying out grants now again, which is amazing. So take advantage of that. Look around, be hungry and just grind it out and hustle. And the fact that you're still here today is a pretty good sign because I think a lot of the tourists have already left the building. But you guys are still here, which is a pretty positive sign. So, yeah, hopefully we can all make it and get through to the other side of this market, wherever that is.
00:27:39.920 - 00:28:34.094, Speaker A: And hopefully we can do so really improving the overall state of the ecosystem by thinking clearly, thinking through what we're doing, looking at whatever innovations have happened, and kind of combining it all to get a much better ecosystem at the end. And also, final point, just to shill this, I'm not going to shill a specific L2, but do not even consider deploying on L One. We all need to get our heads around the fact that L2 S are ethereum now, right? By the time we get out of this bear market, deploying on L One will just not be a thing, right? Like, there is no way that a new project will be deploying on L One. You have to deploy on an L2. Now, which one you choose comes down to your own calls or whatever, but we really all as the ethereum community, as an ecosystem. Need to get our head around that. The future is deploying on L two S.
00:28:34.094 - 00:29:02.200, Speaker A: All of the transaction activity will happen on l two S. And the sooner we can all kind of collectively get that belief in our heads that this is where the thing is going, the better off we'll be. And I honestly think that it might be that consolidation around L2 S, that is like DFI summer the impetus for kind of taking us out of this market and kind of getting some momentum back. So, yeah, hopefully that was helpful. I don't know if I've got time for questions or anything, or if we want to do questions, but.
00:29:10.730 - 00:29:22.080, Speaker B: Financial markets, centralized, big Friday, where do you see, like, the future of synthetic commodities and futures markets? Like, over that 48 window over the week?
00:29:34.260 - 00:30:08.088, Speaker A: Yeah, so the question was obviously crypto is 24/7 trading, right? Like, our markets are always open, whereas, like, FX, commodities, equities, things like that are on like a Monday to Friday schedule. The nice thing about FX is the window is actually kind of short that it's closed. It's not that bad. But obviously for equities, it's closed more than it's open. Right. I think in the short term, how we manage that is with synthetics, we have Oracles, right? So we need a price from an external market. Right now, the liquidity is coming from the external market.
00:30:08.088 - 00:30:54.820, Speaker A: For equities. It's the Nasdaq or whatever. The New York Stock Exchange. We therefore are bringing an Oracle price in only when the market's open. Right. But there have already been people, some people, who are doing better than others, but, uma, for example, who've tried to create these markets even while other markets are closed, and Synthetics has looked at this as well, I think there is a pathway to getting representations, let's say, of things like commodities. So we have Synthetic gold or forex currencies or whatever, getting them to a point where there's sufficient liquidity on chain, where when the primary market shuts down and the Oracle is off, you can actually go to a bilateral trading mode and allow for people to actually get price discovery.
00:30:54.820 - 00:31:09.870, Speaker A: Just like after hours trading, right? There's less liquidity, but it can work. You just go like after hours trading. The other option is that SBF might just take over all of TradFi and make it run on FTX, and it might all go 24/7 anyway. So that's a backup plan, I guess.
00:31:13.050 - 00:31:19.800, Speaker B: How do you deal with certain.
00:31:26.290 - 00:32:25.082, Speaker A: It fun. So one of the interesting things about a bear market, if you haven't launched a token yet, you're lucky. Nice job. If you have launched a token and it's out there and it's circulating, there's this kind of bizarre effect where most of the people in the market have kind of disappeared, right? They're not actively managing their portfolios, they're not looking at what tokens they have. They might just have like 1015 different tokens sitting on finance. And in a bear market, getting attention can actually be problematic because someone does some big announcement, everyone starts talking about Synthetics and someone's like, oh yeah, I've got Synthetics sitting in my finance account, and then they go and just dump it, right? And so we actually had this really hilarious chart where we basically tracked every single major announcement that Synthetics did throughout 2018, or haven back then, but every single project announcement. And it's like absolutely ridiculous.
00:32:25.082 - 00:33:35.618, Speaker A: Like every single one, it's like red candle, red candle, red candle. Because as soon as you say something, people are like, oh yeah, I can dump that thing. So in terms of dealing with FUD, the only thing you have is conviction, right? You need to have a community, you need to have core contributors who have high conviction that you're going to be able to make it through. And that's, again, why I say go back to first principles. Really think, is this the right thing? Did we do this for the right reasons? Did we make the right decision for whatever reason? And if we didn't, then change it, which gives you an opportunity to kind of recover, but then fundamentally, you just need to be in the community, building confidence, building conviction, so that inevitably, when the FUD comes, you can get through it. I think the other thing as well, and this is hard, but I've always taken the approach of being as transparent as possible, right? So if someone's like, what is FUD? Right? Sometimes FUD is true, sometimes it's not true, right? But it's anything that's kind of negative against the project but a lot of times with Synthetics, people would come out and they're like, this thing doesn't work. And you'd be like, yeah, it actually doesn't work, but we're working on it.
00:33:35.618 - 00:34:10.322, Speaker A: And there is a way to kind of diffuse that where you're like, yes, we get it. It's not optimal. I mean, we had FUD for a long time in Synthetics around the way that we distributed rewards and people were like, it's gameable, you can snapshot and there are all these things and we're like, yes, absolutely. This is not the optimal design. We are working on it. We will get there. So just being transparent and not trying to deflect or obfuscate what's going on, being as transparent as possible and admitting the things that don't work, but also committing to fixing them is one of the best ways to get people to feel like, okay, we get it, it's not perfect.
00:34:10.322 - 00:34:13.460, Speaker A: We're working on this vision that's going to come down the road.
00:34:15.430 - 00:34:27.590, Speaker B: Synthetics does a really good job of capturing value in the token that accrues the value that is flowing through the protocol. And it's unlike most other tokens. Did you design those mechanics?
00:34:32.510 - 00:34:47.370, Speaker A: Yeah. So synthetics accrues transaction value. Right? And this started from Haven. So Haven, there were fees when you transferred the ERC 20. Again, reminder, don't do that. It's a really bad idea. But those fees went into a fee pool and were distributed to all the token holders.
00:34:47.370 - 00:35:17.078, Speaker A: Right? Now, that was one of probably the few things that I think we did in the bull market that was not really acceptable to do. Right. And there are a couple of reasons why. One, everyone was worried. If you're paying a dividend or you're paying fees or whatever, that's going to look like a security. I will say this very frankly. If you're doing things and making design decisions and technical decisions because you're worried about regulatory stuff, you are going to fuck yourself.
00:35:17.078 - 00:36:06.994, Speaker A: You need to have the guts to just be like, this is the right call. I'm not going to not do this because I'm worried about a regulator coming and saying this is a bad thing or whatever. So look at the actual design that you need to make. And if it's something that's really problematic, maybe consider tweaking it a little bit, or maybe consider how you explain it. But if you need to do that thing and you're not willing to do it because you're concerned about some regulatory interference, I would say, first of all, decentralize your governance a little bit better, right? And then second of all, you just need to make the call that if you're doing something and it's in good faith, that you're probably going to be okay. And so I think that when we looked around at all the tokens that were being designed and there were buyback and burn schemes and all these convoluted schemes that people had come up with in 2017 to try and avoid paying dividends. We just said, this is ridiculous.
00:36:06.994 - 00:36:53.462, Speaker A: Like, let's just pay the dividend and see what happens, right? I mean, I'm still here, I'm in New York and no one's locked me up yet. So most of the time I think people are a little bit overly concerned about that sort of thing. And so, yeah, there's absolutely things right now that a lot of people are doing that don't make sense that you could potentially do. And in terms of value accrual, I think the thing that got us out of the bear market last time was like DFI Pulse, right? DFI Pulse. Okay, to take a step back for a second. So 2018, there's a bunch of people building things. Finally, we actually have contracts on Ethereum that are doing stuff, which is pretty impressive other than just raising ICO funds, right? Like we had like functional smart contract suites, which was great.
00:36:53.462 - 00:37:52.890, Speaker A: And then we all looked around and we were like, wait a second, all of these things are kind of in the same category, right? And we got to the end of 2018 and I think Sep Protocol and a couple of other people like Dharma were like, wait, we need a term for this, right? We need to find a way to create a narrative so that we can get momentum from all of this activity. And so they thankfully came up with DeFi. DeFi was the thing that kind of crystallized everything for us and showed us that this is what was going to, I guess, be the thing that was going to take us out of the bear market. And I think that process of kind of coining DFI coining that narrative was extremely powerful. When we got to early 2019, there were enough people in DFI that we needed a scoreboard. And thankfully, DFI Pulse came up with a scoreboard. The scoring mechanism, maybe not the best scoring mechanism ever, TVL, but like, hey, it's still a scoreboard, right? And so we all of a sudden had a game that all these DeFi projects could play.
00:37:52.890 - 00:38:20.046, Speaker A: And it was like, how do you optimize for as much TVL as possible? And it worked. Like synthetics crept up the leaderboard, people started paying more attention. That was the place where people went, I think this cycle is going to be crypto fees. So you go and look at crypto fees and that's the thing that people are talking about. They're like, oh, okay, wait a second. So Uniswap delivers five times more fee revenue than Bitcoin. Something's going on there, right? And like 8 trillion times more than Ripple.
00:38:20.046 - 00:39:25.958, Speaker A: Why is Ripple still worth $30 billion? And markets take a while sometimes to gain efficiency, but my guess is, honestly, if you want to play a game that's going to be the game for the next twelve months is like crypto fees. Now, crypto fees, it's again, not a perfect metric like TVL, because what it doesn't do is say what amount of those fees that are generated are paid to who, right? So in the case of Uniswap, they generate a lot of fees but they're paid all the way back to LPs basically. Right. So there's no actual accrual to the token. So I think crypto fees, they are getting more sophisticated. I think they will improve this and they will get to a point where they show like, okay, what's the percentage that's retained by participants? What's the percentage that goes to token holders? But this will be the game because fundamentally if you're not generating revenue and you're not actually providing a service to people willing to pay for and paying the people who provide that service and you're not capturing that value somehow in the token, then long term it's just not sustainable. My hunch is, my intuition is that crypto fees is the game that we're going to be playing for the next like twelve months, which is certainly a better game than TBL.
00:39:25.958 - 00:39:37.120, Speaker A: Not perfect, but we're finally slowly learning things. I think we got a couple more minutes. This will be fun. Okay.
00:39:37.650 - 00:39:58.980, Speaker B: Hey, I'm Constant and I read for 700 to are you expecting raising that percentage? I mean, while we're already very high.
00:40:03.350 - 00:40:34.800, Speaker A: Protocols. Yeah, so this is an interesting one. This is actually a pretty, there's vigorous debate right now in the community. So the actual collateralization ratio right now, unless they rug me again overnight, is 350%. So we've dropped that over time. So the question was, okay, we are already capital inefficient in DFI, which I think is fair compared to TradFi. We don't have the ability to do like under collateralized lending, although it turns out maybe we do.
00:40:34.800 - 00:41:26.846, Speaker A: There's a couple of funds that have been getting away with it somehow. And so we have this situation where we're really capital inefficient and we've got highly volatile collateral most of the time in things like Ave and even Maker. Right. ETH is pretty volatile it turns out. How do we try and determine, I guess, the risk parameters around what those collateralization ratios look like? In our case we started at 750, we went as high as 1000% and now we've come down to like 300%. And I think ultimately what it comes down to is you need a governance process where you're assessing the risk of all of the various components. We use Gauntlet as well, which is very helpful, like Gauntlet does agent based modeling and a whole bunch of simulations to work out these things, but ultimately DeFi for the foreseeable future.
00:41:26.846 - 00:42:08.472, Speaker A: Again, unless there's someone who's done something cool that I haven't heard of potentially is probably going to be less capital efficient than TradFi. It's just the reality, unfortunately. But I think if you look at some of the protocols, like liquidy is not too bad. It's like 150% is kind of the threshold and you can go down to as low as 110 or 120. So there definitely are things that are more capital efficient, but under collateralized or uncollateral lending, I think, is a huge opportunity for this bear market. Like, if people start to iterate on that and work out a mechanism that allows for higher capital efficiency, I think that'll be very powerful. All good? Cool.
00:42:08.472 - 00:42:10.250, Speaker A: All right. Okay. Thanks, everyone.
