00:00:00.160 - 00:00:55.150, Speaker A: We're getting to a point like a Defi inflection point now, where Defi is just so cool. All the major projects in Defi are just innovating. I mean, it's already breathtaking, but it's accelerating. It's only going faster and faster. And I think that very soon we'll get to the point where Defi is just like the dominant narrative, the dominant use case, and sort of just the thing that dominates the mindshare of crypto. And we'll move past the meme coin, past the speculation on when Binance and all that kind of stuff, and into like, how do we deliver real solutions? How do we actually improve the world through things like making decentralized stablecoins, savings and rewards really easy to use. I'm here at token 2049 because, yeah, 18 hours ago, sky just launched on top of the Marina Bay sands with a really epic party.
00:00:55.150 - 00:01:26.996, Speaker A: And yeah, I mean, it's super exciting that after two years of work, the vision to transform maker, the oldest, most profitable Defi protocol, the world's largest stablecoin, into sky actually succeeded. And I think it's just, you know, all of Defi is growing up and with sky, what the big contribution is to make Defi really simple and easy to use to get the best benefits of Defi and bring them to the mass market.
00:01:27.138 - 00:01:35.808, Speaker B: Let's talk about the rebranding. What was the core motivation behind the rebranding from MakerDAO to Sky, and how does this align with the goals outlined for the end game plan?
00:01:35.944 - 00:02:55.850, Speaker A: Yeah, so really, I mean, so the main thing is that sky is about making the benefits of Defi really simple and then bringing them to the user so that anybody can easily access the benefits. Right? And it turns out that after basically working on this for almost seven years with a live stablecoin in maker, the really clear use case is use a decentralized stablecoin to make the best and easiest place to get reward for saving. And so that's what USDS brings to the table. So really the rebrand is about a product focus on the stablecoin itself and the savings functionality of USDs. And then because that is the core focus of the entire system when it comes to how it should be perceived by users, then all of the rest of the branding, the user experience, experience, the app Sky Money that also just launched 18 hours ago, all of that is just focused around letting users get rewarded for saving without having to be some kind of technical genius. But just anyone should be able to access Defi and get the best savings rate available in ecosystem and also the cool new innovative feature of sky, which are the native token rewards that are built into the sky protocol and that are also now available on Skydive Money.
00:02:56.710 - 00:03:07.726, Speaker B: Can you explain how the introduction of USTs and Sky tokens will impact the current and new users of the protocol? And what advantages do they offer over DAI and Maker?
00:03:07.838 - 00:04:00.128, Speaker A: Yeah, so the really important thing about the upgrade to sky is that DAI and MKR will remain as they are today. So existing users that don't want things to change, they won't be disturbed, basically. Instead it's purely like an extension of the protocol that offers some new features and then people who want those new features can choose to upgrade their DAI to USDS or upgrade their MKR to Sky. And when you upgrade MKR to sky you get 1 to 24,000, so 24,000 sky per MKR. And the idea is to sort of, I mean, so basically the core protocol MKR and DAI is very popular amongst DeFi OGs and you know, it's the most popular decentralized stablecoin and you know, everyone in the space loves it and uses it and that should continue to be that way. But with usds the goal is to sort of, you know, bridge the gap to a broader audience and take the benefits of Defi that are just so amazing now. Right.
00:04:00.128 - 00:04:44.876, Speaker A: Such a mature, such a value creating industry and it needs to be brought to the mass market and USGS is just a better format to do that. And also what's really cool is what we're seeing is, I mean it's been live for 18 hours now. There's already 240 million USDs that has been upgraded and interestingly enough, it's almost all net new inflows. So it's actually not so much that existing DAI users upgrading, but rather that there's like completely new users entering the ecosystem and taking advantage of the benefits of USDs. In particular the native token rewards where you actually can get the Skype token as a reward just for holding USDs with the Sky Protocol and on Skydom.
00:04:44.908 - 00:04:58.720, Speaker B: Money, there's been some controversy surrounding the potential freeze function of USDs similar to tethers. Could you clarify the reasoning behind this feature and the implications for decentralization?
00:04:59.140 - 00:06:03.332, Speaker A: Yeah, so leading up to the launch of sky and usds, basically the feature of upgradability was introduced to the governance process of Maker, so that USDS is an upgradeable stablecoin. So it actually does not have a freeze function. Currently all it has is the ability for the decentralized governance mechanism of sky to upgrade it later. And really the thinking is that when you think about bringing Defi to the mainstream and a decentralized stablecoin that's, you know, among other, I mean, it's basically backed by the best of Tradfi and the best of Defi, and that includes real assets, U.S. treasuries and these kind of assets. That enables a stablecoin to really scale and to offer the best savings rate, the best rewards possible in the industry. And in that context, it's just important to have the ability to add functionality like a freeze function if that later is deemed necessary by the governance function of Sky.
00:06:03.332 - 00:06:52.938, Speaker A: But again, currently it's actually not in place. However, the reality is just that if you're going to rely, you know, you're going to rely on leading jurisdictions around the world to protect billions of dollars of a system, then it's really good to have the option to be able to sort of interact positively with these jurisdictions. And ultimately that's going to keep people's assets in the USDA stablecoin more safe. Right, because this is about protecting the collateral that sits out in the real world in things like Treasuries and so on. And it all remains decentralized. Even a potential like an upgrade to a free function or the freeze function itself, as with everything else in the Skype protocol, you know, and as the track record of Maker over the last seven years, it is all controlled through decentralized governance. So this is not the same as this, you know, just like a sort of black box company that, that can do whatever it wants with the token.
00:06:52.938 - 00:06:57.510, Speaker A: It's a process with checks and balances based on transparency and decentralized governance.
00:06:59.050 - 00:07:03.630, Speaker B: In your view, what has been the most significant development in the RWA space this year?
00:07:04.330 - 00:08:25.650, Speaker A: Well, so, I mean, Maker has always been the leader in rwa, really the pioneer that created that entire industry in many ways. And sky is continuing to basically push the limits for rwa, in particular with the Tokenization Grand Prix which is actually run by Spark, which is a so called Star, used to be known as Subdaos. So basically like a subdivision, a specialized ecosystem within the broader sky ecosystem. And so because Spark is a more specialized, decentralized ecosystem, it's able to just do things more flexibly and able to innovate on areas such as how to push RWA forward. So the Tokenization Grand Prix is basically an attempt to standardize and really deeply scrutinize and assess the level of quality and kind of the standard of tokenized RWA treasury products that exist today. So basically Spark is going to take over the responsibility of managing the majority of the Sky USDS collateral portfolio. Because this is like a key concept of sky that it sort of abstracts away the complexity and sort of isolates it out into these specialized ecosystems like Spark.
00:08:25.650 - 00:10:18.230, Speaker A: And the best way to, you know, to basically manage the portfolio and increase its security is to tap into innovative features like tokenization. So every single, I mean, so and this is, we're talking about a billion or more in collateral that will be allocated into the top, the winners basically of the Tokenization Grand Prix. And as a result, every single project in the RWA space, like probably literally every single project in the whole world, has actually applied for this with the products that they have available. And we've always seen like a really, like sort of a leveling up of the, of the standards of RWA projects in terms of fees and efficiency and liquidity and also things like innovating on Oracle front, which is actually interesting because in the vein of sky abstracting away complexity and spinning out projects, another project that it's spinning out is Chronicle, which is an Oracle network that actually provides the RWA transparency Oracle data to some of the, you know, the really cutting edge RWA tokens that are being submitted to the Tokenization Grand Prix. And I think, I mean, I think it's really cool that RWA is just innovating and we're constantly seeing better products, better security, better transparency, better fees and so on. And then what's happening now is all the major defi protocols like sky and other large defi protocols are gaining the flexibility to, to actually then also allocate into these and take advantage of this kind of innovation in the RWA space. And with sky in particular, it really is driven, like I said, by this ability to specialize.
00:10:18.230 - 00:10:50.320, Speaker A: So sky itself focuses on making defi easy to use USDS as the simple entry point to get the best savings rate, get the best token rewards that are available in a stablecoin protocol. But on the back end it's able to innovate on the Oracle front or Chronicle, really tap into the cutting edge in RWA with the Spark Tokenization Grand Prix. And from there I think things will accelerate and we'll just see it getting more and more exciting.
00:10:50.980 - 00:10:58.960, Speaker B: What do you believe is the true promise of tokenization, particularly regarding RWAs and how does this align with Sky's mission?
00:10:59.480 - 00:11:55.000, Speaker A: I mean, so actually the true promise of tokenization RWA is pretty straightforward, right? It's just better liquidity because it's on chain. And then better transparency because you can sort of track how tokens are created. And also just, I mean, basically the culture and ethos of DEFI just sets a higher bar for like how much public transparent reporting are done by the issuers of these RWA tokens. I actually think the true promise of tokenization goes beyond just like tokenized rwa, but really taps into what sky is doing with tokens and also what's generally been, I mean, what's happening in general in Defi and is seeing this sort of renewed adoption and growth in the broad DEFI space. Right. And that is using tokens to crystallize communities around powerful decentralized protocols and governance mechanisms. Right.
00:11:55.000 - 00:12:54.606, Speaker A: So as I just talked about, right. I mean, the way that, the way that sky is able to tap into cutting edge innovation, I mean, and major token launches like BlackRock, BlackRock Security, the BlackRock treasury token, the. Yeah, I mean some of the other innovative RWA tokens out there that are incorporating cutting edge Oracle mechanisms from Chronicle, I mean it's, it's possible because Spark is a specialized ecosystem that is able to have a community that, that basically focuses just on this question. It doesn't have to do everything. It can focus on picking the best collateral and that just makes it better. If you specialize, you're just going to be better, Right. It's division of labor and then that additional, like that ability to create more value through greater specialization that can be captured in the form of tokens.
00:12:54.606 - 00:13:42.120, Speaker A: Right. So there's the Spark token. And even for Chronicle, I mean, that used to be the Mega Oracle and it was spun off into the Chronicle, which is this specialized Oracle protocol again. Then it's a, you know, it's innovating on the RWA front and that's creating real value and that's also captured in the form of the, the Chronicle token. And then because sky is able to spin off and incubate these projects and create that value that is ultimately captured by tokens, the way it sort of comes back to sky is through the native token rewards on USDs. Right? So that's the killer app of USDs. In addition to the, you know, the best and simplest savings rate available in the ecosystem, there's also these bit more interesting, a bit more exciting token rewards that you can get with USGS on skydive money.
00:13:42.120 - 00:14:35.540, Speaker A: So right now on skydive money, what's available is you can get the sky token itself. So like the upgraded mpr, but then you can also get the Chronicle points already. Today. So what that means is like as a user you can, you can choose to get a regular savings rate and you're gonna know from the track record this is gonna be the best rate that's available at the sort of the level of risk of a system like sky that has a seven year track record. But you can also, you know, maybe you're, you're, you believe in the future of Defi and you might be interested in, you know, owning a piece of chronicle of what's possible with Oracle protocols or maybe just getting exposure to sky itself because that's the protocol you're helping to grow. And with sky, the goal is to make this kind of opportunity really simple and easy to access because all you have to do is hold uscs and basically choose what kind of reward you want on Skydive money.
00:14:35.660 - 00:14:49.226, Speaker B: In a recent interview we heard the prediction that real world assets will surpass the total value of cryptocurrencies over the next one to three years. Do you agree with this prediction? And if so, where will this growth come from? If not, what stands in this way?
00:14:49.378 - 00:15:17.528, Speaker A: I mean, I think it's very aggressive, but directionally correct. Eventually RWAs will be massive. I think if it's going to grow really quickly in the short run, it will be based on these innovations in how to get Defi adopted, how to get regular people into defi. Right. And that's, I think what's, all the major protocols are now focusing on this problem. So we might, we might see results. And I mean the number one thing that we're seeing is exactly that.
00:15:17.528 - 00:16:23.502, Speaker A: I mean one thing is making Defi easy to use, make it simple to use like Sky's doing with, with the Sky Money app and the, the rebrand and the focus on USDS as the product and the simple kind of, the simple appeal of USDS as the, the, you know, the savings product for Defi. But then also getting even more interesting and sort of gamifying the experience with the token rewards that I talked about earlier. Right. And as I mentioned right now, when you look at the inflows to USDS and the growth of the USDS supply over the 18 hours it's been live so far, the majority of that is completely net new inflows. So it's not old DAI users upgrading, it's like completely new users entering the system. Because token rewards, they can just sort of, they can kind of unlock a sense of excitement from people that maybe aren't so interested in just getting a regular savings rate. And I think that we've seen that where like Athena is an example of like an entire multi billion dollar stablecoin that was bootstrapped from nothing.
00:16:23.502 - 00:17:15.702, Speaker A: Also heavily using token incentives as like an innovative way to grow. And with sky basically this is just being taken to the next level because not only can you get the regular savings rate and use this, you can also get the sky token as rewards. Then there's a chronicle points and this is just what's already live. Then what's coming next are the stars, right Spark that I mentioned earlier. And then from then on there will just be more star tokens coming. And every single time it means like a new interesting, exciting opportunity for regular people to sort of get an exposure to and sort of get to be a part of all the different flavors and sort of opportunities that exist within Defi because it's such a vast space and there's something for everyone. But you know, you shouldn't have to be like a super genius or be like a total DJ and that has to gamble.
00:17:15.702 - 00:17:55.840, Speaker A: And in order to kind of be a part of this, it should also be packaged in a way so that for regular people you don't have to feel like you're taking all sorts of crazy risk. You're just using like a simple to use app and you know, a well known brand with a strong track record and that's enough to give you that, you know, give you that ability to participate. And if we can get that kind of inflow of users and demand and assets into stablecoins, that's what's going to translate into growth in RWA on the back end. I mean that's the main driver, right? Maker was always the biggest RWA protocol and that's because it's a stablecoin. And I mean that's the driver of that kind of growth comes from stablecoins.
00:17:56.000 - 00:18:04.300, Speaker B: Which types of tokenized assets are generating the most interest within the sky community? And do you see this demand changing in the near future?
00:18:04.760 - 00:19:03.064, Speaker A: So right now it's all about the tokenization Grand Prix that I mentioned earlier. And this is just about moving the Treasuries. So the really the simple low risk assets that are currently off chain, moving them on chain into tokenized form and just doing that will be such a huge unlock because it improves liquidity so much. So that translates to better liquidity means better efficiency and that results in the ability for sky to offer a better savings rate on USDs. So this just like directly is passed on to the user, right? So that's why it's really exciting to Improve the liquidity of the rwa. And from there there's an opportunity to explore basically different categories of RWA assets that have slightly higher risk. And this is possible because with Spark and with the stars that sort of are responsible for actually allocating the collateral, then there's now the opportunity to do what's called credit enhancement.
00:19:03.064 - 00:19:45.640, Speaker A: So basically like this, the stars can take additional risk and get an additional reward and then it can sort of put up their own capital to make sure that that additional risk is sort of absorbed by the star itself in the worst case scenario. And then by giving, by creating such an opportunity to sort of tap into more sources of value generation, be it like different types of investment grade assets or something like that in tokenized RWA form, again this just translates into basically just a greater ability to generate value than that. The Sky Protocol is then completely optimized end to end to be able to bring to the end user as the savings rate as efficiently as possible.
00:19:46.340 - 00:19:54.240, Speaker B: If we think about the next decade or so, what do you see as the most promising use cases for RWAs and how do you expect these to evolve?
00:19:54.660 - 00:20:56.130, Speaker A: I mean, it's exactly the same thing. Like I said earlier, I think growth of RWA is going to come from growth of stablecoins. So it's going to be that stablecoins are now tapping into. I mean for DeFi stablecoins, it's like their unique ability to generate savings rates and token rewards for users. So I mean being able to scale that up to billions, hundreds of billions, trillions at some point, I mean, that's really exciting, right? That's totally possible. The Sky Protocol is ready right now to scale to a trillion dollars. And that can be done because by tapping into tokenized rwa you just have such great transparency around what exactly is backing, what exactly is backing the stablecoin, right? What happens if suddenly there's billions, billions of dollars that wants to exit the system and I want to pull the money out to the real world.
00:20:56.130 - 00:21:42.360, Speaker A: You can really just see that on chain. I mean you can go to info Sky Money and you can like see the exact breakdown of the collateral and you know, exactly how much USDC can I pull out? You know, in a single block? I think right now it's about 1.5 billion. And that's kind of, you know, as the system scales up it'll just, you know, it'll continuously balance that number to keep it, keep it safe and keep it scalable and secure. And that's why it's then possible to really innovate on the adoption front with really cool features like native token rewards. So users, they can very easily go to Sky Money or go to another front end that integrates sky protocol, which basically all the Defi front ends they've already upgraded. You know, last night when it launched, everyone basically integrated it.
00:21:42.360 - 00:21:53.460, Speaker A: And so there's a lot of places to go to get these token rewards. And yeah, like I said, the protocol's already ready, completely capable to handle all of that growth.
00:21:54.110 - 00:22:03.530, Speaker B: Do you observe any geographical differences in the demand for tokenized assets and how is sky responding to these regional trends?
00:22:05.710 - 00:23:08.142, Speaker A: I guess that doesn't really apply to sky and USDS so much because, I mean, so USDS is just adopted all over the world and I guess currently still primarily like Defi users. So there's not so much of that sort of more regional like how you see Tether sort of being very active in particular countries. That's less the patterns of use of DAI and usgs. But I would expect that to come later because as the user experience of USDS apps like Sky Money and other integration points, access points to the sky protocol, as they get more mature and sort of the branding and the rebrand and the messaging gets out there, I think it'll start to penetrate more into the markets where for instance, Tether is already very well used. Right. Because there's such a great synergy between USDT and USDs. Like if you're already using USDT and you, you know, you're sending it to your friends, you're paying for your goods with it, there's no reason why you shouldn't hold it in a, in a form that gives you savings when you're not using it.
00:23:08.142 - 00:23:21.238, Speaker A: Right. And it's very convenient to scout to go and scatter money and just convert your USDT to USDS to get the savings rate when you're just holding onto it. And then when you want to send it, convert it back to USDT and send it.
00:23:21.374 - 00:23:30.134, Speaker B: If you were to look ahead and make some bold predictions about the future of RWAS and tokenization, what challenges, opportunities do you think will shape the industry in the next few years?
00:23:30.222 - 00:24:52.996, Speaker A: Well, I think there's a chance that we will see entire jurisdictions basically try to really create sort of competitive environment for having assets held within their regions be the prime collateral for decentralized stablecoins like usds. And I definitely hope so because I think, I mean, I think it's really cool to have diversification of the backing of stablecoins and yeah, and I mean, I think sky, with its decentralized governance and its ability to tap into all the emerging opportunities and all the different ways that you can diversify and reduce risk because of the stars like Spark. I mean, that's going to be like. If we see this, like sort of broader diversification of RWA tokens coming from different parts of the world, USGS is really well positioned to be able to sort of spread out an exposure and then just not be. I mean, obviously it's a USD pegged stablecoin because USD is the current, the current world reserve currency. But it's also just, I think, really appealing to think of a stablecoin that can be more global in kind of its ability to rely on different jurisdictions and different types of assets. So that it's just.
00:24:52.996 - 00:24:57.360, Speaker A: It's really meant for the. For global adoption. Right. And meant for the whole world.
00:24:58.980 - 00:25:03.480, Speaker B: Finally, is there anything else you'd like to share that we haven't covered? Any final words you'd like to share?
00:25:05.060 - 00:25:58.588, Speaker A: I think that we're getting to a point like a DEFI inflection point now where DEFI is just so cool. All the major projects in DEFI are just innovating at a pace that is, you know, I mean, it's already breathtaking, but it's accelerating. It's only going faster and faster. And I think that very soon we'll get to the point where DEFI is just like the dominant narrative, the dominant use case, and sort of just the thing that dominates the mindshare of crypto. And we'll move past the meme coin, past the speculation on when binance and all that kind of stuff, and into like, how do we deliver real solutions? How do we actually improve the world through things like making decentralized stablecoins, savings and rewards really easy to use with sky and other like, all of the top DEFI protocols going in this direction.
00:25:58.764 - 00:26:03.276, Speaker B: Perfect. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to speak with us. This was a great conversation.
00:26:03.468 - 00:26:04.100, Speaker A: Thanks so much.
