00:00:00.800 - 00:00:29.801, Speaker A: Hello stranger. My name is John. Welcome to my YouTube channel. I figured I'd make a short video just to sort of explain what this channel is about for those who don't want to browse through all the past videos and sort of watch all of them go through all the old tweets and everything. So I'm John. I'm a PhD student at MIT. I work on distributed systems and for the past year or so I've been doing these Rust live coding streams and I started these because I wanted basically a resource for more intermediate or advanced Rust programmers.
00:00:29.801 - 00:01:42.225, Speaker A: There are a lot of tutorials out there for people who are just getting started, but there's not that much for how to build real software with Rust. And so that's how this channel got started. I sat down and figured I build a bunch of real things with Rust, why don't I let other people partake in that experience? And so over the past year we've done a lot of streams on asynchronous network programming. We've built interactions with EC2, we've done, we've implemented the Zookeeper protocol, we ported Flame Graph, the sort of performance profiling tool to Rust. Pretty recently we also did an open source contribution stream where basically the viewer suggested a number of open source Rust projects and the goal was to go through them and basically submit contributions one way or another to all of those projects so that the viewers could get an experience for what it's like to contribute to open source in sort of a really meaningful way. I've also done some streams that are more informational. So for example, a little while ago I did a stream on how futures work in Rust and how Async Await is going to interact with that when it comes down through nightly.
00:01:42.225 - 00:02:30.927, Speaker A: And every now and again I do a stream or I post a video that is related to my work. So for example, there's a presentation called Rusted Speed that's also on the YouTube channel where it's basically a talk. I gave it to Sigma in at the end of 2018 where I go through the research database I've been working on for the past three years, some interesting sort of related database research and also on a cool data structure that might be interesting. I have a website where you can vote for upcoming live streams. So if you go to the URL that I will post in the description below, you can vote for upcoming video ideas. And in general, people have very strong opinions on what they think may or may not be good topics to cover. I make sure to tweet out whenever I'm about to do another live stream, usually about a week in advance.
00:02:30.927 - 00:03:27.399, Speaker A: So if you go to twitter.com johnhoo you'll find all my tweets there and there I will announce both the time and the URLs to where the streams are happening and also what topic we're going to be covering. In general, I stream live on both YouTube and on Twitch, and after the streams I also post all the code to GitHub and try to create good issues for people who then, after having watched us build something, also want to contribute more. So I'll tag them with Help Wanted or Good first issue and you can that way start your journey into writing more advanced rust if you feel so inclined after watching the videos. So I think with that I'll say thank you for watching and I hope to get to see you on one of the live streams later. We do do live chat and so I try to sort of answer questions that come up along the way and oftentimes I find that the chat also helps me build better software. It's basically like pair programming.
00:03:27.399 - 00:03:29.655, Speaker A: So I hope to see you there and have a great day.
