00:00:04.330 - 00:00:32.370, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Welcome to season four of Unchanged, the podcast where we hear from innovators pioneers and thought leaders in the world of blockchain and cryptocurrency. I'm your host, Laura Shin, a senior editor at Forbes covering all things crypto. If you love Unchanged, please give the show a positive rating or review on itunes. Those ratings and reviews help people find out about the show all. Also spread the word on Facebook, Twitter, Slack, Telegram, and wherever you discuss crypto. And don't forget to follow me on Twitter at laura shin.
00:00:32.370 - 00:00:59.594, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Onramp. Your branding and website are the first things your users will see. And in the current Wild West of ICOs and blockchain startups, you need to stand out from the pack. Onramp is a full service creative and design agency that will help amplify your brand with the perfect website logo, collateral or custom design. Project get big results in no time by visiting Thinkonramp.com. My guest today is Vitalik, Buterin creator of Ethereum. Welcome, Vitalik.
00:00:59.722 - 00:01:01.440, Speaker B: Thank you. It's good to be here.
00:01:01.810 - 00:01:20.920, Speaker A: So you wrote the Ethereum white paper a little over four years ago, and Ethereum has been live now for about two and a half years, and it's now a project worth about $90 billion. What were your feelings, expectations and vision when you first conceived of the project? And how has the reality of Ethereum compared to what you initially thought?
00:01:21.690 - 00:02:22.710, Speaker B: So, honestly, when I came up with the idea, first of all, I thought that the idea clearly made sense. And the second thought I had is, well, okay, so this is clearly the next logical step to take with Blockchains, if we can go from blockchains to one application to blockchains to five applications to blockchains with built in general purpose programming languages. So next thought is, why hasn't anyone done it yet? And my response to that fact was, well, it has to be because there is some kind of fatal flaw in the design. Basically something that as soon as I released a white paper, five very smart cryptographers would come in, email me, and basically tell me why I'm completely stupid and even suggesting something like this. And to my surprise, this just totally ended up not happening. And a lot of the cryptographers I respected at the time actually sent me emails saying that, wow, this is a great idea. I'm excited to be following the progress.
00:02:22.710 - 00:03:15.046, Speaker B: So that was my first reaction. Then once it became a bit more clear that the idea made sense to at least try working on, I thought, okay, well, this is an interesting project. I'll work on it for a few months, and then once it's kind of out there, it'll be its own thing and I'll go back to doing Bitcoin magazine and I might go back to university. Then a bit later, there was the Miami conference in January 2014, and that was when I basically realized, oh, wait, this is vastly bigger than I ever imagined it would be and I'm probably going to end up spending a bit more of my time on it. And the kind of community interest and the growth of the project just kind of kept on going up and up from there and I've been pretty much surprised by each step and wait, just.
00:03:15.068 - 00:03:34.340, Speaker A: To go back to that. So when you thought that you would put this out there and then go back to university and stuff like that, what exactly were you envisioning? Why did you think that you wouldn't need to be involved? And how small did you think this would be? And I don't even know what you're picturing there or what you were picturing then.
00:03:34.870 - 00:04:33.682, Speaker B: So the first version of Ethereum that I had conceptualized was actually much less ambitious than what I ended up coming up with a few months later and definitely not as ambitious as what I'm thinking about right now. Right, if you're familiar with protocols like Mastercoin, these are protocols that existed back in 2013 where they're not their own independent blockchains, they are kind of meta protocols on top of another protocol. So the idea would be that you would run a node of another blockchain so it could be bitcoin. In my case it was Primecoin or something else. And then you would also run this other node and this other node would just kind of tell you a different way of interpreting the transactions in the underlying blockchain. So it's kind of like embedding your language inside of another language. And the reason why I did this originally is that I thought that this would be something that would be worked on mainly by myself and possibly a couple of other people.
00:04:33.682 - 00:05:35.174, Speaker B: And I want it to be just kind of as limited and simple as possible. So basically I would make something as simple as possible that works, then get it out there and then get it done fairly quickly and it would be fairly autonomous. And that's what I kind of naively thought at the time. Obviously that ended up being totally wrong now as the amount of interest in Ethereum grew all the way through in December 2013 and January 2014. So just those first couple of months I realized, oh, wait, there's this entire kind of small army of ten to 20 people who would be willing to help develop this sort of thing. And building Ethereum as a meta protocol is a good design decision for saving work, but it's not really a good design decision for making a protocol because there's just a whole bunch of good reasons why metaprotocols like that just aren't that good an idea. And at that point we made a decision, okay, we're not doing that.
00:05:35.174 - 00:06:11.860, Speaker B: We're going to make Ethereum a separate blockchain. And that already increased the workload and in part because it's actually harder and in part because it unlocks a whole bunch of other possibilities and it just kind of kept growing from there. After Miami, the workload did continue kind of outperforming my expectations, but that's mostly probably just myself not really having good intuitions about how long stuff is supposed to take. And in general, in software development, it's a rule that pretty much everything takes three times longer than you expect.
00:06:14.470 - 00:06:35.450, Speaker A: We were saying that Ethereum has continued to surprise you as you've gone along, and it's turned out much different from your expectations. So what are some of the other ways that it's differed as you've gone along? I mean, this is now four years ago that you're talking about. So I'm sure your vision of what it would be and how it's turned out has been quite different over this time period.
00:06:36.030 - 00:07:43.650, Speaker B: Yeah. And I would say just the sheer scale of attentions, application usage, pretty much everything is vastly bigger than I ever thought it would be. And I would say that's on two fronts, where the first front is kind of Ethereum's role inside of crypto and the second role is just the sizes of crypto itself, including bitcoin, including litecoin, and the various altcoins, including bitcoin cash and so forth. I was definitely not expecting $15,000 prices. So that's one very big thing that I was surprised about. Another thing that I was surprised about is probably just the various set of specific challenges we ended up happening. So things like the various set of logistical issues and setting up the foundation, the Dow Fork DLS attacks, scaling challenges.
00:07:43.650 - 00:07:56.680, Speaker B: And when I was thinking of Ethereum, I wasn't really thinking too deeply about a lot of that stuff. And over time, it's just certain things ended up happening.
00:07:57.210 - 00:07:59.062, Speaker A: Yeah, well, we'll get it.
00:07:59.116 - 00:08:27.134, Speaker B: The third major thing, actually, I wanted to bring up is sorry is what Ethereum would be used for. So the very first vision was basically a general purpose platform for financial contracts. If X happens, then send $5 to account Y. If Z happens, then send $5 to account B. That was basically what I thought no Ethereum would be for. And over time, as the amount of attention grew, the amount of attention also became wider. Right.
00:08:27.134 - 00:08:52.582, Speaker B: And people started talking about, oh, let's use Ethereum for IoT stuff. Oh, let's use Ethereum to implement democracy on the blockchain. Oh, let's use Ethereum to implement identity systems, supply chain stuff, internet infrastructure, domain name systems, and so on and so forth. And that list just kept on growing very quickly. So that's probably the third thing I should really mention.
00:08:52.636 - 00:09:40.440, Speaker A: I was surprised by well, so one other thing I wanted to ask you about. When we talk about kind of initial vision versus reality, I did see in a 2016 Wired article that you talked about how blockchains will empower the little guy and also disempower the big guy. And there was a quote in the article you said and personally, I say, screw the big guy. They have enough money. You know, if I look at kind of all the different things that Ethereum's doing the Ethereum Enterprise Alliance counts companies like Morgan, BP, Microsoft as members. So why form an alliance like that that would enable the big guy to use your technology? How do these kinds of companies figure into your vision for what Ethereum can bring about?
00:09:41.210 - 00:11:13.410, Speaker B: That's definitely a good question. I would say that I don't remember the exact context in which I made the quote. I do really think that Blockchain's primary value is in empowering people that don't have access to basically in part finance, in part contracting ability, in part just the ability to make other people trust them and things like that. Already as far as where big companies can fit in, I do think that they have a role and I do think the kind of smart ones that take the first step and are willing to kind of play with the technology rather than against it, can survive and even benefit from the whole process. So one example I can give very practically is if you look at something like Microsoft for example, you might notice that Microsoft's kind of role and kind of position in the space, the space being just the tech space as a whole has really changed in the last 20 years. Where in the 1990s they were this kind of evil, big bag bad monopolist that was constantly suing people and constantly abusing its monopoly position in various ways. And the kind of open source free software called Tour Zeitgeist is basically that these people are the devil and Linux is going to come in and save us.
00:11:13.410 - 00:12:30.954, Speaker B: Now I say this as a continued proud Linux user, but over the last few years it seems as though people emphasize the desktop proprietary side much less because basically everything's moved over to the web. And on the web what you have is basically a kind of proprietary software that's actually even worse because with something like Microsoft Windows, sure you don't have the source code and sure it could be doing all sorts of crazy stuff to you, but at least it's running on your computer. At least people can kind of analyze it. At least you have basic control over things like oh, if you run this program on an offline computer then it has no way of screwing you over by sending your personal data to anyone. But with online software as a service, things like Facebook, you really have even less control and basically none whatsoever. And initially people didn't realize this as much because the software as a service companies were a kind of new and shiny thing and they had this positive image. But especially over the last couple of years I think the tides are really turning and people are realizing oh wait, that's the actual problem.
00:12:30.954 - 00:13:50.502, Speaker B: And this is where a lot of the kind of yearning around things like self sovereign identity systems comes know this idea that oh wait, you know, Google, Facebook and Twitter basically control your identity. And they're these big unaccountable kind of centralized debi homos that even if some of the people inside of them have good intentions, the founders that came up with the don't be evil slogan are still kind of heavily involved. But even still their kind of incentive and their pressure isn't one that's kind of naturally on the side of those things. And with Microsoft on the other hand, first of all, I think their culture has improved a lot, especially with Satya Nadella becoming CEO and you notice that they've become very actively interested in blockchains. They have growing open source divisions and inside of Azure they're even willing to play nice with Linux distributions. Now things are very far from perfect but it still seems like Microsoft as a company at this point actually is quite naturally aligned to be on the side of people controlling their own stuff. And the basic reason is that web companies, you are not their customer, therefore you are their product.
00:13:50.502 - 00:15:07.342, Speaker B: Whereas with Microsoft, well, you're still their customer. So they have a bit more of a kind of willingness and incentive to basically refuse to completely sell out your data. So that's just one kind of fairly intricate example of how I think there are big guys that are fairly well positioned to be on the right side of things. So as far as corporations go, there's a lot more of those and there's a lot of other examples of companies that are kind of fairly neutral in terms of their positioning, but that could still be quite helpful to the industry and to the technology. So even just Morgan as one example, it just happens that they've been actually quite helpful in building out Quorum. So I think the thing that I learned there is that I stopped viewing large corporations over the last few years as kind of singular evil behemoths and as I've come to understand them more, I've come to realize more that these are very complex institutions that are staffed by real people. And even if there's a lot of sociopaths in there, there's also a lot of other people in there.
00:15:07.342 - 00:16:20.470, Speaker B: And realistically speaking, if you have a company of 50,000 people there's no chance that hell, there's not going to be at least a few hundred rabid blockchain enthusiasts inside of there. And that's part of why you have GP market actively contributing to Quorum. All of these even oil companies having internal blockchain projects. Microsoft in part doing a lot of things. And so I mean, in the Microsoft case, I do really think that the excitement about ethereum and blockchain really does go pretty high up to the top. So that's there as far as governments go, that's definitely a kind of interesting and multifaceted story because they are on the one hand people that have the ability to regulate the technology and even though it's theoretically meant to resist their censorship. Practically speaking, I think right now the industry is really benefiting from kind of quite a bit of lenience on their side over top of anything that we expected three to five years ago.
00:16:20.470 - 00:16:52.826, Speaker B: And I think that maintaining that as much as possible is good. And also there are people in these governments that do want to be active users of the technology. So when I visited Taiwan a few weeks ago, for example, there's a politician who a member of Parliament, I think, Jason Shu, who visited the meetups, and he seemed excited about the possibilities of just using blockchains to improve their democratic political system. So these things exist.
00:16:53.018 - 00:17:09.566, Speaker A: Well, I was going to ask you here in the US. Vladimir Putin doesn't have the best reputation, and I wanted to ask why you met with him. So do you also kind of count him in the same bucket as what you were just describing or why did you meet with and?
00:17:09.608 - 00:18:24.314, Speaker B: I think the meeting with him in particular was probably a bit overhyped because it was basically, we ended up talking for maybe one or two minutes, and I met him and I got to kind of see his personality a bit and let him know that ethereum and blockchain technologies and so forth exist and what we're up to. And he's like, okay, great. Russian people are building cool tech to improve the economy. And I think that inside of the Russian government in particular, there are kind of people lower down who are more interested, and there are people lower down who are less interested. So one of the kind of champions of the space, for example, is the more active ones is Herman Greff from and. Like, if you look him up, he actually probably has, at least in the US, one of the highest reputations out of people in the kind of top level Russian establishment. I think he might have even been involved in getting Russia into the WTO about 15 years ago, if I remember correctly.
00:18:24.314 - 00:19:18.190, Speaker B: So it's once again the sort of place that, on the one hand, Russia has great tech talent, and it does have all of the people who are really kind of thirsty for positive change. And on the other hand, there's a side that starts stupid wars in Ukraine. So you have to kind of take one side without and hope the other side doesn't do too much mean. I guess the reason why I'm involved in part is basically just I think we do have a large community there, and there's also just the angle that with myself being a Russian citizen, I just have the practical ability to have these people listen to me more and accept the ideas more. So I figure if that exists, then it's still positive to try to take advantage of it and push things in a good direction.
00:19:18.610 - 00:20:06.990, Speaker A: Okay, well, speaking of pushing things in a good direction, you recently tweeted about how the market cap of all cryptos had reached more than half a trillion dollars. And I think now it's like around 700 million or billion. But then you said, oh, I don't know if the companies earned it. And you gave some examples of like for instance, you were wondering how many unbanked people have been banked or how many Venezuelans were protected from hyperinflation. And here on the other hand, when we look at the actual things people are using crypto for it's, things like initial coin offerings and CryptoKitties. So how do you think we will get from these particular applications of crypto that basically benefit the already privileged to the world changing ones that you kind of idealized in your tweets?
00:20:07.410 - 00:20:37.430, Speaker B: Yeah, so first of all, I definitely will say that if I was worried at 500 billion, at 740,000,000,000, I'm even more worried. I'd say that a large part of it is that right now there is a lot of expectation that stuff will be built and there are people who are building stuff. There's that UN world food program that I keep talking about. There is that various identity projects, there's various stuff in all these various different countries.
00:20:38.410 - 00:20:41.842, Speaker A: Some of those things are private blockchains though, right? They're not, are they?
00:20:41.916 - 00:21:02.560, Speaker B: Yeah. Okay, a lot are. But one of the key reasons why a lot of it's going private is because public blockchain scalability is total crap. And basically there's a lot of stuff that's being built and a lot of stuff that people want to build but it's really because of the technical obstacles that they can't do it at this point.
00:21:05.090 - 00:21:13.026, Speaker A: I'm sorry. So does that mean that you think some of these things will actually flourish more in private blockchains or do you think it's just happening for now?
00:21:13.128 - 00:22:28.540, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think in the short term a lot of these things will definitely flourish more in private blockchains. In the medium term, I really hope that we can make public blockchain scalability be good enough that even the kind of naturally private chainy and institutiony side just ends up being moved on to public blockchains and or public blockchain based layer twos just because the scalability is good enough and why not? So one example of this is there's this technology called plasma that I'm sure you've heard a lot about that Joseph Poon came up with a few months ago. And this basically allows you to kind of have what the Bitcoin people were promising back in 2013, which is kind of private chains anchored into a public chain. But we are. In the case of plasma, the anchoring actually is meaningful. And there's a good kind of mathematical understanding of what the anchoring is, which basically is that if you have one coin inside the plasma chain, then even if the plasma chain totally breaks, then you could use that to recover one coin inside the public chain. And so coins in the plasma chain are kind of actually equal to coins in the public chain without transactions in the plasma chain taking up actual public chain space.
00:22:28.540 - 00:23:34.480, Speaker B: And so I came up with something a few days ago that I call minimal viable plasma, which is basically a way to take that protocol and maybe simplify it by a factor of five and still keep the basic properties. And this is something that I actually think will be developed very quickly. And I really hope that a lot of these kind of institutional token projects can just quickly spin up and basically start using it. So if that happens, then I think we'll have something really interesting because even just that as a product basically means that you have a system that can be used for issuing just tokens at enterprise scale, whether it's companies, whether it's governments, whether it's random individuals, whatever. Also whether it's chat applications without or while paying very low public chain transaction fees. So the public chain transaction fees would be pretty much negligible compared to the software development work. And at the same time you would get a lot of the public chain benefits which are basically interoperability and security.
00:23:34.480 - 00:23:43.570, Speaker B: That's an example of something that I think could be fairly valuable.
00:23:44.710 - 00:24:09.450, Speaker A: Wait, so just so I understand actually in what you're describing, it sounds like you think the way we're going to get to these world changing applications of blockchain is by having these institutions that already provide many of those types of services, like the World Economic Forum or other institutions like that, having them implement programs on blockchains. Is that how you think we'll get there?
00:24:09.600 - 00:25:18.046, Speaker B: There's both paths, right? So first of all, the reason why institutions can be helpful is because they have existing customers or existing users and so they can adopt stuff very quickly. The aspect of just people, regular people, being able to just kind of transact with each other peer to peer. I think that is the really transformative well, the more transformative thing. I think the institutional aspect is transformative as well, because you're basically convincing companies to build applications where you do not have to trust the company in order to trust the application. And this is something that existing institutions really are not used to at this point. But the kind of more peer to peer side I think is just going to come or scale a bit later because it doesn't depend on just a few people changing their minds. It depends much more on this kind of slower and more organic growth and kind of people changing their culture and changing their expectations.
00:25:18.046 - 00:26:07.140, Speaker B: And that's already happening on its own, right? The ethereum blockchain has 1.15 million transactions happening on it every day. So that's more transactions than, for example, there's rides on Uber. And that happens without a single mainstream use case being adopted, right? That's just a collection of a large number of little use cases and just added up together. It ends up to a very significant amount of economic impact. That's doing 13 operations a second and that's valuing the Ethereum blockchain enough to be paying something like half a million dollars every day in transaction fees. So there clearly is stuff happening, and I think it clearly is true that if we just enable more scalability, then more stuff will happen.
00:26:07.830 - 00:26:12.340, Speaker A: Right. And is that why you announced these grants for groups working?
00:26:13.670 - 00:26:35.980, Speaker B: Right, exactly. So the kind of conclusion of all this is basically that there's all these institutions that want to do stuff and there's just regular people that want to do stuff. And for both of them, the bottleneck right now basically is scalability. The grant program is definitely a large part in our kind of multiple pronged strategy that we're rolling out in 2014 to just deal with that.
00:26:36.510 - 00:27:16.054, Speaker A: Okay, so we're going to talk about ICOs and governance and other fun topics. But first I'd like to take a quick break to tell you about our fabulous sponsor, Onramp. If you're starting up a new project or need some design or branding help on an existing one, onramp has you covered. Onramp is a full service creative agency that has helped numerous companies, including many in the crypto space, maximize their brand awareness, gain traction, and accelerate growth. Onramp has a passion for assisting brands and boosting business results and can help with everything from website and logo design to social and content strategy. Focus on your core technology and leave the rest to Onramp to learn more and see how they've helped passionate entrepreneurs achieve their dreams. Go to thinkonramp.com
00:27:16.054 - 00:27:34.506, Speaker A: I'm speaking with Vitalik Buterin, the creator of Ethereum. So one thing I wanted to ask you about was you're going to be moving Ethereum to a proof of Stake algorithm. I want you to describe for me the security, pros and cons of proof of Stake versus proof of work and why you're choosing to switch Ethereum to proof of Stake.
00:27:34.698 - 00:28:26.526, Speaker B: Okay, so for proof of Stake, I would say the pros are number one. I think that it can have higher security. And what I mean by that is that basically that I think proof of Stake can be designed so it's more expensive to attack it. And I think proof of Stake can be designed so that it's easier to recover from an attack. So with Proof of Work, for example, if someone has more computing power than the rest of the network combined, they can't just double spend once, right? What they can do is they can do what I call a spawn camping attack where they basically just kind of keep on preventing any other blocks from getting into the blockchain forever and just mining empty blocks forever and just continually rendering the blockchain unusable. And if you do that, then the.
00:28:26.548 - 00:28:32.542, Speaker A: Only remedy, how does that work? They just continually have more power? No.
00:28:32.596 - 00:29:44.600, Speaker B: So the way that you would do this is let's say you have all of your hypothetically 51% hash power just on one laptop. I mean, in reality it's much bigger, but for kind of simplicity we'll say that then you disconnect your laptop from the internet, then you mine for 2 hours, then you reconnect it to the internet, publish all the blocks immediately. That'll just totally erase all the other work that's been done in the last 2 hours and it'll make your chain be the longest chain, then turn the laptop back off, then mine another 2 hours, then keep on going and then just repeat this forever. So what that does is that first of all, it ensures that only your blocks are going to be part of the chain. And the second thing is it ensures that basically any other miner who participates, there will be times when it looks like they can mine, but then their blocks will still just be reverted anyway, so it just wastes all their time. So if this kind of attack happens on proof of work, the only possible approach is to change the proof of work algorithm. But then if you change the proof of work algorithm to kind of basically make the attackers asics useless, then if the attacker has just a bit more resources, then the attacker can just do the attack again.
00:29:44.600 - 00:30:27.490, Speaker B: And the second time around your algorithm is going to be one that said that there hasn't been enough time for kind of special purpose hardware to develop. So there is only going to be general purpose hardware mining on it. And so if the attacker gets 51% of that, then you're basically screwed. So I don't think that proof of work has very good properties in terms of recovery from attacks. With proof of stake, what you can do is basically if the attacker does a 51% attack, then you can coordinate a minority soft fork and that basically takes away the attacker's money. Then if the attacker gets more money, they attack again. Then you can do another soft fork at the end, take away the attacker's money again and you can repeat that process pretty much forever.
00:30:27.490 - 00:31:04.270, Speaker B: So basically if it's a kind of battle between the attacker and the community, then the community can pretty much just keep on winning every single time. And eventually this attacker is going to get tired of burning $500 million every two days or whatever the amount is. So that's part of why I think Bruce stake, it has higher security, it also has lower costs. So you don't need to pay very high block rewards, you just need to pay a fairly low interest rate. A third thing is obviously just the environmental friendliness aspect. So I'd say those are probably the main pros.
00:31:05.570 - 00:31:08.820, Speaker A: Sorry. Do you worry at all about switching it this late in the game?
00:31:09.750 - 00:32:18.426, Speaker B: I definitely worry about it and we're definitely going through the process fairly slowly and carefully. But I personally do think that proof of stake is part of making. This overarching philosophy I have of how blockchains are going to can succeed. Basically, there's a couple of philosophies here, right? The way that I would describe kind of proof of work bitcoin philosophy is they say, yes, blockchains are very expensive and blockchains are very expensive by design because you need to be very expensive in order to get censorship resistance. And therefore the only blockchain applications that are really going to succeed are those applications that really, really need censorship resistance over and above everything else. So you can probably find lots of proof of work advocates discussing this pretty explicitly. My philosophy that focuses on proof of stake and scalability with Sharding is that if you make blockchains that just focus on the really censorship resistance requiring stuff, then first of all, the establishment is going to make your life very hard.
00:32:18.426 - 00:33:39.874, Speaker B: And even if you theoretically technologically can win against them, practically speaking, their interference is still going to be very successful at basically cutting down your potential user base by a factor of ten. So you can't just kind of sail directly against the wind and say, RA, we're going to be very proudly opposing anyone who tries to stop us. And we're just going to say, technological, technologically, you can't catch me and just basically do whatever you want. That way. I think if he wants to achieve real impact, then ultimately you are going to have to win kind of public acceptability. And part of the way that you win public acceptability is by providing value to people other than these applications that would literally get shut down by banks and governments if those applications didn't have blockchains to run on. Now then the next part of that theory is that therefore, blockchains absolutely need to have applications where even though they benefit from blockchains, they benefit from blockchains a medium amount, right? So they don't benefit from blockchains enough to justify $10 billion a year of proof of work mining and $23 transaction fees or whatever it is that bitcoin has today.
00:33:39.874 - 00:34:09.626, Speaker B: So basically you need the cost of consensus to be much lower and you need the cost per transaction to be much lower. And I don't even mean five to $0.10 low as Ethereum has now, I mean 0.1 cents a low. So the first of those two things, which is that consensus needs to be much cheaper in order for these systems to be long term sustainable. That implies proof of stake. And the second part that each transaction needs to be cheaper, that implies our very heavy scalability focus.
00:34:09.626 - 00:35:19.570, Speaker B: So that's basically where I see the pros to proof of stake being. As far as the cons, I would say the main one is that it is a different security model. And it's a different security model that basically says that in order to securely authenticate the blockchain, you have to log on to the internet at least once every few months. And if you don't do that then in order to bootstrap yourself to the chain again, you basically have to trust some group of people who have. And I think that in reality this is a totally fine security model because people basically already trust that security model for software updates. So even like Bitcoin Core, like Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, any major cryptocurrency or blockchain implementation does release software updates every few months, half year at most a year and people are just totally happy to just trust these software updates. So basically why can't we require users to log on basically as often as they log on already to receive you versions of the software? So that's my response to that criticism.
00:35:19.570 - 00:36:30.890, Speaker B: People also bring up this kind of rich get richer aspect that oh, isn't proof of stake just basically paying people who have a lot of coins and giving them interest rates to give them even more coins? My response to that is first of all, well, proof of work does that already. If you look at where the proof of work mining farms are it's basically just a few big guys with a huge amount of money and a huge amount of hash power. And the second part is that with proof of stake we can kind of limit that aspect because if proof of stake paid 15% annual interest rates then I think that would be horrible and that would be a really legitimate criticism. But I'm looking at seeing if we can knock those interest rates down to something like 1% to 3% and if they're at that level then that's basically less than the difference between what stocks and bonds pay. So it's not nearly as large a contribution to the kind of undesirable kinds of inequality that people are worried about. So that's probably how I'd address that argument. There are a lot of other various fine distinctions.
00:36:30.890 - 00:36:54.210, Speaker B: One of the nice things about proof of work is that it's simple to implement and so that it has easy litecoin protocols. I do think that's actually a genuine advantage of proof of work. So there are genuine weaknesses where the only thing I can say for proof of stake is well just suck it up and deal with it because the benefits are much larger. But in general I do believe that the benefits are much larger than the costs.
00:36:54.870 - 00:38:15.210, Speaker A: Interesting. I think what's interesting to me is just to hear you describe all this it sounds like your vision is maybe a little bit more pragmatic whereas some of the rhetoric I maybe hear from some of the other blockchains or at least from people such as like bitcoin maximalists or something is a little bit more anti establishment. But it sounds like are having kind of a more pragmatic, user friendly focus and just having a vision of a large swath of society whether it's like institutions and wealthy people as well as kind of the little guy that we talked about at the beginning using the blockchain. So actually, to move to a slightly different topic, you have all these new competitor smart contract networks that are popping up, such as DEFINITY, Tezos, Cardano, Polkadot, EOS, and several of them aim to solve problems. That the ethereum. Network is currently dealing with in terms of scaling governance, lack of formal verification in smart contracts, which, for listeners who don't know, is a way of sort of like mathematically proving that the smart contract will run as the programmer intends, which was an issue in the Dow. So how much of a threat do you believe that these other platforms pose to Ethereum?
00:38:16.830 - 00:39:18.926, Speaker B: I think that they're definitely going to get some adoption, though I do think that a lot of them are targeting somewhat different properties than what Ethereum does. So for example, one piece of technology that a lot of these platforms rely on is something called DPOs, a delegated proof of stake which is basically a system where the entire network is run by something like 20 to 40 computers. And the only way that other participants in the system can have an influence is basically by voting on who the participants are. And this basically is the entire security model of the system. Right? Like it's basically a consortium chain where people with coins get to control who the consortium is. I personally believe that this is nowhere near decentralized enough for a public blockchain system to really stay public in the long term. And I wrote a blog post about this a few weeks ago.
00:39:18.926 - 00:40:11.582, Speaker B: One of the examples Ikea got into was how one of these blockchains lisk ended up basically being captured by two political parties that basically bribe everyone to vote for them. Basically. If you think that just voting is enough to ensure a system of decentralization, come look at us. Politics is the line that I usually give them. Yeah. So I think that these systems can get some users but at the same like with Ethereum we are also trying to kind of aim for this angle of higher decentralization which in our case basically means anyone's? We want the system to be able to process 50,000 transactions per second while only running on a collection of nodes running on people's laptops. Right.
00:40:11.582 - 00:40:59.920, Speaker B: So this is one of our kind of informal design goals and so avoiding the need for just various kinds of master nodes with fancy specialized hardware and also designing systems where the systems actually do have a substantial degree of this kind of trustlessness and kind of emphasis on basically algorithmic kind of governance rather than heavy political processes. As you said, we're pragmatic and we don't believe that any of those things can go away 100% but at the same time we're not willing to use that as an excuse to basically lean on that sort of stuff exclusively in our security model.
00:41:00.290 - 00:41:53.566, Speaker A: Well, to speak about governance and your blog post, I was wondering how you plan to implement governance in Ethereum, because as we just discussed, some of these blockchains they have on chain governance. And you wrote in your blog post, and I'll just quote this for people who didn't read it, the abstract says that you believe, quote, tightly coupled on chain voting is overrated. And I have a feeling there you're referencing things like Tezos. You also said the status quo of, quote, informal governance as practiced by Bitcoin, Bitcoin, Cash, Ethereum, Zcash and similar systems is much less bad than commonly thought. You also said people who think that the purpose of blockchains is to completely expunge soft, mushy, human intuitions and feelings in favor of completely algorithmic governance. Emphasis on completely are absolutely crazy. I really liked that phrasing there.
00:41:53.566 - 00:42:06.070, Speaker A: And then you also said loosely coupled voting as done by carbon votes in similar systems is underrated. So why do you have all these opinions and how do you think people should be thinking about blockchain governance?
00:42:06.490 - 00:43:20.786, Speaker B: Yeah, basically there's a few examples that I use in my post regarding tightly coupled on chain voting being overrated. I think my main argument against it basically is that I think it really runs the risk of creating a system where people believe that basically, if the governance algorithm outputs a decision, then the decision is legitimate. But there's plenty of situations where a decision that's approved by 60% of coin holders really should be viewed as an illegitimate one. So even something like if there's some convenient way to separate 60% of coin holders into Group A and 40% into Group B, well, you could imagine a decision that just finds some way to double the coin holdings of everyone who's part of Group A and then the 60% who are part of Group A are going to vote for it. This is like the standard two wolves and a sheep voting on what's for dinner problem. And basically, I worry that if you have a blockchain that really deeply enshrines tightly coupled governance, then that sort of stuff just will end up happening and possibly even worse stuff will end up happening. Like I mentioned, these Bribing attacks that happen to Lisk.
00:43:20.786 - 00:43:59.186, Speaker B: And I do think that there's basically five or ten different ways that various more or less subtle forms of Bribing attacks can happen. And I basically view this in the same way that Bitcoiners view the nothing at stake problem and proof of stake. I personally don't think that the requirement to log on every year is an issue. They think that this is something that even if it works okay for a while, ultimately kind of is the death knoll of decentralization. And there I disagree. But that's the kind of opinion that I have about this kind of on chain voting stuff as far as the status quo of uniform.
00:43:59.378 - 00:44:13.374, Speaker A: Oh, just one thing I wanted to add there was about the on chain voting is it is sort of one of those things where if you know what is going to be the threshold, then you can game the system. So people will always be trying to do that.
00:44:13.412 - 00:45:29.762, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. Yeah. So as far as informal governance goes, basically, I think that people often don't realize the extent to which the systems within informal governance actually have governance. And the governance actually does work quite well at both ensuring that the protocol changes that are made are changes that are good, and preventing one person from having too much power over the system. So on the one hand, people say, for example, that Ethereum is completely centralized around myself and it's true, for example, that I run the long term research agenda. But if you look at the actual process that we've institutionalized between the Geth CBOSS plus Parity and Harmony Developers for actually taking changes that people in the research, either on the research team have come up with or people in the community have come up with and turning them into things that get implemented and become part of the protocol. That actually is something that has been fairly institutionalized, is meaningfully, decentralized, that actually works quite well.
00:45:29.762 - 00:45:58.080, Speaker B: Right? Basically we have these open core developer calls that happen every two weeks and participants from every one of the major implementations like Get, Parity and so forth participate in the calls, we discuss them and generally end up adopting changes by consensus and it ends up, I would say, working fairly well. And people who are actually part of the process or who actually watch it closely, tend to be fairly happy with.
00:45:58.850 - 00:46:36.300, Speaker A: So but this is something I was going to ask you about because I do see this criticism of how Ethereum is governed and sometimes it's people just saying, oh, Vitalik's a benevolent dictator, but then other people saying, oh, he's a single point of failure for Ethereum. Do you think that you are? And like for know, you did say in Twitter the other day, oh, if things continue in this immature fashion, I'm going to leave. Let's say you just really did decide to leave and you were so angry you didn't put any succession process in place. What would happen then?
00:46:36.750 - 00:47:22.662, Speaker B: So, first of all, I want to correct the record on a small thing, which is I didn't say that I will leave if things continue being immature. I said that I will leave if price memes and people being immature continue to be the only thing that gets accomplished. There's a really key difference between those two that people didn't capture. I am definitely not going to abandon the refugees in Jordan that the UN World Food Program applications on top of Ethereum are working on feeding, just because there's people saying stupid stuff on Twitter. Where I am going to leave is if that stuff doesn't materialize and people keeps and the only thing that's happening is people saying stupid stuff on Twitter.
00:47:22.726 - 00:47:29.146, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I'm with you there. I will stop covering this face also if the same thing happens. So I think we both agree on that.
00:47:29.328 - 00:48:21.040, Speaker B: Okay. As far as what happens if I do leave, I would actually say that the extent to which I'm a single point of failure is probably dropping fairly rapidly. So, for example, over the last six months we've really scaled up our research team and we have a team in Python that's developing the Sharding specification that pretty much has a fairly high degree of autonomy at this point. And I personally have actually quite a bit of confidence in these people. I think that if I get run over by a bus tomorrow, I really do believe that they'll be able to carry version one of basic Sharding to completion basically on their own. As far as proof of stake, we have the alpha proof of Casper FFG tested. So the algorithm is very close to basically being what it needs to be.
00:48:21.040 - 00:48:50.760, Speaker B: If we have on the plasma side, the situation is fairly similar. So we are definitely trying hard to basically make sure that we have a large and growing core group of people that understand the ideas and understand the vision enough that basically any of them can kind of execute it through regardless of what happens.
00:48:51.210 - 00:49:00.060, Speaker A: But is there like a governmental kind of infrastructure around you, like three years from now? What will the Ethereum Foundation's organizational structure look like?
00:49:00.430 - 00:51:26.360, Speaker B: Right, okay, so I guess if we kind of take that question, replace that question a bit with the question of basically is Ethereum meaningfully, independent of myself? There's two kind of threat models that you can have, right? The first is what if I disappear? What if I get kidnapped? What if I get run over by a bus? And the second is what if I become corrupt or evil in some way? For the first one, I think I answered that question by basically saying that the research team is growing, we're rapidly adding smart people and this is basically the only way to really solve the problem. As far as solving the second issue goes, I think that part of that is going to resolve itself over time because as the research and development teams grow, they're going to inevitably start having their own opinions that they contribute to discussions and will get harder for any one person to force things through. And the second thing that I mentioned is that even if the research agenda is still run by this kind of very informal process that's still between a few people like myself, Vlad Carl and a few other developers, it's the part of the agenda that actually decides what changes get implemented into the Ethereum protocols. That part I think, is really meaningfully, decentralized already and probably more decentralized than a lot of other blockchain projects as far as the Ethereum Foundation goes. And that's something that we have been working on and we do want to give better governance to the Ethereum foundation already, though, that's only one of two tracks, right? The second of two tracks is making sure that Ethereum can kind of grow and prosper even independently of the Ethereum Foundation if necessary. So, for example, the Ethereum Enterprise Alliance, being a separate organization is part of that kind of vision of kind of decentralizing the ecosystem a bit. There's also going to be other kind of what I would informally call sister organizations to the Ethereum Foundation that I think are some of which are already being kind of quietly developed and you can probably look forward to announcements fairly soon.
00:51:26.360 - 00:51:57.134, Speaker B: So that's part of it. And another part is that Ethereum is fairly unique in that we have this large number of full client implementations. So geth parity harmony. C, python and so forth. And that was a deliberate strategy to ensure decentralization of the development layer, right? Because basically there isn't one repo that controls the entire project. There isn't one core dev team that controls the entire project. And if the Go Ethereum team becomes evil, then we have Parity.
00:51:57.134 - 00:52:30.060, Speaker B: If the Parity team becomes evil, then we have Go. If both become evil, then we could put some more resources into Harmony and people can switch to that. So I think the actual kind of implementation and release side of the cycle really does have this kind of meaningful decentralization that people are looking for already. And part of the reason why we spun up this grant program in the foundation is to help support that. Though I do agree that governance of the foundation itself is something that can also improve a lot.
00:52:30.670 - 00:53:11.930, Speaker A: Okay, so I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier in the conversation about how Ethereum is actually being used and how that maybe had differed from what you imagined. So obviously this past year we saw that initial coin offerings just really took off and Ethereum was the main platform where they were holding those ICOs. And especially now when we're seeing so many of them and also there are a number where maybe you might say they're at the very least unserious and at the very worst, scams. How do you feel about the fact that Ethereum is the main platform for this activity?
00:53:15.070 - 00:54:56.602, Speaker B: I would say that first of all, every single scam that's happening is definitely unfortunate, but it's kind of an inevitable part of a new and rapidly evolving economy. So in the cryptocurrency and ICO space, basically very few people, and that's including regular people on the street, including regulators, including just people even fairly deep into the space a lot of the time have a good idea of how to judge many of these projects. And that basically means that projects that in my opinion really shouldn't proliferate do end up proliferating for some time. And I think that up until now, I definitely don't think that scams are like the majority of projects that are taking place and especially among the successful ones. I do think that a lot of the stuff that's being funded actually is genuine innovation that's hopefully going to mature and come out over the next couple of years. And I personally do think that the space actually is growing up more and more. So I'd expect that in 2018, 2019, for example, any new ICOs that ends up happening during this space, I think first of all, art is going to raise as much money as the previous ones did, very likely, probably even despite the fact that right now their cryptocurrency prices are three times higher than they were before also.
00:54:56.736 - 00:55:00.070, Speaker A: And why do you think that? Just because there's too much noise or why?
00:55:00.240 - 00:56:22.838, Speaker B: Because I think basically if there is an extremely kind of good one, then possibly, but in general there's already less hype and people are already noticing that, wait, the first round of these projects basically didn't do remotely as well as the cryptocurrencies that people gave up in order to participate. And I think that's having a fairly significant effect. Regulation is definitely having a significant effect and also just increasing number of these projects is having an increasing effect. Basically, it's a lot easier to argue that you have a 1% chance of changing the world when there is only four other projects out there than when there is 40 other projects out there. So I do think that the future of these projects is going to end up being smaller. The other reason why I think that's the case is that a lot of these fairly early stage projects are projects by people who have already spent a lot of time establishing themselves in the space in 2014 and 2015. And I think that most of the people that have that property have basically figured out what they're doing at this point.
00:56:22.838 - 00:56:32.250, Speaker B: So projects that are run by people just totally new coming into the space I think are likely to be less successful. That's just my own opinion.
00:56:32.590 - 00:56:43.246, Speaker A: Yeah, although frankly, it's been a little bit dispiriting to see how some of the people having these ICOs that really don't have a background in the space are still able to raise a lot of money.
00:56:43.428 - 00:56:44.560, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree.
00:56:45.410 - 00:57:15.670, Speaker A: Yeah. But so to go back to what I mentioned earlier about the Ponzi schemes and scans that are going on. So here we've seen this year or last year now, that there's been a lot of debate over how much responsibility platforms like Facebook and Twitter have in monitoring things like fake news or trolls on their sites. So do you think should Ethereum or the Ethereum Community, do they have a responsibility to monitor or audit the different projects that launch ICOs on Ethereum?
00:57:16.170 - 00:57:20.040, Speaker B: Ethereum platform. Definitely no Ethereum community. Yes.
00:57:20.410 - 00:57:22.038, Speaker A: And what do you mean by that?
00:57:22.204 - 00:59:37.734, Speaker B: I mean, if the Ethereum Platform itself starts kind of actively policing what applications are built on it, then that basically kills the whole idea of censorship resistance way more than anything that happens to the Dow did. That's basically just a non starter both philosophically and probably technologically as well, because actually implementing something like that would require hard forks pretty much every day to weed stuff projects out that we disapproved of. So we're not even going there, I think is the general lesson that we learned as far as the community goes. I think there are a lot of things that the community can do to encourage good projects to appear and get more attention, and encourage bad projects to get less attention. So one, I think, key example of this just is what kinds of things do people at the top say, right? So do people at the top go around pumping every single ICO under the sky? Do they talk about how buying whatever cryptocurrency is going to make them super rich? Or do they emphasize other things? There's even just the culture of people who participate on the subreddits. So it's what gets upvoted on the Ethereum subreddit, what gets downvoted, what do people talk about at conferences? What are people allowed to talk about at conferences? What do conference organizers emphasize? What do the people who end up going to conferences choose to talk about? So I think there's a lot of these kind of smaller social decisions that really can kind of basically be the deciding factor between whether projects that are less reputable and probably even outright scamming end up succeeding or whether they just end up being completely ostracized and kicked out. In general, I do think that the Ethereum community has been doing a reasonable job on a lot of that.
00:59:37.734 - 01:00:40.940, Speaker B: So, for example, if you look at most cryptocurrency subreddits, you basically see a lot of just cryptocurrency is going to x is going to the moon, everyone buy bye bye huddle, you're a fool for selling yay. Invest more of all of your life savings, take out a loan and invest more, and things like that. But if you look at the Ethereum subreddit, that just doesn't happen at all, right? There is kind of our east trader, which is this kind of sandbox in a corner where a lot of that stuff gets pushed to, but that's one step removed from our Ethereum, which tends to actually be focused on technical discussion. And that's, I think, something that a community decision that we're fairly proud of and that I think has been quite successful. So that's one example of a thing that can be done.
01:00:41.550 - 01:01:07.730, Speaker A: And one other thing that I wanted to ask you about was you've written about the difficulties with having ICOs in terms of kind of ensuring a wide distribution, but then also ensuring that people can participate or that they can get in at the valuation that they think is reasonable. So you wrote about interactive coin offerings. What are those and what problems are they solving for ICOs?
01:01:08.390 - 01:01:47.358, Speaker B: So what problems are interactive coin offerings? Solving for ICOs. Sure. The idea is that there is two kinds of ICOs. There's a capped ICO and an uncapped ICO. And in a capped sale, the main challenge basically is, oh, what happens if the sale ends in 1 minute? And basically, whoever is the best at sending the transaction in first wins. And I think that's an approach that's just incredibly unfair, it's incredibly inefficient. And the long run equilibrium, I think, is basically that miners are going to always be the ones that get in ahead.
01:01:47.358 - 01:02:48.222, Speaker B: The other kind of sale is an uncapped one. And in an uncapped sale, that's also bad because people just have no certainty about what the valuation is that they're participating at. So the kind of compromise between the two is these kind of dynamic cap or kind of interactive or interactive models where people can basically in an interactive ICO, send in ETH into a smart contract. Then when they send ETH, they also have to specify what is the maximum valuation they're willing to participate at. And as soon as you have X dollars worth of people that are willing to participate at valuation X, basically that is the valuation. And people who are okay with that valuation can basically the contract accepts them and they end up participating. And people who specify that they wanted a lower valuation, their coins end up getting refunded.
01:02:48.222 - 01:03:51.670, Speaker B: So the idea is that the contract just basically calculates what the supply demand intersection is and accepts everyone who was okay with a higher price and doesn't accept people who wanted a lower price. So with that kind of model, I think that we can solve at least some of both models of both problems from both sides. Now, that's one of my ICO ideas. I also have other ICO ideas that are interesting, so I talk a lot about what I call the DAICO. So this is like a decentralized, autonomous, interactive coin offering organization. And the idea here is basically it's like a mini special purpose dow where people throw their money in, but then instead of the money immediately going to the team, the money goes into a dow. And at that point, all of the people who participated or all of the token holders have to vote on basically what is the amount that the team can spend per month.
01:03:51.670 - 01:04:52.438, Speaker B: So basically, the voting mechanism has two levers that it can press. The first lever that it can press is give the team more money, and the second lever that it can press give the team more money in the sense of increase the amounts that the team could get per month. And the second lever that it can get or that it can press is basically decide that the team sucks, the project isn't going well, and they want to have all the money be refunded. So basically, people could vote on kind of pressing this kind of nuclear button that just basically ends the project. So. The idea there is basically that you have a mechanism where the team only has certainty that if they continue performing reasonably, then they are going to have an ongoing budget, but at the same time it's a reasonable budget and it's not like they have access to $25 million immediately. And at the same time, there's this kind of ongoing accountability to the people that participated in the sale.
01:04:52.438 - 01:05:18.750, Speaker B: So this is just another example of how smart contracts can help in reducing some or solving some of the issues with existing ICOs. So it's basically incorporating some dao elements, but also not going all the way into a dao because it's still designed around one project. And the benefit that you get out of that is that it basically makes a lot of the game theoretic issues much simpler.
01:05:18.910 - 01:05:50.498, Speaker A: Oh, I really like that. I actually hadn't heard that one before. And I really like how it solves yet another trust issue with the ICO space where you might think that a project sounds really good, but if you put your money in, there's no guarantee that the developers, they could have just painted some lovely picture, but then have no real intention to actually carry it through. So I wanted to actually ask you, what types of blockchain applications do you think will be the first mainstream breakout we'll see? Like with wide adoption?
01:05:50.694 - 01:05:52.958, Speaker B: Well, CryptoKitties has clearly already had a.
01:05:52.964 - 01:05:59.680, Speaker A: Breakout, but I mean really mainstream, I don't know if it's quite big enough.
01:06:00.210 - 01:06:30.502, Speaker B: Right, well, it's going to happen in stages, right? So I think there's stuff that a lot of the stuff that's happening right now I think has a chance of really breaking out into the mainstream. But basically usability has to go up and transaction fees have to go down. So if those two issues are solved, then things like cryptocurrency payments, things like cryptocurrency or CryptoKitties, things like ENS, things like blockchain.
01:06:30.646 - 01:06:36.506, Speaker A: Why CryptoKitties? Like, when you say things like CryptoKitties, what is it about that that you think will take off?
01:06:36.608 - 01:07:32.798, Speaker B: So I actually think that the idea of digital collectibles is a totally fine idea and it seems to be something that it's gotten my nontechnical family members using ethereum DApps for the first time. And when you see that, then you realize you have something that actually has best market potential. Now, granted, it's not a kind of feed the poor, bring world peace, save the world sort of thing, but at the same time, it is something real. It is something that gets people excited. And it is something that I think that I do think is a great example of something that kind of benefits from the blockchain to a moderate extent. Right? Because it's not the sort of thing that would get literally shut down by governments if it was on a centralized server. But at the same time, the idea of a collectible just really does just become more interesting.
01:07:32.798 - 01:07:47.774, Speaker B: If it's not dependent on a single company for its ongoing existence. So that's just one reason why I think it's an interesting kind of example to look at as an example of a paradigm.
01:07:47.902 - 01:07:54.180, Speaker A: And what do you think would be the first type of blockchain application that would go mainstream but also provide a social good?
01:07:58.410 - 01:09:05.014, Speaker B: Cryptocurrency payments and remittances and things like that I think are starting to be useful already. I think some of the identity stuff I think is going to get out fairly soon. Also once some of the decentralized exchange infrastructure comes out, there's some projects I talk about omissego a lot. So the idea there is that it's a project that's trying to use a public blockchain based a decentralized exchange in order to improve interoperability between various different digital payment wallets in developing countries. And that's something that actually really does benefit from being on a decentralized platform that's not controlled by any one company. And that's an example of something that's looking to launch at least a basic version next year. So I think things in the payment and identity space are definitely something to look toward.
01:09:05.014 - 01:09:33.634, Speaker B: Another thing I'm personally interested in is the intersection of blockchains and strong cryptography. So this includes things like blockchain based privacy preserving polling systems based on things like ring signatures and zero knowledge proofs. And I'm actually thinking of even right now trying to look for applications that would be willing to be the first to benefit from that sort of thing.
01:09:33.832 - 01:09:43.830, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I was going to ask you that. So Ethereum is going to add privacy. So why do you think it's important to add that when we already have privacy coins like Zcash, Monero and Dash?
01:09:44.570 - 01:09:57.980, Speaker B: So Zcash, Monero, and Dash add privacy to money. Ethereum's advanced cryptography experiments can add privacy to all the other applications other than money.
01:09:58.590 - 01:09:59.466, Speaker A: Okay, yeah.
01:09:59.488 - 01:10:35.606, Speaker B: So just like examples that include things like, as I mentioned, privacy preserving polling systems on the blockchain, privacy preserving smart contract systems, and privacy preserving digital identity layers. So basically if you think about the original pitch of Ethereum is like, oh, Bitcoin does money namecoin, does domain names, Ethereum does everything, then you can think of it as Zcash is general purpose. Sorry, zcash is privacy for money and Ethereum's privacy experiments are privacy for the other stuff.
01:10:35.788 - 01:10:39.990, Speaker A: One other thing I was going to ask you was how disruptive do you think crypto will be to governments?
01:10:40.570 - 01:11:54.194, Speaker B: I think it's definitely going to be disruptive in some ways. I often talk about the kind of philosophy behind at least cryptocurrency as being to make national borders as irrelevant for payments as they are for email and practically speaking, yeah, that's a very disruptive thing. And I do think that governments are going to have to change a lot of the ways in which they think about things that they think about right now, though, especially with the Internet and sharing economy applications. I think they've had an opportunity to get used to at least part of the first wave of this sort of thing. And I think blockchain based applications are to some extent going to be going to end up being kind of the second wave of a similar trend. So similar in some ways, but also different in other ways because you don't have the kind of big corporations at the center controlling everything. There's also ways that I think governments can use blockchain technology.
01:11:54.194 - 01:12:55.170, Speaker B: So there's a lot of interest that I've had even for people inside governments on things like state issued cryptocurrencies that would be used inside of governments in order to improve transparency of finance or improving the security of various kinds of voting systems. Voting systems are something that you have to be very careful when you talk about because basically if you try to add technology to a voting system, it's very easy to accidentally make things worse. But I'm not even thinking about national elections. I'm even thinking about much smaller stuff. So the US equivalent would be the petition website that Barack Obama put out, I think around five to seven years ago. So even kind of lower grade, lower scale things like that are, I think, possibly very good for kind of first targets for blockchainification.
01:12:56.170 - 01:12:57.800, Speaker A: What do you worry about?
01:12:59.930 - 01:14:25.540, Speaker B: I worry about, well, first of all, the possibility that the speculative side of cryptocurrencies will continue to kind of grow and succeed without the practical value of cryptocurrencies kind of growing and catching up to compensate. I worry about a lot of the time about the wealth distribution consequences that some of that might have. So basically where you just have totally random people who happen to have bought a few thousand bitcoins in 2010 and now they basically end up being multimillionaires and they could be all on their way to becoming millionaires without really having done any work. And I do worry about the kind of effects that will have on society. And I noticed that there's a lot of people who kind of cheer the wealth redistribution that's coming from cryptocurrency because they think, oh, it's old money that's being disempowered and flashy new tech money that's being empowered. But I'm skeptical that people who are involved in cryptocurrency are better people than people who are involved in the banking system. I think if crypto succeeds, it's not because it empowers better people, it's because it empowers better institutions and better incentive structure and better ways for existing people to interact with each other.
01:14:25.540 - 01:16:01.534, Speaker B: I used to believe, if you saw some of the things that I wrote maybe four years ago, that the idea that crypto distributes wealth to what I thought are better people is going to be a large positive social consequence. But after watching just the way that bitcoin maximalists treat ethereum, the way that the bitcoin scaling debate has happened, the way that all of these various scam projects are going, I've just realized that no, it's definitely, absolutely not true that crypto people are any better than people anywhere else in the world. I actually really do worry about what happens if wealth transfer to these people and the resulting kind of super empowerment of these kinds of people ends up being the largest or only social consequence of the blockchain space. I also worry about just that the possibility that the growth of the amount of interest in the technology will outpace the technology's ability to scale enough to meet the demand. And we have had probably one of the big stories of 2017 was Bitcoin's transaction fee crisis. And Ethereum's transaction fees are definitely not in crisis mode, but they definitely have started to go up to what I consider uncomfortably high levels. Basically.
01:16:01.534 - 01:16:30.346, Speaker B: I do worry about the possibility that those things are not going to be fixed on time, but we'll see. I do think that we are starting to and will continue to engage in a very aggressive scaling strategy for 2018 that I hope will end up delivering very real and massive transaction volume growth, especially through things like plasma within the scope of this year.
01:16:30.528 - 01:16:33.690, Speaker A: And do you have any crypto predictions for 2018?
01:16:37.470 - 01:16:52.350, Speaker B: Hmm, crypto predictions are very hard to make because a lot of the predictions I end up making just continue end up being consistently wrong, and the stuff that ends up happening just ends up being stuff that's totally unexpected.
01:16:53.010 - 01:16:55.166, Speaker A: Right? Like the Dow ethereum classic.
01:16:55.198 - 01:17:19.734, Speaker B: Well, the Dow, I'm sure. Yeah, if you look at the big stories of 2017. Right, well, okay. I did successfully predict bitcoin splitting into core into cash. So that's one place where I was successful. I probably did predict bitcoin dominance continuing to decline. I did not predict that transaction fees would go all the way up to $20.
01:17:19.734 - 01:17:21.402, Speaker B: I did not predict I think they're higher.
01:17:21.456 - 01:17:23.274, Speaker A: I think they're like 30 or 40, by the way.
01:17:23.312 - 01:18:14.040, Speaker B: Oh, yeah, totally. Actually, there was this kind of sad moment that I had about a few weeks ago where I just paid something like a $6 transaction fee in order to use Bitcoin to reload my namecheap account, and that transaction ended up being delayed by a couple of hours. And once I delayed, I basically just said, screw that, I'm using my credit card. And I'm like, okay, well, when cryptocurrency is inferior to credit cards for just simple payments and buying stuff on the internet, I really kind of deeply inside kind of feel and know that the space has kind of lost its way to some extent. I definitely did not predict the price increases. I definitely did not predict a lot of the stuff that's happened outside of the ethereum space.
01:18:16.030 - 01:18:17.340, Speaker A: By that, what do you mean?
01:18:17.950 - 01:19:16.126, Speaker B: Like the sheer size and scale of the various ICOs, for example. So for 2018, I guess my concrete predictions are I do think that ICOs are going to be quieter through 2018 than they have been through 2017. I think that Bitcoin dominance is probably going to continue to erode and the space is going to continue to diversify. I would predict basically, I think the conversation in the public mind is already rapidly moving toward it's not one thing, it's an asset class. And that's something that 2018 has really cemented, and I think that's something that 2018 is going to continue to cement further. I predict that plasma will be out and there will be meaningful things running on it. I'd predict ongoing great progress on the Casper and Sharding side.
01:19:16.126 - 01:19:59.430, Speaker B: I mean, if it's the case that Casper is the Casper is not out by 2018, it'll be because we made a strategic decision to prioritize Sharding over Casper. So that's something that I think totally could end up happening. Though I do think that proof of stake and scalability are both important. I would predict that there are going to be more applications that come out, but there's also going to be more kind of on the institutional side, just kind of fake blockchain applications. So applications that claim to run on the blockchain but actually aren't meaningfully decentralized in any way, those exist already. There's plenty. There are applications.
01:19:59.430 - 01:20:19.220, Speaker B: There's a few I know about in China. I'm sure there's some in other countries where they claim to have a blockchain running for over a year in production, but actually all the servers are run by one company. So I think we'll end up just seeing more of that from the portion of the institutional space that likes blockchain as a buzword but really doesn't get it.
01:20:20.150 - 01:20:56.510, Speaker A: Well, I will add one prediction that isn't my own, but that I saw both Fred Wilson and Olaf Carlson. We have Polychain Capital made on TV, and both of them said that they thought that we would see the market cap of Ethereum surpassing that of Bitcoin. So that's out there for listeners. One other thing I would add is also Olaf was on the podcast and he was a fantastic guest, so you should go back and listen to that episode. Vitalik, is there anything I didn't ask you that you want to mention? Anything that has been, like, floating around your brain that you haven't gotten a chance to talk about?
01:20:56.660 - 01:20:58.480, Speaker B: I don't know. I think we've gone through everything.
01:20:59.090 - 01:21:04.960, Speaker A: Okay, all right, well, it's been fantastic having you as a guest. Where can people get in touch with you or see your work?
01:21:05.570 - 01:21:08.240, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you very much. It was great to be here.
01:21:08.770 - 01:21:11.340, Speaker A: Okay. And do you want to give your Twitter or anything like.
