00:00:01.400 - 00:00:58.434, Speaker A: So we're going to continue the theme of the deformation to the normal cone, but in a slightly different context. There will be k theory, at least eventually there will be k theory, but there won't be Dirac operators. So I don't know. That's what we're doing. I realized I have enough stuff here for two lectures, so we'll see how far we get. Suppose you have a lead group. Then it has a lie algebra, of course.
00:00:58.434 - 00:01:48.270, Speaker A: Or anyway, it has the algebra. And this function made an appearance in the. In the notes, I think actually in the notes, not just in the exercises. It's the determinant of conjugation by the element little g on the lgbt of g, like that. This is by the properties of the determinant. This is a group homomorphism from the group to the group of positive reals. And the reason I'm mentioning it now is I want to talk about convolution algebras.
00:01:48.270 - 00:02:53.958, Speaker A: And there is this funny tension between what convolution algebras are in the world of groupoids and what they are in the world of harmonic analysis. And this fellow resolves the tension, if that's the right way of putting it. Okay, so. So temporarily, let me put the word right up here. If you take the smooth, compact supported functions on g, you can make this into a star algebra by convolution, exactly as we were doing. So this, I added the word write because we were using write her systems when we built this thing. And so this is what we were speaking of, for example, in a more glamorous context, when we were building the sister algebra of the tangent groupoid.
00:02:53.958 - 00:04:13.454, Speaker A: Except now we're talking about groups, not groupoid. And we have a version of, this is sort of left handed version, which is more common in realms where people study representations, Fourier transforms and so on. It's called harmonic analysis. And both of these vector spaces are the same vector space of smooth, compactly supported functions. But in the left hand one, we use the left version. I'm only going to write this decoration left for a little while, and then I'll get tired and tired of it and it'll disappear. And that's what you get from the right version just by sticking in as it happens, this factor here.
00:04:13.454 - 00:04:41.754, Speaker A: So the integral on the right is the one that we were talking about in group void theory. And the integral on the left is defined, if you like, in terms of the integral on the right in this way. And this makes a left translation invariant integral. You can check. It's in the notes. I did check okay. And when you do that, the appropriate way of multiplying functions is like this.
00:04:41.754 - 00:05:55.734, Speaker A: And for our purposes, the appropriate way of taking an adjoint is this. You don't have to put this in to get a legitimate adjoint, but this is the good one for harmonic analysts, for a reason that you'll see in a moment like that. So that's a star algebra, and it's not a new object, it's equal to the old object. So here's the. I can't remember which way around I did it, I'll do it, right, because although I just did it before class, I can't remember. Yeah, we put the right one on the right. No, that's the left, but anyway, it's where it's going to go.
00:05:55.734 - 00:07:46.798, Speaker A: We have a function here, so this is the world that we've become accustomed to, and here's the world that we're going to be talking about. I should have put the left on the left and right on the right. There you go. This here is just pointwise product, not convolution. And the reason that people want to make these funny definitions is the following, that if you have a unitary representation of the group, then you can make out of it a representation of the left algebra in a sort of natural way. Integrate the representation, as they say. What does this integral mean? This is an integral of the smooth function with values in some topological vector space.
00:07:46.798 - 00:08:38.910, Speaker A: With a weird topology, it's easy to make sense of this integral. This object is the unique object, so that when you take its inner product, you apply it to a vector, and then you take its inner product with another vector. You can do that on the inside. So the inner product of this operator, excuse me, like this, if I put a vector here and another vector here, I can just do it like this. Maybe I should do it upstairs. So PI is an operator, but if I apply it to the vector v and then take an inner product with w, I get a number. And what is that number? It's the number you get by integrating f of g against this scalar function.
00:08:38.910 - 00:09:03.658, Speaker A: So now it all makes sense. Of course, that begs the question of whether or not the operator exists. This integral exists, and it does. That's a little exercise. Yeah. So replace this fellow by this fellow, how about this? I guess make and replace this, but followed by this fellow. Then you have a number equals an integral of numbers.
00:09:03.658 - 00:09:46.154, Speaker A: So we know what that means. That's what we're talking about here. However, having said that, we're not going to dwell on such details then, this thing here is star representation. If you use the left, excuse me, the right version of everything, you could survive, you could get by, obviously, because the left and the right versions are isomorphic. But it would look a little funny, wouldn't it, with all of those square roots of modular functions in it. So it looks a little messy with these things. I'm just going to get rid of them for posterity.
00:09:46.154 - 00:10:56.494, Speaker A: No, this is related to some things in representation theory, for example, how you define characters in representation theory. But. Yeah, but this is nothing fancy. I would not put, I don't think Langland would want to put this and his name on the same piece of paper. All right, and now you can do the following thing. Build a C star algebra norm, which is by just taking a sup over all representations, PI, PI of f. So that thing is a bounded operator on whatever the Hilbert space is, and then you can complete, and you'll get the C star algebra of G.
00:10:56.494 - 00:12:54.354, Speaker A: And there's something called the reduced C star algebra, where you just take the norm of lambda of f and b of two of gift, and lambda is just the regular representation. This l two, maybe I should say, is the l two, the way I've written it here you build with the left integral, the one here. So we get a couple of seastar algebras, the so called full and reduced group C stars. And the little one, well, may not be clear, which is the little one. The reduced one is the same as the fellow we were previously studying via this isomorphism here. I guess I should make it match up the other way around here, this isomorphism star. And now we have a new friend, the max one.
00:12:54.354 - 00:13:27.566, Speaker A: And annoyingly for everyone, they are not the same. But there you go all the time. Is that a question or you just. Yeah, that doesn't come from the condition of. No, I'm going to say that next. Yeah, that's, uh, not, ah, just cc infinity of gift and just an algebra representation. Yeah.
00:13:27.566 - 00:14:04.616, Speaker A: Then it is possible, yeah, you can do some weird things, but maybe not a star representation. Certainly a representation which wasn't a star representation. Probably you can get a star representation too. Cc infinity of g wants to be equipped with some sort of, I don't know, topology. And when you put a topology on it, then you have a much better chance of saying you'll only get representations from unitary representations. But I'm not going to commit myself to just cc infinity of g by itself. All right, yeah.
00:14:04.616 - 00:15:06.494, Speaker A: Once it's l one continuous, you're committed, then you're dealing with unitary representations of g. Okay, probably compact groups are the same. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to, I didn't mean to say, oh, shut up. Yeah. Okay, so this reduced fellow, if you like, is a quotient of the max one. The so doesn't go with the remark, it goes just with the definitions, because the regular representation is just one of the representations over which you're taking the soup up here.
00:15:06.494 - 00:15:49.334, Speaker A: So there's an obvious continuous map from C star, Max C star, that is, to C star reduced. And the image of a sister algebra homomorphism is always closed, and that means it must, in this situation, be subjected. Yeah, I'll get to that in just a moment. Yeah. The answer is yes. Yeah. Let's put these issues to rest by talking about the spectrum of a sea star algebra.
00:15:49.334 - 00:17:38.780, Speaker A: So this thing is written with a hat like this, and this is just a set of irreducible, the zero representation on the zero Hilbert space is never allowed. People don't want to think of that as an irreducible representation. Irreducible representations of a as bounded operator. Star representations of a is bounded to star representations on Hilbert spaces, up to the obvious notion of unitary equivalence. I'll put in unitary. And this process of integration, this process here is reversible in the sense that it's an equivalence, actually an isomorphism from the category of unitary representations of g. When you talk about unitary representations, there's just a little bit of continuity, which is built into the definition of what a unitary representation is, which I'm not mentioning.
00:17:38.780 - 00:19:09.804, Speaker A: You can figure it out on the basis of this theorem. This category is equivalent, in fact, isomorphic to this category here, consisting of non degenerate representations of C star. And this word non degenerate in general means that there's no part of the Hilbert space on which ax just has zero operators like that. So the spectrum of C star of G is the same as the unitary dual of g, the set of irreducible unitary representations of g up to unitary equivalence, which is something that people want to know about. Inquiring minds want to know for various groups, what is the unitary dual of g? And you might ask, is it of any value to convert that question into a question about sea star algebras? You can. The question is, is there any value in doing that? Well, one thing you can do is right away, is equip the unitary dual with a topology using this sister algebra perspective. And we're going to be doing that throughout.
00:19:09.804 - 00:19:57.442, Speaker A: In fact, I would say that if you're going to invest in Siesta algebra technology, in representation theory. You ought to be doing it for this reason that Siesta algebras give a particularly transparent way of thinking of this guy as a space, as a topological space like this. This is called the old colonel Jacobson or fell topology. And we can talk, do it in this context here for any sister algebra at all. I had a question. Yeah. So when you, when we are discussing spectrum of a c star algebra, so we know what is a spectrum of a linear operator or something like that.
00:19:57.442 - 00:20:37.484, Speaker A: So spectrophonear operator. So how do you, is there any relation between spectrum of algebra and linear operator? That's a good point. I suppose I should have given an example. Let's come back to groups, whole kernel and so on in a moment. But as an example of this spectrum business, the spectrum of the seastro algebra of continuous functions on a compact set. How do you get a representation of c of x? Well, you could evaluate a function at a point and that would be a number which is a one by one matrix. In other words, an operator on a one dimensional space.
00:20:37.484 - 00:21:25.054, Speaker A: So each point gives an irreducible representation, and that's the only ones that you get which are irreducible. And as for your question about operators, suppose you have an operator on a Hilbert space, and suppose it was, well, for example, self adjoint. Then the sea star algebra of t as a spectrum. Actually, the sea star algebra of t is a commutative sea star algebra, and it's isomorphic to continuous functions on the spectrum. So in particular, the sea star algebra, the spectrum of the sea star algebra of t is the spectrum of t. So there is some connection between these things. Thank you.
00:21:25.054 - 00:22:21.064, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. You start off with an operator. You want to know what can I do with it? Maybe you want to take the square root of the operator. Well, if you know that the sea star algebra generated by t is just continuous functions on the spectrum of t, you could try to somehow define a square root by taking a point wise square root of whatever function t corresponds to on the right hand side, which you can do sometimes. I guess you can always do it, but you can do it naturally sometimes. Anyway, this whole kernel topology has, I don't know, open or closed. Let's talk about the closed sets.
00:22:21.064 - 00:23:22.172, Speaker A: So there's one closed set for each ideal, closed two sided ideal a. And the condition which builds a closed set out of an ideal is just this. So one reach closed decided. I do. It's sort of like the Zyriski topology that you learn about in algebraic geometry, which is well known to be a dreadful topology. But here it's a nice topology. If you do this, you build a bunch of open sets, excuse me, closed sets.
00:23:22.172 - 00:23:50.912, Speaker A: Their complements are open in the spectrum in this way. And you apply to those examples which are at the top, you get the topology onyx that you started with. That's because sea star algebras have lots and lots of ideals. Not all of them, but something like C of X has lots and lots of ideas. So that's what we'll be talking about. We make a topological space out of the spectrum in this way. On the face of it, if you come from algebraic geometry, you think, oh, it's a dreadful topology.
00:23:50.912 - 00:24:32.520, Speaker A: But actually, in examples which are not too far removed from the commutative, it's a very good topology. Yes, the whole kernel topology is for each close two set ideal. In a look at the representation for which j is in the current. Yep, yep. And so it's a fact that this collection of closed sets satisfies the axioms for a collection of closed sets in a topology. It's also a fact that you can extract j from f, sub j, so that different ideals always give you different closed sets. There's a bijection from closed sets to ideals, ideals to close sets given by this formula.
00:24:32.520 - 00:25:03.784, Speaker A: None of those things is completely trivial. But they're all trivial. Yep, yep. Each closed set gives an ideal, namely all the functions which vanish on that closed set. And those are the only ideals in C of x. And by the something or other, one of these theorems, eurozone t, two extension or something. Once you know the ideal, you know the close set, and vice versa.
00:25:03.784 - 00:26:07.498, Speaker A: Broadly speaking, we want to understand the topological space which is the unitary dual together with this topology. Except that's a really difficult question. So we'll be interested in an easier question, which is trying to understand something about this. This is, I guess maybe I should call it r for reduced, the spectrum of C star. I guess we weren't writing it like that. We were writing it like this. So C star reduced of G is an ideal, excuse me, a quotient of C star of G.
00:26:07.498 - 00:26:50.496, Speaker A: So it corresponds to an ideal, the kernel of the regular representation. And according to the definitions above, this thing here is a closed subset of the whole unitary dual. You'd like to know what is the unitary dual? I mean, that's the obvious natural thing to study, but it turns out to be a very difficult thing to study. And the reduced dual turns out to be much more within reach. Back in the 1950s, Harris Chandra decided that he was just going to study this thing as a set or as a measurable space, and he made an excellent choice because it took him 25 years. But he did it. He figured out what this thing is for.
00:26:50.496 - 00:27:39.454, Speaker A: Groups like Slnr bashed away again and again and again and he figured it out as a measure space. What is this thing's g hat sub r? Whereas G hat itself struggles to be understood, even to this day. There are computer programs which know what's going on, but not AI programs, actual serious computer programs. But it's hard for human beings to grapple what is G hat with what is jihad. So we'll study this thing. Let's not write it as a definition. Yeah, I mean, you can, you can.
00:27:39.454 - 00:28:28.388, Speaker A: There are many ways of describing this topology, only one of which I've shown you, and some of the other ways of describing the topology lead to a much more concrete understanding of what is apparently more concrete understanding. What is g hat sub r for groups like Slnr that were Harish Chandra's favorite friends, you can say even more what these representations are that lie in g hat sub are. Yeah, you can say a great deal, but I won't. It's not right now. You might ask, when are these two sea star. That's. I haven't finished the theorem yet.
00:28:28.388 - 00:29:28.468, Speaker A: You might ask, when are these two C star algebras the same? And there's an entire subject here and there are about 50. How many? What's it say on the Heinz ketchup bottle? 57? 47. Anyway, there are lots of different equivalent ways of saying it, but one of them that's quite easy to check is the following thing that the trivial representation. It's a trivial representation of G, which is of course, an irreducible representation of G, and therefore it's in this big space. If it manages to get into the reduced dual, then it brings with it, sucks with it. All of the rest of jihad and the two sister algebras are the same, and there's a whole bunch of others, depending on what the group is. Some are easier to check than others.
00:29:28.468 - 00:30:23.166, Speaker A: But when this happens, Jesus is called amenable, and we'll encounter, and it'll be kind of important, some examples. Compact groups are amenable. Abelian groups are amenable. In both cases, it's not hard to check this condition. You might want to take a class in Siesta algebras before you try to do it, but it's not that hard. And you could imagine the following groups. Suppose you have a compact group which acts by automorphisms on an abelian group, and you form the semi direct product.
00:30:23.166 - 00:30:49.244, Speaker A: That's also an example of amenable group. There are much more general statements to make. I only write this down, compact semi direct product abelian, because that's what we're going to see in a little while in an explicit example. Okay, so for these groups, C star max is equal to C star g. C star max is another way of. Let me say that again for these groups, C star max is equal to C star reduced. That's what I wanted to say.
00:30:49.244 - 00:31:47.024, Speaker A: And then I wanted to say as a remark that when people say C star max of g, they just mean C star of G. Sometimes you just can't help saying the maximum. Okay, it's the one at the top, the biggest, every other C star algebra. G is a quotient. Okay, there's a flip side to this. Where's my eraser? Here it is. It's a definition.
00:31:47.024 - 00:32:57.066, Speaker A: And then the theorem is that there are examples. G is a group g, one of our lead groups is said to have property t. If there is a projection in C star of G, the max C star algebra. So it's self adjoint and it's idempotent. That's what a projection is. With the property that in any unitary representation, which I can think either as a unitary representation of g or a unitary representation of c star of G, I mean any non degenerate unitary representation. Just to put that in, of course, you can apply that representation to p.
00:32:57.066 - 00:34:03.518, Speaker A: And now you get an operator on the Hilbert space, and that operator is a projection, because PI is a representation, PI of p squared is p. And what this thing is, is the orthogonal projection onto the PI of g fixed vectors in H. Not difficult to come up with property t groups. For example, if g is compact, this function does the job. So that's an element constant function, an element of c, c infinity of G. You can forget about c because g is compact. It's like an averaging function.
00:34:03.518 - 00:34:39.214, Speaker A: Remember how we integrate representations according to that integral? It's obvious from the way we define PI of p that this is the projections onto the g fixed vectors. So for a compact group, the group has property t. But if the group is not, and conversely, this is it, there's only one possible function you can write down which has the right property. There's only this projection. Pull is a unique guy which has this property. That's easy to see. And if the group is not compact, it's going to be a little difficult to make this construction, because the volume is infinite.
00:34:39.214 - 00:35:33.924, Speaker A: On the other hand, the group is infinite. So you'll be dealing with a function which is constantly equal to one of one over infinity, but over an infinite amount of space. So, I mean, the good news is that the integral should just be one, right? Because you're integrating one over the volume over the volume. So that should just give you one. On the other hand, what exactly this thing is actually supposed to be is a bit of a mystery. And so it's a bit of a remarkable theorem that, for example, this is the first one that everyone discusses. This group here has property t theorem of both the definition and a theorem of Kerstan, I guess.
00:35:33.924 - 00:35:58.474, Speaker A: Yeah. The legend is that Kersh Dan was going to the International Congress and thinking to myself, dammit, and just like you, you have these nightmares, right? In the nightmare, you're going to a conference and you don't have anything to say. You didn't prepare a talk and you didn't manage to prove anything. You don't have anything to say. So this actually happened to Kashdan on the train. So he had nothing to say. What am I going to talk about? So he just invented this on the train.
00:35:58.474 - 00:36:52.714, Speaker A: And now careers are spent examining the consequences of Pajdan's nightmarish train trip. So there you go. It's a beautiful, beautiful subject. There's a beautiful book by. Two beautiful books by Alain Villette and co authors which examine this subject. I really recommend it. If you have a group which has property t, it's very easy to see that it breaks up in a kind of an interesting way, as multiples of this projection pull direct sum, the kernel of the trivial representation, the augmentation ideal, if you like, of g is the direct sum of two mutually annihilating ideals.
00:36:52.714 - 00:38:00.392, Speaker A: If you take the product of something on the left with something on the right, you get zero. So that's what the seastor algebra is. There's a bit which is just like the complex numbers, and a bit which is like the kernel of the trivial representation, whatever that is. And this is a sobering lesson. If you look at this map in k theory, which is associated to the projection from C star of g to this quotient, the reduced c star algebra of g, what's going to happen to this projection? What's going to happen to this summand under the c star algebra map from C star of g to c star reduced of g. Well, that C star reduced of g is built using the representation which is the regular representation. This guy right here and if the group is not compact, then this has no g fixed vectors.
00:38:00.392 - 00:38:39.986, Speaker A: A g fixed vector would have to be a constant function. So p has to go to zero according to its characteristic property. In the regular representation, this fellow has to just disappear. On the other hand, the k theory of a direct sum of sister algebra is the direct sum of k theories, and the k theory of the complex numbers is z. So there's a sum and of z in the k theory of c star of g, which just goes to zero over here. So this map here is not injected, fails to be an isomorphism. So what you do with these sea star algebra completions matters even at the level of k theory.
00:38:39.986 - 00:39:28.484, Speaker A: So all of this functional analysis stuff, how do you make a sea star algebra out of a group? Well, exactly how you do it matters even at the level of k theory. So that's a little bit sobering. Means if you're mucking around with k theory of sister algebras of groups, then it's not just about topology, it's about harmonic analysis in some complicated way, right? It matters whether or not the group has property t, and that's a complicated thing to resolve, whether the group has t or not. All right, that's all I want to say about property. I just want, that's a cautionary note about k theory. That's all I wanted to say about it. Okay, now, the main topic of today is the following.
00:39:28.484 - 00:40:02.234, Speaker A: So we'll see how amenability is going to rescue us at a certain small point in the following discussion. So we shall use amenability in just a moment. We won't use property t. This is just a cautionary tale. Don't want you running off and getting into trouble trying to calculate the k theory of c star of g. Just don't do that. Unless the group is compact, then you're in this situation.
00:40:02.234 - 00:40:47.774, Speaker A: Then it's okay, you can attempt to calculate the k theory this, no problem. Just don't attempt to calculate the k theory of this, except when these two guys are equal. Second. Oh, yeah, sure, yeah, that's a very good question. Sl two r is also not amenable. And it's interesting that when you attempt to prove this theorem, there's a strange sort of bootstrapping which is involved. The typical way that you prove that sl three r is not does have property t, is by first observing that sl two r is not amenable.
00:40:47.774 - 00:42:15.450, Speaker A: It plays a role in the proof that sl three r has property t. Yeah, maybe I'll just, since you asked, let's stick in another equivalence here, I guess the other equivalence is like this. There's a collection of vectors in l, two of g, unit vectors, such that these functions fn lambda g fn. So that's a function of g. This should converge uniformly to one on compact sets of these functions of g should converge to the constant function uniformly on compact sets. That's easy to arrange, for example, on the group g equals r, easy to arrange on a compact group. I mean, you can just choose fn to be one, the normalized version of constant function one, and you're just done.
00:42:15.450 - 00:43:25.044, Speaker A: And it's not possible to arrange on sl two r. What happens in sl two r is that there's a very clever argument due to Harris, Chandra, Carl, Hertz, many people, which says that all of these functions have the same, this, roughly speaking, truth have the same rate of exponential decay. These functions, it's slight, what I'm saying is slightly not true, but I'll say it anyway. These functions have a uniform rate of exponential decay, so they couldn't possibly converge to the constant function one, in the sense that if a group didn't have, if a group had, for example, polynomial growth, it would be easy to check that these two things are the same. It would be easy to verify this condition using so called phonocytes. In fact, if the group has sub exponential growth, it's not so easy, but still true that, that it must necessarily satisfy this new condition I wrote down. All right, good.
00:43:25.044 - 00:44:11.032, Speaker A: Yeah. Oh, so thank you very much. If the group is compact, then this projection doesn't go to zero over here. It doesn't go anywhere. It stays exactly where it is. Yeah. The fact that the projection went to zero was based on the fact that there were no g fixed vectors in L, two of G.
00:44:11.032 - 00:45:36.956, Speaker A: And that's true when G is not compact. All right, good. Now, so for this lecture and the next lecture, and at the rate I'm going, the lecture after that, we'll talk about these groups connected, real reductive knee group. So these have various definitions, but the bottom, oh, I missed off a word here. Let's make them all, as they say, linear, because that simplifies the story a lot. Connective linear, real reductive lie group is a closed connected subgroup. This is what linear is all about, sitting inside of some Gl and see, like that doesn't matter what this is with the property, just one more property, apart from those that the group is adjoint, closed.
00:45:36.956 - 00:46:03.434, Speaker A: It's, as they say, symmetric. For example, all of GlNC, not all of glNr. Because it's not connected. But all of SLNR is connected. So that satisfies all of the requirements. All of these groups SOPQ that you learn about in physics, they're in the collection. The symplectic groups that you learn about from Eckhart, those are in the collection and so on.
00:46:03.434 - 00:46:31.082, Speaker A: These groups are the ones we're going to be talking about. And it happens that these are all unimodulous. You may say to yourself, well, why was he rabbiting on about the modular function? Well, these are all unimodular, so I didn't have to. There you go, unimodular. Thank you very much. We mentioned the function delta, the so called modular function. At the very beginning I mentioned it.
00:46:31.082 - 00:47:38.994, Speaker A: Unimodular means that that function is identically one. So in that case, there is no difference between the sea star algebra from the world of groupoid and the sea star algebra is from the world of harmonic analysis. So all of that talk was for nothing, but I felt that I needed to tell you the truth about what was really going on. Yes, it means that, yeah, so we'll be studying these groups like, for example, slnr, and it won't do you any harm at all. So keep in mind only two examples, slnr and, and at some point, probably in the next lecture, sln, sl two r even, and also sl two c. If you have those two examples of groups of two by two matrices in mind, you're going to be in good shape. People hate definitions like this because it's not intrinsic, you know? Well, it's not, you can, it's hard to give a extrinsic definition.
00:47:38.994 - 00:47:57.994, Speaker A: I mean, an intrinsic definition. This is an extrinsic definition. It's hard to give one. And the ones that you can give are not, they're not altogether satisfactory. You always have to add a little something, a little footnote. So, but these are the groups. This is a slight simplification of the class of groups that Harish Chandra studied in his famous work.
00:47:57.994 - 00:48:51.656, Speaker A: But this is basically what Harish Chandra studied and it's what we're going to study. Let me not say more about it. If you have such a group, you can look, don't even have to write it like that. Here's an obvious subgroup. It's just giving, intersected with the unitary matrices. And as for the Li algebra, this Li algebra consists of two parts. The first part is, just, turns out the lie algebra of K.
00:48:51.656 - 00:49:52.146, Speaker A: It's the set of all elements of the Lie algebra which are skew symmetric, like that a rather skewer joint. And then there's all elements in the Lie algebra, which are self adjoint. And this is a vector space decomposition, because G is closed under the edge of g, the group, therefore g, the algebra, is two. So you can always break up the space into imaginary, and so to speak, imaginary in real parts like this. This fellow is always a connected group, and, of course, compact. And there's a beautiful picture of what g, the group, looks like based on what you see here. G, the group, it's just the product of k times.
00:49:52.146 - 00:50:48.580, Speaker A: All of the things you get by exponentiating things in p like that. And in this way, the group is diffeomorphic to k times p. Not isomorphic as a group, but diphtheomorphic. So these groups are quite easy to understand as topological spaces, as k spaces, for that matter. Yeah. K plays, in short, a prominent role in understanding these groups, no question. Yeah, yeah.
00:50:48.580 - 00:51:47.140, Speaker A: If you take the group of non zero complex numbers, that's an example of one of these real reductive groups. That's gl one c. And the k in that situation is the unit circle. And the p, or the exponential of p, is a ray inside of the nonzero complex numbers. And so we're doing polar decomposition here. And this is called the cotton decomposition and the so called cotton motion group. I'll always write it with a zero like that.
00:51:47.140 - 00:52:15.104, Speaker A: It's just one of these semi direct products that we talked about before. When I write p here, I mean just the abelian, if you like vector group, pull just the real vector space p, thought of as a lead group. K acts on p by. By conjugation, by the adjoint action. And so you can form the semi direct product group like you do in algebra. And that's what g zero is. And as a space, as a mat, it's a lead group.
00:52:15.104 - 00:53:04.564, Speaker A: And as a manifold, it's just k times p, like g is. So there's a certain resemblance between g zero and g. They're, for example, diffeomorphic. They're not isomorphic as lie groups, because to define, to identify this space with the space up there, you need to throw in the exponential map, which, of course, is not a, doesn't satisfy x plus b. Is x a times x of b anymore outside of boolean situations? Okay, so there we go. So this group is not the same as g, but it's kind of similar. For example, you can think of this as the normal bundle.
00:53:04.564 - 00:54:50.530, Speaker A: Okay? Inside of g. So it's like a, it's a group, and a normal bundle is just a vector bundle, but g zero is a group, and it's like a first order approximation to g in a in a very small infinitesimal neighborhood of k. And what we want to study, definitely this is when you make a semi direct product, the thing that's getting acted on is a normal subgroup, and you can always divide out by it, and the quotient is going to be k. And that quotient group homomorphism is the vector bundle projection. Well, you'll see. I think the answer to your question is yes, this group is quite easy to understand. This is an example of an amenable group.
00:54:50.530 - 00:55:20.034, Speaker A: By what I said earlier. Here we go. By good fortune, I didn't erase it yet. This is an amenable group. So I don't really have to write r here, because C star g and C star rg are the same. But here's the regular representation. But that's not what I wanted to study.
00:55:20.034 - 00:56:21.430, Speaker A: Let me. Yeah, sorry for writing that down. I will stick with my apologies. So the group g zero acts in the sense of manifold actions on the vector space v, because if you have a pair consisting of a k and an x, like we were talking about there, you can form this thing, add k of x, and you have an element y in P, you can form add k of x plus y. So the p part is just acting by translations, nothing fancy. And the k part is acting by the usual adjoint action, rotations, if you like, on the vector space p. And so the group g zero is acting by rigid motions.
00:56:21.430 - 00:57:27.932, Speaker A: If, like rotations and translations on the vector space p, the vector space p is the same thing as the tangent space of the identity inside of g mod k. And so this translation action is like a first order approximation of the action of g on g mod k by translation. So if you linearize that action in a certain sense, you get this g zero action on P. That's why it's called the cartoon motion group acting by rigid motions on P. And so there's associated to that a representation. State it again. What should we call this? Gamma or Catan ab gamma? On the other hand, p is a vector space.
00:57:27.932 - 00:59:07.714, Speaker A: So there's a Fourier isomorphism from p functions on p to functions on p star, which is a unitary isomorphism by Plancheurel's theorem. And conjugating by that isomorphism, we get another representation. Maybe we'll call that gamma hat. And the reason I'm mentioning it is that this idea that g zero is represented not just by translations on on p, but also by, after you convert translations under Fourier, they become pointwise multiplications. Also by point wise multiplications on p gives rise to the following theorem. Here's a complete description of what this sister algebra looks like, if I get it right. Here we go.
00:59:07.714 - 01:00:16.882, Speaker A: So there's a Fourier transform operation which converts c star of p, if you like, c star of the abelian group p to c zero of p star. And if you fit that into this context, what you get is a picture of the c str, which looks like this. I'm only mentioning this because it makes the sea star algebra look, this is g zero. Excuse me, makes the seastar algebra of g zero very easy to understand. For example, suppose you want to know, what are the irreducible representations of g zero, the irreducible unitary representations? Well, they're going to be irreducible unitary representations of this thing. How can you get such an irreducible unitary representation? Well, you can just evaluate at a point in the space p zero, and then you'll get, well, you'll get a map from c star of g zero to the compact operators on l two of k. That's a representation.
01:00:16.882 - 01:00:55.744, Speaker A: It's not irreducible because that map will be intertwined by the isotropy group of the point in p that you evaluated at. And so you have to do a little more monkeying to get an irreducible representation. If you have any representation of any sister algebra with values in the compact operators, it's always a direct sum of irreducible representations. And now you just have to pick out and appropriately label what the irreducible representations are. It's not our job to the representation theorists in this class. So let me just tell you what the result of that is. It's just the following description.
01:00:55.744 - 01:01:38.464, Speaker A: The irreducible representations all come by evaluating at a point in p and choosing a representation not of k, but of the isotropy group of that point. And you can imagine, just from this description, that this would be relevant. That's it. And on this entire collection of data, k acts by conjugation. And it's the k equivalence classes of data which do the job. What I'm trying to say is that from the point of view of representation theory, this group g zero is very, very easy. You can just write down what the representations are, because you can just write down what the c star algebra is.
01:01:38.464 - 01:01:50.230, Speaker A: And that follows from the elementary theory of the first Fourier transform. So it's g zero. Good. Right. Two legs. Good. Easy to understand.
01:01:50.230 - 01:02:50.514, Speaker A: G, bad. Right. So that's what I'm trying to say. Okay, I guess this deserves a new board. Let's pursue this normal bundle idea. So here's a groupoid, big g, and what it is, is the normal bundle for the include the deformation to the normal cone, excuse me, for the inclusion of g into k. So as we know, that's a smooth.
01:02:50.514 - 01:03:29.030, Speaker A: Did I say g into k? Yeah, sorry, that was a typo. K into g. Yes, of course. So I don't know how consistent I've been with this notation, but anyway, there it is. Yeah. So as we know, this is a union of fibers, and by the functoriality of the deformation to the normal cone construction, each of these fibers is in fact a group. That's not surprising because we happen to know what the fibers are.
01:03:29.030 - 01:04:34.674, Speaker A: There's the group g zero, which is the special fiber, which is the normal bundle, which is indeed a group. And then we know that all of the other fibers are just the big manifold, the ambient manifold. So it's just a bunch of copies of groups that we might call gt. And all of these guys are identically equal to gene. So this is a lie groupoid, or if you like, a smooth family, special type of lead groups parameterized by r. So the total space is a smooth manifold. The map to the parameter space r is a submersion.
01:04:34.674 - 01:05:11.982, Speaker A: And if you take the fiber product of big g with itself over r, then there's a multiplication map from that fiber product just into bg, a point wise multiplication map, which is smooth, and the inverse map is smooth and I don't know what else. The identities glued together smoothly, I guess. All right. Oh, reading this and I'm thinking, what's that got to do with anything? Should be reading that. So here's a, here's a thing. It's now legitimately part of this class because it's tangent groupoid ish, certainly it's a groupoid and it's the deformation to the normal cone. And so I think we're.
01:05:11.982 - 01:06:12.884, Speaker A: It's within our rights in this class to study this thing. Nobody can stop us. So let's do it. Here's one of these annoying theorems that we've seen from time to time, and I'm sure you didn't like any of them that occurred before this one is because we made some preparations. Now it's a little more manageable. Let's suppose we take the sea star algebras of the Gt's, the reduced sea star algebras. This thing is a smooth, not a smoother continuous field of sea star algebras.
01:06:12.884 - 01:07:07.006, Speaker A: Whenever you give a bunch of sister algebras and you say that they're a continuous field, you have to say, what are the continuous sections? And so the continuous, just like we did in, when we talked about the tangent groupo, the continuous sections are generated by the smooth, compactly supported functions on big g. You have a smooth, compactly supported function on big g. You can restrict it to a smooth, compactly supported function on each of the Gt's. In other words, an element of c star of reduced Gt for each t. And by fiat, those are the, those are continuous sections. You're not allowed to just declare them to be continuous sections. You have to check that the norm varies continuously.
01:07:07.006 - 01:08:26.584, Speaker A: And that's why this lemma is a lemma, not just a definition. Yeah. So in general, if it's compact subgroup, yeah, that's still going to work. If it's not compact subgroup, then it's complicated, and it's not always true. So there are two things to prove, one of which is very, very easy. Suppose you have one of these f's, which is in cc infinity of big g, and you restrict it to each t to get an f sub t, you'd like the norm to be continuous. And that involves proving two things of which one is this.
01:08:26.584 - 01:09:09.652, Speaker A: Obviously, the field is continuous away from zero, because it's constant away from zero. But at zero, it's a little bit more complicated. And so you need to show one inequality like this, and another inequality involving a limb soup going in the other direction. And you'll be done. This guy here is, so to speak, geometric. If f zero is big, that means f zero gives a big convolution operator on the group g zero. And so that means there's a function on g zero such that the convolution of that function with f zero is big.
01:09:09.652 - 01:09:52.524, Speaker A: And you might as well assume that function by epsilon over two argument is, is itself a smooth, compactly supported function on g zero. Well, if that's a smooth, compactly supported function on g zero, you can always extend it to a smooth, and compactly supported function on big g. And now you can ask yourself, how big is ft applied to the function that you've just built restricted to t? And the answer is that that quantity, the norm of ft applied to the function. I don't know. Xi t is a continuous function on t. How do I know it's a continuous function on t? I know it because I'm talking about l, two norms, and there's an explicit formula for what an l two norm is. It's just an integral.
01:09:52.524 - 01:10:11.484, Speaker A: And I might just asking that the integral varies continuously with t. And indeed it does. In fact, it varies smoothly with t. And you can differentiate under the integral sign and so on. So this is easy. If this guy is bigger, then these guys have to be big. At least if t is close to zero where you're doing this little extension.
01:10:11.484 - 01:11:32.314, Speaker A: And it's the other inequality that's much harder. Well, the other inequality would be like this, it running out of room in order to. So we're going to make a construction in which we use not the reduced sea star algebra of g zero, but to calculate this norm here. But I guess I did say, yeah, these are the norms in the reduced sister algebra. So I shall use the norm in the maximum c star algebra. That won't matter because we're dealing with an amenable group here. So the max norm is equal to the reduced norm.
01:11:32.314 - 01:12:23.822, Speaker A: Okay, I'm trying to show that this lim soup is bounded above by the norm of f zero. If I can show that the limp soup is bounded above by the norm of PI of f zero. For some unitary representation PI, I'll be in business, because the norm of f zero in the max norm is even bigger than the norm of PI of x theorem. And here's how you do it. Let's take the siesta algebra of the groupoid G. So that groupoid g consists, well, we know what it is. It's exactly this thing up here.
01:12:23.822 - 01:13:24.280, Speaker A: Okay? So it's made out of smooth, compactly supported functions on all of G. And the way I'm going to, haven't finished this construction yet. The way I'm going to build this map is I'm going to take a function on g zero, and I'm going to extend it, just like I said a moment ago, to a smooth, compactly supported function on g zero. And then I'll get some sort of linear map, or some sort of map from c c infinity of g zero into c c infinity of g. But it's not unique, of course, because there are many ways of making the extension. So we should divide by the ideal generated by the functions f, such that f, restricted to t is equal to zero is zero. Now, the map is well defined, and it gives a, it's a morphism into a sea star algebra.
01:13:24.280 - 01:13:57.780, Speaker A: It comes from a unitary. And this sea star algebra is just some ridiculous siesta algebra. But I can certainly represent it on a Hilbert space. And if I have this quotient siesta algebra represented in a Hilbert space. And in particular, and I have a map from then on, that Hilbert space, I can build not just a representation of cc infinity of g zero, I can actually build a representation of the group g zero in a similar way. And once I have a representation of the group g zero, it becomes a representation of the c star algebra. So it's easy to build such a map.
01:13:57.780 - 01:14:30.926, Speaker A: The recipe for this map is, you take a smooth, compactly supported function on g zero, you extend it to a smooth, compactly supported function on G. And that's it. You study the class in the quotient siesta algebra. And by the universality of the reduce of the max sea star algebra, that map is. Well, is extends to a which was defined on cc infinity of g extends to the max sea star algebra. It's not for free that you get some extension. You have to think about it, because remember, inside of this thing, if it wasn't for the zero, you could have some weird objects like this cash down projection.
01:14:30.926 - 01:15:21.474, Speaker A: So you've got to be careful. How are you going to define this map if there was a Kashdan projection here? I mean, there isn't, because this particular group is amenable. But I'm just pointing out that there's a little bit of room here. It's not obvious that this thing exists, but it does exist. Now, of course, this is the same thing as the redundancy spare machine. And getting a map from C star of G into this algebra is all that's involved in improving this inequality here. When we studied how to prove continuity of continuous fields, for example, related to, I don't know, pseudo differential operators related to the tangent group, art, it was all about building such a math as this.
01:15:21.474 - 01:16:04.872, Speaker A: Yes, thank you. This is the main issue in obtaining this inequality. In fact, there was an exercise on this somewhere in the early months of the class, back when we were all young and energetic. So I'm sure you all did it back then. Yeah. So what you are saying here is that the direction of equals zero, like the sequence you can build. Correct.
01:16:04.872 - 01:16:47.804, Speaker A: You show that by building a distribute. That's correct, yeah, that's correct. Yeah. When we were studying the Alan Kant's proof of the index theorem, there was a continuous field that needed to be proved to be continuous. And I mentioned that candidate using harmonic analysis, using some theory for the group r. And he was exactly using the fact that group r is an amenable group. The same sort of trick was being applied by him.
01:16:47.804 - 01:18:57.844, Speaker A: So we have a continuous field, and by what we discussed before, in the realm of k theory, we have a sheath of a billion groups over r, whose stokes are just the k theory groups of the seastar algebras of Gt. And it's a strange fact. So this is the so called Khan Kasparov isomorphism, not conjectured by Karen Kasparov, proved later by a motley assortment of people. But this sheep is constantly the sheath whose stalks are these guys is isomorphic to constant sheath. But roughly speaking, it's very t. The k theory groups don't change. This continuous field has the property that it has one special fiber at t is equal to zero, and all of the other fibers are exactly the same by virtue of this fact here.
01:18:57.844 - 01:20:05.984, Speaker A: So in this situation, you can express this constant nuss in a different way. And this came up when, for example, we were discussing the index map. So, in an earlier lecture, more than one earlier lecture, whenever you have a continuous field with this property that away from zero, it's a constant field. Whenever you have a continuous field over the real line, there's a map from the k theory of the special fiber, for the k theory of the typical fiber, that's just g. And to say that this field is constant is to say that these k theory groups are all the same. It's not even by the standards of the index theorem. This is not at all an easy theorem.
01:20:05.984 - 01:21:00.564, Speaker A: This is, I would say, much harder than the index, but it's a true theorem. So for the types of groups, this is correct, by the way. You need to work just a little bit harder to make sense of what this theorem should say for any connected lead group whatsoever. In fact, you can make sense of what this theorem says. For any lie group with a finite number of components, there's a version of this theorem, and the theorem is correct for all of them. And the main characters who worked on the reductive case are these two gentlemen. And the general case somehow is reduced to the reductive case by a bunch of others, nest and Ektarhof, Chabert, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, me and Kasparov, and so on.
01:21:00.564 - 01:22:08.910, Speaker A: And the main question that we want to ask, not today, because there's only five minutes left, is the following. So here's a statement that's, relatively speaking, not a difficult statement to formulate. I mean, we got, we've gotten kind of used to continuous fields of seastar algebras, and we've gotten kind of used to, to arguments like this. So it's, relatively speaking, not difficult to formulate this. And then you get a statement, a sort of universal isomorphism statement. Okay, the left hand side here, a k theory of the sea star algebra of g zero. Remember, we had an explicit, it's disappeared from the board, but we had an explicit picture of what the k theory of the sea star algebra of g zero is.
01:22:08.910 - 01:23:24.554, Speaker A: It was functions on the space p star, some vector space with values in compact operators. That's not very complicated. If that was the end of what it was, then what we'd be talking about here would just be the c zero functions from p to compact operators, and the k theory of that thing would just be the k theory of p star. But we also have the k invariance condition to throw in. And what the k invariance condition tells you is that this thing here is sorry for the preponderance of k's, the k equivariant k theory of the vector space p stone, for example, in the sense. So Etiran Hrsebrugg didn't really discuss equivariant k theory, but Etiran Graham Siegel did. Let me just say the space, I just mean the topological space, which is p, or, if you like, p star, they're isomorphic.
01:23:24.554 - 01:23:55.154, Speaker A: And so it's basically something we understand very frequently. This p star is a vector space all the time. That doesn't happen frequently. It happens all the time. And we have the bot periodicity theorem, which tells us what is the k theory of a vector space. And very frequently, you can just calculate this thing, and what you find is just the representation ring of k. This thing is isomorphic to the abelian group, pre abelian group, on the irreducible representations of k.
01:23:55.154 - 01:24:41.910, Speaker A: So this object here is the wrong sort of arrow. I don't mean a map, I just want to point to it. This is something, if you like, which is under control, and you can understand in easily understandable representation theoretic terms. So, for instance, if g is sl two r, this thing is the representation ring of the k. For sl two r, which is so two. So we have a very concrete description of what this is. One of the things I haven't done in this class is define k one.
01:24:41.910 - 01:25:20.736, Speaker A: We already even discussed k 150 percent of the time. This vector space is an odd dimensional vector space. And then you really should be talking about k one instead of k zero. And I didn't do that. So in that 50% of the time, what you should do is take the group g and cross it with r. And now you're in the even dimensional case, and you're back in business. So the question that you might now ask is, in the conceptor of isomorphism, there's one side of this thing which is completely understandable, even when it's not so completely under control that you can write down that it's the representation ring of K.
01:25:20.736 - 01:26:09.878, Speaker A: It's certainly under control that you can calculate what it is. You can just write down an explicit set of generators all the time for what the left hand side is. And so the question arises, what does this thing mean? Does Kahn Kasper of isomorphism mean? It's a simple statement. Two abelian groups are isomorphic. Unfortunately, you have to work really hard to prove it. After you've worked so hard, did you get anything of any value? Does it actually mean something? Well, that's an interesting question to debate. So we'll discuss this thing next week, we'll see if we can extract some.
01:26:09.878 - 01:26:28.050, Speaker A: I'm not going to discuss how to prove this. I'm going to try and extract some meaning out of this statement, something which might interest a representation theorist. That's the goal. I think it's a good time to stop. Yes, on the nose. It's 12:00, so we are done for today. Thank you very much, as usual.
01:26:28.050 - 01:26:49.074, Speaker A: You've been a lovely audience. Thank the sponsors. Yeah, thank you to the chips Ahoy cookie company for their. But nothing at all. Damn it, they haven't given me a single cookie. All right, good, thank you. Thing like are we getting.
01:26:49.074 - 01:27:37.214, Speaker A: Yeah, this con Casper of isomorphism is a special case of the Baumcon isomorphism. And just in a couple of. I'm not going to talk about Bam Khan, but since you asked, let's consider the following thing. Suppose you have a. This is really it for Bamcon. If you can resolve the following question, probably you should be happy just to stop, not ask for anything more. Suppose you have a discrete subgroup, maybe co compact of one of these connective real reductive groups.
01:27:37.214 - 01:29:05.354, Speaker A: If you like all of the adjectives that I had before, I only wrote down a couple of them there. Then you can do the following thing. What's a good way of staying it so you can think of gamma acting on Gmod K. And what Bauman Khan say is that the K theory of the siesta algebra, this reduced sea star algebra of gamma, this sister algebra, is generally a terrible thing. I was talking before about the topology on the spectrum of a sea star algebra. I was saying before, you should think of the spectrum as being an interesting topological space. It's not in this case, very typically, the topology on the spectrum of sea star reduced gamma is just the idiot topology with no open set except the ones required by law.
01:29:05.354 - 01:30:05.774, Speaker A: Now, I built the map in the wrong way. Let's make my life a little bit easy. Let's just assume this group is totion free. Here's the tangent space. Or maybe to make it look more like what we had before, take the cotangent space. I meant the c zero functions. But what I actually want to do is take the functions in here, which you get after you've divided up by, again, there we go.
01:30:05.774 - 01:30:54.758, Speaker A: Right number of parentheses and bits and pieces. That's a certain specific topological space. There's actually a map from here to here. What is this map? Well, you just take the tangent groupoid for g mod k, and that tangent groupoid, as a continuous field of sea star algebras, is a bunch of compact operator algebras, except at zero, where you have the cotangent, or the tangent bundle in the sense of groupoids of g mod k. And after Fourier transform, you have the cotangent bundled on this tangent groupoid. The entire group gamma acts by diffeomorphisms, fiber wise diffeomorphisms. And you can form the so called cross product sea star algebras.
01:30:54.758 - 01:31:27.842, Speaker A: You can build gamma into the groupoid picture if you like. And what the fiber sea star algebras are away from zero. Excuse me. What the fiber sea algebras are away from zero are this thing. And what they are at zero, what it is at zero is this thing here. At least it's morita, equivalent to this thing. So this particular map you get from this type of construction using the tangent groupoid continuous field after you've crossed, whatever that means, with gamma from the cross, it's all still a groupoid.
01:31:27.842 - 01:32:25.994, Speaker A: You form the cross product with the group gamma acting on the groupoid t of g mod kick. So we're right there in a position to formulate the baumconjection using the tangent groupoid. Maybe I'll put it in the notes or something. Yeah. What does the DNC, what are this whole bunch of GT's have to do with this map? And because you can formulate this map in other ways, which don't use continuous fields at all or deformations to the normal code, I think there's a compelling answer to that, which is this so called Mackie bijection, which I'll talk about next time. There's something going on in representation theory, which makes, it, makes this more real. It makes you feel that it's, this is the right way of thinking about the concasper of isomorphism.
01:32:25.994 - 01:33:07.202, Speaker A: So I do plan to say more about that. I couldn't say it in five minutes, however. So in summary, I think there is a good answer to this what does it mean? Question wherever it was. So here it is. I think the answer really involves the deformation space that we're building over there, the big g, in a serious way, and that those concrete meanings don't apply in the Bam Khan situation where the sister algebras are more complicated. But okay. What this means so far is a different set of things related to implications in topology.
01:33:07.202 - 01:33:10.274, Speaker A: But that's another story. All right, good.
