00:00:17.320 - 00:02:59.144, Speaker A: Ecosystems ssin web3 derivatives protocol thus decentrale cross chain liquidity for gestatecta assets unbeaten b. Frost luft of the substrate parachain assets complaten sama ecosystem Nutsenkan of the website gain Bfrost finance Omdas concept von B. Frost Ersman to verstein eine kleine ubersicht disaffinit year of the b. Frost wiki document uncontan here of understanding b. Frost of this build clicking on the of the Bfrost parachain ein Kriegen the Bfrost parachain the jungs from Bfrost Knudsen diesel dots done for some nominee and von Validatorn Kriegan duffer staking rewards on via krieg m gigant voucher dot in v dot become zuzet sifu dassen and dots Abba Auchnor Tinsen auspices, you know undies v dots of Anderen platform Nutsen Wietz maischville of Uniswap balancer compound, etc. On Kerndadushdan Fashida hatch scenario cross chain staking double rewards leverage staking Eisen grunde genome cross chain Nutsen b. Frost not Steine Dotsuvin Dotsug dafirndise Dodstan Weiter Knudsen of Anderen platform Kamen dashboard dashboard we are here of the link zeit vam imadv staking.
00:02:59.144 - 00:09:08.850, Speaker A: We have TvL as a total value locked vfil wood Bisseran token locked in protocol Dhanhamvi the V crowd loan und v Hamdi swap function and uber diesel buttons compedan direct of the jewel categorin Jorkund Aber Auger of v staking it Haptidi Muklishkaid and staking order ethereum staked test wallets ksm staking I have done here the mercklichkeit Einstein merged diesel Verndan automatis in v kaism switched ISO de kais m ge locked un IBA compties M I vouchers here wooded ear dream requests Einstein kun bedoited Venice Mvmtliche Kaise m notes Ungitzeit Indie Grade Praktesh Steaksu Aizu of subscan vitalited unsetan fashion notes und was a b. Frost mid Oren Kais m Angish Delta Esman Eureka Kais m Chain of the b. Frost chain packen undas Gitzoo and Demi here links of wallet clicked wallet in damage Precious cross chain transferrin Mercedes get here by Schwitzweiser of Kaism done of cross in Virti Parachain Os in the infile. Confirm mine and wallet transferion gear of confirm un moss ein for of the Bfrost chain transferred confirm button aufleur trauf klikken mustan diener Kurzen dauer Zeti Ogden Hirsch chain and yetzai t oh ready of v. Staking auf Kaism und kantiet here of tumai spirit in Maximal betrakin. Sit down here. Vasya in vikais M auskete becombed so yet onyet van mine Kaiser m anget Kanye Minton clicker of Minton Martin is kind of confirm Musani approving onto Baltimore minus staking my staking amount up here ein panir facilities md two for fugung harbor available owned hub avakayan unbonding ongoing vanish mini Vikais emits with unbonded Mercedes kanishi file druking gate on here of Max on key of redeem so while you done here of redeem clicky transaction spitr here in damfeld give me here just because M.
00:09:08.850 - 00:12:48.408, Speaker A: Langsam off stocking this in practice these staking rewards the divya become after Lincoln zeit zita dan oh here this is v? Crowd loan as Orna Gans into Santa Zahez. Crowd loan crowd loans Oda Fiddy Kaise M crowd loans Ein v. Kaism owned Geno Hatan Prakash uber b Frost Zionikais m. Gestate Lady Kamania Tier nisufi datsu tsaigen vile kinda auxion momentanam laufensen Haiti dien for oyre Aughenfeitsida interesse hapt ISO the fertile is Desman Praktisch Sinikaism trotsdim dasigalockin indim in Miyavalin crowd loan Hatman Trotsim dies and v. Kaism own candies and notson on sustaken order transaction Mankrit Abba vfruk Verman in Gleichen Masadis v kaita vida Turk tight dan Atman vita and the mercklich kite. Here of by bond m Zain Kaise ms sub bonten eisemann kauf Praktish and Bond the Uber feshidine marked apy sins Fatinzong evaling ansalan kais m angte Fiona p y angipas vitaen hanwir ochnochti Mercklichkeit unseere Kaism v. Kaism in fashion and liquidity pool assets Ode Maldrei assets ein liquidity pool token create decentralized exchange to for fugung stealth liquidity pool token aus Kaism und Ausd d Biden assets Mister Manan bishop em wallet Heighten dagitman Ein for off deposit Gibdanhaltiesen dynamount liquidity pool token Ashtang is a SwI assets bundle of swap own done of liquidity Dan come on here by Schwitzweiser assets mid Ananda for bint invidas Gansky now gate we have no under videos that Saigon via farming betried on the YouTube channel Anshan.
00:12:48.408 - 00:16:29.184, Speaker A: This is Anglish imaginota. They will protest Manhattan demand Kaisem uncanny's liquidity pool token Kriyan owned Kandin done here he writes farmen viper Eitzenvin video ayn vizier Frank da Discord forum disputu Khan Vita Natman of B Frosty Muclishkai China coins to swap here this liquidity pool token to korean country against einfar coin swap miser I have function Zen link is decentralized. Exchange raindrops as when you hear video dashboard site, then continue here. Rainbow boost airdrop in bitsuk of under and coins as zumbaispiel verdan yet range of steedo ansal an hien dimfal kalamari token ge airdropped and we can't ear raindrop ansal ahun endemia bishop wiser here kaise m gesteak tub tazu mint v kaism. Thus is the eine punk tah b staking done by Schwitzweiservania and unveiling crowd launch tiger norm habt deserves Krigman by should try the 20% on top. Order an parachains Calamari airdrop held mine dirt side digger rank is here by 906. Nine six then Kanish honor Maguino Einsin Isi Platinum eins here Raindrop Einonoinsich Milion raindrops by misenscardomal at White House and these are airdrop Zag Ringhaus Abba Vasai Coolis is dasman of Infin file at Vaski Shank becomes einfarnoma here flies in parkhouse and Minton Redeem cool air job ubadiza raindrops Scene Skiptier Dan Vital airdrops Spitz Falcon dandies Altair Airdrop Kintsuki Haiko ISO Escom fashion Esophien Faizupa Interestant super spandex when you unfrang that Suhab Kanti again discord channel anschreiben Yaffinit ale Infos of Unzam Twitter account indeed fishbas and heighted the orange dive.
