00:00:00.680 - 00:00:27.252, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today is the 6 January 2021. Alright everyone, before we get into it, I have some, a little bit of sad news. Tomorrow, Thursday and Fridays, Daily Grey refuel won't be happening. Unfortunately, I am unable to do them. But to make up for that, I will be doing a special episode on Saturday that will cover the news from Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
00:00:27.252 - 00:00:55.598, Speaker A: So you'll have that to look forward to. But yeah, I'll still be publishing the Daily GwEi newsletter on Thursday and Friday, but I am unable to do the refuel for personal reasons. So yeah, I'll be back Saturday though, and then next week as normal as well. So yeah, look forward to that. But without further ado, let's get into today's news. So we hit $20 billion locked in Defi a few hours ago. I think I posted this, which is really cool, actually about 12 hours ago now.
00:00:55.598 - 00:01:29.700, Speaker A: But that was really, really cool to see. I mean, you know, Defi has come so far this year. If, you know, you can see on the picture here on the chart, this chart is like the one year chart. So it basically covers, you know, the majority of 2020. And you can see just, you know, we were flat, flat, flat. And then in June we kind of had, you know, the compound liquidity mining launch which kind of kicked off Defi summer and kicked off basically, you know, defi becoming, I guess, not mainstream, but like exiting out of the tiny little Ethereum bubble and becoming more of a crypto, you know, narrative. And now it's even going beyond that and becoming more of a non crypto narrative.
00:01:29.700 - 00:02:19.260, Speaker A: Right. It's like the thing that you hear when you come into the crypto ecosystem, you hear bitcoin, you hear ethereum, and then you hear Defi as well. And I'm even seeing people, you know, that are outside the ecosystem completely mentioning defi as well. So yeah, I think that term and kind of the ecosystem has entered that kind of arena now, which is why we're seeing so much growth as well, I think. And you know, 20 billion is cool and everything, but it's still, you know, when I think about these numbers, you know, in the context of crypto, 20 billion is a lot, but in the context of the wider financial system, it is basically a rounding error. You know, the wider financial system obviously is hundreds of trillions of dollars are circulating, whereas, you know, 20 billion is a tiny percentage of that. So if we're, if we are going to replace or at least run as a parallel system, we have to grow this a lot larger than what it is.
00:02:19.260 - 00:03:04.054, Speaker A: I mean, I spoke about kind of last few days how I think L2 is going to kind of catapult defi to the next stage because I think obviously layer one is limiting to, you know, the amount of people that can actually participate in defi. You know, it became, it becomes basically a whale game where, you know, people will either have to kind of delegate their funds to a centralized institution to just cover the fees for them to tap into defi. Some of them do that or they basically, you know, be able to afford these, these kind of like really high fees we're seeing. So if you want to get retail more involved with this, I think, you know, L2 is going to be a, be playing a big part there. But still, I mean, you can see from the chart, we're still seeing a lot of growth. When you're looking at USD locked in Defi, though, it's actually measuring kind of like the tokens kind of locked in Defi. Right.
00:03:04.054 - 00:03:40.954, Speaker A: So if ETH price is going up and BTC price is going up, then the total value locked in USD is going up as well. So it doesn't necessarily mean there's more ethics and BTC in the system or some of the other tokens. It basically means that, you know, the, the prices have gone up a lot of the time. But you can actually sort on Defi pulses website by Ethan BTC, which have actually come down a little bit lately. And I think that might be because of the price rise. Maybe there's some people that wanted to kind of cash out or maybe people are going to ETH two in the case of ETH, because ETH two, you know, the ETH locked in there is still going up. I don't know, there's a number of reasons why that can be going down as well.
00:03:40.954 - 00:04:12.842, Speaker A: But in general, I think looking at the value locked is important. Even if a lot of it is just prices going up, it's still capital in the system. Right. It's unlocking more of this economic bandwidth that we can use within defi. So, yeah, it was really, really, really great to see that today. I think we can get to 100 billion plus this year in Defi and maybe we don't even need L2 to get there. Maybe we can get there just because there's enough, you know, whales and centralized institutions that want to play in this arena and that will put their capital into defi.
00:04:12.842 - 00:05:30.058, Speaker A: I think that can actually be a reality, but I would prefer to see, you know, the reality of not just like whales using this sort of stuff, but obviously, you know, smaller participants as well, people who have like a few thousand dollars, you know, that want to participate, earn like a yield, you know, it's just not worth it at the gas fees right now for them. So yeah, hopefully we see more L2 adoption there. And I did want to note that I've seen a lot of people ask like, you know, how do they get exposure to Defi? Right? Because you can pick any number of Defi tokens. Like there's hundreds of them at this point, but you know, it's really hard to pick the right one, right? I mean you can pick one and then you have to kind of hope that one outperforms, you know, maybe ETH and BTC or maybe you want to buy multiple because you don't want to just buy one, right? Say you buy aave, you're like, okay, I've got Aave and then you go like, oh, I want SNx or I want you, you know, CRV or whatever. Right? So you know, in to do that, there's the Defi pulse index, which I mean, full disclosure here, I work at set, which the Defi pulse index is built on our infrastructure. But I mean, I think it's the, the kind of like the best Defi index product that you can buy, basically. And you can see here that, you know, in the underlying tokens here, you can see that it comprises of a bunch of different Defi tokens and then it's market cap weighted.
00:05:30.058 - 00:06:07.116, Speaker A: So you have synthetix, Aaver, Uniswap, MkR, Wi Fi, comp, LRC, ren, KNC and Bao. So these are like the top Defi tokens by kind of market cap here and some of the top teams as well. The criteria for getting into this index is quite strict. You know, you have to have a really great product that has to be live for six months, I think three or six months. I think it's maybe six months. And you know, it has to be reputable and everything, right? So it's not just like, you know, any old Defi token is going to get in here. So with this kind of index, you've also got protection from downside as well, you know, because of the fact that these tokens aren't just going to fall 90% overnight.
00:06:07.116 - 00:06:34.046, Speaker A: Right? Like a lot of tokens end up doing. If they're smaller, a lot of them can go down really quickly. A lot of them can be extremely volatile. So the point of the index is also to dampen volatility as well as give you, like, really easy access to DeFi. And in saying that as well, in terms of easy access, the DeFi pulse index is one token. So it's a token that contains a bunch of other tokens. So that means you don't have to go and buy all the individual tokens and spend all this money on gas using uniswap or whatever.
00:06:34.046 - 00:07:05.108, Speaker A: You can just buy this token, and that'll once, and pay the gas fee once, and that'll give you exposure to all these underlying. And the rebalancing is handled each month, and it's handled automatically. Doesn't cost you anything or anything like that. So, yeah, this, to me, is the best way to get kind of broad exposure to the DeFi ecosystem. And, you know, it's a good way to track how DeFi is doing as well. It's funny because this was launched at basically the end of DeFi summer. You can see here, like, September 13, right? And it had a price of $136.
00:07:05.108 - 00:07:50.036, Speaker A: It kind of tanked all the way down here to about like $60. But this was during, like, a really brutal bear market, right? So it fell back about, I think, just over 50% here. But if you were holding some of the underlying tokens, some of them went down, like, I think Wifi went down like 80% or something like that. And also because of the automated rebalancing and things like that, you didn't have to worry about the kind of gas fees and stressing over, should I sell now or shouldn't I sell now? Or whatever. And then, as you can see, the recovery has been really great. And we're at, like, all time highs for the Defi pulse index price now. So, yeah, if you want to ride the DeFi wave, I would suggest checking out the DeFi pulse index if you're not comfortable, kind of like, actively managing these positions.
00:07:50.036 - 00:08:26.990, Speaker A: And it's hard. Don't get me wrong, funds try to do this all the time, and they don't always win either. That's their full time job to do. If you're just a hobbyist, which a lot of us are, we don't have the time to just be spending here evaluating every new project that comes out evaluating, or, you know, how to trade in and out of them, and then you have to worry about taxes as well. It just becomes like a nightmare really quickly. So I kind of suggest this product to people that for those kind of people, for those types of people, and even people that are really just like, even those that work in this ecosystem. I suggest owning kind of this, and I know a lot of people that do because it's just easy exposure for them.
00:08:26.990 - 00:09:01.104, Speaker A: It's just, you know, another thing that they can diversify in their portfolio even though they hold individual tokens. This is just like a safer bet, I think, overall. So curve Finance launched this new ETH pool today, called the Estate ETH pool. Sorry. Which basically lets you trade between ETH one and ETH two at any time. Now, how does this work? Well, Lido finance here is basically a kind of like liquid staking solution. And what that means is that you can go into, you know, ETH two staking, and they'll give you kind of like a token that represents that staking position.
00:09:01.104 - 00:10:11.874, Speaker A: And that token can be traded back and forth with not just ETH, but like anything, right? Because it's just a normal ERC 20 token. So if you go to curve here, you can actually see Steve here ETH, and then you can trade between them. And there's actually a bit of a premium, I think, on ETH here rather than Steve. I think that's how I'm reading it correctly here. But other than that, you know, I think this is really cool because it unlocks that liquidity for people who kind of like, wanted to get into ETH two staking, but didn't want to have to lock their ETH up, right? Because you can imagine that this, this token, which they calling Steve, which short for stake ETH, can be used in different deFi apps and different deFi products, right? So you could imagine like maybe aave as this is collateral, and then you can use your staked ETH as collateral, which is really cool because not only are you earning an interest through, sorry, an interest, a yield through the staked ETH, but you also potentially earning a yield because you're using your stake these at collateral, you're borrowing your stable coins or something, and then you're going to going to earn yield on that as well. So it's like just stacking yield, which is really, really cool. So I thought this was awesome.
00:10:11.874 - 00:10:33.622, Speaker A: You know, curves very good at these, like for like pools where they trade between assets that kind of like, stay very similar in price, you know, obviously like stable coins and things like that. So, yeah, if you, um, if you're thinking about staking, you know, you can check out one of these services. I don't know if Lido is custodial or not. I kind of. I think it is. I think it's centralized, but don't quote me on that. I haven't checked them out too deeply myself.
00:10:33.622 - 00:11:03.820, Speaker A: So, yeah, go check them out. See if it's something that you want to do if you've been putting off staking because of that lockup. Really great thread from Joshua Frank today, who is the CEO of the tie, which is basically a crypto data platform. So those of you, a lot of you would have heard about Grayscale's products. So their GBTC and Ethy products that they basically kind of offer to the traditional finance market as a tax advantage way to get access to Ethan. BTC, basically. And they've got a bunch of other funds as well.
00:11:03.820 - 00:11:40.800, Speaker A: Things for like, there's like one for LTC and there was one for XRP, I think. I don't know if that's still out there, but this thread basically explains the phenomenon that is the premium. So a lot of the time, ETH and GPTC will trade at a premium to ETH, and sometimes that premium can be very, very high. So Ethy has often traded at 100% plus of a premium. So if ETH is like $200 on, or say a $1,000, because $1,000 right now, then ETH would trade at $2,000. And it's a bit more complicated than that because there's like shares. So one ETH share is actually worth one 10th of.
00:11:40.800 - 00:11:59.244, Speaker A: Of an ETH. So it represents one 10th. And then that premium basically exists because of the fact that there's actually a lockup. And this thread does a really great job of explaining that, you know, how it all works. It's actually the best that I've ever read on this. So I will link this in the YouTube description. You can check it out for yourself.
00:11:59.244 - 00:12:47.426, Speaker A: But I did want to give a kind of overview here, just briefly, about how this works and why some people were actually speculating that the recent ETH run up we saw was due to people buying ETH in order to cover positions in ETH E. Because what ends up happening with the ETH to ETH e or BTC to G BTC is that large funds, typically those who can take on the risk, will do an arbitrage trade. So what they'll do is they'll basically borrow kind of like BTC at a kind of rate that, you know, a rate, maybe it's like 8% a year or something like that. They'll borrow that BTC and then they'll kind of like hedge that with GBTC to kind of like arbitrage the premium. But the thing is, is that the premium can only be realized. For ethy, it's six months. I think for GBTC it's twelve months.
00:12:47.426 - 00:13:19.994, Speaker A: So the funds are locked. Right. So you can't just like, do this arbitrage straight away. So what ends up happening is that the premium goes way up, right, until the lockup time. So for six months, it'll, like, from, I guess, the last unlock, it'll, it'll go up, right? It'll go up really high. And then when the unlock happens and the arbitrage loop can be closed, the premium kind of just dumps, like, very, very quickly. And you can see it on this chart here, the recently, I think, like two or three days ago, the ETH kind of unlocked that, that tranche from the previous six months.
00:13:19.994 - 00:13:45.292, Speaker A: And then you can see that the premium just, like, collapsed, basically. But the inverse happened for the ETH price. Right. The ethy premium collapsed, but the ETH price shot up. So people are speculating. That's why, you know, part of the reason why the ETH price went up so quickly. And, you know, I saw another thread about this and I wasn't convinced, but this thread kind of convinces me that it might have had a pretty big impact simply because the ETH e product is, is quite large.
00:13:45.292 - 00:14:01.500, Speaker A: It actually owns, I think, anywhere from two to 3% of all ETH. That's huge. You know, to put that in context, I think that's about $2.53 billion at this. Yeah, it is. It is. Because it's easy to work out because it's about a $1,000 right now.
00:14:01.500 - 00:14:33.644, Speaker A: That's, that's a lot of money. Right. So, so that kind of like can move the market if people need to cover their kind of borrowers by buying spot ETH, basically. So, yeah, I probably didn't do the best job of explaining it there, and you're probably a little bit confused. So definitely go read this thread, because, you know, I was confused for a long time as well about exactly how it worked. This thread shine, shined a really great light on it, and I thank Josh for putting this out there. So there was an update from one of the yearn core devs today about the yearn v two UI.
00:14:33.644 - 00:15:13.628, Speaker A: There's a bunch of stuff here. I'm not going to read through all of it, but I think actually taking a step back here. So I want to talk about this, but I do want to take a step back and talk about yearn, kind of like more broadly and kind of like, I guess it's kind of had, like, a fall from grace right over the last maybe two to three months since kind of defi summer ended. And, you know, full disclosure here, I own wifi, so maybe I'm a bit biased here, but I think what's ended up happening is that yearn launched, right? It had the most hype out of anything that I had seen in quite a while, especially for a new project. The. The hype, the memes, you know, there was, like, blue Kirby and things like that. It was just insane.
00:15:13.628 - 00:15:52.232, Speaker A: I had not seen something like that in the ethereum space before, I think since I kind of got involved with it. And of course, you know, this insanity played out in the markets. The Wi Fi token went from being worth nothing when it launched to being worth $45,000. I think it's over a billion dollar market cap or something like that. You know, it got listed on Coinbase, you know, the whole shebang, basically. And then I think what ended up happening was that while the hype was going on and while Andre was shipping things, like every week, people were ignoring the underlying issues here. The underlying issues being that the YM platform relied heavily on yield farming to generate any kind of revenue.
00:15:52.232 - 00:16:21.234, Speaker A: And yield farming revenue is great during a Defi bull market because the Defi token prices go up, the yield goes up, everyone's, you know, like, oh, my God, I'm earning so much yield. And they're doing it through Wyoming, like, oh, I'm gonna buy Wi Fi. Right? And they're also getting a really great yield through staking their Wi Fi and things like that, which has since been, I think, removed temporarily. So. Yeah, but it was kind of like, in the end, you know, the project was just way too hyped. It was just for what it is. For what it was.
00:16:21.234 - 00:16:41.784, Speaker A: And what it kind of is still, I think it was way too hyped. But in saying that over the last, you know, two to three months, the. The devs have kept building. They've kept building. They've kept integrating different products into their suite. You know, like they had cream and cover and things like that, like the smaller project, like sushi and stuff. And they've been working behind the scenes.
00:16:41.784 - 00:17:11.944, Speaker A: But I think, you know, there's kind of a disconnect now between wire and the wifi holders because, you know, the wifi holders, a lot of them were, you know, speculators first, right. They didn't understand the product they just bought because of the mania and hype. And, you know, I mean, I obviously bought because of the mania and hype. At first, I was like, you know, this is so, you know, crazy. What am I missing here? I don't want to miss anything. I don't want to miss out. I was kind of like a FOMO buy, you know, at the time, which ended up, you know, being great for a lot of people who did it.
00:17:11.944 - 00:17:47.514, Speaker A: But what ends up happening if you don't actually research the product and research what this actually is and how it's actually going to make money long term and how you're going to make money if you own the YFI token, then you can become very disillusioned very quickly because you might think, you know, what's happening. Where's all the hype gone? Right? You know, blue Kirby left. You know, is the project dead? Andre left. Twitter, blah blah, blah, right. Because, you know, Wi Fi and Wyvern was Andre, right. All these other devs that are kind of out there and building this stuff, they're, they're not, you know, they don't have that fame, right. They don't have the same fame as Andre.
00:17:47.514 - 00:18:13.834, Speaker A: So basically, Andre left, and then everyone assumed that the project was dead or that it was, like, going to die. And then we had that come down of the price, right. And it collapsed pretty much, which was quite spectacular to see, actually, the three month lifecycle of Wi Fi. But you can see here that they're still very hard at work, right. They have all these updates coming out all the time. This is just like a Ui update. So it's not even about the underlying strategies and things like that.
00:18:13.834 - 00:18:56.450, Speaker A: And I think that, you know, Wyo is going to bring out these kind of v two strategies which have been in the works for quite a while. They're under audit, I think, currently, and that should be going live relatively soon. And I think they're going to. They're going to launch into a really nice kind of market because I think, you know, the way I view kind of the markets is that BTC, you know, in a bull market, will run first, ETH will run later, and after BTC, and then Defi will kind of, like, catch up after that. And I think if Defi heats up again and the market heats up again, like, it kind of starting to, is starting to right now, then I think Wyoming is perfectly positioned to capture the yield farming narrative again because that's going to heat up again. So, you know, that's not me telling you to go buy the Wi Fi token or anything. Please don't.
00:18:56.450 - 00:19:33.642, Speaker A: Unless you, you want to yourself unless you've researched it. But in general, I think, you know, I've spoken about this in the newsletter a lot of times, and maybe on the refuel as well. There's this thing I like to call, like to refer to called the sentiment pendulum, where sentiment kind of like, you know, goes along on a pendulum where it can just in crypto, can change incredibly quickly. So you can have sentiment where everyone's saying, you know, this is dead. You know, who cares about this? And then the pendulum will swing back, and then everyone's like, oh, my God, this is so bullish. I'm buying as much as I can of this, right? We saw this play out recently with Sushiswap, for example. So, you know, sushi swap also had a very dramatic kind of life cycle.
00:19:33.642 - 00:19:59.570, Speaker A: Right? There was. I got founded by an anonymous kind of chef, Nomi. It had all these drama surrounding it, right? It was kind of, like, hated by one half of the community, loved by the other half, and all this kind of stuff happened. And then, you know, Uniswap hit back. They launched the uni token liquidity, left sushiswap to go mine the unitoken, or final uni token and everything. And that was that. For a couple of months, you know, everyone, including me, including me, thought sushiswap was dead.
00:19:59.570 - 00:20:24.730, Speaker A: I was like, okay, Uniswap's coming out with v three soon. You know, they've got their token now. What's the value in sushiswap anymore? And I wasn't paying attention to it, right? But slowly, over those two to three months, the team was building out new kind of products, innovative products. They still had two to 300 million kind of TVL because they still had sushi. Sushi rewards. And then they kept innovating, right? They kept going. I think the price bottomed out at like $0.50
00:20:24.730 - 00:20:40.442, Speaker A: for the token. And then people noticed, right? People started noticing. The pendulum swung back. They're like, wow, sushi swap isn't dead. It's growing. What? What? It can actually compete with uniswap? This is crazy. And the token price is now $4, right? So in just a couple months.
00:20:40.442 - 00:21:11.532, Speaker A: So you can see how the. The sentiment can just change so rapidly, especially within the defi space, simply because this space just moves so quickly. So if you kind of like. I mean, my personal strategy is to pay attention to projects that are kind of like, quote unquote dead, right? Or the community has written off because they're usually heads down building things because they don't have the distraction of, like, hype anymore. Right. Like, the teams also get distracted when the token price is going nuts and everyone's rating the discord, talking about the moon and. Right.
00:21:11.532 - 00:21:40.934, Speaker A: And how amazing everything is. Right. And then when it's coming down, they also get distracted because everyone's complaining about it. They're like, oh, my God, is the project dead? You know, what's going on, and then, you know, it'll settle out or flatline after maybe a couple weeks, and then you'll have the core supporters left in the discord. You'll have the people who actually want to be there for, you know, outside of speculation, and you'll have the devs just chipping away at it. And that's what I like to look at. That's why, you know, I mentioned the other day that I bought yam, right.
00:21:40.934 - 00:22:17.926, Speaker A: In part because they removed the rebasing mechanism, but I knew that they were going to remove that because I was paying attention to that project because everyone had written it off. And I know that they're building, you know, great products and innovative products because I've paid attention to that. And, you know, I think that if you do that, you're very well positioned to not only, you know, I kind of like, I guess, make money from your investments, but also beyond the kind of, like, bleeding edge of things and knowing about things before other people do and being able to kind of, you know, be part of a community, too. Right. You know, it's very hard to be part of a community when there's so much noise because, you know, it's just speculative. It's just speculative. Everyone's just there because they bought a token.
00:22:17.926 - 00:22:37.800, Speaker A: They wanted to go up. So, yeah, that, that applies to so many projects. I mean, I think it applies to Wyan right now. Even though Wyatt had, you know, the ridiculous hype that it did, it applied to sushiswap. And I think sushiswap kind of, you know, the pendulum swung back for them. So they're kind of like on the up and up right now. Yam, it seems, is bit is kind of like getting into favor again.
00:22:37.800 - 00:23:21.652, Speaker A: I'm seeing more people talk about it. There's so many of these projects, right. So, yeah, if you kind of, like, are looking for something new to either a community to be a part of or you want to, like, buy a new token or whatever, I mean, again, not investment advice, just general advice that I like to look at the projects that people have written off. I always love to do that. And, you know, you can even think about it as like Ethereum, for example, like in 2018 and 2019, everyone except the hardcore Ethereum community had written it off, right? The wider crypto space was like, ethereum's a joke. And it's hard to believe that that was the narrative then, but it was because the ETH price was going down and it was doing nothing. And people were like, you know, Ethereum's dead, there's all these competitors, blah, blah.
00:23:21.652 - 00:24:14.096, Speaker A: And now, you know, I mean, I don't really see anyone saying that anymore except like, I guess, the BTC maximalist. Right? But they were always saying that, so that doesn't matter. Um, so, you know, it just, it just, I mean, in general, like, I guess what I've been saying for the last few minutes is that, you know, paying attention is, is both very fulfilling because you get to be part of a community that isn't just speculative and potentially you can, you know, kind of make money from as well. Right? So that's kind of been my strategy over the past two to three years, to be honest. And it's worked out quite well. You know, I love being part of the tight knit communities and getting to know people without the noise of like, you know, speculative, I guess, price talk and things like that. So, yeah, just a little bit of color there on, I guess, where Wyoming is today and where a lot of different projects, I think, are today because, you know, building something valuable takes time.
00:24:14.096 - 00:24:40.926, Speaker A: Launching a token and putting hype around it is very easy, especially in a bull market. So you'll see a lot of that happening. But I don't think that it's something that is lasting. I don't think that's how to kind of, like, make a successful ecosystem. So sundip from Matic Network tweeted this out today. So it's, this is from the block, basically. The Google search volume for ethereum hit an all time high, I think, yesterday or the day before.
00:24:40.926 - 00:25:38.524, Speaker A: I can't really see the date here, but basically, I mean, I assume it was on the day that Ethereum decided to just go up 50% in a day, right, which is quite insane, but this is higher than it was in late 2017, early 2018, during the mania. Right? And I think. So what I think happened here was that the ETH price went up really quickly, right? So quickly that everyone was talking about it. Literally everyone, every youtuber, every person on Twitter, every trader, you know, everyone outside of this. And that kind of like, flows out into the wider ecosystem. It kind of breaches out of crypto because mainstream media starts talking about it and a lot of people would have, you can see from this chart, searched Ethereum back when it was $1,000 or at, you know, going up to $1,400, and then now they're hearing about it hitting $1,000 again, right? So they're like, oh, my God, ethereum didn't die. Just as I was explaining about how people, you know, don't pay attention when the prices aren't moving and they kind of miss the forest for the trees.
00:25:38.524 - 00:26:04.192, Speaker A: So this is kind of what's happened here. I don't think it's a top signal, right? I don't think it means that we're going another bear market or anything like that. I think that generally, crypto is more in the mainstream consciousness than it. Than it has been in previous years. You'd be hard pressed to find anyone that hasn't at least heard of bitcoin before for an example there. Maybe. I mean, it depends, I guess, like, it depends on which circle you talk to.
00:26:04.192 - 00:26:45.678, Speaker A: But, you know, pretty much like, I would. I would assume that anyone between the ages of maybe 20 and like, 60 would at least have heard of it. You know, it just depends, you know, it also depends on, like, what, where they get their news and what they pay attention to. But I'm pretty. I would be. I would be kind of, like, pretty confident that pretty much every young person has heard of crypto and bitcoin and at least bitcoin, maybe not ethereum, but, you know, just because it's been in the news so, so much over the past few years, I think that's what we're seeing happen with Ethereum now because there was another chart that I saw that compared Ethereum search volume to bitcoin, and Ethereum search volume is basically still, there are hardly anything. I think it's like 10% of bitcoins now.
00:26:45.678 - 00:27:39.586, Speaker A: So you can see that basically Ethereum is entering the mainstream consciousness just as bitcoin has. And that's why we're seeing this uptick here. So, yeah, I had some people ask me about this and, like, is this a top signal? I'm like, I don't, I don't think it is. It's not, again, not investment advice, but just the context is important here that, you know, yes, the search volume is at all time high, but that doesn't mean that, you know, the prices are going to come crashing down like they did in, you know, the last kind of bull market, simply because, you know, there's more people searching for it. It's actually, I would actually argue it's even more bullish because of the fact that now more people know about Ethereum, right? And, you know, probably learning about it for the first time. Because you don't just Google Ethereum, right? If, you know, regular users and people already know about it aren't just going to Google Ethereum, whereas people who are new to it, they'll google Ethereum. They might google what is Ethereum? How to buy Ethereum, things like that.
00:27:39.586 - 00:28:02.254, Speaker A: So that's why you'll see these kind of things trending up. So I'd actually argue that it's. It's quite bullish. So last thing here from Monsooni. This is a pretty good tweet I actually really liked. And it plays into what I was just talking about before about, you know, paying attention to projects that everyone else has written off. So he writes, I stopped caring too much about what a lot of these Defi tokens do anymore.
00:28:02.254 - 00:28:21.314, Speaker A: If it has a great dev team, I trust their ability to pivot to something functional over time. I care more about production. Great dev team. Plus low cap is an Instabuy. There's quite a few out there. Now, I was just talking about this, right, how projects get written off, you know, for dead. Their, you know, token price goes down, back down to earth.
00:28:21.314 - 00:28:56.882, Speaker A: It's not really worth much, but they keep kind of, you know, kicking away kind of like building. Making great products and kind of like building a community. I think the perfect project here is Yam, because he mentions low cap as well. Right? So Yam's market cap was like $10 million for a while because it had the rebasing mechanism as well. But, you know, it was a super low cap. It was basically an extremely speculative bet, and it still is. But, you know, as someone who was still paying attention to the project, I knew how great their dev team was and how great their team was altogether and how dedicated they were to building out a great product.
00:28:56.882 - 00:29:30.214, Speaker A: They still had a really, really awesome community that was super active, doing a lot of different things. They were managing their treasury really well. You know, they were doing innovative things with that, like buying the Defi pulse index, for example. So that was kind of like why I kept paying attention, because I, you know, it wasn't just like one of the food farms that everyone had written off. It was actually actually a legit project, even though it had a colored past. So, you know, colored, I guess, is a nice way of saying it, but, you know, it had a lot of drama surrounding it after its hype cycle. Just like sushiswap did just like Wyoming did.
00:29:30.214 - 00:29:56.610, Speaker A: Same kind of story every time. So you can see the pattern here. Right. And I wrote more about this in the Daily Grain newsletter if you want to check that out. You know, you can check that out in the YouTube description. But, yeah, I just wanted to kind of, like, shout out to monsooni here because, you know, his tweet actually got me thinking a lot more about this and has informed. I mean, in general, like, I'm glad that kind of, he said this because it kind of, like, made my thoughts clearer here.
00:29:56.610 - 00:30:24.384, Speaker A: And I wasn't just, you know, thinking these kind of crazy things to myself. Right. I was actually, like, you know, right on the money here. And I said that, you know, this is the real alpha leak and a lot of people seem to seem to like it there, but it really is. Right. As I just explained to you, the real alpha leak is not, you know, going into everything that everyone else is going into and piling into. It's paying attention to the teams, the great dev teams, the teams that ship, the ones that are always building, even though everyone else has written them off for dead.
00:30:24.384 - 00:31:09.106, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think that, you know, we're going to see a lot more of that going on and, you know, during the next bear market because there will be another bear market that's going to be amazing to see how many projects are still kind of like kicking and building and go on to become billion dollar kind of projects in the next kind of, I guess, like bull cycle that we get, you know, even another example of this, like Ave, you know, r there was written off for ages because of the fact that they didn't have a product. They only had a token. They were building their product for a long time. They came off the bull market into a bear market, and now Aave is like a top defi protocol, two and a half billion dollars or more kind of value locked in their protocol. The token price went nuts. Right. So, yeah, I mean, there's examples of this everywhere.
00:31:09.106 - 00:31:54.966, Speaker A: I don't, I probably, you know, kind of exhausted my, my explanations here, but I just really wanted to get that point across because I've been asked a lot about this and a lot of people ask me, you know, what's your kind of, like, strategy for investing in products and stuff like that? You know, I don't want to kind of like give one on one kind of advice because I don't want to give it any investment advice, but I do want to give general advice that I kind of stick to. So I just pay attention to projects that people think are dead. That's just the golden rule, and that's one that I've lived by for quite a while now. Alright, thanks everyone for listening and watching. As I mentioned at the start of the video, there won't be a daily grave refuel for Thursday or Friday, unfortunately. But on Saturday I'll be back with a special episode that covers Thursday, Friday and Saturday's news. So subscribe to the YouTube channel so you don't miss that.
00:31:54.966 - 00:32:00.614, Speaker A: Give this video a thumbs up, join the Discord Channel and subscribe to the Daily Gray newsletter and I'll catch you all on Saturday.
