00:00:00.240 - 00:00:22.574, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano. And today's the 10 November 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So I've been noticing over the last 24, 48 hours this kind of trend of shaming people for selling their airdrops. So I put out this tweet today saying, you know, this trend of shaming people for selling their airdrops needs to stop.
00:00:22.574 - 00:01:00.720, Speaker A: Now, I think that just shaming people for selling anything in general is, is really silly. Like, unless these people are kind of like scamming other people, then of course, right, you should call it out and shaming them is justified. But generally, if it's like an airdrop that someone has gotten, or if it's kind of like an asset that they've gotten up on their public address and they've sold it, you shouldn't shame them for that. I mean, why is it shameful to take profits like the ens? Airdrop, for example, has been kind of like life changing money for a lot of people. I mean, even on the low end, if you, if you've got 250 tokens at the current price of Ens, it's, it's what, I think it's like $50 or something like that. That's a lot of money, right. For a lot of people.
00:01:00.720 - 00:01:32.386, Speaker A: And then you higher end, and it becomes like a very sizable airdrop. Like the people who got 800 or so, or like 1000 ens, that's like 50 grand right there for basically just having an Ens name. So why should they be shamed for selling? I don't think they should. And also, there's people who just simply need to sell. To sell some to pay taxes as well. Because when you claim the airdrop in the US, in Australia and parts of Europe, it's treated as kind of like regular income. And at the claim time, the price that you've claimed that end, you need to kind of like cover that as part of income tax.
00:01:32.386 - 00:01:50.418, Speaker A: And that's why some people will have sold some as well. There's a lot of that stuff going on. And just generally, I don't know, I'm just not a very big believer. Sorry. I'm a very big believer in not shaming people for doing these sorts of things. Because at the end of the day, you can't expect everyone just to hold everything forever, right? They're going to sell. They're going to take profits.
00:01:50.418 - 00:02:21.662, Speaker A: That's the whole reason, I mean, that most people invest in things is that they expect it's going to go up in the future and they're going to take profits on it. But when you get airdrops, it becomes an even more pronounced thing where you're like, okay, well, I just got all this essentially free money airdrop to me, that I wasn't expecting. And it's just an insane, you know, insane amount of money. Why wouldn't a lot of these people sell? Of course they're going to sell. And, you know, with ens one, it's kind of become especially egregious because of the fact that there's ens names tied to these addresses, right. People can see that, and they can be like, wow, this person dumped all their ens tokens. Let's shame them.
00:02:21.662 - 00:02:51.190, Speaker A: And it's kind of like, well, why? Like, I just really don't understand why you're doing this. And the funny thing is, a lot of the people, you know, shaming them, usually are the ones that are just selling themselves as well. It's kind of like this projecting that they're doing. So I'm just really not a fan of this kind of trend that I'm seeing pop up here. And I would encourage all of you to not listen to any of this sort of stuff that people say, sell if you want to sell. Like, I'm not trying to give investment advice or, but, like, for your personal kind of, like, position. If you want to sell, if you want to take profits, you.
00:02:51.190 - 00:03:07.556, Speaker A: You do it, right? It's up to you. It's your decision. It doesn't matter what anyone, anyone else says. It doesn't matter if kind of, like, the price goes up after you've sold. You, you've made the conscious decision to sell and take profits. And you should be happy with that. Now, I mean, there's a whole other discussion to be had about people selling too early and then regretting it late.
00:03:07.556 - 00:03:29.310, Speaker A: Uh, regretting it later. But that's a different discussion. I believe if you are comfortable taking profits and you, you know, you, you've made the decision, the conscious decision yourself. You haven't let anyone else inform your decision, then, uh, you know, that you should kind of, like, stick with that and go with that. You shouldn't kind of listen to other people who are saying, oh, you know, shame on you for selling. You know, you're selling the future of kind of like, the domain name system in the, in the world. Like, Ans is amazing.
00:03:29.310 - 00:03:55.868, Speaker A: And yes, Ens is amazing. Um, but the thing is you got an airdrop and you're not expected to participate in governance like there is. It's a no strings attached airdrop. It's like there's social signaling that people can do, but there's no technical thing built into ens that basically says you have to delegate it. Like obviously when you go through the claims process it delegates it for you. But the thing is there's nothing stopping you from, from selling it. If they wanted to construct it like that, they could have put vesting on the airdrop, for example, and they didn't do that.
00:03:55.868 - 00:04:20.804, Speaker A: So you shouldn't feel bad at all for doing this. And you know, I think that goes for any airdrop, not just the Ens one. But I think the Ens one was, was especially kind of like a bad because it was tied to Ens names. People kind of like could see that and shame people and do whatever like that. And you know, it's funny for me, like I, as I said, I don't, I don't plan to sell my kind of like ens tokens on, on sassle ETH. I haven't even claimed them yet because I'm still waiting for gas to go down a bit. Maybe it'll go down on the weekend.
00:04:20.804 - 00:04:46.960, Speaker A: But as I said I didn't feel like a need or a rush to claim them. But essentially like I, you know, for me, I guess like I'm not scared that anyone's going to shame me and that's not the reason why I wouldn't sell. I just personally don't want to sell. I just personally want to keep it. And that's not got to do with any kind of investment decision. It's just like I want to have some Ens tokens. I want to be able to delegate and have like a small say in the governance process and I'm happy keeping them in my wallet to do that.
00:04:46.960 - 00:05:26.226, Speaker A: But you know, I personally got like, I mean, you know, many of you know, I kind of like large gitcoin airdrop and I sold 25% of that airdrop early on and I documented the whole thing in the Discord channel and you know, no one has shamed me for that because no one really looked at my address. But, you know, people, I'm sure if people kind of like were paying attention, maybe some people would try to shame me for that and say, why are you dumping, you know, these tokens? But again, like not just myself but like it applies to everyone. Just don't feel shame for dumping, for dumping, for selling, for taking profits. Right. Don't feel shameful. Unless you're trying to scan someone, then, yes, you should feel shame. But if you're just a regular kind of person, you, you kind of like, got an airdrop, then it's up to you what you do with it.
00:05:26.226 - 00:06:01.240, Speaker A: No one else controls what you do with it. And if the team that does the airdrop wanted to kind of like, prevent people from selling it straight away, well, they would put investing with, and they didn't. Right. For ens and that, I mean, most airdrops don't have vesting on them. So from that point of view, it kind of makes sense to, to kind of like, just do what you want with it, because, um, you know, if, if the creators didn't want you to do that, they would have put vesting on it. But anyway, I'm going to move on to the next kind of updates here. So little Cohen, uh, I mentioned yesterday how he had a kind of like, temperature check for uniswap liquidity incentivization or liquidity mining on optimism and arbitrum.
00:06:01.240 - 00:06:33.744, Speaker A: And unfortunately, in minutes before the vote would have passed, uh, the temperature check, there was a single no voter with 200k votes, which was a massive amount of votes that blocked the proposal. Now, you can see here that there was 23, over 23,000 votes for yes. And then someone came in with over 200,000 votes and just like, voted no and blocked this proposal. Now, this is very unfortunate. You can see here who the person was. It was, this person bought triple four, and he responded by saying, hey, sorry my vote made you frustrated. That wasn't my intention.
00:06:33.744 - 00:06:57.400, Speaker A: And sorry for not leaving any comments. You were correct. I should have joined the discussion first and cast my votes. And then he goes on to say, in short, I don't think that artificially incentivizing usage of l two s is going to change much. Saving $100 in fears on every swap is good enough financial incentive in itself. But as you say, late l two s are still not getting deserved traction. Why is that? And then little colon goes on to say, which I agree with, artificially incentivizing usage is crypto's killer app.
00:06:57.400 - 00:07:26.690, Speaker A: That's how Defi and l one grew to where it is today. And that's how other l ones are growing. And that's how products in web two have been growing. Referrals, sign up, bonuses, etcetera. At some point it becomes organic and sustainable. But since you have blocked this and you are a uni delegate, you must have other ideas on how to make uni on l two a success, I'll listen. And then Bohr goes on to say, I think a smaller financial incentive, such as gas refund program for bridging to l two and executing a swap would have higher leverage long, long term, and then ludicrous, says, I'll wait for your actionable, actionable proposal to make it happen.
00:07:26.690 - 00:07:54.254, Speaker A: You get my votes. Now this is going to be part of a longer discussion I have today with a tweet from Scott Lewis as well. But what I want to kind of focus on here is just this point from ball where he says, you know, doing like a gas refund program for bridging to l two. I actually like that. Right? I disagree with his first tweet where he basically says that artificial incentivizing usage isn't going to change much. I actually think it would change a lot. Like, I actually think it would be a massive boost to uniswap on both optimism and arbitrum.
00:07:54.254 - 00:08:20.958, Speaker A: But as he says, there's other ways to do it. You can do a gas refund program, and you know what? I'd vote for that. Like, I'd amplify that. I'd basically tell people that this is a good idea, but at the same time, I think that's still a small part of it. I really think that when you kind of. So when you kind of look at liquidity in general in the kind of, I guess, defi space, most of it belongs to the bigger players. And these bigger players don't necessarily care about the gas fees because they have so much money.
00:08:20.958 - 00:08:35.926, Speaker A: They just, they're happy to pay it. And those bigger players will move more quickly to these L2s. If there is kind of liquidity there to. Sorry. If there's kind of like tokens and rewards there to be farmed. Now what they do with them, those tokens is up to them, of course. You know, they may, they may dump it, whatever.
00:08:35.926 - 00:09:34.406, Speaker A: But the thing is, it gets more liquidity there and then eventually when you get more sticky liquidity, you get more, more kind of like end users coming across, even if the bridge fees are high. So, I mean, I wrote about this in the newsletter today as well, but this goes pretty deep when it comes to, like, bootstrapping ecosystems. And I think that kind of like anyone who says that it's not going to make a big difference just hasn't really studied how token incentives have basically changed the entire game over the last, I guess, probably 18 months since DeFi summer started. Ethereum itself didn't have kind of native token incentives like the Ethereum foundation didn't do like an ETH liquidity mining program, for example, but we had compound Kickstart DeFi summer with the comp liquidity mining launch and then we had like more and more of them come along and then people got better at them and people do. And like every, it's pretty much like all the protocols either launch with like an airdrop or a liquidity mining program now. And there's a lot of sticky liquidity TvL in Ethereum defies is way over 100 billion at this point. There's tons of volume, there's very strong infrastructure, there's very strong network effects around that.
00:09:34.406 - 00:10:20.214, Speaker A: There's lots of kind of like bots set up to keep all the prices in check across the liquidity pools, which obviously adds to the usage of the network and obviously adds to the gas phase of the network as well. So yeah, I think it's kind of short sighted to say that it wouldn't have any effect. And that brings me to kind of like the second related tweet, which was from Scott Lewis here where he said all open public roll ups need to release tokens as soon as it is feasible. It is all fun and good to see if unsubsidized roll ups can compete with heavily subsidized adoption programs for other layer ones. But once the subsidies create moats, it may be too late. This is the crux of the issue in that, yeah, okay, it's noble and it's fun and cool. If you want to see how far we can get, like the unsubsidized roll ups, like without a token, how far we can grow them, how much of a moat they can kind of like have for themselves and how many users actually come to them.
00:10:20.214 - 00:11:08.608, Speaker A: But you're competing with the other ecosystems which are doing the incentives, so you're essentially giving the user a choice. Hey, come use uniswap and all these other apps on arbitrary and optimism and they may or may not pay you their own tokens, but come use it because you get cheaper fees. And that's a pretty good carrot. It's a pretty good thing for people to follow. But then on the other side of it you have all these kind of other chains, and a lot of them are just the eVM side chains that I've talked about before that basically are saying, hey guys, come here. We have cheap fees and we also have like all these liquidity incentives for you and we have like all this money that we're going to rain down upon you. What do you think that the average end user is going to choose like I already know, and especially because the bridging fees of getting onto l two are just, just as expensive or about the same as getting onto a side chain.
00:11:08.608 - 00:12:00.846, Speaker A: So if you're bridging from ethereum to one of these side chains, and they, they're kind of like making up for those bridging fees by giving you all these massive rewards, then it's just, it's a different incentive. And incentives rule the world at the end of the day, right? So we should be pushing optimism arbitrary and all the generalized l two s to be doing liquidity, my native liquidity incentive programs, as soon as possible, because I'm a strong believer that the kind of like main reason, or the only reason a lot of these other l one s have gotten traction is because of those programs. It doesn't really have anything to do, it doesn't have a lot to do with kind of like the cheap fees. I'm convinced that people are happy to pay the fees if they're getting something for it. Now, is that long term sustainable? No, of course not, for a number of different reasons. Obviously we need cheap fees, and I kind of like was thinking about it today. I think that for most users, as they exist today, are happy to pay up to a dollar in fees to do what they want to do on chain.
00:12:00.846 - 00:12:40.928, Speaker A: That really doesn't make a huge difference to a lot of people, I guess, in the western world and things like that. The people that we have today, I mean, there's not many people in this ecosystem today, but obviously we need to get fees much cheaper than that. As time goes on to essentially, I mean, long term, it's going to be free for the end user. I mean, it already is. On some of these kind of like l two s, like Dydx and immutable X, they pay for their l one gas fees by charging marketplace fees. And the funny thing is, the marketplace fees can sometimes be higher than what the gas fee would be because of the fact that it's like a flat percentage. So for example, in DyDx it's like a flat percentage depending on how many, you know, if you've got any DyDX tokens, you get discounts, but it's like a flat percentage on your trades.
00:12:40.928 - 00:13:16.848, Speaker A: And then DydX generates revenue through that on their roll up, and then they pay the l one gas fees by using that, and they have to pay it in ETH. Of course, same goes for immutable X. When they're kind of like posting their proofs to layer one. They're using the revenue that they're generating from the marketplace fees and from kind of like minting and trading fees on immutable X. And that's how they are able to offer end users very cheap fees. But in terms of the generalized platforms like arbitrary and optimism, I really do believe like most of the users as they exist today are fine paying a dollar two in fees. It's when it obviously gets to the $50 mark, it becomes much much different.
00:13:16.848 - 00:14:02.646, Speaker A: But like dollar two, for most users that exist today, I think a lot of them will actually be fine with that. I've spoken to a lot of these users as well and they say, yeah, okay, a dollar two is fine, especially if they're kind of like depending on what they're doing on the network as well. But when it gets to $5100 and this is just for like simple swaps, adding liquidity can, can be a few hundred dollars depending on when the network is, what's happening with the network, that is obviously much worse than, than just a few dollars there. So from that perspective, uh, these L2s already compete on, on the fee side of things, even though they're not as cheap as these other kind of like centralized EVM chains or whatever. Um, they're, they're, they're, they're still very cheap. And they inherit ethereum security, of course. But they don't have the incentive programs that these other l one s do.
00:14:02.646 - 00:14:36.210, Speaker A: And I'm telling you right now, if arbitrary and optimism both had tokens and had token incentive programs, their TVL would absolutely skyrocket. There are so many ethereums that have so much money because they bought ETH really early on, that would move to these L2s in a heartbeat if there was liquidity incentives there. And you know, I'm speaking from kind of like personal experience as well. Like I would be more likely to move a lot of my funds over to l two, you know, even though I kind of like don't mind paying the l one gas fees. But that's just me. Like I'm obviously like an exception there. There's not many of us.
00:14:36.210 - 00:15:09.126, Speaker A: But for me, like I would move a lot of my liquidity there and that from there kind of brings network effect, right? Brings more liquidity into the system, gets more people kind of involved there. And then you get like the other users coming in and playing with it. So I don't see any downsides to this, really. And I mean, I know that these things are going to have tokens. Like, it's not even just like an if for me. They, they're pretty much going to have to have tokens. Like if they don't, they're going to lose, if they don't do liquidity mining programs, they're going to lose long term, I believe, to these other ecosystems that do, simply because the incentives for users is just not there now.
00:15:09.126 - 00:15:33.230, Speaker A: Maybe it is on their roadmap already, and they're just focusing on getting kind of like the technical upgrades out. Like OVM 2.0 is happening today or tomorrow, I believe, and arbitrum nitro is happening soon. There's no date on that yet, but I'm sure it's soon. And then from there, maybe they, you know, they do tokens in the new year, new year or something like that. But I think it needs to happen sooner rather than later. I wrote a bit more about this in the newsletter today, but definitely needs to happen.
00:15:33.230 - 00:16:17.822, Speaker A: We already know it works, and we already know kind of like at least how to do it in a, in a decent way, not in like the perfect way, but how to do it in such a way where it's not, you know, detrimental to the project and to the token itself, but also works to bootstrap this entirely new ecosystem and bootstrap it really quickly because when you think about it, you can bootstrap a new ecosystem with no token incentives, but by adding a token incentive, you essentially supercharge it and you bring forward so much growth. Because, for example, you could say that, all right, well, in five years, the L2s are going to be like ubiquitous. Everyone's going to be using them. They're going to be great. There's going to be, you know, hundreds of billions of TVL in them. That's all well and good, but if you want to bring all that growth to today, you can. You just use liquidity incentives and you use token incentives to get people on there, and you build a moat for these things.
00:16:17.822 - 00:16:56.056, Speaker A: So something for these teams to think about. I definitely think that they will do it, but the pressure's on. They need to do it sooner rather than later, I believe. All right, so Zksync announced that OKX, the centralized exchange, is offering direct fiat on ramps and off ramps to Zksync's L2 network here. Now, obviously, Zksync is working on a bunch of different things like ZK Porter and ZKe EVM, which is their generalized solutions for ethereum L2 scaling. But right now they kind of like have a couple of different things on their L2. They've got the gitcoin donations, of course they've got the, they've got the.
00:16:56.056 - 00:17:23.514, Speaker A: Sorry, the gitcoin donations and they've got some, some NFT stuff happening. But essentially, yeah, I mean, whenever I see a centralized exchange bridge into an l two, I get really, really excited because this coupled with like a liquidity incentive program. Oh my God. Like the growth that you would see would be insane. Imagine arbitrary and optimism as generalized platforms just because they're the only generalized platforms live today. As a L2, obviously we had the Polygon Pos chain, but they already did an incentive program. I don't think they're going to do another one.
00:17:23.514 - 00:17:47.910, Speaker A: And they were actually able to get like a lot of users there in a good moat. And people that are just using it because they've been exposed to it, because they had like a, had like an incentive to get exposed to it, but with arbitrary and optimism. They haven't done one yet. But imagine they had bridges in from Coinbase. They had token incentives there. They had all the most popular apps on there. People would bridge in and they would stay there, they would use it and they would skip l one ethereum entirely.
00:17:47.910 - 00:18:02.352, Speaker A: And the hilarious thing is they may not even realize that they're using Ethereum, especially if they're a new, newer user. And, and they'd be like, wow, arbitrary and optimism. This is awesome. And they were. And they'll be like, oh, I got all these apps. It was really expensive to use this on Ethereum. Now I can use this really cheaply.
00:18:02.352 - 00:18:37.444, Speaker A: And that's exactly what they're thinking when they go to these other chains. So we need to keep that in the kind of like Ethereum family. And that's how we do it through these l two kind of on ramps from centralized exchanges. So super excited to see this. I hope to see more and more of these centralized exchanges support not just, you know, one l two, but like all the l two s, of course. So a tweet here from Josh, basically tweeting out Coinbase's q three earnings. So I spoke about Coinbase's Q two earnings last time and about how the Ethereum trading volume had surpassed BTC volume and back then and has passed it again.
00:18:37.444 - 00:19:05.270, Speaker A: So ETH had 22% of the volume on Coinbase versus BTC at 19%. Now, you can see here that they're actually both continuing to lose their market share to other crypto assets. And that's only natural because Coinbase started listing a lot more assets over the last few months. And I think Q three was, was probably, you know, somewhat dominated as well, by. By shib as well, I think. Or maybe that. Maybe not, not so much, because I think Shib was in October, and that's part of Q four.
00:19:05.270 - 00:19:51.810, Speaker A: But there was definitely a lot of stuff on there that wasn't on there in Q two that contributed to this kind of, like, other crypto asset trading volume going up. You can see here that since last year, same time last year, there's been a 9% increase in other crypto asset trading, and there's been a pretty big decrease in bitcoin trading. Since the same time last year, it's been a 13% kind of decrease, whereas Ethereum has actually been a 4% increase since this time last year. So BTC is not only losing trading volume to other crypto assets, but it's also losing it to ETH as well. So just, I mean, this is, this is a shift, right? Like, as Josh says, this is, this is a shift in the markets, and you can see it playing out. The ETH BTC ratio continues to go up over time. Usually in Q four, it's supposed to be a kind of weak quarter for, for ETH against bitcoin, and bitcoin's supposed to be very, very strong.
00:19:51.810 - 00:20:09.498, Speaker A: But no, not so, not, not yet. I mean, we're kind of like, what, 10 November? We've got 50 days left of Q four. It could still happen. Right? But, but usually it happens. It's happened by, you know, in the last few weeks, and it just hasn't happened the same this year. So times are changing, that's for sure. All right.
00:20:09.498 - 00:20:54.348, Speaker A: Another tweet I put out today was one about kind of like communities. And I said, uh, there's very basic tweet where I basically just said, real and lasting communities are built during bear markets. Now, I'm not going to go on a tangent about this, and I just wanted to kind of, like, point out and detail a bit more what I meant by this. Essentially, the reason why Ethereum has such a strong community is because it was built during the 2018 2019 bear market. Ethereum's community in 2017 was tiny in terms of, like, people who actually cared about Ethereum itself rather than caring about icos, because 2017, for those who are around, was absolutely dominated by icos. There was very, very few people who cared about anything else got to do with Ethereum. Now, in 2021, the Ethereum network is actually dominated by people who care about the network itself.
00:20:54.348 - 00:21:29.752, Speaker A: They care about the major upgrades, like the merge and 1559 and the whole kind of like General ETH two effort and things like that, right? Rather than caring about like, all these cash grabs and ponzis and stuff like that. Whereas that could only have happened because the real community was built during a bear market. There were people who stuck around who weren't here for the money, because the bear market, obviously, there's not, there's basically no money to be made in a bear market, really, unless you're a really, really good trader. Good luck. What you do in a bear market is, you, dollar cost, average in as much as you can and just wait. That's all you can do. There's nothing else you could do.
00:21:29.752 - 00:21:55.034, Speaker A: There's none of these opportunities like there are right now where you can just like, throw money at something and it'll go up like ten x in a few months. There's none of that right now, right? And there was no, none of these massive airdrops either. I don't even remember if there actually were any airdrops back then. I don't think there actually actually were. I think the airdrops only started in defi summer, but, and they wouldn't have been worth much anyway. Like, the valuations were very low. I mean, it's funny looking back on it now.
00:21:55.034 - 00:22:20.652, Speaker A: Eats market cap for a long time, it was like, ETH was about $100. Its market cap was $10 billion. Its market cap is now over $500 billion. And that's just in a couple of years, the difference there. So when you kind of like, look at that and look at, and that, that's ETH, right, at 10 billion, like, and think about all the other kind of assets that were much lower than that back then. Um, it just, it was extremely hard to make any money in, in the bear market. So everyone was kind of just investing for the long term.
00:22:20.652 - 00:23:12.258, Speaker A: Everyone cared about the technology, but, um, care deeply about it, wanted to keep building and say, you know, yes, it's a bear market, but if we keep building, going to build towards a better world, we're eventually going to get, like, more people interested again, and eventually the market's going to, going to turn around. And, you know, as strongly as we actually believed it back then, we didn't know for sure, right? We didn't know. Like, we, you know, a lot of the time, we thought ourselves crazy for what we were doing. We were like, you know, are we actually just wasting our time here? But that was in the depths of the kind of like, bear market, I think for me, for most of it, I felt like this was just so obvious to me and I had always had conviction, but a lot of people didn't. And, you know, obviously because the, there wasn't much money to be made, it basically didn't attract any of the quote unquote moon boys or very speculative people. And you attracted the actual builders and the people who cared about the technology. That's why Ethereum has such a strong community now.
00:23:12.258 - 00:23:40.866, Speaker A: There's all these other kind of like networks that are spinning up today and they've only seen a bull market and their communities have only seen a bull market. Those communities, I'm like, if we go into another kind of like proper, I guess, bear market that maybe lasts a year or something like that, I don't know. Like, as I said, I don't believe we're going to have like the long term bear markets again. But if it happens and we go into a longer term thing, I guarantee you over 90% of the people will be gone. They're not going to stick around. They're only here for the money and that's fine. Like, there's nothing wrong with being here for the money.
00:23:40.866 - 00:24:22.506, Speaker A: I spoke about this the other day, but it's very obvious to me because it's the same thing happens every single time. It even happened after the May crash in a limited fashion where a lot of people kind of left and the ecosystem was very, very quiet. And it's just obvious why that, why they left and why they come. So from that perspective, don't look at a community as it exists today and think that that's real and lasting, because as soon as the easy money stops, as soon as people stop making money, as soon as the bull market kind of like subsides or the market goes quiet, those people are gone. And the only people left are the builders and the true believers. And most of them are pretty much concentrated in Ethereum these days. So yeah, that's why I kind of put out this tweet here.
00:24:22.506 - 00:24:48.734, Speaker A: But as I said, not going to spend too much time on that one. Much of other stuff to get through here. So Connext announced today at ecosystem grants program. So. So the Connect ecosystem grants program funds promising individual projects to build and contribute to growing the Connext network. So more details is here for how to submit for wave one. So if this sounds like something that you want to be interested in, definitely go check out this blog post and apply.
00:24:48.734 - 00:25:41.394, Speaker A: I think, like where, what have they got here? What, what does connects look for? So they're looking for projects that meaningfully improve connects in some way, are passionate about the tech and community, have a track record of producing high quality outputs, embody Connext's values and ethos, and ideally have a path to long term financial sustainability. So if you're interested in building something on connect, something like what coin Hippo built, which was a Connext explorer, or what onehive built, which built like an interface called x pollinate for, for the connects network, anything like that. If you're interested in that, definitely go check this out and I put through an application. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you. All right, so I know I'm talking about my tweets a lot today, but I think it's important. These topics, I think these topics just more generally are very important. So what I've been seeing lately is not.
00:25:41.394 - 00:26:26.484, Speaker A: I'm seeing something that is kind of like making me a little bit concerned, and I'll read out the tweet here. So I tweeted out saying the biggest risk for web3, crypto, is that it gets hijacked and we end up recreating web two with the same old centralized gatekeepers. The scary thing is that this can easily happen even if people are building with good intentions. We need to fight to keep crypto decentralized. Now I want to focus on the second part where I said the scary thing is that this can easily happen even if people are building with good intentions. Because what I'm seeing right now play out in the ecosystem is that we're actually, a lot of these other ecosystems are going down the path of recreating the centralized web two space that we have today. Just with different, we're just with kind of like new bosses that are the same as the old bosses.
00:26:26.484 - 00:27:12.856, Speaker A: And the thing is, is that there's a lot of people building these sorts of things and they're doing them with good intentions. They're not actually building these things thinking, yes, I'm building something super centralized, I want to suck all the value added users and I want to be in total control. Most of the people building are not thinking like that at all, but they are either naive to or being misled into building on platforms and building things and thinking that they actually are building something that's decentralized or that is long term sustainable or is that, or is actually revolutionary, when in reality they're not really doing that at all. They're building the same thing that already exists. But it's harder for them to kind of see that because there's so much kind of like marketing bullshit in this industry that people kind of fall for. Now, I'm not going to call out any particular networks, but I'm sure you can understand which ones I have in mind here. And it is kind of like concerning for me.
00:27:12.856 - 00:28:04.280, Speaker A: And, you know, I didn't want to expand on it and call out any networks in my tweet because people just call me ETH Max. Not that I read the replies anymore, but like this is exactly why I stopped reading the replies because I can't even, like, I'm sure if I scroll down here I haven't read them, but I'm sure if I scroll down here I'm going to find tons of replies. Kind of like talking about, you know, being, being an ETH maxi or coping or whatever, but it seems to be a popular tweet anyway. So that was nice that a lot of people agreed with me, but, you know, in terms of like what I'm talking about here, I'm talking about the networks that basically say, oh, we're decentralized enough, or we try, you know, they trade decentralization for more scalability. Look, if you, I'm not saying that these people have bad intentions, but the thing is, even if they have good intentions, they're building something that is not the, is not decentralized, is not in the kind of like web3 ethos and community values. It is not something that is actually going to add good to the world. It is going to be a net negative in the long term.
00:28:04.280 - 00:28:56.106, Speaker A: And the thing is, if these things get network effects and moats, what's going to end up happening is that we're going to get stuck with them and we're just literally, as I said, we're going to recreate the same web two kind of world that we have today, just with different, different bosses. But they're going to be the same thing, right? There's going to be new and different in that. They're going to be different faces, but they're going to be exactly the same as the old ones. And I really like this. That's my biggest fear out of for everything in crypto, like bigger than any of the technical stuff or whatever or any of kind of like the, the risks of kind of like Ethereum network upgrades or any of the risks around L2 adoption or anything like that. My biggest fear has always been that we get psyops into essentially just recreating the old system because of our naivety or because we weren't paying enough attention. And that's why I always push back on things that I don't consider to be truly decentralized or have an actual path towards decentralization.
00:28:56.106 - 00:29:23.434, Speaker A: And the people building them are either kind of, like, malicious, because some people are malicious, or they just, like, naive to the fact that what they're building is not actually decentralized. And, and they're actually kind of like, marching us down a path that we shouldn't be going down. So I'm going to keep fighting that fight. Of course. I believe that decentralization is the most important thing in crypto by far. There's literally, I'm sorry, but there's nothing more important than that. If you don't have decentralization, you don't have a crypto network.
00:29:23.434 - 00:29:49.138, Speaker A: To me, all you have is like, a database. Like, just why are you even bothering with a crypto network? You have aws with a token, essentially. That's just my strongly held belief. There is obviously a spectrum to decentralization, but, but I think that the base layer that everything gets built on, like the layer one needs to be decentralized, you cannot compromise on that. There is, there is no, there is no room for compromise in my mind on that. So hopefully you all feel the same way. If you don't, I'd love to hear about it.
00:29:49.138 - 00:30:12.586, Speaker A: Of course, I'm not just kind of like trying to stay in my little bubble and say that what I'm saying is right. But if you want to debate this with me, be sure, but you can join the Discord channel and I'll reply to you there. Just much easier to debate there. Don't, don't do it in the YouTube comments because it's just like, it's a mess. Um, but, uh, you know, I think that you guys watch a refill all the time. You know exactly what my stance is on this sort of stuff. And if you spend any time in the Discord channel, we have these discussions all the time.
00:30:12.586 - 00:31:01.578, Speaker A: Um, we just really need to fight to make sure that we don't devolve into what web two is, because it may not seem like it, but web two is really, really bad right now. Like, it's so bad that, like, I mean, you guys know, like, these kind of, like, this is mega corpse that harvest all our information, sell it all profit off of us without us even knowing about it, have all these kind of like, centralized repositories, de platform people, kill developer ecosystems. It's so absolutely terrible, and it's, it's kind of like, it gets more dystopian by the day. I, my number one kind of like goal in this ecosystem is to make sure that doesn't happen. Right? I just. If that does happen, we've failed completely. Like, doesn't nothing else matters if that happens, because I will literally leave the ecosystem if it gets to that point where crypto reaches maturity in that it gets mass adoption, but we get mass adoption on something that is not decentralized as a base layer.
00:31:01.578 - 00:31:23.756, Speaker A: I cannot stand by and support that if we get to that point. So I will keep fighting. But I. It's an uphill battle for sure, because centralization is just easier than decentralization. It always has been, always will be, and you need to, you need to kind of like fight to preserve it. So. Yeah, anyway, last thing to talk about, because I'm going over time here, which is related to this, which was Polynya.
00:31:23.756 - 00:31:51.068, Speaker A: You know Polynya, everyone knows Polynya. Put another tweet today where they said on five top criteria that matter, matter for a settlement layer culture of users running nodes wide, token distribution, credible neutrality, Lindy and liquidity. Bitcoin is still arguably the leader. So. So it's frustrating to see there's no concerted effort to support roll ups there. And then Polynar goes on to say ethereum has the percent potential to surpass bitcoin on all of these, and it's already at par on economic security. But there's still work to be done, and we're still years away.
00:31:51.068 - 00:32:11.420, Speaker A: I'd love to see some competition in the settlement layer space because no one is even trying now. No one is trying. It really is just Ethereum and bitcoin. And bitcoin isn't even trying because I don't have support for like things like roll ups, which I've discussed before. But just a quick mention of all these points. Culture of users running nodes, really, that only exists in Ethereum and bitcoin. No other network can claim this.
00:32:11.420 - 00:32:34.864, Speaker A: I don't know any other network that takes running nodes as seriously as Ethereum and bitcoin does. And I would actually say that Bitcoin has ethereum beat here. As much shit that as I give bitcoin, bitcoin is, they really have a strong kind of culture of running your nodes. And they do run more nodes, and ethereum does. Why? Token distribution. Bitcoin's been around longer, it's had more market cycles. It was distributed, you know, in a way when it was kind of like worthless.
00:32:34.864 - 00:32:49.780, Speaker A: It has better distribution than ETH, which is fine. ETH is not far behind, but BTC has better distribution, credible neutrality. I would say that Ethereum and Bitcoin are on par here. I wouldn't actually say that. Bitcoin is a leader. Lindy. Obviously, bitcoin's been around longer, so it has more Lindy and liquidity.
00:32:49.780 - 00:33:11.900, Speaker A: Ethan, BTC on par again. So, as you can see here, the only competitor, the only kind of two networks that are competing to be a settlement layout are Ethereum and bitcoin. And Ethereum is pretty much like beating bitcoin at this point. And if bitcoin never gets support for roll ups, ethereum is literally just going to, like, leave it in the dust. And, you know, antiprosynthesis says here, bitcoin lacks f. Which is. Which was f.
00:33:11.900 - 00:33:42.782, Speaker A: Where's f? I don't know where f is. Oh, so he's detailing f. He says bitcoin lacks practical usability and a functional layer zero. And then Polynar goes on to say, rollups will give it f, which is practical usability. But yes, a functional layer zero is the reason why it's not happening. So because their layer zero, their social layer, is so broken, they can't actually integrate things like roll ups because the community doesn't want it, which is dumb because, like, just adding support for rollups would be a massive boon to bitcoin. But maybe they do it far into the future.
00:33:42.782 - 00:33:57.934, Speaker A: They're not doing it now, but. Yeah, just related to what I was talking about before, but I think that's going to be it for today. I've gone over time. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
