00:00:00.320 - 00:00:43.844, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 2 June 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So I came across this thread on Twitter, I think early this morning, maybe late last night from Pentoshi here, who is a trader, trades all kind of coins here, but I think they put together a really great thread about kind of what's happening with ETH at the moment in the markets. Now, I'm not going to give like a whole market overview here. We all know how it's been going, right? It's, it's been going sideways for a little bit after the crash that we've had here. But I think that, you know, this thread from Pentoshi, and there's one from Lars that I'll go through in a sec, really show kind of, I guess, the changes that are happening for ethic, specifically against bitcoin.
00:00:43.844 - 00:01:11.330, Speaker A: Now, the first kind of tweet here is about like the chart structure, which I won't kind of talk about. I mean, you know, everyone has their own kind of opinion on, on technical analysis and things like that. And he's comparing it here to, you know, this structure here, the Livermores speculative chart where he's saying that ETH is at number five on this. You can see on the left hand side there, number five is quite low. And, you know, he's, he's obviously predicting that it's going to go a lot higher on than that. Um, on the ETH bitcoin ratio here. Not, not ETH USD, I should say.
00:01:11.330 - 00:01:44.730, Speaker A: Sorry. Uh, but then he goes into kind of like, I guess comparing a lot of the stuff that I've been comparing on the refuel for the last few months is like, you know, who's, who's doing more fees, obviously, ethereum, a lot more fees is more demand to use the Ethereum network. You know, the ethereum network is moving a lot more money than bitcoin is. It's settling a lot more value than bitcoin is. Trillions of dollars a year now, which is quite insane here. OTC desks as well are seeing more kind of like demand for ETH over BTC at this point in time. And it still has very bullish market structure according to Pentoshi here, which is something that I've been noticing, too.
00:01:44.730 - 00:02:08.336, Speaker A: If you actually look at what happened over the last few weeks and you look at the crash and the recovery from it, the ETH BTC ratio fell down, right. But it also went straight back up to where it was. So it went down to, I think, went from 0.08 to 0.055, bounced off that and settled it around 0.072 at time of recording. So pretty much like, you know, it dumped with the rest of the market, but then went back up.
00:02:08.336 - 00:02:31.286, Speaker A: And ETH has just looked a lot stronger than bitcoin has over the, I guess, like the. I mean, even if the last few months, you can count that because of the fact that ETH has been outperforming bitcoin for quite a while now. So. And I think that the crash was definitely led by BTC. It had looked weak for quite a while. Um, institutional inflows seemed to have stopped and it was getting, like, a lot of headwinds with the ESG narrative and stuff like that. So I think that definitely comes into it.
00:02:31.286 - 00:03:24.824, Speaker A: And then Potoshi goes on to say that people and companies like Goldman Sachs and Raoul Paul are saying that they see more utility with Ethan. There's more upside in ETH, obviously talks about 1559 here, and then goes on to say, you know, there's clearly something happening here. And, you know, if, if you kind of like, step away and look at the big picture, you'll, you'll see that, right? And I think, you know, on, on this note as well as also this tweet thread from Lars from the block here who went through, you know, what metrics ETH flipped BTC over in just May alone. So the total kind of like, I guess, adjusted on chain volume for ETH increased to a new all time high here of 1 trillion just for May, which is, which is quite, quite insane here. And, you know, obviously bitcoin's kind of in there as well. But, you know, ETH is doing more than bitcoin here. Now, you wanted to say that adjusted on trend volume of stable coins also increased by 51.9%
00:03:24.824 - 00:04:16.496, Speaker A: to a new all time high of 766 billion, with obviously most of that settling on ethereum here. Minor revenue eats minor revenues, obviously up, which, you know, to me, I actually wouldn't say is a, is a positive because most. Because the fee revenue going to miners, I would say that this is like a positive force to come. Obviously, with 1559, most of these fees would have been burnt. So that actually goes to, you know, ETH holders, essentially, and ETH captures that value. The, the most interesting things are things like the legitimate centralized exchange volumes, I think, where, uh, you know, you, you would have seen, I think I spoke about this on one of the refuels that ETH, uh, has kind of like been consistently higher or at least like equal to bitcoins volumes on centralized exchanges, which is another kind of market structure thing that's been changing lately. Um, and daily kind of in average, uh, volume of, um, of Grayscale's products.
00:04:16.496 - 00:04:35.872, Speaker A: I think he's showing GPTC here. It's kind of like stabilized. But I think ETH is getting more, more inflows here. Futures volume as well. And, you know, eats futures have obviously exploded since the, the CME futures went live there. And the real story is on the derivatives front. So options for ETH have been, have been kind of exploding here.
00:04:35.872 - 00:05:11.840, Speaker A: You can see Ethan in kind of like the reddish color here against the, the blue purple color from bitcoin, which again, I think should be. Should be flipped here. But anyway, you can see like how it's been gaining and it's just been quite. And this, this kind of like a green or turquoise line here shows the ETH BTC percentage as well. So you can see that as ETH BTC keeps going up, a lot of these other metrics kind of follow it. And I think these other metrics are basically, you know, obviously following it because, you know, you can see the demand play out in the markets for ETH of a bitcoin. Like, more people want to buy Ethan, they want to buy bitcoin and people are trading the bitcoin for ETH.
00:05:11.840 - 00:05:34.540, Speaker A: And that's going to play out in all these other types of markets, whether they be exchange volume or derivative volume, uh, on chain kind of metrics. For Ethereum have. I mean, Ethereum has had more fees on its network for, I think, a year plus now. Um, you know, it's been settling more value than. Than bitcoin for almost as long as that. Uh, and we're just seeing like, all these flippings happen. Now, I spoke about this on one of the refuels, I think, a couple of weeks ago.
00:05:34.540 - 00:06:05.008, Speaker A: And I wrote about it in the, in the newsletter, where really the only flippening left is market cap at this point. And I think it's going to happen sooner rather than later. I don't think it's like an if, um, you know, for most people anymore. I think it's a. When people expect it to happen, even the people that I. I wouldn't kind of like, I wouldn't have expected to expect it to happen are definitely kind of up there on that list. And I think the only people who are denying that it'll ever happen are like the most hardcore kind of like bitcoin maximalists, who I regard as being a complete minority at this point in time.
00:06:05.008 - 00:06:57.822, Speaker A: You can see like even the middle center of the kind of like mill. Bitcoiners definitely can see a flipping happening and have changed their tune a lot on Ethan Ethereum over the last, particularly over the last year or so since defi has exploded. So it's really great to see, I think, this growth, I think it's healthier. I really do think that bitcoin has been holding back this entire industry in terms of on the technology side. And it has been giving this industry, I guess, like a bit of a bad name as well, because people just see bitcoin, they're like, okay, well, what can you do with it? And, you know, obviously there's, there's, you know, use cases there and everything like that, but, but those use cases like digital gold or an inflation hedge don't appeal to most people, whereas ETH as an asset and ethereum as a network appeals to a much broader set of people. So from that perspective, to me, I mean, ethereum flipping bitcoin has always been inevitable, but it's great to see, you know, more of this kind of happening here. And I'm not going to give a timeline of kind of when it's going to happen.
00:06:57.822 - 00:07:39.028, Speaker A: I don't know exactly when it's going to happen. I do. I do strongly believe with everything that it will happen. That's why I've held zero bitcoin for a very long time. Because why would I hold bitcoin when I expect ETH to overtake it and keep going beyond that? And I've also spoken about in the past how I think that flipping bitcoin is just like one kind of small, I guess, victory. The kind of big battles with centralization and kind of like centralized finance in general, and Defi and Ethereum becoming the new kind of global financial system that is fair, decentralized, neutral, and not be able to be controlled by a central party that is the real kind of target. Bitcoin is literally just like a small kind of stepping stone, or flipping bitcoin is a small stepping stone on the way to that.
00:07:39.028 - 00:08:34.156, Speaker A: But I do think once ETH does so, it'll make the industry a lot healthier and it'll make the industry kind of like viewed at least a bit more, a bit more legitimately by the outside kind of world here. So Vance Spencer had an interesting tweet today about different l two solutions and what kind of like heterogeneous l two kind of world looks like. And he said that he thinks it's going to going to be bullish, where, because it creates modular, distinct subcultures that can be bootstrapped by protocol, incentives and form fitted to use cases across consumer defi and enterprise preferences. Diversity is the spice of life, and trade offs are meant to be explored on ETH and Ethereum here. I totally agree with this, and this is exactly what I've been saying about altoos and different scalability solutions for Ethereum over the last, I guess, few months, is that we're going to have a bunch of these different ones that all come with their own kind of trade offs, that there's going to be different things built on them, and that's going to be totally okay. That's going to be very, very healthy. This is the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:08:34.156 - 00:09:14.434, Speaker A: At its core, it's rapid experimentation. It's doing this on a bunch of different, with a bunch of different tools and kind of eventually getting to a point where we settle on like a handful that we think are very valuable and work very well. But during kind of like, I guess, the early phases of this technology, it takes a lot of experimentation. I mean, if you look at early Defi, there was a lot of stuff there that didn't really work out. There's a lot of stuff during Defi summit that didn't work out. And, you know, I would say that early Defi is funny because I think we're still early Defi. But if we were talking about, like, you know, the day zero of Defi, like, the very, very beginning of it, it took a very long time for things to kind of grow and happen in terms of, like, adoption here.
00:09:14.434 - 00:09:53.736, Speaker A: I mean, from Makerdao to defy summer was what, two and a half years? And that's from Makerdao going live on Mainnet, whereas, you know, now, obviously things are happening a lot faster, but it's still a lot of experimentation going on. There's still a lot of apps that will fail over the long term. Um, I think we do have some of our googles and amazons around already. I do believe that maker Dow is, is, um, definitely looking like an, like an Amazon or a Google, for instance. Instance, like something like Aave as well, uh, uniswap, obviously. But, uh, you know, I think from, for most projects out there, there, it's still like, um, you know, not, not a sure thing, I believe so. Still seeing a lot of experimentation there.
00:09:53.736 - 00:10:36.098, Speaker A: But l two is just going to, like, blow this wide open. We're going to be able to have literally anyone in the world be able to deploy contracts extremely cheaply to these solutions and be able to build whatever they want on them and tap into kind of like the amazing kind of stuff that you can tap into on layer one just without the costs. But on top of that is also the speed, because on layer one, you're limited by a few different things, right? You're limited by the, the 13 2nd block time on Ethereum, which is faster on these l two solutions. And because of that, you're limited to what you can actually do. Like, you can't do high frequency trading on layer one ethereum. You can't do order book exchanges on layer one ethereum. I mean, you can technically do it, but it's not feasible.
00:10:36.098 - 00:11:11.624, Speaker A: It's very slow. That's why you've seen things like Dy DX and diversify and loop ring and that on l two, because it just doesn't work on layer one at scale. So from that perspective, we're just going to see like an explosion, a cambrian explosion of stuff happening at L2. And it's really, really good that all of these solutions are heterogeneous, where they got their own trade offs, they've got their own differences, idiosyncrasies. They've got their own, you know, some of them have their own ways of doing things. Like on optimism, you have the OVM, the optimistic virtual machine. On arbitrary, you have the AVM, the arbitram virtual machine, which aim to be AVM compatible, but still have their own kind of like, quirks to it.
00:11:11.624 - 00:11:44.044, Speaker A: You know, you still have to do certain things and kind of like, um, you know, when you're kind of like building on these L2 solutions, it's slightly different than building on, on layer one, there's different kind of stuff happening on there. Uh, both, you know, I guess, like, I wouldn't say it's necessarily good or bad. I mean, there's a lot of good, right? And there might be some bad, but it just, it is what it is, right? That's how you kind of, like, build on these solutions. And we've seen this play out with things like Polygon as well. Right. Um, even though that's, I guess, what people wouldn't consider a true L2 solution, that the pos chain. It's still something that has allowed for rapid experimentation with a lot of things.
00:11:44.044 - 00:12:25.510, Speaker A: I mean, I read somewhere today that to deploy contracts to polygon is like, extremely cheap. I think it costs like, under a dollar to deploy a bunch of smart contracts on ethereum that would cost thousands of dollars to do. And, you know, obviously there are, there are trade offs there, right? The security and decentralization trade offs and stuff like that. But still, when you're doing, like, rapid experimentation, innovation, a lot of this stuff, or already has, like, centralization vectors, especially, a lot of defi still has admin keys and things like that. So, yeah, I really agree with this tweet from Vance. I think that people are missing the forest for the trees if they kind of, like, think to themselves, oh, you know, why? Having so many l two solutions is actually bearish. It's just going to fragment everything.
00:12:25.510 - 00:13:07.484, Speaker A: The most hilarious thing about that is that for the longest time, people said that Ethereum's L2 ecosystem would amount to nothing. We would get nowhere with it. There was, you know, there was too much kind of like, I guess, like, you know, alpha kind of test nets and not enough main net stuff. And now we're getting to the point where we're going to have arbitrary and optimism, Zksync, starkware, and people's kind of like individual, sorry, companies, individual instant instances of things like loop ring, all of these kind of things happening at L2 that we're going to. That people are now saying, well, there's too much, right? It's just funny how these narratives work. And, you know, this reminds me of another narrative where people are saying, oh, high fees on Ethereum are bearish. And now they're saying that low fees on Ethereum are bearish.
00:13:07.484 - 00:14:19.276, Speaker A: Like, make up your mind, like, I know it's not the same people saying these things, but it's really funny how you say, like the, the kind of, like the narrative wars, and I spoke about this the other day, how the narrative wars are basically unwinnable because you're, you're fighting up, you're fighting against people who have not used kind of like, reason to get to their point. There's a famous quote, I think, from Neil degrasse Tyson. I don't know if he came up with it himself, but, or if he took it from somewhere else, but it basically says, like trying to reason with someone about something, you know, that they haven't reasoned themselves to get to, you know, the point that they're making is a fool's errand because you're never going to be able to reason them out of that point. So from that point of view, like, for me, when I see people saying, oh, low fees are bearish, for ethereum theory theorem, high fees are bearish. For ethereum. I just think to myself, well, in actuality, you know, according to the data and according to the actual hard facts here, high fees are, you know, bullish for Ethereum if they're in aggregate, you know, high individual fees, obviously not, not great because it prices out end users, but high aggregate fees, as in the total amount of fees being paid on network, especially post ERP 1559, is extremely bullish for the network. So you can hold both points, but you have to back it up with kind of some reasoning.
00:14:19.276 - 00:15:09.348, Speaker A: You can't just say, you know, say they sound bites for some kind of like Twitter engagement and that's it, which I think is what a lot of people try to do. But anyway, I'll leave it at that for now. I just thought what, what Vance, the way Vance put this in his tweet here was very effective and it really kind of spoke to the way I've been thinking about these things as well. So you may remember a couple of weeks ago, I kind of gave a shout out on the refuel that Trent Van Epps was kind of looking for people for this new core dev apprenticeship program that the Ethereum foundation seems to be heading up here. And he put out an update today that they had received over 400 applications, which, and the applications are of course, now closed. This is amazing. Over 400 applications for a core dev position, or like for multiple core dev positions, which is crazy because, you know, for those who don't know, being an Ethereum, core dev is no easy task.
00:15:09.348 - 00:16:10.420, Speaker A: It is definitely one of the more complex things to do in this ecosystem because you're doing a lot of low level programming. You have to have a lot of experience doing this sort of stuff because you're, you know, basically developing software to manage a network worth over $300 billion and a network that settles trillions of dollars of value a year here. So, yeah, it's just really great to see this. Now, of course, you know, of those 400 applications, maybe only, you know, a ha, a very small handful, maybe like five or ten, and even that's pushing it will, will become core, core developers or at least become people who work within the core developer sphere. But that shouldn't discourage people. I mean, you know, if you apply to this and you don't get chosen, I don't think that should discourage you from trying again or keep trying to level up or joining another team or whatever. Generally, if you think and you're confident enough in your ability to be able to, you know, become a core developer, then really you should be confident enough in your ability to become like a developer for a Defi app or a DaO or any kind of app building on Ethereum, because, you know, these developers are in short supply generally.
00:16:10.420 - 00:16:46.414, Speaker A: I think everyone in this ecosystem is in short supply right now. Whether you're a developer, you know, marketer, business developer, whatever you want to call it, but especially, like, solidity developers and things like that. I have people contacting me all the time about this. Definitely, you know, if you, if you don't make it into this, if you've applied to it, definitely go check out another project there if you, if you want to. But yeah, I'm curious to see who makes it as part of these applications. I'm not sure exactly how, um, this is kind of being run like the nitty gritty details, but I'm sure we'll find out more as time goes on. But it's really, really cool to see that 400 applications or 400 people applied for this position here.
00:16:46.414 - 00:17:31.856, Speaker A: So speaking of core dev related stuff, Eric Connor put out a really great tweet today that basically summarizes my entire view on what I'm excited about, kind of like with Ethereum. But he said the three things I've been most excited for in Ethereum's history are happening within the next year. These obviously include EIP 1559, L2 launch and adoption, and Ethereum running on proof of stake. Ethereum and 22 is going to be such an enjoyable experience. Now, the one thing I would add to this as well would be sharding maybe as part of like the proof of stake kind of thing here. So you could call that like the ETH two rollout, but generally, this, this, these are the three biggest things that people are excited about in this industry. AIP 1559 has been a thing since April of 2019, since that ERP was first proposed.
00:17:31.856 - 00:18:04.104, Speaker A: Layer twos have been a thing, you know, since very early on, like, since, I mean, before even a theorem was a thing, because bitcoin had L2s of, you know, ideas for L2s kind of swinging around there. But L2 on Ethereum has like a rich history. You know, we had plasmon state channels, which is still used today, but obviously we didn't have roll ups for, you know, most of the theorems. Life, that's a relative. Roll ups are relatively new compared to those two things there, but it's all coming together. Obviously, we have a lot of things going live on that front. And Ethereum running on proof of stake has been the dream since the white paper was essentially published.
00:18:04.104 - 00:18:54.790, Speaker A: You know, in late 2013, and that finally went live December 1 of last year. But in saying that, that was only half the way there, halfway there, we want to go the whole way there, which, of course is doing the merge, getting ETH one into ETH two, getting off proof of work completely and having a full proof of stake. Ethereum. And as I said, I would add sharding onto this because I think that sharding is, gets us to where we want to be in terms of scalability because it will enable L2s to achieve scalability of 100,000 plus transactions per second by using these shards as data availability layers there. So, yeah, I mean, the funny thing is, Eric has been, Eric's my co founder at ether, for those who don't know. So I'm pretty close friends with him, but he's been involved in the ethereum ecosystem for much longer than I have, pretty much since day one. I'm pretty sure he invested in the ICO, or at least close to it for me.
00:18:54.790 - 00:19:28.644, Speaker A: I've been in since early 2017. So for him, like, two of these things, l two kind of launch and proof of stake have been, he's been waiting for since, I would say, like 2014, since the ICO here, which is seven years. Like mid 2014 was the Ethereum Ico. We're coming up on mid 2021. That's seven years there that he's, that he's been waiting for this. It's very long time. And, you know, I sometimes see people kind of, I guess, like having a go at Eric, that he sometimes he's being a little bit contrarian on Twitter or being a little bit, kind of like bearish or whatever, and I kind of think to myself, guys, he's been around for like seven years now.
00:19:28.644 - 00:20:10.606, Speaker A: He's not being bearish. He's just like, at this point where he's like, he's, he's been around for quite a while and he's like, you know, taking a little bit of a break. He recently had a kid and things like that. So I think when you've been in one industry for so long, especially crypto, because it moves so, so quickly. And if seven years would feel like, you know, decades, I mean, I've been in for, for four years at this point, and it really does feel like decades have passed. So, yeah, I totally understand kind of like, where he's coming from because it would feel like an eternity since, you know, he got into Ethereum because of things like proof of stake and, and, and kind of like, um, I guess, like programmable money and L2 adoption and all that sort of stuff. And he's one of the co authors of 1559 as well, and he's been waiting for that for two years at this point, too.
00:20:10.606 - 00:20:51.202, Speaker A: So I think when you take all that, you can kind of see, you know, kind of like how the, how, how he would feel on these sorts of things. But it's just funny when I see people kind of saying this stuff on Twitter. But anyway, the guess the main point here is that all of this stuff is happening within the next year, as Eric mentioned here. So by this time next year, if all goes to according to plan 15, nine will be live, alt twos will be in full swing and being adopted in a really big way. And the merge will be done, can you believe it? In the next twelve months, in the next year, this is what Ethereum is going to kind of look like. And sharding will hopefully come in 2022 sometimes to really enhance that l two scalability as well. We are so close after so long.
00:20:51.202 - 00:21:40.054, Speaker A: You know, I don't know how long, you know, you guys have been in the ecosystem. For me, it's been four years, obviously, that I just said that. But, you know, even if you've only been in for a few months, I'm sure you hear about these things all the time, every day. I mean, I talk about them on the refuel a lot and, you know, it might feel like an eternity to you, but just imagine what it feels like for Eric having waited seven years, and even for, you know, someone like Vitalik having waited from, I think December 2013 was when the white paper was published. So seven and a half years, it'll be probably eight and a half years by the time Ethereum finally does the merge. So, yeah, it's pretty cool to see this coming, all coming together, and it really shows that a lot of this stuff is a marathon and not a sprint. A lot of the development core developments for Ethereum and even the application layer stuff is definitely not going to happen overnight, even though, you know, the markets can get ahead of themselves and hype can get ahead of itself.
00:21:40.054 - 00:22:26.536, Speaker A: I mean, 2017 was a pure example of this with ETH, where the expectations and the hype and everything got totally ahead of where the fundamentals were. And that's why we had such a massive run up. And then obviously once, once people discovered that the emperor kind of had no clothes yet, you know, the emperor was getting close, but maybe in another two to three years, then the kind of market cooled down. But I think we're at the point now where, you know, ETH, as I was saying before, ETH looks a lot stronger than bitcoin. And I think that's in large part due to its fundamentals just being so incredibly strong at this point in time and so many major catalysts coming. I mean, 1559 and the merge, two of the biggest ones. But I think, you know, the l two continued adoption, sorry, the continued adoption of Defi and l two launching and adoption and actually being real is going to propel Ethereum even further there.
00:22:26.536 - 00:23:04.448, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'll leave it at that. But still very, very cool to see what's going to be going live within the next twelve months on Ethereum. Speaking of L2, Dy DX has got, has crossed the $2 billion total volume mark on their L2 perpetuals exchange here. You can see this nice chart shows that essentially they've been growing really, really quickly here. I mean, I've talked about Dy Dex a bunch in the past. I remember saying to you guys that I expected them to be doing billions in total volume sooner rather than later. And this is about what I think six weeks since they kind of like launched onto mainnet here, or at least opened up to kind of like a public main net here, which is, which is really, really cool.
00:23:04.448 - 00:23:34.382, Speaker A: And then on May 19, they did an all time high volume of 159 million. I think May 19 may have been the crash that happened, and DyDX seemed to have handled it really well as well there. So, yeah, I guess congrats here to DyDx for showing the way with L2. They are obviously one of the first apps to be live on L2, to be doing really great volumes with a really great product. So I am really, really happy to see this and I just can't wait to see the continued growth here. There's going to be so much more of this coming. The stats are going to be insane.
00:23:34.382 - 00:24:05.612, Speaker A: I think everyone's going to be blown away by just how quickly this stuff can grow, especially something like, you know, a uniswap, as I've been going on about, which, you know, will be on arbitrary and before optimism by the looks of things. But maybe optimism has, has a trick up their sleeve. Maybe we'll see uniswap on optimism before that, but we'll see who cares. For me, it's like, you know, just get onto a scaling solution, like for these apps. Like, please, like, look at, look at the success of RV on Polygon. Billions of kind of like dollars on there as well. So, you know, these apps kind of like, I guess sitting around waiting for things to happen, make them happen.
00:24:05.612 - 00:25:02.590, Speaker A: Your deploy your app, get that growth because it's there if you want it. So Eric Stone, who works in data science at Flipside Crypto, announced that his uniswap calculator is now up. So this new calculator is basically built on v three, or at least built around v three, sorry I should say, and allows you to kind of like, do it, do a bunch of calculations if you're a liquidity provider. So you can kind of like, see, do you do price assumptions, like where you think the price would go within, within a kind of like, range and things like that? Set your liquidity bounds, like what you want to provide liquidity between. If you want to provide liquidity between $2,000 and $2,500, you can do that and it'll show you exactly what the distribution kind of looks like and stuff like that as well. And you can kind of like select, you know, when a date range for swaps and things like that. So basically lets you play around with all this stuff before providing liquidity on Uniswap V three.
00:25:02.590 - 00:26:03.944, Speaker A: And, you know, I think this is a really, really valuable tool because, you know, I have a few friends right now playing around with Uniswap V three, and it's actually incredibly powerful if you know what you're doing. Like, if you know how to manage your position correctly, make sure that you stay within the ranges and do it like a very tight range. You can capture a lot of the volume in that range and essentially be making like, really high returns on it. But the risk is obviously that the price goes in and out of your range, you know, before you can actually adjust it, uh, which kills your kind of like, gains there, because then you're stuck in one particular asset. So from kind of like, from that perspective, I think that, um, you know, if you've got these kind of tools available at your disposable, you can make a bunch of assumptions and try to see like, what your kind of, you know, returns would be at what kind of range. And, you know, assuming that the price goes up this much, like how much time do you have to kind of exit these positions and re, you know, reweight or whatever you want to do here? So, yeah, I really, really think this is, this is a cool tool here from Flipside crypto. So if you haven't checked it out yet, it'll be in the YouTube description for you to do so.
00:26:03.944 - 00:26:38.070, Speaker A: So pods finance here, which is a options protocol, has released their demo on Xerox Polygon now. I think pods is definitely building on, on Ethereum as well, but it's cool to see them launch their, their demo on pods first. Yeah, so they had the beta test running on the coven Ethereum testnet in the Mumbai polygon testnet here. But their demo essentially has gone live on, on kind of polygon first here, too. So for you guys to experience this. Now, as I said, this is an options protocol. If you don't know what options are, don't know how to play around with them yet.
00:26:38.070 - 00:27:02.714, Speaker A: And once you get more involved with it, you can. There are definitely a lot of guides out there. I'm pretty sure the pods team has guides here as well, and like a step by step guide on how to kind of interact with, with pods on polygon, too. So if this is something that you're interested in, definitely go check it out. I mean, there's a lot of options protocols out there these days. Off the top of my head, I can think of a few of them, like opium and open, obviously, pods. There's a few others like hedgehog.
00:27:02.714 - 00:27:43.140, Speaker A: I mean, there's lots of them now, actually. And I don't know if any of them have really taken off in a big way yet and sustained that growth, but I think that might be because they needed like a L2 solution or a scalability solution here. So I'm excited to see kind of like how this options protocol goes on something like Polygon and maybe excited to see them kind of deployed to other, I guess, like scalability solutions like roll ups in the future. So definitely go check them out. It'll, I'll link this in the YouTube description. So last up here, we have a tweet from Whale alert which basically said that a dormant address containing 310 bitcoin worth $11.3 million today had just been activated after 9.7
00:27:43.140 - 00:28:34.762, Speaker A: years. So this bitcoin was only worth $1,894 in 2011. It. So this is the first time it is moved in 9.7 years, which is really insane when you think about it because you can kind of think about, okay, you know, how did someone, you know, come about this? Like, why did they move just now? Was it because they remembered their password to their wallet as people saying in here? Was it someone who was just like, finally, you know, maybe I'll just move this on chain to cause some waves in the ecosystem and get some publicity there. I don't think anyone has publicly kind of shared that this is them, but it'd still be fun if you were the person controlling this to see like crypto Twitter going nuts over this, you know, was it, was it stolen, you know, by someone? Did someone's, you know, seed phrase get kind of like for their wallet or whatever the original wallet, 2011 get stolen or something? Was. Has this got to do with law enforcement? Because law enforcement in the early days definitely sees a lot of bitcoin, especially from the darknet markets.
00:28:34.762 - 00:29:12.500, Speaker A: But, you know, there's a bunch of theories people putting in the comments here. You know, woke up from a coma or maybe someone went to jail, right? You could imagine that you went to jail and there was actually someone, Fiscantus on Twitter, he posted that a kind of like a joke where he said that, oh, this person got out of jail and they st, and they stuffed that. They stored their private key in a Bible that was given to the prison once they went to prison. And they got their bible back once they, once they left prison. And now they're kind of reviving their account here. Could you imagine if that was real, that this person had been in jail for almost ten years and then they get out and have this $11.3 million windfall, you know, from these bitcoin.
00:29:12.500 - 00:29:48.432, Speaker A: They may have mined early on or just like bought early on in 2011 here. So quite insane to think about, like, exactly where this kind of came from. And it's always fun to see, like, these really old coins moving around that, you know, I'm sure we're going to see a lot of this in the future of on Ethereum. Ethereum, you know, launched on Mainnet mid 2015. So it's only six years, almost six years old at this point. But there are coins that are, that I've seen that are on chain that have been dormant for over five years now. So, you know, those coins would probably belong to people who lost their kind of seed phrase for their original IcO wallet or people who just don't want to move their coins because they don't need to.
00:29:48.432 - 00:30:22.636, Speaker A: They have multiple wallets and they don't need to move their deep cold storage because they just like, want to hold their ETH forever. Or it belongs to kind of like original exchange cold storage addresses. Like Kraken was, I think, the first exchange to list ETH. So they may have some reserves that they've never moved from the deep cold storage there. You know, there's a bunch of reasons why coins don't move, but it's always cool to speculate on it and kind of like come up with, with stories and try to like, guess why and you know, you know, for most of these movements, you never really know the real reason, but still, it's fun to speculate. But anyway, that's, that's kind of like what I wanted to talk about with this tweet here. I think I'm going to leave it at that for today.
00:30:22.636 - 00:30:32.434, Speaker A: So. Yeah. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
