00:00:00.200 - 00:00:58.340, Speaker A: Billions of people every day use messaging to communicate with friends and loved ones. But we believe that messaging hasn't changed in ten years. And there's this tremendous opportunity to create more fun and more entertaining experiences directly in chat. My name is Chris Osborne, and I'm the founder and CEO at Dialect. Dialect is a social chat platform for collectors and creators. And so, just like in iMessage WhatsApp telegram, you can send and receive messages the way that you do in traditional chat. But because it's powered by web3 and by Solana, we can bring to life new kinds of experiences that were not previously possible.
00:00:58.340 - 00:01:38.888, Speaker A: One of those is a collector's experience around collectible chat stickers in the form of nfts. For example, one of my favorites is Joyce Liu. These are called nom nom, and they're just these, like, adorable, simple, clean critters. And one of them's roasting a marshmallow, another one's, like, on fire, and they're just, like, incredibly expressive. And so you can collect them, you can trade them, you can find holders, dm them, and actually make the trades directly in chat and really own your collectibles, own your voice. That's the most fun part about dialect for me. Dialect uses three pieces of core tech and innovation that Solana makes possible.
00:01:38.888 - 00:02:24.720, Speaker A: Number one is state compression. Number two is Solana pay, and number three is the Solana mobile stack. The experiences we're building with dialect require web3, and the unique consumer capabilities, ownership, interoperability, all of that. That's not possible without crypto. Solana is the only blockchain and the only infrastructure that allows us to do that at a consumer scale. State compression made it possible for our users to mint millions of these collectible chat stickers with zero infrastructure cost. The holy grail in crypto is to create a consumer experience that's so seamless that I've got to share this with my cousin or my friend from college.
00:02:24.720 - 00:03:21.434, Speaker A: And Solana, and especially now with state compression, is the only blockchain infrastructure where we at dialect as a business can focus 100% on user acquisition. I got insanely excited about Solana because of the tech. Proof of history was one of the most impactful pieces of technology that I've ever discovered. But I stayed in the Solana ecosystem because of the community. We have incredible challenges ahead of us, and I found, personally, that Solana is one of the ecosystems that's most open and most intellectually honest about the kinds of hurdles we're trying to get over, the kinds of technological problems we're trying to solve. And the consumer experiences, the adoption that we're looking for, that has spread, I think, by example, throughout the entire ecosystem. Only possible on Solana means to us at dialect like, literally what it's saying.
00:03:21.434 - 00:03:31.394, Speaker A: We literally cannot do what we're doing today that is already live deployed in our users hands. We cannot do the things that we're doing today without Solana.
