00:00:00.400 - 00:00:41.120, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano and today's the 18 October 2021. Right everyone, let's get into it. So Valve made some moves I guess, over the weekend or made some news I should say, over the weekend as they banned blockchain games from their platform and nfts as well from the Steam platform here now in return, Epic, another kind of big games companies that they would be, you know, trying to make it work or at least supporting it on their games platform called the Epic Games Store. Just generally, this is a really kind of, I guess disappointing kind of move from Valve. You know, I've been a big gamer for most of my life.
00:00:41.120 - 00:01:17.064, Speaker A: I'm a very big Valve fan. Half Life two is my favorite game of all time. So to see them do this is just very disappointing. Like I've been a huge, kind of like Steam user, Steam supporter for quite a while and supported a lot of the things that Valve have done through the years. But obviously I don't support this. And it's, I think it's because that they, you know, the fact that there's like in game items that can be kind of like bought and sold and I don't think Valve would be able to kind of, I guess take a cut from it right at the end of the day, but definitely a very kind of like disappointing move from them. And I don't think they've kind of like responded to any comments to any of the press that have asked like why they did this.
00:01:17.064 - 00:01:57.084, Speaker A: But I would assume that it's definitely got to do with the monetization as monetization aspect of it. Just so sort of like what Apple did when they kind of like banned web3 browsers from the App Stores because of the in app purchases where it would bypass Apple's kind of like 30% take, 30% revenue take. And it's funny because like Apple and Epic Games have actually been in a court battle over this for, I guess it's been a while now. I think it's like the last year at least or something like that. So, yeah, I mean this just again shows you how these centralized tech platforms will obviously use their power to, to squash things that they don't want to see. But I mean, blockchain games and nfts are inevitable. Look at axie Infinity.
00:01:57.084 - 00:02:33.142, Speaker A: Look how big that game is, how much revenue it's generating. And it is not on Steam. You know, it's not on kind of like any of those kind of big platforms. It is on the App Store, of course, and things like that. But it didn't need Steam or it didn't need like Epic Games didn't need kind of like these massive game publisher publishers to support them. Now it's nice to see Epic kind of like coming and saying, you know, we're going to support this even if Valve doesn't. But at the same time I feel like they're just doing it because Valve isn't doing it because there was a comment from our Epic Games as I guess founder, I think his name is Tom, Tom Sweeney or something like that.
00:02:33.142 - 00:03:14.312, Speaker A: There was a comment from him a few months ago, or I think it was more recent than a few months ago where he basically said that he thought nfts were kind of like scams essentially, or at least like mixed up with a lot of scams. Now I feel like Epic is just doing this because Steam is going the other way. Like I would, I would love to have seen, you know, what epic stance would have been if Valve basically gave blessing to blockchain games and nfts. Would epic have gone the other way and said, oh yeah, we're going to, we're going to kind of like ban it. But I don't know, maybe, maybe, maybe that I'm just speculating and none of that would have happened, but still very, very disappointing to see. And I'm sure you've seen all the takes from different people on Twitter. I think it's generally kind of like the same stuff that I'm seeing where it's just like, well, you know, we don't need you, valve, you need blockchain games more than, you know, blockchain games need you.
00:03:14.312 - 00:04:16.018, Speaker A: And I think it's true at the end of the day, if, if a game's good enough and if, you know, if it's providing like real value to people, they're gonna play it regardless of what platform it's on. Like, I don't play games, sorry, I don't choose not to play games just because they're not on Steam or not on Epic. The Epic Games store, obviously it's really great discoverability mechanisms for people and it's helped a lot of kind of, I guess indie publishers get their games in front of people's eyes and you know, a lot of blockchain games these days are just from indie publishers. So I mean that might be a little bit of a blow there, but the long term, I don't know, I see this kind of like being a blow to valve more than the blockchain games in general, but yeah, so just a bit of color on that one. We'll see if anything changes over the coming months. Maybe Valve kind of like reverses their stance here as kind of, I guess, reaction to Epic games, basically saying they're going to support blockchain games and nfts, but interesting to see more of this stuff just get into the mainstream spotlight as well. All right, so another all core devs call wrapped up on Friday, and as usual, Tim Bico has a recap thread here.
00:04:16.018 - 00:05:05.204, Speaker A: Most of the discussion, I think, was centered around the merge, of course, because of the interoperability week and also so because of the fact that there's a lot of kind of like core devs working on the merge now, the ETH one side as well. This is the ETH one, kind of like core devs core, by the way, not like the ETH two one. But I guess, like those two things are basically becoming the same thing now right as we get through the merge. And there was a bit of discussion about like the difficulty bomb that's set to go off in December unless we kind of like push it back and it's, it's been agreed upon that it'll be pushed back to June. That doesn't mean that June is going to be the merge kind of like release date. But there was a bit of comments around this as well where Tim basically said, I think he said like there the team wants the kind of like code is done that would want four months before, I guess, like putting it to mainet or something like that. I'm trying to find the comments here.
00:05:05.204 - 00:05:35.674, Speaker A: I can't be exactly what the wording was. Where is it? Where is it? Okay, here we go. So Tim said this was about a difficulty bomb. And then Tim goes on to say everyone agrees having a safe, well tested merge is the most important thing by far. And we're okay pushing the bomb back twice if that is required. So the bomb will go, be pushed back to June and then it'll be pushed back again if needed, if the merge isn't ready by June. And then he goes on to say that we, we, being the core devs, think four months is a generous timeframe from having the code done to seeing the merge on Mainnet.
00:05:35.674 - 00:05:55.824, Speaker A: Okay, so yeah, I was right. Like if for example, the code is done by February, you know, the kind of like, I guess shipping to Mainnet would happen June 2022, which is, I mean, early Q two. Right. Like I did say that late Q one, early Q two. Expect the merge on Mainnet. That's my speculation. It's not an official date.
00:05:55.824 - 00:06:31.952, Speaker A: Don't take this as an official date either. There's still a lot of work to do and a lot of kind of like unknowns as well, but at the same time very, very optimistic about that kind of like timeline there. And it wasn't just this that I kind of grabbed that timeline from. There was a blog post published by Tim Baikker about amphora, which is kind of like the merge milestone that I went over last week where everyone was kind of like clapping in that room and you saw the pictures on Twitter and stuff like that. And in this blog post, I suggest reading it. But in this blog post was also a kind of graphic here titled the path to the merge, where it splits off the on chain kind of like happenings and the off chain happenings. So you can see here that it's got like what happened in the past.
00:06:31.952 - 00:06:55.002, Speaker A: And my camera is cutting off at the very beginning. But basically Q 420 20 was the deposit contract was deployed in October, then the beacon chain launched on December 1. And then we had both chains running in parallel. We still have both chains running in parallel. The ETH one and the ETH two chains, or the execution and consensus layers running in parallel there and then. April 2021, we had the Berlin upgrade. August we had the London upgrade.
00:06:55.002 - 00:07:21.950, Speaker A: October we had Altair activate, which is the ETH two upgrade. And then off chain. During that same period we had the May 2021 was the rayonism prototype post merge proof of stake Devnet. So this was something I spoke about back in May around the merge. October, I guess like the week just passed. We had the Amphora multi client interop with the transition done. And then Q 420 21 to Q 120 22, it's expected that Devnet will go live.
00:07:21.950 - 00:07:56.140, Speaker A: And there already is a devnet, live pythos or pithos, and there'll be public networks with hardened specs for the community to test. Now, what's the most interesting is the bottom right here where it says 2022. The merge proof of stake replaces proof of work. Now, this is strategically positioned right in the middle of Q 120 22 and Q 220 22. Right, like so late q one, early q two. Um, so this is kind of one of the reasons I'm, I'm basing my prediction on, on this. Uh, sorry, one of the reasons I've given that prediction myself, because I'm just basing it on the information that's, you know, fully publicly available.
00:07:56.140 - 00:08:32.204, Speaker A: I have no insider information here. I don't, you know, I don't talk to the devs like directly and say, hey, you know, give me some insider information on the merge. No at all. I'm just looking at this public data and kind of looking at all the public comments being made and construing it from there. But again, I mean, in ethereum, it's kind of like this classic thing where we definitely do tend to overestimate, sorry, underestimate the issues that we may run into and how long it will actually take to get to Mainnet. So I mean, I'm optimistic about a late q one, early q two kind of merge on mainnet here. But at the same time, I would not be surprised at all to see it go live in Q three.
00:08:32.204 - 00:09:09.318, Speaker A: I would be a bit surprised about Q four because it feels like something would have had to gone catastrophically wrong or something would have had to, something bad would have really had to happen for a kind of like a delay like that. But again, it's not really a delay because there's no concrete dates given. These are estimated dates, even the date on these charts, like totally estimated. We don't, we just don't know. It's too early to tell just yet. But as we get the clients building out everything for main net ready kind of clients and we, and we kind of like get these test nets all ironed out and these devnets all ironed out, we'll have a much, much clearer picture. So I would say that by January, Feb, we should have a clearer picture about when it's going to go to main net, at least a much clearer window.
00:09:09.318 - 00:09:33.056, Speaker A: So we can probably say like within a month of a window there. But there's no kind of like date going to be given until, until that's ready, which is fine. I mean, as I mentioned plenty of times on the refuel, on Twitter, on the newsletter, merge is the biggest upgrade to the Ethereum network ever. It is the most kind of like risky upgrade. It is the one with the most at stake. We need to get it right the first time. I've explained before what happens if we don't get it right.
00:09:33.056 - 00:10:05.824, Speaker A: I've explained how difficult it would be to kind of like roll back to proof of work. So we want to make sure we get it right. We want to make sure the network does a safe transition as well. Not just that it works, that it's, it's, it works safely and we want to make sure that everyone is happy once it's, once it's done. And also what's critically important is that we want to make sure that end users don't even have to worry about it, which if it goes right, they shouldn't because everything will just update as normal as a normal kind of hard fork. Because really the merge is just hot swapping proof of work out for proof of stake. And end users aren't going to notice that.
00:10:05.824 - 00:10:33.180, Speaker A: The one thing end users will notice, maybe if they're paying closer attention, is the layer one block times kind of change. Right now they're at like what, 13, 14 seconds? I don't think I've seen a 14 2nd block in a while. It's around 13 seconds in proof of stake. That is kind of like a twelve second thing. From memory, I'm pretty sure it's a twelve second block. So maybe even 6 seconds. I can't remember because the spec actually changed at one point.
00:10:33.180 - 00:11:00.534, Speaker A: It's either six or twelve. I'd have to double check on that. But essentially if it's twelve, I mean, that's a very negligible change. And if it's six, well I mean that's basically half. And users will feel that. But at the same time, I think most users don't pay attention to that sort of stuff. And at the end of the day, like you could do a transaction at kind of like second ten and then your, and then the block gets mined at second 13 and your transaction technically happened within 3 seconds, right.
00:11:00.534 - 00:11:39.226, Speaker A: Otherwise you can basically do a transaction at second one and then have to wait a full block to get your transaction in. So I don't know how many people pay attention to that. I feel like people just submit their transactions, wait a little bit, maybe you'll just watch it on either scan and then it goes through and they're all kind of like, well, and Daniel, they don't actually take a look at how long that block took to mine. I don't think people care at that point. And as more and more people move to L2s, which I expect by the time the merge happens, you know, much more end users to be at L2 than at layer one is just going to be such a smooth transition. I just really don't think most end users are even going to care or realize what's, what's happened, which, which is good. It's a good thing that these, as I've said before, ethereum is a protocol.
00:11:39.226 - 00:12:11.240, Speaker A: It is not something that most people should have to even think about. They will get an experience on Ethereum through various kind of like front ends and L2s and all that sort of stuff. And the people who actually care and want to be involved in the stewarding of the network will be the ones worrying about these sorts of things. So. Yeah, but I really like this little kind of like graphic here. But, yeah, I'm kind of like optimistic about early Q two the most. I think q one at this point, from what I'm seeing, just the feeling that I'm seeing, I think Q one is probably a very optimistic scenario.
00:12:11.240 - 00:12:54.432, Speaker A: It would basically require like everything to go right and, you know, from here with building the clients, that would require like no delays in building the clients. It would require no kind of like edge, sorry, like bugs or kind of things being found, like everything to run super smoothly. Not saying it can't happen, but, you know, the chances of it happening are a lot lower than higher there. So I would put early Q two as my merge mainnet estimate, but don't quote me on that and do not attribute that to the core developers. This is me. In my personal opinion, this has nothing to do with the core developers or anyone kind of involved with core development. This is just me trying to keep you guys as up to speed with the merge as possible because I know that you're very interested in it and I know that it is the obviously the next major upgrade for Ethereum.
00:12:54.432 - 00:13:28.776, Speaker A: So a lot of people holding and buying ETH and stuff like that are also very interested in it. So I totally get that. All right, so speaking of the merge, I put out this tweet today where I said post merge, all unburnt fee revenue will go to ETH stakers. This is estimated to put staking yields at 10% or more based on current staked ETH amount, which is around 8 million ETH currently staked. Then you can throw in an issuance reduction of 90%, the triple hovening plus the continuous v burning, which makes ETH deflationary. And I went on to say ETH is stupidly undervalued. I mean, you guys know that I think ETH is stupidly undervalued.
00:13:28.776 - 00:14:02.004, Speaker A: I don't have to explain explain that as much. But what I do want to focus on is that, again, I think people are underestimating how good the ETH denominated yield is going to be in staking once we have not only the block rewards, which at current staked ETH amount is 5.4%, kind of like APR there. But then you chuck in the unburnt fee revenue, puts it at 10% plus. Then you also chuck in MEV, which could very well, get us to 15% to 20% at current stake. Staked ETH amount. Now, of course, if people see 15% to 20% risk, essentially risk free yield, I mean, it's a very.
00:14:02.004 - 00:14:29.824, Speaker A: It's still some risk, but, like, essentially risk free yield on their ethnic, they're going to take it. So that's going to end up causing a lot of more ETH to be staked. And, yes, yields will come down because of that, but logically, that ETH is being removed from the sub active supply, so the price should trend up because of that over the longer term. So we could get to a point where, I don't know, 30 million ETH is staked or something like that. I don't know what the yield would be around that. Maybe the yield will drop back down to 5%. The kind of, like, staking yield here, which is still amazing.
00:14:29.824 - 00:14:50.242, Speaker A: 5% on ETH, which is an appreciating asset or an asset that people expect to appreciate greatly over time. Like, if actually does go to $100,000, like, I think it will. Earning 5% from today on your ETH stake, that's. That's going to add up over time. Right. And, you know, that just obviously sits there and kind of grows over time as you. As you stake.
00:14:50.242 - 00:15:35.716, Speaker A: So, from that point of view, it's like a balancing act, where the higher the yields, the more eat that's going to get staked. And then if people decide to remove their stake, the yields go higher, get higher for it, for everyone else, and then if people decide to put their stake in, well, the yields get lower, but the price logically should go up because of the fact that there's less Ethan circulation, less ETH to buy, and we have so much demand. Like, it's obviously not just the scarcity aspect to it. I think a lot of people get the wrong idea whenever I talk about the ETH scarcity engines, because ETH has an incredible demand side, as you know, as we've seen from, like, the fee revenue, as we've seen. I think I've got a tweet about the fear revenue here. Yeah, yeah. I mean, look, the fear revenue here is the demand side, right? Generating $1 billion of fear revenue over the last 30 days, of which 82.45%
00:15:35.716 - 00:16:00.372, Speaker A: was burnt. That is incredible. Demand for ETH as an asset just to pay fees. This isn't including the demand for ETH as a staking asset, the demand for ETH as money, nfts and stuff like that, to use ETH as Defi. Collateral to use ETH as a store of value to just stack. Ethan, for institutions to buy ETH for their clients, all these sorts of things. ETH has just as much demand drivers as it has scarcity drivers.
00:16:00.372 - 00:16:35.640, Speaker A: So those things together are going to create just such an awesome kind of like, relationship for ETH within the network and kind of like within its value as well. And I expanded on this in today's daily Gwen newsletter. But basically, some people will hit back sometimes and kind of like, say to me, you know, this is super bearish, that the fees are really high. I mean, this isn't something. This is actually the common kind of like, thing that people think it's like, well, the fees are really high on Ethereum, kind of like layer one. This is bearish. And I don't get that because if you annualize this fear revenue right now, Ethereum is generating $12 billion of fee revenue, technically $12 billion of revenue a year.
00:16:35.640 - 00:17:20.240, Speaker A: So the Ethereum network, I think of, you know, a good analogy or a good kind of way of thinking about it is the Ethereum network can be thought of as a company. This company is generating $12 billion of revenue. Okay, well, what is that company selling to generate that revenue? It is selling decentralized block space, which is scarce. Like, there's only so many transactions you can fit into a block because the blocks are hard, limited by the gas limit. And I mean, you can raise the gas limit over time, but that doesn't, that doesn't happen very often. So that finite resource that everyone wants, how do we, how do you kind of like, um, uh, give people priority? Well, you have the, um, uh, sorry, the, the fever, the fee rec fee mechanism where people basically outbid each other to get there, uh, to get their current transactions in a block. And that leads to the fees going up.
00:17:20.240 - 00:18:25.216, Speaker A: Like, it's as simple as that. So why would you be bearish on a company that's making incredible amounts of revenue and then people will hit some of those hit back into me being like, okay, well, maybe this is bullish for ETH as an asset, but it's bearish for ethereum adoption at the network level. And I mean, I can understand why people, I guess, get confused here because this modular blockchain stuff that I obviously have been talking about a lot lately is definitely a new kind of like, term for people. But at the same time, it's not like the kind of like, I guess, things inside modular blockchains like sharding and roll ups haven't been around for quite a while now. So the way I explain it is basically that, well, Ethereum layer one is a settlement layer. We want Ethereum layer one kind of like to be generating as much revenue as possible, to be settling as much value as possible, and then we can basically scale via L2 via the roll ups, which act as kind of, I guess a transaction compression mechanism, essentially, where you have user transactions, sorry, the L2 is paying for the fear of a new on layer one and the users not having to pay that anymore. So, you know, as a, these numbers aren't accurate.
00:18:25.216 - 00:19:29.026, Speaker A: But just like as an illiter, illustrative example here, say that there's like 10,000 transactions that are done on layer one. Well, each of those transactions are going to cost like say dollar 50 each in kind of like fees. That's going to be a lot of, a lot of fees for 10,000 transactions from 10,000 users. Now how about you put those 10,000 transactions on a L2 from those 10,000 users, you compress them all together and then you only put one proof and the call data onto layer one? Well, that's why it becomes considerably cheaper. But that means that Ethereum's block space demand is basically flying from the users paying for it themselves to the users going to this kind of like L2 that pays for it on behalf of them. So it's kind of like a public transportation system is another way to look at it, where we know when you're riding the train or you're riding like a bus or whatever, um, you're still using the same roads, right? You're still using petrol, like because the bus is using petrol, but the, the cost is actually shared among all the people kind of riding the bus. So it's considerably cheaper than owning a car and then driving the car, having to pay for the fuel yourself.
00:19:29.026 - 00:20:14.514, Speaker A: Um, so it's the same thing with a theory and where the L2s are kind of like these public transportation systems where the, the cost is like split and then we can kind of like fit more people in there and basically take up less space on the, on the layer one as users. But the L2s just basically fill up that space and you know, just imagine kind of like a city that was all buses instead of cars. Like literally it was all buses around the city. You'd be able to pack a lot more people into that and it'd be a lot, a lot more density there than just people driving cars around. And it would be net cheaper for everyone. That's exactly what's happening with the layer one versus L2, dynamic. And the thing is, is that just because the, you know, a bus is using the road instead of a car, it doesn't mean that bus is not paying for that, that road, as I said, right, still paying for petrol.
00:20:14.514 - 00:20:44.460, Speaker A: It's all gas. It's still gas, right? It's Ethereum. It's the same kind of like thing there, but it's still paying to use the roads. It's still paying, you know, the taxes are still being paid to manage the roads and all those sorts of things. Registrations are being paid, all that sort of stuff. It's the same thing with these L2s acting as buses for Ethereum, where they're still paying Ethereum, layer one, but they're kind of like splitting the cost and kind of like compressing things down. So when I explain that to people and use those analogies, they tend to get it depending.
00:20:44.460 - 00:21:28.106, Speaker A: You know, some people don't want to see reasons, some people just like want to see their bags pumped from Ethereum killers and whatever. I'm not interested in educating, educating those people. But generally once I lay it all out, it makes sense for people who see reason. And I, you know, I've laid it out so many times on the refill at this point, but I think it's always worth reiterating and kind of like looking at it from a different point of view as well because I get people are frustrated by the fees, but at the end of the day I just don't see it as a bearish thing for Ethereum at all, like at all. I see no angle where this could be bearish. The only angle actually where it could be bearish, or the only reality where it was bearish is if a theorem didn't have scaling solutions and Ethereum layer one was basically just a whale chain. And eventually what ends up happening is that the whales are basically the only ones who can do anything.
00:21:28.106 - 00:22:23.702, Speaker A: And then all the older kind of like new users stop coming in, all the, all the kind of like actual users go away and it's just the whales left and the network just loses its value over time. Developers leave, that's kind of like the bearish case, but that's not happening at all. We have more scaling solutions than we've ever had before, and these scaling solutions are getting more used in pretty much all the layer ones combined, all the other layer ones combined. And ethereum is still generating enormous amounts of fee revenue regardless of people not wanting to pay the fees. It's just an insane amount and they're being burned. So taking it all together is a, is a kind of really great thing when you, when you look at it from that point of view, I think. And speaking of, yes, like fee burning and ERp 1559, Trent van Epps put out kind of like tweet where he says, still worth repeating that two and a half, repeating two and a half months later in that 1559 did not increase gas prices, unprecedented NFT demand for block space did.
00:22:23.702 - 00:23:00.244, Speaker A: It's impossible to prove a counterfactual. But, but I strongly believe that without 1559, gas prices would have been much higher, especially in the hours after drops. I fully agree with this. As I've talked about this on the refill before, 1559 did not increase gas prices. There is no evidence to support that anyone pushing that narrative is woefully misinformed or trying to, I guess, like purposely mislead people. It's just a coincidence that the NFT demand spiked at the same time that 1559 went live. And to Trent's point here, I also strongly believe that without 1559, gas prices would have actually been much higher than what they are.
00:23:00.244 - 00:23:23.496, Speaker A: Especially in the hours after NFT drops where things get really crazy. Like if you've all noticed that, right, things get really crazy. Sometimes they go 1000 2000 way, but they actually come down much, much faster because of the way 1559 acts as a balancing mechanism there. And with this dynamic kind of blocks block size. So, sorry, dynamic gas limit, I should say. So from that point of view. I fully agree with Trent here.
00:23:23.496 - 00:23:59.100, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know, Trent has been one of, if not the most involved people in 1559. From both a kind of like ecosystem perspective, but also from community and get a community perspective and getting in touch with different kind of like wallet providers and infrastructure providers, getting them on 1559, pushing things like that. So if anyone knows what he's talking about is definitely Trent. But I would say that it's not just him saying it. It is definitely a lot of people in the know that aren't trying to spread false narratives saying it as well. So definitely listen to the people who know what they're talking about. All right, Polynya is back on the refuel.
00:23:59.100 - 00:24:36.200, Speaker A: I know you guys missed them. So they put out a kind of like tweet, which I really liked, I guess the other day yesterday, where they said, soon we'll be laughing at how we used to get 10,000 plus nodes to all reprocess the same transactions 10,000 times ludicrously inefficient and downright stupid. Instead, you could have Darth Vader do it once. And everyone has a 16th ZKP, or zero knowledge proof with compressed results guaranteeing validity. And they go on to say, it's the Model T moment for the blockchain industry. This is how we go from 10,000 people building 10,000 cars to the same 10,000 people now specialized in an assembly line building 1 million cars. Monolithic blockchains are obsolete, just like the Model T versus horse drawn carriages.
00:24:36.200 - 00:25:13.390, Speaker A: Now, those of you who don't know the Model T was, I don't think it was the first ever car, but it was, I think, was the first ever production car that came from Ford. And it basically came with the production line that all cars are basically built, or the assembly line that. That, you know, cars are built on today. And it basically revolutionized supply chains, and it made things much, much more efficient. That is exactly what is happening with blockchains today, with the modular blockchain revolution. And that's exactly what Polly and I are saying here, where basically, it's just. It seems like we're in, like, this very, very manual world right now with these monolithic blockchains where they're so inefficient, they just do not make sense to do things like this.
00:25:13.390 - 00:25:46.268, Speaker A: You know, what they're currently doing with verifying all the same kind of, like, transactions across, you know, all the same nodes, where we could basically move that execution to a L2. And as they say here, use kind of like, Darth Vader as an example, like the most evil person ever to do the transactions at L2, but still know that they were processed because of a zero knowledge proof, which is absolutely, absolutely amazing, really. I mean, this technology is. I can't stress enough how insane zero knowledge technology is. And it's not new technology. It's been around for 30 years or more. It's just that the applications are new now.
00:25:46.268 - 00:26:23.418, Speaker A: People actually have a reason to use this technology in an applic, in a kind of, like, practical sense, rather than just in theory and just in kind of like, labs and things like that. So that's why it is such a massive kind of, like, paradigm shift here. And I've talked about this ad nauseam I've written about in my newsletter. I'm not going to go to go on too much about this, but again, I just love reiterating this fact for you guys, because I want you guys to spread this message. I want you all to be out there spreading the modular blockchain narrative and I want you to be armed with the right information to do so. And I've seen a few of you doing it already and, like, supporting the message, educating people in the Discord channel. And I really, really love that.
00:26:23.418 - 00:26:49.130, Speaker A: And that's kind of like, why I keep repeating myself a lot of the time. But I don't think you guys are bored of that. I think you guys, like, you know, see me be excited about this sort of stuff, for sure. All right, so Bartek put out another great thread on L2s today, where he basically spoke about censorship resistance at L2 and how they're going to approach it and kind of like, how the approaches will vary. So I suggest reading the thread. It's a short one. There's only eight tweets in it.
00:26:49.130 - 00:27:23.870, Speaker A: But essentially, Bartake believes it's going to be kind of, I guess the essential ship resistance for a L2 is going to be one of the key differentiators between them. And I believe so as well. Because for those of you who don't know, censorship, resistance at L2 is actually much weaker than it is at layer one. Because if you only have one kind of like sequencer processing transactions, well, then that one sequencer can censor you. It can basically say, well, I'm not going to process transactions from this address. See you later. You could still process your transactions on layer one, of course, and you could still get your funds back out of layer one, but there's no fun in that, right? That's just crappy.
00:27:23.870 - 00:28:02.404, Speaker A: Like, you're using a L2 because you want to get the benefits of them. And if someone's censoring you, well, that's really shitty. So the way around this, or the way to kind of rectify this issue is that you decentralize the sequencing, right? You decentralize the validation and sequencing of the L2 network. And by doing this, you basically have, like, a network of nodes that process it all, and then it becomes just much harder for you to be censored because those nodes would have to collude to censor you, right. Those sequences would have to collude. And that kind of, like, mirrors what we have on layer one today, where if the whole network wanted to censor you, all the miners would have to collude to do that, right? Or at least, like, a majority of them. So from that perspective, it definitely maps pretty well to layer one there.
00:28:02.404 - 00:28:27.364, Speaker A: But this, I definitely do believe this is going to be a key differentiator for. For different L2s. And they're going to have different approaches to it. Some of them will try really hard to decentralize sequences out. It has to make sense from an economic standpoint as well, because obviously these sequences have to run hardware to process the transactions. They're going to have running costs, stuff like that. So this is why I say another reason why there's going to be tokens for these l two s, because that definitely makes sense in that context.
00:28:27.364 - 00:29:01.808, Speaker A: But they don't have to have tokens, but they will. But then, you know, for staking and stuff like that, and then they're also going to be able to generate fear revenue from the l two s, as well as kind of like payment for processing these transactions. So I think that all of, you know, I wouldn't say any of the l two s are further along in this than any of the others. They all pretty much have centralized sequences right now and centralized operators. But I know for a fact that they're all thinking about this and they're all trying to, to kind of like decentralize the sequences out over time. But it's just not a priority right now. The priority is getting this stuff out there, upgrading it, getting users, getting network effect.
00:29:01.808 - 00:29:32.312, Speaker A: Then you can worry about decentralizing it out. And, you know, sometimes the l one s will make these arguments as well. They say, oh, we can start totally centralized and we'll just decentralize over time. No, no, no, this is totally different, l two. Decentralization is very different to l one because l two s are not doing consensus on transactions still. They are just processing them and executing them. The consensus still happens at layer one ethereum, where they, where layer one ethereum nodes or validators and mine or miners or validators come to consensus on the proofs that are posted to layer one.
00:29:32.312 - 00:29:57.816, Speaker A: So it's very, very different. L two s have a much easier path to decentralizing than l one's do, at least from a kind of a technical standpoint. Social standpoint is a different thing altogether. But I would still argue that l two s probably have a better chance at decentralizing over l one's there. All right, so ETH Global's ETH online finalists are now live. So there's 17 finalists here. I was a judge last week at this.
00:29:57.816 - 00:30:16.762, Speaker A: It was really awesome to kind of judge all the projects in there. A lot of great projects coming out of ETH online, as usual. I mean, these ETH global kind of hackathons produce some amazing projects. Definitely check out this thread. It's linked in the YouTube description. I'm not going to go through it all. I just wanted to highlight the thread and I know I'm running out of time here, so I'm going to kind of leave it at leave it at that there.
00:30:16.762 - 00:30:48.460, Speaker A: Zksync posted an update on Unisync. So Unisync was that Uniswap kind of like port that they did where they ported it to their ZK EVM ZK roll up network. Since launching lite late last week, they've already processed over 590,000 transactions. But they did not expect this for their testnet. So their four set apparently was not designed to handle such load and is having issues. They will be looking into this tomorrow, which I guess is today maybe, or tomorrow the 19th or something like that, which is cool. Now, is this organic usage? Probably not.
00:30:48.460 - 00:31:06.462, Speaker A: It's probably people farming the airdrop because it's so kind of cheap to do so. It's literally, I think, free to do so, or near free to do so. Yes. Not free. I think it was like $0.10 or something like that. But I would wager that there's a lot of people just trying to farm the airdrop, right, of a ZK sync token because ZK sync have already announced that they're going to be doing a token.
00:31:06.462 - 00:31:44.176, Speaker A: So people are like, well, I better farm it, maybe they're farming it on multiple addresses, stuff like that. I don't know what the airdrop is going to look like. Of course we'll have to see, but still great to see people just using it to begin with. I'd be curious to see how many of these people would, how many of these were unique people, rather than just like people using different addresses to kind of farm an airdrop. But it's kind of really hard to tell right at the end of the day. All right, finally, just wanted to give a quick shout out to this project that I'm actually involved in as an advisor called Math blocks. The reason I joined it, and it's an NFT project, basically they're producing math themed nfts and generative art.
00:31:44.176 - 00:32:18.476, Speaker A: The reason why I joined on as an advisor is because they're doing a lot of stuff around public goods funding with this. They basically want to be able to raise money or I guess like sell nfts and use that money to fund like STEM education. So science, technology, engineering and math education, you know, math content creators and online communities. I am a really, really big proponent of anything that does public goods funding. Obviously I'm a big proponent of gitcoin. I always talk about them. I do a lot of funding there and I have grants on there for, for the deli, Gwei and ETH hub.
00:32:18.476 - 00:32:42.670, Speaker A: But I want to go like, I want that to go beyond Gitcoin, I want public goods funding to go beyond. I mean, we have optimism, obviously, doing it as well. But I wanted to go further than that. I wanted to start kind of like touching communities that we haven't kind of like served before. And that's exactly what math blocks is doing with, with kind of like their math themed nfts and generative art. So if you haven't checked it out yet, definitely do. So you can read this thread to learn more about them.
00:32:42.670 - 00:33:08.624, Speaker A: You can join the Discord channel as well. It's very active in there. But yeah, just like obviously disclaimer that I'm a kind of advisor to, to this project because I want to help get attention on it and I want to help them do what they want to do, which is essentially fund all this education. And obviously I'm a big proponent of education as well. So yeah, I was really excited to kind of like be given the opportunity here to, to kind of get involved with this. Um, but I think on that note, I'm going to leave it at that. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching.
00:33:08.624 - 00:33:15.304, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
