00:00:00.250 - 00:00:17.070, Speaker A: Our next speaker, Sergey Nazarov from Chainlink, is the co founder of Chainlink. And our efforts at e Denver are about sort of bringing this new sort of emerging technology to the real world.
00:00:17.140 - 00:00:17.422, Speaker B: Right?
00:00:17.476 - 00:00:54.960, Speaker A: So this game jam is a great example of the willingness of the state governments and just the lottery and just technology just to really be kind of paying attention to not just game and development ideas, but also methods of delivering these systems and really being open to how these things kind of come down. So with that, I'm going to introduce Sergey Nazarov. He's going to speak to us a little bit about Chainlink's involvement in the game jam, as well as sort of what they're kind of looking for when it comes to game submissions, and then just some insights about the partnership here. So, Sergey, take it away.
00:00:55.970 - 00:01:14.734, Speaker B: Great. Thank you very much. John. Hi, everyone. Good to see you again. Thank you once again for including us in your event. I think it's very exciting to see people that control so much value, wanting to innovate and make the systems they rely on work in the best possible way for their constituents and users.
00:01:14.734 - 00:02:17.414, Speaker B: So I think that's a great thing, and it makes me think very great things about Colorado as well, which I've been a few times and I'm a huge fan of. I'm just going to kind of share my screen a little bit because I have one or two quick points to cover on certain concepts that might be useful here. So I think the first concept that we need to look at when we're thinking about innovation in digital gaming and lotteries and all kinds of gaming is to maybe consider initially what is a digital game and a lottery that's provided in a digital format. Really, it's kind of an agreement. So it's a digitally formalized agreement about outcomes, right? People put in money, they take certain risk. They expect to take a measure of risk and get a measure of return in some manner that is guaranteed, basically. And the assumptions around those guarantees are very important because the degree to which people participate is driven by the degree to which they think they can win.
00:02:17.414 - 00:03:15.882, Speaker B: So if they think the game is unwinnable or they think the game can't be won, their participation is much less likely. And this is maybe the place where blockchains and the work we do at Chainlink can help innovate and provide greater assurances to users so that their participation can be greater. And that's really kind of the dynamic that we want to help bring to this event and put in the minds of people that are building these types of games. So I think one way to look at this is if you consider how digital contracts work today. Right now, they work in a technology company, some kind of centralized platform that runs a contract. And that contract can be a lottery contract and a gaming contract, where I'm guaranteeing, I promise that the contract code will operate properly, right? And I am saying that the contract code will operate a certain way. And in many cases that can work, but in certain cases, that creates conflicts of interest.
00:03:15.882 - 00:04:35.034, Speaker B: It creates risk in every incremental addition of risk, that basically says that a certain outcome that the user expects to achieve won't happen, maybe limits their participation, limits the success of that gaming product, right? So this is how traditionally digital agreements about gaming have happened, is there's a centralized software company that generates that digital agreement and seeks to see it through to completion by running the code. The world that I think we're moving to with all kinds of financial contracts, including gaming contracts, is a world where blockchains and decentralized blockchain based infrastructure effectively eliminates these risks. So the risk that the creator of the game or somebody running the infrastructure to operate the game is somehow able to manipulate that game. And this is the risk that maybe some users don't think about. But I know there are certain users that consider this risk in how they assess using a gaming product. From our own experience working with various gaming products and how they want to approach their users. Now, blockchain based gaming is often touted as being fraud proof and tamper proof, just like blockchains are being touted as being tamper proof and highly reliable.
00:04:35.034 - 00:05:34.594, Speaker B: And I think this is really the dynamic from which we can provide certain innovation and improvements to how the gaming infrastructure works. And we can also rely on, together with us, other systems like Ethereum and many other great protocols and products that allow people to run smart contracts. So I think we're going to be looking at examples where somebody could take a smart contract, put it on Ethereum. And how does that smart contract on Ethereum create a properly functioning lottery product? Gaming product. Right. How do those things happen? So the good news is that initially, you do have a guarantee from the smart contract that as long as it receives the relevant inputs, as long as it is triggered the right way, that it will do a state change and actually pay out the appropriate winner. So you're guaranteed by systems like Ethereum that if you write a contract in a certain way, its outcome will be enforced, it'll be mathematically enforced by physics.
00:05:34.594 - 00:06:28.406, Speaker B: It won't depend on a company, it'll depend on infrastructure that's highly reliable and efficient and can provide this guarantee to the underlying players of the game. The issue starts to appear in that the games we're talking about here, even in this hackathon, are not limited to just a state change. They also need randomness, right? So you actually have a dynamic where you need a random number generator. You need to provide randomness into the smart contract running on a system like Ethereum. At least today, right? At least today. That's kind of the dynamic of what blockchains can do and what they need to do to have a gaming dynamic work at a hackathon like this. The worry here is once again the same, right? You basically have a decentralized computational platform where the contract can operate, but now you have an equally important part of the system in the case of a random number generation service.
00:06:28.406 - 00:08:12.220, Speaker B: Now the question becomes, who runs the random number generation service? Who runs the random number generator? That's going to essentially control the outcome of the contract, right? So you've decentralized and made highly reliable a portion of the contract, but also you still have a portion that isn't decentralized and highly reliable yet. At least until you have randomness appearing on blockchains, which may be coming, but at least at the moment, you still need a random number generator. So the fundamental issue you're trying to avoid is, just like you were worried about a centralized operator of the gaming product or the software that runs the game, you're now seeking to get that same guarantee about the random number generator that's triggering and affecting what ends up happening with the gaming product. Right? And this is the innovation. And the thing that Chainlink basically works on and provides is an additional layer of decentralized computation, an additional system like a blockchain, but not a blockchain in the sense that it isn't focused on generating blocks or transactions. It's focused on, in this case, providing randomness. So the exciting thing that we can provide to this hackathon and the developers here is that if they're making a gaming product, lottery product, they can generate it in a way that it's truly centralized and provably tamper proof, so that players can have a maximum degree of guarantees that the gaming and the lottery product they're interacting with will indeed give them the payout according to the fair terms that were advertised to them, which should, economically speaking, increase the usage of the gaming product, increase the usage of the lottery, and make it more attractive to more users because it's something where they can't get tricked, they can't get games, they're going to participate in a gaming contract under predictable and clear terms.
00:08:12.220 - 00:09:03.690, Speaker B: We are very glad to support the hackathon through prizes. We have chain link web, three prizes where you kind of make this more advanced gaming lottery product. Those prizes are 1st, second and third place 5000 2000 501,001 of the key conditions to meet getting these prizes is you have to meet the conditions of the game Jam hackathon itself. So you first have to meet the conditions of the game Jam Hackathon. And then if you use Chainlink VRF, if you build a smart contract on Ethereum that essentially represents a gaming product, a lottery that uses the Chainlink VRF system in a creative, attractive way, or operates in a unique way in how it interacts with Chainlink VRF. So there's actually interesting dynamic where you can submit a seed, and the seed improves the security of the chainlink VRF system. So perhaps coming up with an interesting way to provide highly secure seeds.
00:09:03.690 - 00:10:05.454, Speaker B: At the end of the day, we're thrilled to support institutions and places that want to make the best games. We believe in tamper proof and fraud proof gaming that's fair and attractive to all the players in the same fair way. And we're thrilled to support this hackathon, provide this resource to the participants. We will have office hours available on all the days of the hackathon. We will have a channel open for people to ask questions, how can I build a fraud proof, smart, contract based gaming product? How can I integrate proper randomness into that gaming product in order to have it operate the way it should? And obviously, there's also a lot of documentation that we provide. So once again, we're thrilled to be part of this and really appreciate being included and think that this direction of how do we make the most innovative gaming products that protect users and make the best possible gaming product available to them in a Tampa proof way is a worthwhile, very exciting endeavor. So I just want to once again say we're thrilled to be part of it.
00:10:05.454 - 00:10:05.740, Speaker B: Thank you.
