00:00:09.200 - 00:00:43.390, Speaker A: Thanks for coming. My name is Dan, I'm with IDEO and this session is a little bit different. We don't have a prize that we're giving out here. We're just talking about basically how do we get people excited about using applications built on Ethereum. So for those of you didn't catch opening ceremonies yesterday, just like super quick intro to IDEO and what the hell we're doing here. So IDEO is this design and innovation firm. We've been around for about 40 years.
00:00:43.390 - 00:01:36.344, Speaker A: We have offices around the world. We've got about 700 people and we work on a whole range of things. We got our start kind of back in the 80s working with Apple and other companies. Idea designed the original Apple mouse as a consumer product, obviously Xerox part invention of some of the underlying tech. But then IDEO was like working on it, revising it, packaging it for consumers. And really all this is about human centered design, right? So instead of doing what a lot of us are coming here and doing today, which is like, okay, what's the cool tech that I can use, that I can build, that build something that feels cool? We're basically proving out technical feasibility, what IDEO does. Our process is all around, starting with these, starting with Human.
00:01:36.344 - 00:02:24.160, Speaker A: What are the needs that we're solving? Is what I'm building actually desirable by the people that I'm trying to target? I feel like that often in the space gets layered on later. And we think that if you don't start in that place of saying like, who am I solving for? What is the problem I'm trying to solve then whether it's technically feasible, whether you can build a viable business around it. It's kind of all beside the point, right? If you don't make something people love, then you're not really going to get anywhere. So IDEO has also been working in crypto, working with Blockchain projects since 2015. I joined early 2015. I'd started my career working in Microfinance. I was doing an accounting finance operations.
00:02:24.160 - 00:03:09.256, Speaker A: Fell down the crypto rabbit hole just as I was heading to grad school at MIT. Started the MIT Bitcoin club was like basically got an MBA in bitcoin and crypto. That's where I spent all my time. And then came out and joined IDEO as this new team called Colab was starting. We spent a number of years working largely on corporate collaborative proof of concept projects around blockchains. But at the same time we were all working with some very cool early stage startups, pulling them in, working on PSDs with them, finding ways to help them in various ways. And then earlier this year, or actually last year, we said, okay, we're going to go deeper.
00:03:09.256 - 00:03:51.530, Speaker A: We're going to start developing programs that are not about helping corporations learn, but actually really helping these startups. We're really excited about push things forward. How do we actually help them go mainstream? We've started investing. So we do invest in kind of seed and series, a stage startups in the crypto space. But we also have a startup studio program, which I'll mention at the end, that is a way that we're touching many, many more companies than we're investing in our startup studio. We actually probably have maybe 5% ish of the participating companies are ones that we've invested in. It's mostly other companies we're invited to come and participate for free because we just want to help the whole ecosystem grow.
00:03:51.530 - 00:04:51.768, Speaker A: And so today we're going to talk about magic moments because I think that's one of the things that we're frankly missing a lot. So the reason I'm talking about magic moments today is a conversation I had with this guy, Austin Griffith, and talking about his philosophy towards development. So those of you who don't know Austin, he develops something called Burnerwad and he works on a whole slew of projects. But one of the principles that he goes by is thinking, how do I get users to that magic moment, that AHA moment, as quickly as humanly possible? How do we take out all the friction, all the steps, get them to that moment where they get it immediately. So we're talking about just like making this magic here, making people excited. So before we get into what a crypto magic moment looks like, let's start with more traditional magic moments. The one that probably gets the most attention is Facebook, right? They had this metric.
00:04:51.768 - 00:06:00.004, Speaker A: They realized early on that if they could get users to get to Seven Friends within ten days of signing up, that that was like the point where people kind of tipped over and they got it right, because if you're on Facebook, if you don't even have Seven Friends, then there was just nothing compelling about it. Right? There was no reason to be there. So what's, that just shitty news articles? Yeah, well, back in the day, it wasn't even a newsfeed, right, when they were just getting started. But even today, right, if you joined right now, you just see shitty news articles. So there's this kind of point at which people are like, I get why somebody would want to use this product. I get why it's valuable for me. And so most successful companies, probably every successful company actually has this in some form or fashion, right? There's a tipping point or a magical experience early on that help users get it, where the product or experience feels valuable to them, feels delightful to them, and that's what then keeps them coming back.
00:06:00.004 - 00:06:58.836, Speaker A: There's a fantastic book called Booked which talks about kind of these cycles that you can get and that are kind of reinforcing cycles and bringing users back over and over. But what I've really focused on here is just what is that initial tipping point to get people over the edge? One place where we see this a lot, I think it's kind of been turned almost into a science is in gaming. So I played a lot of magic gathering, like, in college and after college, but recently, as I've been diving more and more into some of these kind of blockchain game concepts, it was like, oh, well, Heart Snow is the one that everyone talks about these things related to. I should try it out. And so I downloaded the client massive two gigabyte install. But the experience that had there was like, oh, shit. This is something that we're just not seeing in terms of how optimized they've gotten the whole experience.
00:06:58.836 - 00:07:39.604, Speaker A: So one of the first things that happens to you if you sign up arthristone, is they give you something for free, right? They're like, hey, before you can get started, here's a gift. So you get to open up this pack of cards. You get free cards, new cards. It's an amazing experience. And then they take you through a game where they're handholding you at the end, victory, right? You've been shown you can do this, and hey, you won. Right? I guess maybe in theory there's some way that you can lose, but they set you up to win so that you have that great positive first experience. And then, oh, wow, you won.
00:07:39.604 - 00:08:02.892, Speaker A: And here's a reward as well. So getting users to really feel reinforcement, I can do this. This is exciting. I can win things. This is something that really helps hook you. And then they've got this whole funnel that keeps you coming back for more and more. But this is an example of how you can get those users and hang on to them.
00:08:02.892 - 00:09:09.424, Speaker A: So what does this look like if we start translating things into the crypto world? What is a magic bomb in crypto today? There's really not so many. So, yeah, this is a joke, but if you think about where we're at with anything in this ecosystem versus where traditional companies are, we're an order of magnitude or multiple orders of magnitude behind in terms of the number of users. And I think that there's a lot of reasons for this. It's not know we should be at PayPal levels, at Chrome levels with applications that are getting built today, but we've got a long ways to go, right? So if there were a lot of really compelling experiences, I think we wouldn't be as far behind as we currently are. If you look at DAP radar, look at the top DApps on Ethereum, you can be in the top ten DApps with 500 daily Active users. Right? That's nothing. And yes, I understand if you talk about DFI apps and finance apps, daily Actives is not the right metric to be judging by.
00:09:09.424 - 00:10:11.140, Speaker A: Right? We should be looking more at things like deposits, essentially assets that are locked into contracts. There's different ways to look at metrics, but I think by any reasonable measure, we've got a long way to go. But really, I think there are actually some magic moments. So one of the ways that I look at creating those magic moments back circa 2013, 2014, I was on campus trying to evangelize to other people. One of the things that I used was saying, just giving people a dollar in bitcoin, right? At times, fees were very low. It's pretty easy to do. And I would always to get to that magic moment, I would say, look, even at the know, everyone's using PayPal students on campus using Venmo, right? So the idea of being able to send a fast a free transaction, that's not that exciting.
00:10:11.140 - 00:10:26.984, Speaker A: It's going to hook people. So what I always did was say, like, okay, look, take out your phone. And I would say, I'm going to name like, three different wallets. I recommend them to all of them. Just choose one. And they would go and they would choose one. They would install it on their phone.
00:10:26.984 - 00:10:47.600, Speaker A: And I'd say, okay, look, I'm going to pick a different wallet. And then I would send them the bitcoin from that wallet. And so for people that often triggered them, it's like, oh, wow. So this is like, I'm able to send across different applications. I've just downloaded a free application. You have a different free application. And they can interoperate.
00:10:47.600 - 00:11:24.900, Speaker A: There's also actually didn't install or at this slide, but there's a wallet now that's for Ethereum called Argent. I think that they do a great job. The CEO gives a pretty magical moment when he's demoing it. It's a smart contract wallet that has the ability to put in the contract on chain daily spending limits. And those limits can be overridden stuff, but it gives you time to essentially, if you're going to go over that limit, transform the transaction, you can do it. But then there's a period in which you can reverse it. So he'll do this thing where he'll be like, okay, give me your wallet.
00:11:24.900 - 00:12:14.196, Speaker A: And it'll be like, okay, I'm sending you you can see on the screen, I'm sending you $75,000 worth of VM. Wow. He's like, but that's over my daily spending limit. So when I leave here, I've got 24 hours, I'm going to go cancel, and you're not going to get $75,000. But it kind of shows the power of what they're doing, right? The safety it adds, how it gets you there. So this idea of being able to show what's powerful, what's different about your product that can create this kind of magical AHA moment for users thinking about the original kind of UX squeezing maker, how many of you have opened a CDP? How many of you did it back when this was the flow? Yeah, eight sets, dude. It was like 40 steps going from the zero.
00:12:14.196 - 00:12:32.912, Speaker A: It was like 40 we counted this. It was not having either not having anything, right? It was like 40 steps. It was insane. But even there were like seven or eight different transactions you had to submit separately. On chain. It was nuts. And thankfully, that is different today.
00:12:32.912 - 00:13:13.336, Speaker A: The first ones to kind of do this really well I thought was insta. They really got this down to like a one or two click process. They just wrapped all of those steps, all the different permissions you needed to set all into a single transaction and let you broadcast and send that. So that lets you get that AHA moment much faster. They recently rolled out a feature that I think is really cool where it's just their interface they're letting you deposit into compound and earn interest on your die. But they've added this little kind of streaming ticker thing, which I find incredibly cool and incredibly compelling, right? It's that you can see constantly. This is how the loops drop after a few seconds.
00:13:13.336 - 00:13:46.072, Speaker A: But just to constantly show users like, hey, you've deposited. You are instantly earning interest, right? If you go to the compound interface and you deposit in the compound there, it's like, cool, you've got this much to deposit. You're earning this interest rate. Currently, you come back like an hour later, it's still the same. Come back a day later, it's probably still the same. Unless you put a lot of money in there, right? But just by going extra decimal places, showing up, streaming, it's like, I get it. It's exciting, right? And you can see that it's constantly happening.
00:13:46.072 - 00:14:14.720, Speaker A: You're constantly earning. Obviously it's distracted because it's actually a block by block basis. But this is something that kind of helps you get there and realize, like, wow, this is really cool, right? You don't earn interest. The feeling of earning interest in your savings account, if you actually have a savings account that pays you interest, it's nothing like this. You don't feel like you're earning in real time. So this really shows. Like, this is the speed at which this whole system moves.
00:14:14.720 - 00:14:51.656, Speaker A: So another example of kind of quick onboarding is I mentioned beginning Austin Griffith and Burner Wallet. Burner has created this magical experience where has anyone used Burner Wallet hands? Yeah, people. Okay, so Austin likes to set up these Burner Wallet meetups and events where they will set these QR codes out there. And everyone's probably gotten food here, right? Where you scan and use square link. And done that, there's a few steps, right? You've got to enter your email. You got to enter your name. You've got to create a password, enter it twice, verify your email, all these steps.
00:14:51.656 - 00:15:30.824, Speaker A: Great. I think Squarelink's also working on building this other stuff that's understandable and legitimate. But with Burner Wallet, you literally scan the QR code and then in your browser opens up. You've got a wallet there. And when they're doing events and stuff, there'll be money already preset in the wallet that gets to you, to this magical experience of like, wow, I just scanned a QR code and I'm already able to transact like, holy shit. And I think that's cool for anybody, right? Because even if you're not thinking in the crypto terms, where we're used to going through so much pain, it's still pretty cool just to scan a QR code. And now you've got essentially an application loaded with money in it.
00:15:30.824 - 00:16:02.644, Speaker A: You haven't even had to like, okay, now I'm going to go to the app. It's kicking me over to the App Store. Got to smile my phone Face ID, and it's going to take a few minutes to install. This just gets you to that moment instantly. And that's the level that I think we should be aspiring to, is like, obviously some things we're doing are more complicated, but the sooner you can get people to that instant, like, shit, I can actually do something with this. This is really cool the better. So there's a number of tools for this.
00:16:02.644 - 00:16:29.080, Speaker A: These ones like random whip off the top of my head, universal logins. The idea of using when we're talking about kind of metatransactions is one way that you can do this, where you don't have to wait for confirmations on chain. You're not deploying the contracts on chain immediately. The create two function. Freaking amazing. You can start creating these experiences for users in your application. Maybe if you're not building a wallet, you just have some kind of DAP.
00:16:29.080 - 00:17:24.604, Speaker A: You can use some of these APIs and start creating that better experience for users. They don't have to go and go through all those steps because honestly, if we're all fighting over the tens of thousands, maybe hundreds, thousand at most, like a few million users, we're getting nowhere, right? We need to drastically expand the market of users who are interacting with our applications if this is going to be meaningful at all in the world. And so I highly encourage people to use tools like this, even though it's not one of these tools to start making your applications, get users even be possible to get to that magic moment sooner. That Last and Abridge, they've got like, APIs and are real developer tools. The other ones have kind of more of a user facing component to it. The important thing here is magic moments. Also, if you're thinking about developers, they can be for any type of user, right? Developers are users too.
00:17:24.604 - 00:17:57.176, Speaker A: So you can create magic moments. Even if you're not creating for end users, you're building for developers. You should still seek to create that magic moment. So one example that I think does this really well is near. I know some folks are actually working on something very similar to this for Ethereum, which I'm super psyched about. But near, if you go to their developer page, they've got this Near Studio. So it's a web based IDE, right? And that's something that Ethereum has by far the most advanced tooling in the space.
00:17:57.176 - 00:18:16.220, Speaker A: There's no other chain that comes close to it. But when I saw the near thing was like, wow, okay. You've actually got the browser ID. I don't have to go through all the steps. I don't have to be, like, installing, getting my Node up and running. I don't need to worry about Truffle and all this stuff. I can just start doing this in the browser immediately.
00:18:16.220 - 00:19:01.724, Speaker A: Game changer for me, that was magical to see that. And I think I know that some folks working this for Ethereum and some of the other chains starting to be like, oh, we should do something like this too. We can create magic. Even if it's not for end users, we can get there. So at this point, I just want to say that is the presentation, and what I want to do is then open this up, making a conversation. What are some examples that you've seen in crypto otherwise, but ideally in crypto, that you were like, this gave you that AHA moment, that, like, sense of like, oh, shit. Like, this is really cool.
00:19:01.724 - 00:19:17.484, Speaker A: I get it. No one said it, Jake. I mean, definitely earning interest in real time is, like you already said it. Yeah. Like, real time interest. Right. Wow, that's cool.
00:19:17.484 - 00:19:39.384, Speaker A: Yeah. So far that it's so good that when you show it to mainstream people, they're like, oh, this is just a scam. Exactly. Right. Well, they just don't believe that it could be real. Yeah. Another one that's kind of like that is pool together.
00:19:39.384 - 00:20:10.384, Speaker A: Right. I've had people have seen pool together, so it's like a no loss lottery on Ethereum. So what they do is actually there's a contract that basically just you deposit die. They put all the dai into compound, and then, like, a week later, everybody can take out your money. Everybody can take their original money out, but one person gets paid out all the interest that's been earned in that period. It's another thing where it's like I think the actual flow right now doesn't get users to that magic moment quite fast enough. But the concept is pretty magical.
00:20:10.384 - 00:20:48.716, Speaker A: Right? I can play the lottery, but I don't lose. I buy a ticket, but then I get the ticket money back at the end. That's pretty cool. But they also have that problem of it feels like a scam. How can I win? And it didn't cost me anything that I see people that I spoke to that are nine courses that they're excited about, although there's not really a major implementation of just concepts, is streaming salaries. Tell people about that now that, oh, I got to go to my paycheck. I did it every two weeks or month here.
00:20:48.716 - 00:21:01.540, Speaker A: You can take your payment. You can take your salary whenever you want. Exactly. So streaming salary is fantastic. Sorry, I'm repeating everything is like the recording, and so I want to make sure I'm repeating it, but, yeah, streaming salary is a great example. Like streaming interest. Right.
00:21:01.540 - 00:21:54.724, Speaker A: The fact that it can be kind of this real time system. And it's not that you couldn't in theory, like PayPal couldn't offer you streaming real time payments, but they don't, they're not in that mindset. There's no reason to get around offer that product. I think when we're doing those things that are crypto native that we can create this experience, that's the beauty of having these open financial protocols is that we can start building things that previously you would have had to have millions of dollars and spend years getting all the licenses and stuff you need to go build these tools. And now it's like, hey great, just download it and build it like yourself. Feel free, go for it. But also I think it highlights one of the kind of challenges, right, is still that we've got so many steps, so much friction often to get people to that point where we can show them how cool this is.
00:21:54.724 - 00:23:09.052, Speaker A: We need to find ways to kind of create shortcuts around that experience. So one thing that I didn't talk about in the presentation today though is kind of progressive onboarding. I do think that it's important that people ultimately understand if the system is different and has different risks and different dynamics, you don't want to completely abstract that away and the fact that there's keys and stuff behind it. I don't want to stand up in a world where we're just all using custodians again. But I think custodians or using things like Universal Logins, using Metatransactions, you can create essentially a custodial experience at the beginning where it can be handed off to the user. Once you've kind of gotten to the point where there's something of value and they get it, you can pass it over. I think that's something that I want to start seeing a lot more of is people saying like, oh, how do we ease people onto the path we know where we want them to be? And ultimately if they get that understanding right, setting up a service in the early days of the Internet was like, send an email and we'll abstract it and then we'll actually print out your email and mail it to you in the mail, right? That's not the right thing.
00:23:09.052 - 00:23:57.516, Speaker A: You need to get people used to the new paradigm to actually get the power of it, but we can find ways to make it easier to help people learn along the way. Yeah, so a big part of that I think, is the gas relay network where you can put money into your smart contract so users don't even have to pay for gas. Yes, gas station network. Great example, right? That's a way that you can do it. So for those of you who haven't seen this yet, just Google gas station network there's. Open Zeppelin I think, has a nice kind of SDK around this, really easy to use so you can participate in this network that basically lets applications pay gas on behalf of their users. So you can do that.
00:23:57.516 - 00:24:43.980, Speaker A: You can set parameters around it as well so you don't end up having somebody draining all of your accounts. But yeah, you can remove some of that friction for users early on. I know Argent is I don't know if they're actually using GSM, but they're paying gas on behalf of users for their wallet for now at least. And I think that's absolutely that's a way that you can make it feel magical, not give people the friction because especially the idea of like if you have people interacting with dai or with other tokens other than ETH, you give them that token and then it's like, but you can't pay gas. You need something for that. That kind of is the anti magical moment. So we want to avoid that of all costs.
00:24:43.980 - 00:25:18.720, Speaker A: All right, so we are at time and I'm going to be around actually, I lost it. Okay. Yeah. Anyway, there's me, there's IDEO Colab on Twitter and then just quick shill at the end. We have this startup studio. We are supporting startups, early stage startups in the space. Come check out our studio website, submit an application for one of our events.
00:25:18.720 - 00:26:04.100, Speaker A: We also have a makeathon that we're taking applications for. People have some flexibility, the exact date, but the deadline for the application is September 15. If you invite Makeathon, you could then be invited from there to participate in a paid fellowship opportunity to come spend a few weeks working with Idea Colab, working on crypto related projects. And then also I can't believe I forgot to say this yesterday, we also invest, so we typically do checks between 250 and $500,000 into seed precede. Sometimes Series A ish depending on how you define the term startups. So come find me, we've got a table on the back of the room. I will be around until the end of the stuff tomorrow.
00:26:04.100 - 00:26:07.360, Speaker A: Love to talk to you all. Bye.
