00:00:03.560 - 00:00:43.594, Speaker A: I'm vanilling. I'm the co founder and CEO of Civic. We are a company that's building Multisig wallet Technologies to store your identity and personal information and assets. When I first met Anatoly, he was one of the very few entrepreneurs who really had a good, deep understanding of the differences between layer one and L2 scaling opportunities and technologies that existed out there. And I'm famous for not being a huge fan of, you know, lightning and second layer networks built on top of existing crypto and blockchain infrastructure. And so when I made it, Anatoly was very clear to me that he had a good alternative way of scaling layer one and being a general partner in Multicoin. These are sorts of opportunities that we look for and we look to invest in.
00:00:43.594 - 00:01:34.384, Speaker A: And I brought this to the team, and I just spent a ton of time with the guys, digging deep into what they've built. And I think between myself and my partners in Multicore, we're just convinced that this is one of the best ways that you could scale a blockchain. When you're looking at the technical skills that are required to scale a blockchain like Solana, you really need someone at the helm who understands technology at a very deep level. And so when you look at Anatoly's background at Qualcomm advanced research projects, he really, really gets it from low level all the way up to what we're doing now in blockchain. And so that knowledge is just very rare out there. And so I think that he was one of the very key people I met in the team that really made me comfortable that they could execute and build Solana out. What is most exciting for me about Solana is the ability for Solana to deliver high volume throughput at a very low cost.
00:01:34.384 - 00:01:57.454, Speaker A: In order to scale blockchains to commercial industrial uses, we need to have a high performance blockchain that is extremely cost effective, and none of the other blockchains can deliver that right now. So when we look at investing in early stage companies, we're looking at number of different dimensions. It's things like the team technical expertise, timing of the market and stage of investment. And Solana ticked the box for all that for us.
