00:00:13.690 - 00:00:36.294, Speaker A: Hi, thanks for coming. My name is Shannon. You came to the talk that was in the agenda building the New Creator economy. I'm really excited to spend the 15 minutes with you all. I'm head of ecosystem at Livepeer. Live Peer is a decentralized video infrastructure protocol. I'm not going to shill it too hard in this talk.
00:00:36.294 - 00:01:22.118, Speaker A: I've been in the Web Three space for a pretty long time. My crypto journey began in 2011. I was regulating Bitcoin as a financial crime in Canada, worked at the World Economic Forum for a few years with global CEOs who were interested in blockchain tech. So for a long time I thought crypto was super sus until I learned about proof of stake networks in about 2017 and went down the crypto rabbit hole, starting my journey working on governance and Dows. I actually had my own startup before joining Live Here in 2021, thanks to a friend of mine who's also in the audience and is part of the Live Here community. So with that, I want to talk to you about the Internet eras. I'm not going to talk too much about.
00:01:22.118 - 00:01:58.210, Speaker A: We hear web one, web two, web3. I could just say that. But I think it's actually more interesting to think about the cultural narratives around different phases and episodes of the Internet. So we can think about the classical period. Ancient Greeks made foundational contributions to math and science and kind of how we think about the world, how we reason about the world, how we reason about ourselves. So we owe a lot of our basic ideas about how we understand the world to the Greek. So I think we can attribute that to the classical founders of Web One, the open source Internet protocols on which we all still operate.
00:01:58.210 - 00:02:51.906, Speaker A: The Second Phase, popularly known as Web Two, I would actually call the Dark Ages. I'm going to spend a bit more time going into why I think Web Two is actually the Dark Ages and where I think we are emerging, which is the Renaissance era of the Internet. And so, yeah, Monopoly is not great. Going to get into it. And then the Renaissance is really the on chain era and what's behind that. So yeah, what's so bad about the Dark Age of the Internet? Well, there's really only a small number where we are now. There's only a small number of corporations that have been able to develop the resources to provide the computing infrastructure and Internet utilities at a global scale such that you can actually build applications on top of the open protocols of the Internet and build businesses on top of it.
00:02:51.906 - 00:03:44.286, Speaker A: And those few companies, we all know them apple, AWS, Google, Microsoft, Facebook they've really become global powerhouses with outsized both, I would say economic and political power on the global stage. Individually, each of these companies have at least a trillion dollars in market capitalization, and that financial state is larger than over 90% of nation state GDPs. So these companies are large enough to be G seven member states. So that's a problem. So how have they done that? They've done it through pretty extractive business models that rely on user generated content and monetizing user data. Started off as a strategy to pay the bills because actually running Internet utilities is really expensive. And as they found out, this was the fastest way to cover those costs.
00:03:44.286 - 00:04:27.586, Speaker A: And then because they realized that they were the only people in town able to do that, they have been able to jack up their price a lot. So that's kind of the basic economic disaster that we have today, some of the implications of that. Creators on the Internet get an unequal share of the returns to the Internet infrastructure today, the creator economy. So what gets created on the Internet is valued at over $100 billion in 2001. YouTube's creator economy alone generates over $25 billion. And the pie is not equally split. As I just mentioned, two thirds of creators earn less than $25,000 a year.
00:04:27.586 - 00:05:07.914, Speaker A: More than 25% earn less than $1,000 a year. And it takes many years as a creator to build up the following. You need to get yourself at the top of the algorithm in order to get discovered. And not only that, it's really hard to form a business on the Web two or Dark Age Internet today because platforms don't give you any data about your audience or how you're doing. So you're really operating in the dark. Innovation is also really stifled in a monopolistic technology environment. So smaller Internet companies, smaller software companies, smaller applications have had to sell to larger ones over the years to cover their costs at scale.
00:05:07.914 - 00:05:46.138, Speaker A: So YouTube sold to Google in 2008, twitch sold to Amazon in 2014. And they did that because they couldn't cover their costs. And Twitch actually continues to run at a loss for Amazon today. And so related to this is big companies have been hiring an ever larger share of innovators and inventors. And there's actually an interesting study that just came out. You can find it on the Wall Street Journal showing that innovators, once they get hired by big tech, do become less productive. They actually issue fewer patents, but they do still make more money.
00:05:46.138 - 00:06:49.806, Speaker A: So that's probably not surprising to hear that there's a study that's confirmed that if you're an innovator and you get the golden handcuffs of a big tech company, you're less productive, but you're making more money. This is something I'm actually most concerned about, which is the stifling of our culture and of our creativity. And what happens online has implications offline. And I really think the homogenization of our global culture as a whole can be attributed to the culture that's developed on the Internet and that is driven by the advertising model of these large software companies that the people creating content on their platforms need to. The only way to get rewarded is by appealing to the largest possible audience with your content. So you really need a breadth of narratives, of visuals, of whatever you're putting out that's going to appeal to as many people as possible. And also you can't really engage deeply with your audience because you're trying to get to as many of them as possible and it's really hard to identify who they are.
00:06:49.806 - 00:08:02.754, Speaker A: As I mentioned, another implication of the kind of ad based web Two model of the Internet today is the attention economy. So because the content that gets created is about generating the most eyeballs for ads, it's really appealing to our primitive dopamine high click brain. Kevin Awakey from Gitcoin actually gave a really great main stage talk, really digging into some of the psychological trauma that's been created on the web over the last few years. I really encourage people to take a look at that and I think ultimately platforms like YouTube, like TikTok, like Twitter, like Twitch, they actually own the identities and the communities of creators. So if you get deplatformed, if you get kicked off Twitter, if you get kicked off YouTube, guess what? They own your content and they own your follower base and you're kind of left with nothing and you have to start from scratch. So I think from a creator's perspective, that's probably the thing to be most concerned about, about the dark age of the internet. So what is the internet's renaissance, Sarah? What is web3? What is on chain? I'm going to call it the Renaissance So Foundationally.
00:08:02.754 - 00:08:53.106, Speaker A: I think what underpins where we are right now is composable and tokenized, compute and data. And so the classical internet was and its primitives still are open source. So in theory, anything that's open source is by nature composable. But what's new, and I think interesting about Web Three today is that open source code and data is now tokenized on chain. And that just creates an entirely new economic and business model on top of the internet. So yeah, on chain is the new online. I do buy that slogan and public blockchains are really providing that fertile ground for a more vibrant and flourishing digital economy.
00:08:53.106 - 00:10:05.514, Speaker A: So I think the most important layer of what's happening is at the Web Three infrastructure layer and it is the permissionless open, decentralized compute networks that provide again the infrastructure on which you can build applications and create user experiences online. And using token economics to bootstrap these networks has really created a supply of competitive markets for those digital commodities. And that's GPU CPU bandwidth, that compute capacity that's needed to serve applications. And again, I think the functionally permanent composability that smart contracts and cryptography provides to open source protocols and data. So it's the protocols themselves and the code gets tokenized, but the content and the assets and the data that people create and put on the internet are now also tokenized and that gives us the opportunity to attribute asset ownership to individuals through private keys, which we commonly know as wallets. This is an example, web Three. If you go to the Web Threeindex.org,
00:10:05.514 - 00:10:44.918, Speaker A: this is a list of some of the oh my God, five minutes. Okay, okay, go to the go check that out. It's Web Three infrastructure projects, live peers there. It's people who are using decentralized compute networks to do foundational things like transcoding storage, search and query. Yeah. The web3 stack. This is, I think, a good visual to show how the developer environment in which applications are being built with all of these different, basically software services that are using decentralized compute and figuring out new pieces of the Web Three stack.
00:10:44.918 - 00:11:34.726, Speaker A: And the vision is that all of this kind of mechanical infrastructure enabling the Internet is abstracted away such that developers can focus their efforts on higher level problems of product development and user adoption. This is a visual of open actions from Lensv Two, which Donnie introduced again on the main stage on Monday. I think this is a superb example of a user interface that's really maximizing the idea of composability. So who benefits from a composable on chain Internet? Technology providers can specialize in a particular area of service provision. App developers have more creativity, they can take their code with them, content creators, consumers. And so I think with this we're really entering a new era of internet entrepreneurship. And that's kind of what I would call the digital creator economy.
00:11:34.726 - 00:12:11.190, Speaker A: We're talking about entrepreneurship on the Internet and it's moving from platform economies to multiple creator economies. And the renaissance, I argue, will actually be video. And why is that? Because the Internet is actually video. And I really think video is the frontier for the new digital economy. So today 80% of all internet bandwidth, so all traffic on the Internet is video. It's easy to understand why it's as close as we can get to being in person online is by sharing and watching videos together. And yeah, the demand for video is truly exploding.
00:12:11.190 - 00:12:57.558, Speaker A: The video streaming market is expected to hit over $100 billion in 2025. Just exponential growth. People would rather watch video than consume other types of content online. And it matters for kind of commerce on the web because we know that most consumers rely on video to make purchasing decisions. So whereas people used to rely on websites or online reviews, they now really prefer even short form video content in order to make decisions. And that's a page from HubSpot. So yeah, over 90% of businesses use video as a marketing tool.
00:12:57.558 - 00:13:24.880, Speaker A: Today, 75% of viewers watch content on their mobile devices. So we know that the internet is increasingly mobile as well. More and more social apps are actually incorporating short form video. Instagram, which started off as a video sharing app, is now like a short form live stories app. Twitter a couple months ago, just made a huge pivot into video. You can now upload videos on Twitter. So the Internet is really moving towards video.
00:13:24.880 - 00:14:07.606, Speaker A: And the new on chain Internet does need a new consumer video applications. And that's because today the video apps are the ones dominated by the large infrastructure providers who are, as I mentioned earlier, just taking such a huge share of creator revenue. YouTube takes about $0.60 on every dollar that a creator makes today. It's really hard to access the APIs for these projects, so it's really not a composable environment. So what do we need to do to bring online video to on chain applications? I'm going to close just by running through Yay. I have 1 minute, two slides.
00:14:07.606 - 00:14:56.694, Speaker A: That's some calls to action here. What should you build if you want to bring online video to on chain applications? I think one of the first things to think about is actually video metadata standards for content authenticity and provenance. So if you put content on chain, that's going to get an Identifier, a hash to decentralized storage. But what happens when you share that video content? What happens when it gets remixed? Because when you put video online to broadcast it, it needs to be transcoded. That means the file formats get compressed and repackaged in multiple different ways. And Lipier does that in a decentralized way. But it gets really hard to track the provenance of that piece of video content over its lifecycle.
00:14:56.694 - 00:15:34.534, Speaker A: And it's really important that we do that for two reasons. One is to protect people watching video so that they don't get deep faked and they know that they're watching a video by who they think it's created by. And the other is to protect creators and to provide a chain of provenance so that they get economic guarantees every time a video is shared. I think a great place to start. Okay, social application. So existing DFI and NFT marketplaces, those are places where asset exists, but there's really no interface on top of a lot of these assets. So Zora has over 700,000 collectors today.
00:15:34.534 - 00:16:03.934, Speaker A: Openc has almost 2 million active users. Those are ripe spaces for social and video application development. How should we be building this stuff? Let's please be use case and user driven in our development of on chain applications. Who really needs another L? Two, ask yourself that question. Think about new business models. Productizing micro actions with micro payments. Small is beautiful.
00:16:03.934 - 00:17:02.530, Speaker A: You don't need to become a monolith. Lens has done a really great job demonstrating what's possible. To date. They've enabled creators to earn almost half a million dollars, with over 90% of that revenue being driven by collect posts rather than subscriptions, which I think is hugely instructive. For those small actions that you can start to monetize and productize financial inclusion, we really need to bridge DeFi and creators. Currently they're considered two entirely separate user groups. But what if when you earned revenue from your collect post on Lens that automatically got put into a DFI pool to earn yield? What if that DFI pool was actually composed of Web Three infrastructure tokens where you could actually then start to both own and earn rewards on the actual Internet utilities that you're consuming? Finally, moderation tools.
00:17:02.530 - 00:17:30.360, Speaker A: As we develop new social platforms, we need to be able to come up with consensus on what content is safe and not safe. I think we also need to be looking at quality versus quantity content. Web Three, I think, is a great space for news media and journalists to come in and get rewarded for their content. We haven't really seen that yet, so I'm excited to see that. I can't believe that was 15 minutes. Thanks. Thank.
00:17:30.360 - 00:17:45.900, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm shan. That's my Twitter handle. Shambasian shan lens on lens. I didn't show Live Peer, but I'm happy to show it afterwards. Do we have time for no questions? Okay, cool. I'll be there. Thanks.
