00:00:14.160 - 00:01:14.284, Speaker A: Hey, guys. It's so awesome to be here. So, to start with, for folks that don't know jump trading. Jump is a firm that has its roots in the pits at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange over 20 years ago, and today is one of the largest quantitative trading firms in the world. And before I go into answering the question of what a quant trading firm is doing building in blockchain, I think it's worth spending a couple minutes on what a quant trading firm is and what we do. So, at the highest level, I think a simple metal model, is that quant trading firms are solving problems in predictive modeling and high performance computing to find opportunities in the markets. So the problem starts with ingesting a fire hose of market data from venues across the globe and creating really high fidelity time series archives.
00:01:14.284 - 00:03:06.734, Speaker A: The next step from there is to build machine learning models of various complexities by fitting them over big clusters to create products, predictive models, or what we colloquially call alpha. At that stage, all these predictive models can then get deployed to strategies on tens of thousands of hosts across the globe, to then respond to opportunities in a very rapid fashion and capitalize on opportunities that arise. And so we're using all kinds of wireless, wired, and radio networks to move information around the globe as rapidly as possible, reading that information off the network card as fast as we can, or sometimes pretty often, into FPGA's or custom hardware, and then evaluating the model as rapidly as possible to be the first in line to get ahead of the market opportunity. And if a lot of these problems sound very similar to the stuff that the guys at Solana are trying to solve, it as a globally distributed, high performance computer, we thought so, too. So, you know, jump's been active in crypto markets for over six years now, and the initial effort was just a natural extension of our trading business in a quirkier market. But over the last six years, you know, by virtue of being one of the only big firms that was kind of in early on that side, we had the opportunity to work with a lot of exciting projects early on on just trading and liquidity related problems. And through the course of that, especially in the depths of the bear, when the markets weren't particularly as exciting, what we learned is we had a lot more to offer to these projects than just trading and just liquidity.
00:03:06.734 - 00:04:29.644, Speaker A: So we kind of had a summit a couple of years ago where we decided that the only way to actually realize the bet that we made in this space by coming in early and position ourselves to do well in crypto for the next two decades was to actually build alongside the folks that we're working with. And once that kind of clicked, it's been very dramatic for us. So today you'll see jump that's traditionally been a very quiet organization that kind of puts its heads down and does work active on the governance forum, contributing to, like, you know, the open source code basis being a part of the discussion. And that's really what the whole, the jump crypto effort is about. And a great illustration of that, and I think also a very strong illustration of the new models that blockchains and, you know, the whole crypto space unlocks is the pit project. So pit is a very high speed oracle network that's bringing fast real time financial data from a wide variety of the true sources of this data straight to the chain. At that point, this data is aggregated and processed into one robust output and can then be used as a pricing source for all kinds of crypto applications.
00:04:29.644 - 00:05:33.528, Speaker A: The contributors to these, to the contributing sources, to pids today are regulated. Us equity exchanges are jump and all its competitors that comprise of the lion's share of trading volume across most traditional asset classes. It's a number of very crypto native firms like FTX and Zero X and Genesis, and they're all contributing data to one single platform. And it's all unlocked by this ability to create trust between mutually distrusting people. Jump and all its competitors are now contributing prices to this one source, and all playing by the same rules that are just codified by the contract, regardless of who the contract was written by or deployed by. And it's unlocked a positive sum game where only zero sum games existed before. And that's really, really powerful because we all get to export trust to Solana and the blockchain gets the serve the function of trust.
00:05:33.528 - 00:06:31.524, Speaker A: So, you know, as we've gone through the process of helping a lot of major financial institutions, getting, you know, helping them get red pulled into crypto, into holding keys, into sending transactions to peer to peer networks, we also noticed no improvements that we could make in infrastructure and tooling to help give these organizations more AWS like experiences. And so, you know, we recently acquired blockchain company called Certis one. They've been one of the leading Solana and cosmos validators for the last couple years since the genesis of the chain. And with their help, we are also helping think about how we can improve robust tooling and infrastructure. So Certis was also working on the wormhole, which is the interoperability bridge between a lot of heterogeneous, high value chains, including Solana. And now, you know, it's been generalized. It's launched as a simple message passing bridge.
00:06:31.524 - 00:07:42.434, Speaker A: And, you know, that's the current NFT module that brought a punk over to Solana and it brought apes over to Ethereum. And it's kind of like a cultural cross pollination that's been possible because of this new piece of tooling that exists. And, you know, if you're being honest, like two years ago if you said that we would be involved as jump trading in building bridge to move nfts around chains, it would have seemed significantly out of reach. But today, it's what we wake up thinking about every day. The jump crypto team has grown to over 100 people, and we only feel resource constrained given the opportunity set that we see in this space. Over the last year, we've pulled in entire successful trading teams within the firm, and a large number of them are now working on actually writing Solana code every day. The new set of hires that came in that our calend team spent the last couple years recruiting, in addition to training up on machine learning in c, were in a two week Solana bootcamp as part of their training program.
00:07:42.434 - 00:08:30.364, Speaker A: And it's kind of incredible to see, because now all they want to work on is crypto. And you're going to see some really fun stuff that they're coming out with through the course of this week. And the only way we're going to be able to actually grow this talent is to get people from outside of crypto to come in. And that's something that me and the team at jump Crypto are very, very committed and dedicated on doing. So I'll just leave by saying, for all the folks that have kind of been watching from the sidelines, the water is warm here. It's a fairly friendly and accessible environment, and we're always willing and ready to be a resource. The whole crypto community feels very open and very welcoming.
00:08:30.364 - 00:08:41.234, Speaker A: The Solana folks made us feel super welcome to come and build on this platform, and we want to serve the same function for a lot more. Please feel free to reach out. Thanks, guys.
