00:00:00.360 - 00:00:25.078, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Guy refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Ciszano, and today's the 4 October 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I put out this tweet a few hours ago, just thinking about kind of like Ethereum, where Ethereum is today. I was writing the Daily Gwen newsletter and I was kind of thinking about it and I was like, it's kind of like the golden age of Ethereum right now. Like the golden era. Era.
00:00:25.078 - 00:01:02.706, Speaker A: I haven't felt this excited about Ethereum. Not necessarily kind of like the price and like the price action going forward, but like the actual ecosystem. I haven't felt this excited about it pretty much ever. Like in terms of how much activity is happening, how many new kind of like innovations we're seeing, how many people were onboarding. It's, I mean, I've been going on about this a lot on the refuel, of course, for a while now, but it's just, it's unmatched, right? It really hasn't happened like this at any other time in history. So I put out this tweet where I basically said, you know, we have EIP 1559 burning ethnic, obviously a huge deal. Like, I know it's funny because like, no one really talks about it anymore unless we get to those milestones like 400,000 ETH burned.
00:01:02.706 - 00:01:26.822, Speaker A: And then when we get to 500,000, we're at like, what, 427,000 at time of recording of ETH burned. But the funny thing is, is that like, that's still there. That's still happening in perpetuity. We're still burning a lot of ETH all the time. And you know, that that is kind of got flowing to eat holders now. I know the price hasn't kind of like gone much higher from when 1559 went live. I'm pretty sure it went live when ETH was around 2900.
00:01:26.822 - 00:02:01.624, Speaker A: And ETH is like 3350 right now. But I think people under, overestimate the short term impact of 1559 and underestimate the long term impact because that's definitely going to play dividends later on for the price. But more generally, like, I really like the fact that it's actually, at least for me, made my transaction experience a lot better where I've hardly ever had to speed up a transaction since 1559 went live. And it just makes my whole, it makes it much smoother for the network in general to process these transactions. And it kind of like has obviously done its job at smoothing out the gas fees. So that's really exciting. Then we have like the merge.
00:02:01.624 - 00:02:31.192, Speaker A: The progress on the merge is accelerating, which I'm going to talk about in a little bit. I have a couple of tweets to talk about with regards to that. But I mean, as I mentioned before, Altair goes live on the ETH two kind of like network, the Beacon Jane on October 27. And then once that happens, all of the attention from the ETH one and ETH two devs are going to be on the merge and it pretty much already is. Like, and as I said, I'll discuss this in a little bit, so I won't spoil that now. And then I went on to say, you know, L2 adoption is exploding and it really is. I mean, I'm going to talk about Dy DX in a bit as well.
00:02:31.192 - 00:03:01.136, Speaker A: But outside of that, we've seen like last week immutable teamed up with, with TikTok, for example. Arbitrum has Reddit going to be deploying using their technology. Optimism is going live with major upgrades this month. Obviously, Arbitrum is live as well, waiting, just waiting for more apps to go live on arbitrary. And I think, you know, we still need a money market to go live there. Like Ave, I think Ave would be the only one, like Maker and compound. I mean, maker's not a money market, but like compound hasn't gone, uh, gone live on any other networks as far as I'm, I know at this point.
00:03:01.136 - 00:03:25.100, Speaker A: And they also have like an exploit that they're dealing with right now. So probably not going to see that. But once Aave goes live on there, I'm sure we're going to see other apps follow like, like year and that kind of like rely on this sort of stuff and, and even Alchemyx and stuff like that. But still, you know, the rollout is happening. Adoption is exploding. And it's not just, I guess, like the L2s, it's also the other scalability solutions, like side chains, for example. Like the Polygon Pos chain is getting a lot of usage.
00:03:25.100 - 00:04:16.940, Speaker A: And the fun, funny, fun fact, you know, we all know axie infinity has had like an incredible kind of adoption cycle over there, especially the last, I guess, eight or nine months. But did you know that Axie originally was on Ethereum layer one? Obviously it didn't scale for their needs, so they went and made their own kind of like side chain called the ronin sidechain. And that actually uses ETH as part of its economy. So it's using ETH, as far as I know, for kind of like gas fees and things are priced in ETH and stuff like that. Their native token is just for kind of like staking and governance and for being used within the, within the game itself. So from that perspective, you know, even these side chains are adding a lot of value to ETH and to the ethereum ecosystem. And, you know, I know that the Polygon team is interested in turning their POS chain into a proper kind of like L2 or like a true L2 later on, or they'll just kind of like migrate users to their generalized L2s when they go live.
00:04:16.940 - 00:05:07.498, Speaker A: And I know the axie infinity team, I mean, maybe things have changed because they said this a little while ago, but they're also interested in changing over to one of these kind of like roll ups once, or kind of like a validium or a volition once they're ready. You know, I could see axie infinity going from their side chain, or at least kind of, I guess, copying the state from their side chain onto a layer too, like, like a validium or a volition, um, from starkware. And just running their stuff on that, that gives them even more scalability than what they have today with their side chain and also allows them to have better, I guess, bridge ability. Is that a word or composability with Ethereum's kind of layer one. And also they get, they inherit some, some of ethereum's layer one security. Um, for those who don't know volodymyr, volition aren't considered kind of like true l two s because they don't post their data to Ethereum. Layer one, they have like an off chain data committee.
00:05:07.498 - 00:05:35.880, Speaker A: Volition gives you the option whether to post your data on layer one or not. But by trading that off, you get like a lot more scalability for it, much more than even a sidechain can give you. So like an, I guess like an EVM fork side chain. There are other kind of like side chains you can do some stuff around and, and you know, I totally centralize it, of course, but like get a bit more juice out of. But anyway, there's a lot of stuff happening on the L2 scalability front there. Nfts. I mean, I don't think any of us saw what was going to happen with nfts, like as big as it did.
00:05:35.880 - 00:06:12.364, Speaker A: Like even the most bullish, kind of like people that were even the, sorry, even the biggest ETH bulls, NFT bulls that I know didn't expect adoption to happen this fast, nor do they expect this much money to flow into the NFT space. And it's just on boarded so many people into the ethereum ecosystem. I know that ethereum layer one is pricing a lot of people out and they're, you know, they're seeking refuge on other networks which have cheaper fees and there are some kind of like NFT ecosystems popping up there. But OpenSea is only on two chains, as far as I know. Ethereum layer one and polygon. And that's brought in a lot of people into the Ethereum's kind of like Ethereum ecosystem. Other people have been exposed to ETH.
00:06:12.364 - 00:06:59.310, Speaker A: They're buying it, they're using it, they're using it for gas fees which are being burned. You see how kind of like we have this symbiotic relationship going on here and you know, with, with these NFT scalability solutions going live like immutable X, as I said, they're immutable teams up with tick tock, they have like a bunch of other NFT games and platforms kind of building on there. We're going to just onboard even more people to this ecosystem. And then we have daos, which are continuing to mature. Daos have taken this approach where we're kind of just like letting a thousand of them kind of like come to market, then just kind of like seeing all the experiments play out, innovating, progressing along there, and then seeing kind of like what shakes out and adopting the best, kind of like the best, best ways to run a Dao manager Dao, kind of like get people involved with it. And then I ended this tweet by saying, you know, it feels good to be an Ethereum right now. It really does.
00:06:59.310 - 00:07:38.060, Speaker A: I mean, there's so much happening, it's insane. Like I said in my newsletter today, Ethereum really is a city that never sleeps. And it's, I mean, I know that the existing web today is like a 24/7 always on kind of thing, but the web is, as it exists today, is different to something like Ethereum, because Ethereum is at its heart a value transfer layer or a val, or a settlement layer, for example, where we can transfer value wherever we want. It's an always online financial system, and then you can build whatever you want off of that. Like nfTs, Daos, gaming, all that sort of stuff can be built off of that financial system. And it's literally 24/7 any day of the year, anytime you want. The ethereum network is there to serve you.
00:07:38.060 - 00:08:13.792, Speaker A: It has never had any downtime. It's, uh, you know, there are periods of time where it can get slower, where the gas fees can spike. So you have to kind of like, wait a little bit, but it's always online and ready to serve you. Uh, which I think is quite amazing, to be honest. The fact that we have an always online value transfer system, financial system, you know, placed for people to kind of like, uh, do stuff with nfTs, with Daos, it's, it's crazy because that's what makes this movement kind of global, is the fact that it's always on. Like, could you imagine if for some reason, blockchains had, like, an opening and closing hours, like a, like a bank does, for example? It's like, oh, we open at 09:00 a.m. Eastern time, and we close at 05:00 p.m.
00:08:13.792 - 00:08:36.136, Speaker A: Eastern time. So, you know, if you're, if you're based in kind of like in Asia or Australia, well, who care? Like, it's going to be late or you're sleeping. Bad luck, you're out of luck. You can't use the network, you know? You know what I mean? And I guess, like, that's not the way banks work today. Obviously, there's, like, local branches and stuff like that. But the fact that, you know, it kind of works like that means that banks are inherently not global institutions. Like, there's different.
00:08:36.136 - 00:09:00.144, Speaker A: And they're not kind of like, the systems that they use aren't global settlement systems. There's a bunch of different settlement systems. It's such a crappy system, really, at the end of the day, whereas ethereum services the whole world, it does it. It does so equally as well. I know when I say that people are going to be like, oh, well, the gas fees are high. It's not exactly equal to people who can't afford them. But I'm turn, I'm talking about in terms of just like, what it produces for people, what it kind of allows people to do.
00:09:00.144 - 00:09:19.070, Speaker A: Take away the gas fees for a sec. Yeah, out of the conversation. You can do anything you want on a theorem at any time. It's censorship resistant, and no one's kind of, like, stopping you. There's no opening or closing hours, which I think is pretty cool. So, yeah, very exciting time to be in a theory. And I wrote a little bit more about this in the newsletter today, if you want to, if you want to check that out.
00:09:19.070 - 00:10:03.688, Speaker A: But, yeah, I'm gonna leave it at that for now as a bunch of stuff, other stuff to get through. So, yeah, I mentioned the merge. There's currently a merge event happening where a bunch of people have gotten together to basically work on the merge, both the spec and the actual client development. You can see here, Jasek, I think that's how you say his name from. I believe he works on the Nimbus client, kind of like put out this, this, I guess, like picture yesterday where he said merge event day one, nimbus and Nethermind does the merge transition. So I'm assuming this is kind of like the transition from like ETH one to ETH two, or kind of, I guess, like from, from slotting in the execution layer to the consensus layer. And, I mean, this has happened a bunch of different times in the past already.
00:10:03.688 - 00:10:32.690, Speaker A: We know that this can technically be done, but I think, you know, at the, at this point in time, we're at the, okay, we've got the spec, we know it can technically be done. What can go wrong? That's the stage we're at with the merge right now because you have to consider all the edge cases. You have to consider all the attack vectors. You have to consider all the kind of like possibilities of bugs. You have to have a plan if something goes wrong as well, I think. And you need to make sure all the clients can kind of like talk to each other, can run. This can stay in consensus for quite a while.
00:10:32.690 - 00:11:14.556, Speaker A: As I mentioned, I think on last week's ray fuel, they're going to be doing the Devnets soon. And then after the devnets will come short lived testnets, and then after that will come long, long live testnets. It's kind of like how we rolled out the beacon chain. I think they're going to probably want to see the long live testnet kind of, I guess, like exist for a little while before we kind of like, see it go to go to main net. But q one, q two next year, I don't expect it to push into q three. I even think q two might be being a bit pessimistic, like maybe we can get it done by March next year. I just want to see what happens over the next two to three months because I know that there are still a few kinks to work out within the merge of, I guess, like the biggest things are kind of, I guess, you know, how miners are going to react.
00:11:14.556 - 00:11:47.750, Speaker A: How do we do it so that the miners stay till the very end so we can actually transition across? There are a few ways that they, that they're kind of thinking about. I think they've kind of like, settled on um, having the, I guess, like, fork block be based on mining difficulty rather than kind of like a specific block that's set in the pie, sorry, sets at some point in. In the future, because then obviously it can be games and you want to have it as randomly as possible, um, so that you kind of reduce those risks as well. But generally, I would say that we know we can do the merge respects there. We just need to get all the clients to be. To. To work well.
00:11:47.750 - 00:12:11.820, Speaker A: We need to make sure it's as bug free as possible. And we need to make sure that there's no. I mean, given that this is an adversarial environment, we need to make sure that any of that adverse kind of like, adversaries can't cause any damage during the merge and obviously after it as well. But very, very close. I mean, you know, even if it takes until Q two, that's only eight months. Like, till the end of Q two, that's really only eight or so months from. From now.
00:12:11.820 - 00:12:36.396, Speaker A: So we're very, very close to getting this. Getting this stuff out there. And of course, once it happens, it'll be like ERP 1559 where it happened. Everyone celebrates and was like, oh, my God, finally. And then everyone's like, okay, what's next? And of course, what comes after the merge is one of two things. There's statelessness and then there's sharding. Whatever one comes first will be the one that goes into, I guess, into production.
00:12:36.396 - 00:13:12.734, Speaker A: Now, I actually will put my money on sharding going first because as far as I know, all the research for data sharding is already done. It just requires clients to implement this, but they can't do it until the merge is done. So I would say expect sharding before statelessness, but I would say that we might not get that until 2023 at this point. Like maybe end of 2022 for sharding. I mean, it's not that complex to do. It would be awesome to see it go live because the shards will give us a lot more scalability for our L2 ecosystem. But expect, you know, the major upgrades that still take, you know, could take up to another two years to get all the major upgrades live.
00:13:12.734 - 00:13:53.156, Speaker A: And then we have a bunch of other things coming after. But I'm talking about, like, the three major upgrades from here, the merge, sharding and statelessness, or kind of like just general statelessness of the Ethereum main chain. Those are the three major things that I'm looking at. And I would expect them to take anywhere from 18 months to 24 months, the merge being the closest here. And maybe we can get sharding end of next year, but we'll have to see how that plays out. All right, so toast ETH had a really good way of, I guess, visualizing the amount of ETH burned or kind of like thinking about the amount of ETH burned. He, he said here, the amount of ETH burned since 1559, just two months ago would be at number 85 in market cap rank if it was a coin in itself.
00:13:53.156 - 00:14:20.956, Speaker A: And it will only keep going up. It was at the time of screenshot, 1.4, almost $1.4 billion worth of kind of, I guess ETH burned here. And could you imagine like an ETH, the amount of ETH we burn getting one day to, I mean, like the top ten? It doesn't take much to get into the top ten of coingecko these days. Like, if I'm just looking at the top ten now, you would need, what, $30 to $28 billion to get into the top ten here. Obviously, that's going to keep growing over time.
00:14:20.956 - 00:14:54.370, Speaker A: So maybe when we'll see us in the top 20, which only requires 10 billion, but that's, that's today. But also if ETH keeps going up in price, that amount of ETH burned goes up in price as well. So it kind of balances itself out there. But I think, you know, we're going to see it, you know, climb the ranks pretty, pretty fast, especially as the ETH price goes up. Maybe it's just a bit of a vanity metric. Doesn't really mean anything, but still, I guess a different way of thinking about eat being bird that I hadn't, I hadn't personally thought about it this way before. All right, Polynya is back with another awesome blog post where he put out this post called paths forward for monolithic chains.
00:14:54.370 - 00:15:52.216, Speaker A: Now, for those of you who have kind of, like, listened and watched refuel lately, you'll know that I've talked about kind of Polynya's work around modular blockchains and monolithic blockchains. Modular being the chains that kind of like separate concerns between data availability, security and execution. The monolithic chains being the ones that are trying to do everything at layer one. Things like Solana, for example. Right. And eos and stuff like that. So in this post, polynar basically paints like a rosy, I guess, future for these monolithic chains if they kind of do things like turn into a roll up or kind of become like a roll up and use Ethereum as a security layer or kind of like expand into a validium even, or a volition or roll up things like that, or become a security and data availability layer, sort of what, like Ethereum with sharding is going to be, or Polygon avail or Celestia become a security only layer, like something very, very similar to bitcoin, except having the ability to, I guess, verify proofs and maybe even have call data on the chain.
00:15:52.216 - 00:16:22.804, Speaker A: But then you are kind of like back to Ethereum. So maybe that's not even. Not even something worth doing, but a few good ideas in here. I definitely recommend giving the post a read. It's only a five minute read, but, I mean, you guys know Polly Nas, one of my new favorite people over the past few months. Just love all the work that they're putting out and level the coverage that they're doing, especially around this, around, I guess, the narratives around monolithic chains versus modular chains and stuff like that. But, I mean, I fall into this camp as well, where I believe that a lot of these l ones are going to go nowhere.
00:16:22.804 - 00:16:45.522, Speaker A: There's. There's a handful of them that actually do have, you know, some. Some level of adoption, organic adoption out there. Uh, you know, even if I think that they're totally kind of like centralized totally against what I want to see in this ecosystem, there's no denying that, uh, some of them have. Have traction right now. And obviously, uh, there's something like, uh, like Solana, for example, has. He's building out its kind of like own ecosystem there.
00:16:45.522 - 00:17:17.846, Speaker A: Uh, you have avalanche as well, seems to be getting some traction. But the funny thing about avalanche is that all the tractions on their EVM side chain, essentially. So they're really just like, kind of like, basically ethereum at this point, but just like on their own kind of like consensus mechanism with their own kind of like community and stuff like that. But it's just ironic that kind of, like, that's happened that way. Then, you know, you can go down the list and pick out any other projects. I think the terra ecosystem is actually quite interesting from, like, I guess it's. For me, the terra ecosystem is more fintech than it is defi.
00:17:17.846 - 00:18:00.502, Speaker A: But the funny thing is that I think the terror ecosystem is basically the perfect candidate to be a roll up or a validium or volition on Ethereum. I don't think it needs to be its own layer one chain. Like, it already is, like, way less decentralized than Ethereum. And I'm pretty sure they're going to run into scalability bottlenecks as well. So in my mind, they're probably the top candidate in terms of what? In terms of these chains that actually have traction that I would say would seriously consider becoming a roll up or a volition or a validium. And as I've said before, they can still keep their native token, they can keep the luna token and all they're doing with it, like their UST stablecoin can still exist, everything can stay the same. Really the thing that changes is that even the nodes can stay the same.
00:18:00.502 - 00:18:42.990, Speaker A: Like they can still be nodes on there. Instead of kind of coming to consensus, they just kind of, I guess being like a sequencer for example, processing these transactions being like an execution node essentially that can all remain the same. But instead of coming to consensus within yourself, instead of using your own consensus mechanism, you just default to securing yourself on Ethereum. You either store your data on ethereum or if that's too expensive, you have data off chain. Maybe you can even pivot to as poly now said here, you can be like a data availability chain for yourself, right, but still kind of like use Ethereum to secure you via proofs and stuff like that. So I would say that I, yeah, I mean, I could see something like the Terry ecosystem doing that. I'm not sure which other chains would do that.
00:18:42.990 - 00:19:04.266, Speaker A: There are definitely ones out there that won't. For example, I don't think that Solana will do that. I don't think Polkadot will do it. I don't think Avalanche will do it. I don't think Cosmos will do it. I mean, some of them kind of can't do it given the kind of, I guess like architecture of their networks, it just becomes very very hard and not worth it for them. But yeah, I'm just scrolling down the list here.
00:19:04.266 - 00:19:48.866, Speaker A: I really don't see any other chains that could do this. And the funny thing is about these l one s really just scrolling down the list. There's only a few of them that actually like, that actually have any traction after all, kind of like the marketing that's been going on with them, all the rewards being paid out. And I think in not even five years, like I've given my five year thesis before, but I think in even like one to two years, a lot of these things are just going to be completely forgotten about. Because the L2 ecosystem, especially in the zero knowledge space with roll ups and volidiums and volitions, they're just so much better than any of this kind of, I guess any of these l one s like, I mean, I'm not going to go on about it again. You guys know my opinion here, and I'm not just bashing l one s because they're not ethereum. I'm not trying to be an ETH maxi, but like, I bet on the tech.
00:19:48.866 - 00:20:07.962, Speaker A: Like I'm a tech maximalist. If the better tech exists, then the better tech's gonna win. And I think that the L2s are the best tech. I mean, it's the best tech in this ecosystem. And I think that the modular blockchain kind of like thesis is the best one going forward. So we'll have to see how that plays out. But as I said, like maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm right.
00:20:07.962 - 00:20:54.100, Speaker A: I think Terra will be one of the ones that actually seriously considers becoming a validity and volition or roll up itself, whereas I don't really think any of the other ecosystems will. Maybe some of the other evm side chains might, maybe. I mean, in saying that, I expect things like the pos chain, the Polygon pos chain to transition, or at least to kind of, I guess, like have people migrate from that to polygon Hermes with their ZkVM and stuff like that. But more generally, I. Yeah, I just think most of these l ones are doomed to fail. I actually think all of them are doomed to fail except ethereum in the, in the long, long term. But a lot of them can just keep themselves afloat if they manage to, I guess, like attract enough developers and enough kind of like community members, but also have like enough of a vibrant ecosystem where people can make money on there.
00:20:54.100 - 00:21:44.136, Speaker A: That's the most important thing for a lot of these l ones, is that they can pay out money to people, fire via rewards or there's a lot of activity happening. So there's a lot of speculative stuff happening on there and people can earn money. I think that that is a staying power for these things, but it's going to be interesting to see how long that that kind of like staying power lasts, because it's not going to last forever, but we're just going to have to see how it plays out there. But yeah, so go read this blog post is very interesting. And then another post that I came across on Reddit that was actually shared by Polynyar as well, was this one from l two intern on Reddit called new vms in rollups with solidify Ethereum's lead. Now, what this kind of, I guess, post goes through is how anything your l one can do in terms of like, not being an EVM or not having a different smart contracting language, or being able to do something more than what the EVM can give you. The l two s can do better.
00:21:44.136 - 00:22:12.128, Speaker A: I've spoken about Starkware before, how the Dy DX is not even built on the EVM and not built in solidity. It's built in Cairo, which is Starkware's native language, and it's built using their stocknet or Stark Os, whatever they're kind of calling it these days. I think it was stock Os. Now they're just referring to it as kind of like a Stark net. And I think Stark X is like the tech, and Stark nets kind of like the generalization for all the solutions there. But you don't just stop there. I mean, arbitram has their own virtual kind of machine called the AVM.
00:22:12.128 - 00:22:43.126, Speaker A: Yes, it's very similar to the EVM, but. But it's still kind of their own thing. Zksync and Polygon, Hermes and Scroll as well, are doing their ZKVM stuff, which I'm pretty sure, like, everyone's going to default to eventually. And then, yeah, I mean, as I mentioned, like Stark nets Cairo virtual machine. But basically what this post says is that, like, you're not limited to the EVM at L2 at all. Just because you, you want to be EVM compatible, that's fine, because you want to get some, some traction, you want to be able to have devs just deploy their stuff there. But you're not limited at all.
00:22:43.126 - 00:23:09.902, Speaker A: There's no technical limitation saying to you, well, you can only be an EVM and you can only do stuff in solidity. You can be, you can build your entirely new vm from scratch and do whatever you want. And you can also have a different language too. You don't have to have solidity. So I think it's really important to recognize that when it comes to the L2 ecosystem on Ethereum, that it's not limiting at all. It actually opens up a massive design space for developers. So definitely go give this blog post a blog post, I guess, like Reddit post a read.
00:23:09.902 - 00:23:58.630, Speaker A: It was very interesting. And speaking of scaling, chain Link gods shared this really great little, I guess, Flowchart here that I may have showed on the refill before comes from loopring. That basically just breaks out the L2 ecosystem into a bunch of different kind of, I guess, places. We had state channels like Raiden, Raiden and Seller, and then we had plasma, which kind of like, I guess, was the sister to optimistic roll ups. And then off that we have optimism and arbitrum then you have ZK roll ups, and they're using different technology underneath graft 16, plonkit, stark, different cryptographic primitives that are being used. And you can see which apps come off of that, but it's all leading to ZKVM, which is like the holy Grail, right? A zero, sorry, a ZK roll up, being able to be fully generalizable, and you can kind of like run any app you want on there. So that is the holy grail of scaling at the moment.
00:23:58.630 - 00:24:43.674, Speaker A: Maybe we discover something better, but, like, that's what everyone's kind of working to right now. So I just thought this was a great visualization to kind of like, see how that all plays out there. So connects put out a great tweet thread over the weekend explaining the interoperability trilemma and, and how Connext NXTP protocol fixes this. So I'm not going to read this out, of course, but I'm going to tell you to go read it. There is a link in the YouTube description, of course, but it basically explains how connects works under the hood, what makes them different to other bridging solutions out there, and why they believe that they are the best one out there. And I mean, like, as I've mentioned before, disclosure, I'm an investor in Connext, but I invested in them because, I mean, these guys have been doing this for quite a while now, and they know what's up when it comes to bridging, when it comes to, I guess, like cross chain stuff. Cross l two stuff.
00:24:43.674 - 00:25:28.796, Speaker A: And they're really building it from, I guess, like from first principles. And they've built it from first principles here and thought about things in a really, really great way to be as trustless as possible. So definitely go check out this thread here. Speaking of bridges, Seller put out this tweet where they said the c bridge that they've got does not only save time and dollars exiting funds from optimism over others, but it also saves cost the other way around. So, for example, moving funds from Ethereum or any other chain to optimism via Seabridge is actually cheaper than using the native bridges, which is cool. Like I mentioned this before on the refuel where I said these bridges are going to be cheaper than using the native, quote unquote official bridge, that optimism, or arbitrary or whatever other l two has out there. So definitely go check out seller network Seabridge here.
00:25:28.796 - 00:26:01.730, Speaker A: If you're looking for a bridge to use to get into arbitrary optimism as cheaply as possible. And I mentioned before, I wanted to talk a bit about Dy DX. It is now the most liquid product or liquid exchange product. Their DOI Dex layer to petrol exchange in crypto, more liquid than binance, more liquid than FTX. You can see here they had $37 million worth of debts at 50 bps on their ETH perp, whereas Binance has only $16 million of depth and FTX only $12 million. Now, this is crazy. I mean, this isn't just comparing, this isn't comparing spot to perpetuals.
00:26:01.730 - 00:26:39.720, Speaker A: It's, it's comparing perpetuals to perpetuals. Like you can see here, perp and perp, which means dy DX is by far the most liquid perpetual exchange out there. And this is just showing, again, the power of a extremely well built exchange, for starters, and an extremely well built decentralized exchange. It doesn't rely on kind of, I guess, centralization like these other ones do because it's built on stockware and also the power of a token, of course, like they put the token out there, do a Dex exploded in Val, exploded in growth, and the token went up in value, too. But I think that without the exchange being as good as it was, the token wouldn't have counted for much, to be honest. I think you need both. You need a good token model and you also need a good product.
00:26:39.720 - 00:27:07.184, Speaker A: And I kind of answered this in the AMA that I did yesterday Saturday, which is uploaded on YouTube, if you want to go check that out. I did. At the very start, the first question I answered was about kind of like token distributions. And one thing I harped on about was the fact that you can't just like use a token to bootstrap ecosystem or bootstrap your product. If your product is bad. If the product is bad, then no amount of token incentives is going to make the product good. So I think that's why dy decks, they had a working product.
00:27:07.184 - 00:27:32.428, Speaker A: It's amazing. It works just as advertised. And now they have a token to bootstrap that growth. And that's the proper way to do it. It shouldn't be done the other way around where you have like a token that comes out first before your product is actually has product market fit and try to kind of force your way into that. That's just not going to happen in my mind. All right, so Polygon has announced that the Switzerland National Postal Service has chosen their pos chain to launch swiss crypto, crypto stamps.
00:27:32.428 - 00:28:08.676, Speaker A: So they'll bridge the gap between physical stamps in the digital cryptocurrency space. Cryptocurrency industry by introducing tradable digital stamps as nfts on the polygon pos chain. I think this is pretty cool, like, to be honest. I mean, the more of these kind of old world institutions getting involved with crypto, the better. And I've mentioned how I think all of them are going to get involved at some point, but I think this makes perfect sense to be on the pos chain. You don't need ethereum security for, um, you know, crypto stamps, right? Like, uh, so just putting it on the kind of like less secure and less decentralized pos chain. So I guess side chain commit chain is like totally, uh, uh, totally the right use case here.
00:28:08.676 - 00:28:38.034, Speaker A: And I think this is again, what we're going to be seeing with the volidiums and the Volt and the volitions that choose kind of like off chain data option, um, where you have kind of like this less secure thing going on. But it's, it makes sense for the use case. So I, I definitely think that, that, um, that that's going to play out like that. But yeah, still cool to see this from Polygon here. I'm coming up on time, so I'm going to run through the rest of these quite quickly. Another kind of bridging protocol I came across over the weekend is mover network. So cross Lane, they call themselves a cross layer communication protocol for the multi l two future.
00:28:38.034 - 00:29:24.012, Speaker A: And one of their kind of like founders put out a interesting screenshot where they said where they kind of like have an alpha leak here of how mover is going to work. So you can see that mover basically gives you available routes to go down between different chains. You can see route number one goes from, you can go from kind of like Aave on Polygon to USDC on Ethereum. And it tells you what kind of like the fees are and how long it's going to take. And then you can see like on the second route and the third route, and each one has different fees going from I guess like Polygon to Ethereum and kind of like using different bridges and stuff like that. And how many, how much in fees is going to cost you. So you can see here that by using the native, I guess, Polygon bridge at the top, it's going to cost you barely, basically nothing in fees and it's only going to take 30 minutes.
00:29:24.012 - 00:30:00.430, Speaker A: But then, you know, you can get a faster kind of withdrawal if you go through the anyswap router or through hop, and it's going to take you ten or five minutes but the fees are going to be a bit higher there. So I think it's really cool that you can kind of, like, see or, like, compare it here on the fee side, because I think that's what's going to dictate what bridges people use as well as speed, of course. But if you have to pay $50 in fees to get your funds in five minutes, and it's free to get it in 30 minutes, well, you got. You kind of do like a. I guess a benefit analysis there. Like, a lot of most people would not need their funds, you know, quicker than 30 minutes, to be honest. Like, unless they're trying to ape into something.
00:30:00.430 - 00:30:44.586, Speaker A: Well, then they'll probably just pay the fee to get it quicker. But I think, you know, 30 minutes wait for to bridge over from Polygon to Ethereum is probably fine for most people. All right, so will from element finance, put out a great tweet over the weekend where he said, you know, here's how to get eight to 9% aPy on ETH, get Steth, which is Lido staked ETH, deposit it on curve for curve steth, and gain 3% apy on trading fees. Then go and lock in a 5.75 fixed rate on element finance for curve Steth, compounding the 3% APY in step two, and enjoy a reward of around 8.75% on your ethnic higher if the 3% maintains. This is pretty cool because you're both staking ETH and earning kind of like the APY from.
00:30:44.586 - 00:31:08.542, Speaker A: From curve, while also locking in a fixed rate on element finance, which I've just discussed before, is kind of like this fixed and variable yield market. This is obviously more risky than just, like, straight staking your ETH, but you're getting extra APY because of that. Like, if you just straight stake your ETH right now, I think it's like 5.5% or something like that, APR a year. And it's not compounding. This is compounding. Like, that's the difference between APR and APY, by the way.
00:31:08.542 - 00:31:46.966, Speaker A: APY is compounding kind of like, I guess, interest or kind of like yield, whereas APR is non compounding. So with, obviously with staking, it's non compounding because your rewards, to put them into. To restake them, you have to manually withdraw and do that. But you can't do that right now because there's no kind of, like, way back. Like, you can't withdraw from the beacon chain right now. So that's why with this, you basically get the, you know, staked ether and then kind of like compound it through curve and element finance. But you're taking on way more smart contract risk here and way more kind of like, it's like risk in general, taking on the risk of lido, of curve, on of element finance.
00:31:46.966 - 00:32:11.644, Speaker A: So just, you know, keep that in mind. Maybe the extra risk is worth it for you for kind of like liquid, you know, a more liquid kind of yield on your ETH and 3% more yield than what staking is going to give you right now. Like vanilla staking. So, yeah, I figured I'd just point that out for you guys as a bit of an alpha leak there. In case you missed it. I saw this new project pop up over the weekend called Context, which is a new service that makes it easy to see what's happening on Web three. And it's in beta right now.
00:32:11.644 - 00:32:49.332, Speaker A: So if you go to their website, you can actually kind of like connect your wallet to it, but you can also kind of, I guess, scroll through their feed and see what people are, I guess, buying within the web3 space, what nfts they're buying, what they're doing in the NFT space if kind of like what social kind of clubs they're getting involved in, like, like friends with benefits and stuff like that. It's a pretty cool tool. I suggest going and checking it out. I'm not going to open it here because I'm running. I run out of time. But definitely a cool tool, I think, for the web3 space. And I guess, like speaking of daos, there was this project that I guess, I don't know if they exited stealth, but it's the first time I come across it called Utopia Labs.
00:32:49.332 - 00:33:27.750, Speaker A: And they're launching this product called Utopia. Uh, I don't know if it's live just yet. It might be live, but basically what Utopia plans to be is an all in one solution for Dao. So they describe themselves as, described themselves as the modern system for managing contributor payments, expenses and more for your Dao, built right on top of gnosis. So they're leveraging the gnosis safe, I believe, to do this. But you can kind of like, see, I guess like a use case here of they're basically trying to build the modern HR system for automating everything for their Dao, for your Dao. I think there's a few other apps that have done this in the past, but I think with Utopia, they're probably trying to do it in a decentralized way.
00:33:27.750 - 00:34:08.514, Speaker A: But you can see in this interface here, they've got the DAO that you're managing, you can see the salaries of different people, you can see the outbound, impending payments and what payments are due and stuff like that. The members, all the usual HR and payment things you're used to seeing and stuff like that. Really cool to see like another project tackling this. I think they also raised the round, or at least they announced their investors here. So they have a bunch of investors, actually quite, quite a few here. I'm not going to name them all, but yeah, you can see, you can see them all on the screen here. But if you want to learn more about this project, I'll link this in the YouTube description of course, for you to go check out.
00:34:08.514 - 00:34:43.154, Speaker A: All right. And finally, David Meehall has said that he's updated his open orgs dot in fo website, which for those who don't know, is a website that tracks kind of like Dow treasuries and there's a healthy amount of updates here. So basically now he kind of like splits out the DAo's treasury into what's liquid where versus what's vesting. With Uniswap, most of their treasury is still vesting over time. So you can see here like ten or $11 billion of it is vesting. Sorry, six point, six point five billion dollars of it is vesting. And then $4.4
00:34:43.154 - 00:35:17.034, Speaker A: billion is invested at this point in time for a total of about $11 billion. And then you can see here that he's also broken down what's in these daos, like what assets there are in these daos. You can see here, Olympusdao has their SLP tokens, so their liquidity provider tokens as their biggest holding. They have Dai, they have uni Frax and then a bunch of other tokens after that. Gitcoin has GTC and a bunch of akita tokens, the dog tokens that they've got there and some ETH as well. And yeah, I mean you can just keep going down the list here. Yam has DPi, USDC, sushi, all that sort of stuff.
00:35:17.034 - 00:35:32.562, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean this is a great website for tracking all things Dao. So definitely go check this out if you haven't already. But on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:35:32.562 - 00:35:33.034, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
