00:00:00.250 - 00:00:35.094, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's News recap. First headline Dex volumes hit new all time high as Uniswap overtakes Coinbase decentralized exchanges saw $11.6 billion in trade volume in August, up from less than $1 billion in January. This sets a third consecutive monthly record in Dex volume, up from $4.5 billion in July. As Dennis Vinakurov, head of research at Vekwant, told CoinDesk, It indicates that the D Five fliping is real and already here.
00:00:35.094 - 00:01:52.250, Speaker A: Uniswap is leading the charge in decentralized exchange growth, with a reported 283% increase in 24 hours trading volume from July to August and more than $1 billion in trading volume on Tuesday and Wednesday of the week, which was roughly 50% higher than the 24 hours volume on Coinbase pro at the time. To illustrate just how massive the increase in trading on Uniswap has been, Larry Stermac of the Block posted a graph on Twitter showing the staggering increase in unique trading addresses on Uniswap alone in the last few months. Frank Chaparro, also of the blog, posted a diagram showing the exponential growth in Google searches for Uniswap this year, which began shooting up in April but have quadrupled since July. It's not all unicorns and rainbows, however. While the surging volumes on decentralized exchanges present a challenge to establish centralized exchanges like Coinbase, they've also increased fees on ethereum due to congestion. Next headline yearn's y ETH vault makes it easy to yield farm yearn finance has launched a vault for yield farming with ETH. As the recently departed chief of Oracles at MakerDAO Mariona Conti explained to the bankless podcast, Put simply, this will make it easy for anyone who holds these to get involved with yield farming, think betterment.
00:01:52.250 - 00:03:24.320, Speaker A: But for yield farming, because Yearn utilizes the automated market maker Curve, stablecoin deposits won't be required, as has been the case with previous yield farming projects. Anthony Sasano, in his daily GUI newsletter, explained how the Y ETH vault works after a user deposits his or her ETH, it is put in makerdow to borrow Dai, which is then deposited in CRV to withdraw its liquidity provider Tokens and earn CRV tokens. The CRV is then recycled into ETH by buying more on the open market. Because Yearn uses smart contracts to find the best yield gas, costs for multiple operations are ostensibly spread across several users, saving on transaction fees. On Tuesday's bank list, Conti referred to the vault as the smart contract equivalent of, quote, set it and forget it because, quote, you are earning a lot of money on your ETH without losing exposure to your ETH. But as the host of Thinkless as well as Cassano noted, this does not come without risks, as the creator of Yearn famously tests in production, which means putting your money in smart contracts whose level of security is unknown. For those of you who are watching on the video this image, which if you have some background in how MakerDAO works, in how curve works in all these different yield farming projects, work is pretty easy to follow, and it breaks down exactly how this vault in wiren works.
00:03:24.320 - 00:04:09.980, Speaker A: All right, next headline. Gas fees on ethereum reach all time high. Putting focus on scaling. With all this yield from activity on ethereum, it's no wonder that according to the Block research, ethereum miners generated record fee revenue of $17 million on September 1, which is almost four times higher than at the peak of the 2017 2018 frenzy. However, Ethereum's exorbitant fees highlight the limitations presented when it comes to scaling. D Five on the Zero X blog Remco Bloman argued that at present, ethereum has become a place for the rich, as only whales can profit from trading with such high transaction costs. However, he says simply raising gas limits then creates risks for Ethereum's security.
00:04:09.980 - 00:05:18.578, Speaker A: He analyzes whether it's possible to scale at layer one, but concludes the only reliable solution aside from focusing on L2 is, quote, to tear everything down and rebuild it from the ground up. Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin posted a lengthy Twitter thread arguing against trying to solve the problem of high gas fees by artificially setting gas prices higher or lower, which he calls naive. He advocates for increasing transaction capacity through scaling, citing migration to the scaling solution ZK Rollup by Tether, Gitcoin and other apps as the best solution. Next Headline has DeFi Reinvented the Fair Launch In case you haven't noticed, everyone is excited now about fair launches. Many crypto projects have attracted criticism over distribution mechanisms that favored early adopters. Enter the fair launch, a trend kicked off by Yearn's YFI Token, which launched without a pre mine, without founder equity, and without venture capital. At Dearbit Insights hasu analyzes the fair launch, looking at previous altcoin launches and noting that projects that on the surface look fair are often not so.
00:05:18.578 - 00:06:24.450, Speaker A: He says investors should scrutinize any coin advertising a fair launch as a core feature to see if there are any possible exploits. Ian Lee, the managing director of IDEO Colab Ventures, wrote in his email newsletter, synthesis a post titled Fair Launches will disrupt Crypto VC. He says, quote if fair launches become more common, sophisticated and successful, they should scare the shit out of crypto VCs. He believes they will become more fair and not advantage whales as much as current fair launches do, and reward people not just for short term activity, but also for longer term actions and other forms of participation, such as voting and proposals. He also thinks that returns will not scale one to one with the amount of liquidity one has, again in an attempt to keep whales from earning a disproportionate amount of rewards. In a subsequent post, he argues that fast follower forks such as Sushi Swap will become more common and that projects without a token have a higher risk of having their projects forked, tokenized and fair launched. He also said that projects will now have to be careful to not take on too much venture capital.
00:06:24.450 - 00:07:33.470, Speaker A: Next Headline The SEC is keeping a close eye on DeFi. In an interview with the Bloc securities and Exchange Commissioner, hester purse said the SEC is taking notice of DeFi and the questions it's posing, saying, quote I think it's going to challenge the way we regulate. While Pers admitted that DeFi regulation isn't at the top of the SEC's list of priorities, she concedes that the agency is following the space closely. Pers, who is known as Crypto Mom, has shown a keen interest in the cryptocurrency industry and stated that the delicate line between fostering innovation and protecting investors will become even more precarious with the rise of DeFi. Next headline how satoshi mine strategically to protect the bitcoin network. Sergio Demion lerner the researcher who has looked into early mining habits of a miner he believes was bitcoin creator satoshi Nakamoto, and who discussed his findings on a recent episode of unconfirmed, has discovered that this miner used a mining algorithm not included in the release of the first bitcoin client. Lerner, not being 100% sure of the identity of this miner, has nicknamed the miner Patoshi.
00:07:33.470 - 00:08:33.678, Speaker A: Lerner recently remined Bitcoin's 1st 18,000 blocks and discovered that Patoshi's miner did not mine the way the early public software did. While the public software, which is ostensibly searching for a number that will enable it to mine the next block, would do one sweep for this number, Patoshi would do multiple sweeps. Additionally, Patoshi reduced the hash rate of his or her miner several times that first year, plus likely shut down his or her miner for five minutes every time Patoshi mined a block so as to foster competition and create a diverse set of miners. On the other hand, Patoshi would also turn on his or her miner when there wasn't a lot of other computers on the network. Learner says quote I conclude that the most plausible explanation is that he was protecting the network. Time for fun bits. How Dan Robinson Lost Someone's Money to a Front Running Bot this week's, Unchained guest Dan Robinson of Paradigm published a blog post about a conundrum he was posed with last week.
00:08:33.678 - 00:09:33.682, Speaker A: Someone had accidentally sent their Uniswap liquidity tokens to the pair contract itself, where anyone could grab them if they realized the tokens were there. The challenge for Dan was that because of front running bots that scour the mempole, which is the area where pending transactions wait. He realized that once he submitted a transaction to rescue the funds, any front running bot could see the money, which, as he put it, would be like flashing a free money sign pointing directly at this profitable opportunity. He entails all the machinations he went through to try to obscure the transaction and stealthily secure his friend's money. Read his post to find out what happened and to learn why you should never underestimate a front running bot. Thanks for tuning in to learn more about Nadav and Dharma, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. Don't forget you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel.
00:09:33.682 - 00:09:46.210, Speaker A: Go to youtube.com slash c slash Unchained podcast and subscribe. Today unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
