00:00:06.240 - 00:00:06.392, Speaker A: All right.
00:00:06.392 - 00:00:42.574, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. I'm Derek, CEO and co founder of Matchday. I've been a huge football fan my entire life, and over the past few weeks, many folks have been asking me, what is matchday? And I've been saying, wait till breakpoint. So I'm excited that we finally get to share what we're building at matchday and what we'll be bringing to the Solana gaming ecosystem. And that includes stuff that we have never talked about before, ever. All of you here will be the first to hear about it for the first time. And with that, I'll hand it over to my co founder and chief gaming officer of matchday, Seb.
00:00:43.474 - 00:01:16.702, Speaker A: Thank you, Derek, and good afternoon, everyone. My name is Sebastian, as Derek was saying, and I'm Matchday's chief gaming officer. And today I want to share with you what our matchday team has been up to. But before this, I want to take a step back because this is going to be a fun presentation. This is about the beautiful game football, as we call it, or soccer for my american friends. It's truly a force that is bringing more people together than ever before. In fact, football currently attracts 3.5
00:01:16.702 - 00:01:58.784, Speaker A: billion fans around the world. That's 1 billion more than the number two sport, which is cricket, but it's still growing. FIFA predicts a global audience of 5 billion viewers for the upcoming 2022 World cup. Meanwhile, games are more popular than ever. Over 3.5 billion people currently play the largest selection of titles, from console to pc to tablets to mobile phones. Not only do they play, but they spend about $200 billion a year, which is more than music and movies combined.
00:01:58.784 - 00:02:50.604, Speaker A: And that is also still growing. The industry is expected to grow to $500 billion by 2030, a true phenomenon, from entire stadia watching esports final to mass casual phenomenons. It's truly mind boggling scale, and we've been talking about scale a lot here at breakpoint. The question then is why? And the answer is really because both football and games are fueled by high emotions, emotions which are the maximum intensity between friends. And these emotions are the source of long term engagement in both cases. So sports and video games have always had a strong overlap. And if you think about it, the first video game, pong, two pilots and a ball, that was really tennis.
00:02:50.604 - 00:03:30.174, Speaker A: 20 years ago, football and games collided in a big way with great results. You could control actual players on the screen, and it really felt magical. But little has happened since. Centralized giants, Ian Konami, not to name them, have delighted fans for many years, steadily polishing graphics and physics and the overall UI, but today they still control the game. So what about web3? As you all know, Arthur C. Clarke said that any advanced technology is indistinguishable for magic. So web3 as a technology we heard lots about.
00:03:30.174 - 00:04:16.660, Speaker A: It might be emerging, but it's transformative. It's reorganizing the world around distributed public ledgers and smart contracts that might be still sometimes slow and cumbersome, but it's iterating and improving exponentially, and no small part to the work that you are all doing. The question then remains, is web3 already indistinguishable for magic when we only have a few million daily active wallets, even though it might be growing fast? Well, the answer is really from users who are saying yes. And last year spent $4.6 billion on nfts, so that's not a small feat. And all technologies go through inflection points. I like this slide because it reminds us how this technology goes from early adopters to widespread consumer adoption.
00:04:16.660 - 00:05:11.814, Speaker A: Think, for example, the year mobile phones went from a glorified radio to a programmable device, this was the third phone from the left, the Nokia 3310, which was perhaps the most famous for its ability to play Java games. Who here has seen Java games? Right. But this launched a platform revolution because the genesis of mobile gaming depended from that implementation. And this was 22 years ago. Then look at the iPhone in the middle of this slide, right? And try to imagine that there were no such device before 2007, which is yesterday. So where are we here on the blockchain? I would argue that we are at the Nokia 33 ten stage and we have no idea how big the inflection point is really going to, where it's going to take us. So it's going to grow in robustness, it's going to grow in capabilities, and it will take us to a magical place.
00:05:11.814 - 00:06:00.280, Speaker A: But all we know about the blockchain is that it is fulfilling a fundamental desire for ownership in our digital world. And what will happen as it starts to power new experiences in sports and video games will be nothing short of magic for users that we are convinced of. So ownership really is about emotions. If you think about it, it's a key enabler of our offline emotion, our real life emotions. And we all have experienced what the thrill of the treasure hunt is when you're looking for that elusive item. And sometimes you look for minutes or for hours, sometimes for years and decades for these elusive items. It's also about the joy, about finding this and bringing it home.
00:06:00.280 - 00:06:39.724, Speaker A: Collecting it. And this is joy, but it can also be pride, it can be delight, it can be happiness, but it generates emotions. Right? And so we would argue that ownership is the genesis of powerful emotion. And of course, the blockchain enables ownership. So if you think about this, ownership is at the basis of huge, epic human narratives. If you think of any great story, often it has ownership at the center. So what it means for us in the game development world is that the blockchain enables new categories of game based on ownership.
00:06:39.724 - 00:07:21.334, Speaker A: And I heard so many times in the past two days, what is a blockchain powered game? What does that mean? It really means that you can now introduce the concept of ownership inside the game. So today we are announcing a whole bunch of things and we are going to tell you what we've been working on. But it starts with a great team. So I want to give a shout out to my co founders, Derek Rasmic and Benny, without whom nothing of this would be possible. And also all our awesome team members who are probably watching from all around the globe right now, they make this possible. And what we are building together is a category defining blockchain powered game for 5 billion fans. And that's not a small adventure.
00:07:21.334 - 00:08:16.994, Speaker A: And we started building this, but we have a secret weapon. And this secret weapon is that we're building this with someone who's extra special to us because we are working in very close partnership with Leo Messi, I would argue one of the greatest footballers of all times, winner of seven Ballon d'Or, just an absolutely amazing human being. It's truly a dream come true in our team to have Leo on our side. And something else we have in this adventure is amazing partners. And today we are very, very proud to announce we are the first gaming company powered by the blockchain to partner with FIFA, the world governing body of football, and with FIFPro, the global union, which represents over 65,000 professional footballers all around the world. This is football coming to the blockchain in a major, major way, and we could not be more excited to be the team doing it. In fact, here are some of the quotes.
00:08:16.994 - 00:08:53.006, Speaker A: Not only do people at fifth pro who represent all those players are excited about the game we're building, but they're also excited about what the blockchain means. It means authenticity and inclusivity of all the players, big, small, men, women, far near. And this is a very different way to devise an experience. But I'm not done, because we have another incredible partner on our team. And this is Alexia Pete. One of her founding global ambassador. She's an advisor, she's an investor, and she really wants to elevate women's football across video games.
00:08:53.006 - 00:09:36.854, Speaker A: And unless you've been living in a cave lately, you probably have seen the metric rise of women's football globally. And we want to make it at the heart of our experience. Alexa, by the way, is an amazing athlete. She's the first back to back winner of the Ballon Dor feminins and the recipient of the UFR Women's Play of the year award twice. And she's super excited to use blockchain technology to push the limits with our team and of what that means to engage in a football game. Really, really exciting stuff. And of course, we are also building the future, but we're not building it in a vacuum, which is why we choose to work with blockchain partners like Solana, because we share a fundamental commitment to things like carbon neutrality from its inception.
00:09:36.854 - 00:10:23.174, Speaker A: And so when we think about what technology has enabled, a lot of stuff that we've been talking about, it means real world impact. It doesn't just matter that things work, it matters how they work and how they impact the wider world. And so along this journey, we're especially excited to bring superstars, athletes on one side, and huge fans closer together. Stars like Danielle van DER Donk, Yves Perissette, Blizz Matuidi and many others who, if they could, would be here today. But many of them are actually training. But here is a short video of them. And these are not fancy marketing videos.
00:10:23.174 - 00:11:06.262, Speaker A: These are the athletes themselves who want to talk to the blockchain community, want to talk to the web3 community and tell you how excited they are. So today we are announcing our first blockchain power football game. This is something that we are working on. It's slated for community release in early 2023 and it's a mass, casual, multi platform title which will be first release to our community and then to the wider world to attract 5 billion fans. And yes, you, every one of you can help us shape it in our community. And we are also recruiting if any one of you likes to play video games. So if you cannot wait that long, we have some surprises for you because 2023 can sound far away to us.
00:11:06.262 - 00:11:39.158, Speaker A: It sounds like tomorrow. So here is my great pleasure to show you are player cards which are the heart of the free to play matchday game experience. These are NFts with utility. What does this mean? These NFTs have collectible value and in game utility at the same time. It's a gateway to a football centric community and game experience. And we think they look awesome and we hope that you agree. And they come in several level of rarities, all as part of time limited edition.
00:11:39.158 - 00:12:11.410, Speaker A: So they come and then they're gone. They're beautiful, they're meaningful. But most importantly to us and to our gamers, they are useful in our games and yours truly to own forever, which is a brand new concept when you approach this from a gamer perspective. No more card resetting. They are available on matchday.com later this week, so you'll be the first to see them and the first to be able to get them. So the journey from a gamer perspective now really starts by collecting player cards and building your ideal squads of 15 players.
00:12:11.410 - 00:13:02.014, Speaker A: This is a game for everyone that we've designed with maximum accessibility at the core as a core value. So you will start with a pack of free player cards which you can get on matchday.com. And each card is tied to a real footballer selected from tens of thousands of football players that we're working with, both men and women from around the globe. And as you collect, you have a lot to look forward to, from rookies to superstars to local athletes. All the cards will be available on this limited basis in a series of special editions, and we will let you send a free pack of cards to a friend. So if you want to collect more cards, invite your friends into the experience and we want you to give the gift of NFT gaming to your friends. And of course, the better the card, the harder it is to get, and you will need them when it's time to play to assemble your dream team of 15 players.
00:13:02.014 - 00:13:40.270, Speaker A: So this is where trading comes in with your friends. And this week we are also launching our very own in game NFT Marketplace, both for crypto users and for fiat users. So this would let gamers trade in full compliance with local regulation wherever they are in the world. Again, this is a lot of complexity that's completely abstracted from the user experience. So if your journey starts with getting a free pack of cards, it continues by trading your way to the best squad of 15 players that you can assemble. And of course, then if these cards are beautiful, meaningful, and delivered in magical packs, they're also useful in the game that we're building. That's the whole point.
00:13:40.270 - 00:14:30.860, Speaker A: So imagine being able to virtually insert the card into your game and then transform into real players with real characteristics which can be dynamic. And by playing this game, you can level up your cards and end up with the most amazing, differentiated, unique collection, combining rarity with in game utility and you can own them forever. But there is more. Before the launch of the 2023 game, we are releasing a first blockchain powered, light casual football social game. It's an HTML five game that absolutely anyone can play anywhere in the world on any device, no download required. Again, accessibility in mind, we have lowered the access barriers to the maximum and all the complexity is under the hood. So you place your prediction, you challenge your friends and you see who's really the most dedicated fans of them all.
00:14:30.860 - 00:14:52.020, Speaker A: And your nfts in your collection act as a bonus accelerator depending on the real world action of that player during that World cup match. So we are on a very exciting journey. We'd love to invite you to join us. Simply go to Matchday.com, reserve your username, which has been open today, and be the first to get your cards. Three it's fun. It's about football.
00:14:52.020 - 00:14:53.644, Speaker A: What's not to like it? Thank you.
