00:00:01.450 - 00:00:32.098, Speaker A: Happy Friday, and thanks for tuning in. To listen to this week's unchained weekly news recap. I'm michael del castillo, a knight badget fellow at columbia university. This week, the legal woes of embattled former CEO of FTX. Sam bankman fried intensified as the US. Department of justice took multiple actions against him. On Monday, the DOJ attorney in charge of the investigation filed a motion to are all seven of Bangman Fried's proposed expert witnesses, citing, quote, an array of deficiencies, end quote.
00:00:32.098 - 00:01:45.882, Speaker A: The witnesses include legal and business professionals whose testimonies, according to the GOJ, would, quote, serve no other purpose than to provide an expert patina to inadmissible hearsay testimony about the defendant's supposed lack of criminal knowledge or intent, end quote. Harsh words coming from the DOJ. But making matters worse, in a letter to the judge overseeing the case the following day, the same attorney questioned the adequacy of Sam Bankman Fried's, quote, advice of counsel, end quote defense strategy and his upcoming October trial, urging him to provide more details or face limitations on his defense. Bankman Fried legal team has also been grappling with what they describe as, quote, inadequate end quote prison technology facilities. While he was granted limited computer access, his lawyers argue that the limitations hamper his ability to prepare for trial. They have appealed for more extensive pretrial release measures stating that the current conditions violate his 6th Amendment rights. However, the DOJ has argued that his access to technology in pretrial detention goes, quote, above and beyond, end quote, what other defendants have been offered.
00:01:45.882 - 00:02:50.322, Speaker A: Adding to the complexity, Bankman Fried's lawyers objected to 4 million additional pages of discovery evidence introduced by the DOJ. They argue that the addition of so much evidence so close to the trial is, quote, plainly inadequate and hampers their client's right to defend himself. Bangman Fried, whose charges include fraud and money laundering, has appealed his jail term for alleged witness tampering when he shared the writings of former colleague Carolyn Ellison, who is expected to testify against him. His lawyers claim he was merely exercising his First Amendment rights. The US. Securities and Exchange Commission has filed a sealed motion against cryptocurrency exchange finance, raising eyebrows across the industry. The confidential filing, which includes over 30 exhibits, has led experts to speculate that the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, by trading volume, conducting more than $6 billion in trades over the past 24 hours, may be under criminal investigation by the US.
00:02:50.322 - 00:04:00.890, Speaker A: Department of justice. Former SEC official John Reed Stark proposed in a social media post that the sealed documents likely contain, quote, secret details, end quote about a DOJ criminal probe, adding that those details could possibly involve money laundering allegations against finance and linking to a more detailed explanation in his personal LinkedIn profile. Stark, who left the SEC in 2009 and is now a cybersecurity consultant, described the move as a, quote, rare tactic, claiming that the SEC usually operates with high transparency. He outlined two potential reasons for the sealed filing first, to protect the integrity of a concurrent DOJ criminal investigation or second, to safeguard a witness or company. Stark also noted that if Binance does not oppose the ceiling, it likely means the documents contains information the company would prefer to keep confidential. It is important to note this is speculation by Stark. Elsewhere, Binance, still the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, is contemplating a full exit from the Russian market.
00:04:00.890 - 00:05:14.820, Speaker A: According to a Wall Street Journal report, this comes after the exchange delisted five sanctioned Russian banks from Binance's peer to peer service, signaling the gravity of the situation. A Binance spokesperson told the Journal that, quote, all options are on the table, including a full exit, end quote. The exchange also has limited Russian users doing Ruble transactions on the P to P platform to those who have been verified. Those outside Russia are also barred from trading in rubles. These changes follow reports that Binance facilitated P to P trades involving Russian banks sanctioned by the United States, including Tinkov Bank and Ross Bank. The Wall Street Journal reported that finance's P to P platform, which, unlike finance's decentralized exchange custodies assets until a trade is confirmed, had seen $428,000,000 in trades between October and March, which could add to its legal troubles with the DOJ. Additionally, Binance is rerouting its Belgian customers through a Polish entity to circumvent a ban imposed by Belgium's Financial Services and Markets Authority, which this June ordered the crypto exchange to cease operations in the country.
00:05:14.820 - 00:06:37.126, Speaker A: This week, we also learned the US. Department of justice, in collaboration with the Internal Revenue Service, had released proposed regulations aimed at tightening tax reporting requirements for cryptocurrency transactions. According to a document dated August 29, but discovered late last week, these regulations align tax reporting on digital assets with tax reporting on other assets and would apply to, quote, sales of such commodities on or after January 1, 2025. It would appear the proposal is just the latest government action that, while finally bringing some much needed clarity to crypto, isn't exactly the kind of clarity insiders were hoping for. In response to the proposal, the CEO of advocacy firm Blockchain Association, Kristen Smith, warned that while such rules could help users comply with tax laws, they must be, quote, tailored accordingly and not capture ecosystem participants that don't have a pathway to compliance. Tax expert Jason Schwartz commented on social media that the proposed regulations definition of digital assets middlemen could turn website developers into brokers if the websites facilitate digital asset sales. Quote, that's bad law and bad policy, he wrote.
00:06:37.126 - 00:07:13.058, Speaker A: Last week. The US. Bankruptcy judge, Martin Glenn, declined to classify Celsius's native cell token as a security. The decision came after investor Otis Davis urged the court to recognize the legal precedent set in the Ripple XRP case. Judge Glenn stated nothing in the motions. This order or announced at the hearing constitutes a finding under the federal securities laws as to whether crypto tokens or transactions involving crypto tokens are securities, end quote. Last week, the court rejected celsius token holders bid to value sell at $0.80,
00:07:13.058 - 00:08:01.234, Speaker A: opting for a lower value of $0.25 in what appears to be a huge victory for decentralized exchanges. Generally speaking, U. S. District Judge Catherine Polk Faya dismissed a class action lawsuit against the creators of decentralized exchange, Uniswap and high profile investors Andreessen Horowitz, Union Square Ventures and others, ruling that the platform is not liable for losses related to Scam tokens. The lawsuit, initiated by six plaintiffs, alleged that Uniswap operated as an unregistered broker and dealer. In an opinion and order filed Tuesday, Judge Faya wrote, quote Due to the protocol's decentralized nature, the identities of the Scam token issuers are basically unknown and unknowable, end quote.
00:08:01.234 - 00:08:49.910, Speaker A: She further explained that federal securities laws shouldn't be stretched to cover such conduct, suggesting that Congress might want to do a better job addressing the issue. Uniswap founder Hayden Adams described the decision on social media as a, quote, huge win, adding, Long live DeFi. The US. Drug Enforcement Agency, known for its crackdowns on crypto based dark web marketplaces, fell victim to a classic AirDrop phishing scam. According to a Forbes report, the agency reportedly lost over $55,000 in confiscated tether funds. The Samura exploited the public nature of blockchain transactions, noticing a test transfer of 45 dollarsthirthirty $0.06 in tether from the DA to the US.
00:08:49.910 - 00:09:37.170, Speaker A: Marshals wallet. The fraudster then created a similar looking wallet address and successfully tricked the DEA into transferring the funds. The FBI has already filed a warrant and is leading the investigation. The stolen funds were converted into ether and transferred to a different wallet. Ben Armstrong, the face of the popular YouTube channel Bitboy Crypto, has been removed from the brand by its parent company, BJ Investment Holdings. The company cited, quote, substance abuse, end quote and adding emotional, physical and financial damage, end quote as reasons for the separation. Armstrong, however, refuted these claims and vehemently denied allegations of substance abuse, adding, quote, I have not relapsed.
00:09:37.170 - 00:10:56.618, Speaker A: This is a lie, end quote, he told Decrypt Media. Three former Pepe Coin team members have been accused of stealing 16 trillion of the tokens worth around $15 million from the project's multisig wallet. Quote Yesterday, these three ex team members came back behind my back, logged onto the multisig, stole 16 trillion, or 60% of the 26 trillion multisig tokens and sent them to exchanges to sell, end quote. According to a social media post from the widely followed account, the author or authors of the post claimed that the multisig wallet required three of the four signers to approve transactions. The fourth signer presumably wrote the post the allegedly stolen funds were quickly sold on Okx and Finance, causing the Pepe token price to plummet nearly 20%. Meanwhile, the hits just keep coming for decentralized finance protocol balancer, which, after seeing $200 million worth of deposits, flee last week following reports of poorly written software this week lost another $900,000. In a social media post, web three audit firm Hacken wrote, quote, to avoid potential losses, withdraw affected LPs immediately.
00:10:56.618 - 00:11:17.634, Speaker A: End quote. And that's all. Thank you so much for joining us today. We know it's hard to keep up with the latest news in the crypto ecosystem. That's why Unchained has a daily newsletter to keep you covered. Sign up for free and receive the latest updates right in your inbox Monday through Friday. Check out the show notes and subscribe to our substack.
00:11:17.634 - 00:11:30.690, Speaker A: Unchained is produced by Laura Shin with the help of Kevin Fooks, Matt Pilchard, Juan Aronovic, Megan Gavis, Ginny Hogan Shashank and Margaret Curia. Thanks so much for listening.
