00:00:00.560 - 00:00:21.790, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano and today's the 12 July 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I hosted the fifth daily gway AMA in the Discord channel on Saturday. In case you missed it, I did upload a recording of it to YouTube. If you haven't checked that out yet, you can check it out on the channel. Of course.
00:00:21.790 - 00:00:44.340, Speaker A: It was really fun. I love doing these ama's. They happen every two weeks on a Saturday. So you know, even if you can't attend it, I do record it and everything. And if you want to ask questions and you know you can't attend, you can post questions in the AMA series channel anytime between, you know, now and when I do the AMA. And they'll get answered on the AMA. But yeah, you can watch the one from the Saturday that just passed here.
00:00:44.340 - 00:01:16.724, Speaker A: I'll leave a link to it in the YouTube description. Or you can just go to the channel and it'll be there under the AMA playlist. So there's a new, really cool new website actually that I saw over the weekend called ultrasound money. Now this is basically a countdown to EIp 1550 nine's activation. As you can see here, there's 23 days to go at time of recording. The fork block is obviously this block here, current block and remaining blocks to go. And then it's got the amount of people that have the bat signal in their, in their Twitter name.
00:01:16.724 - 00:02:04.654, Speaker A: So you know, the ultrasound symbol, ultrasound money symbol symbol. There's over 1564 of us right now, which is really cool. I mean, you know, it's funny how this meme started, this ultrasound money meme, it was started by Justin Drake. And I wrote more about this in the Delaware newsletter today, if you want to go check that out. But it was started by Justin Drake, who's an Ethereum foundation researcher, and he was basically having making a play on how bitcoin is referred to as sound money because of its cap supply. Whereas, you know, with Ethereum post 1559 and post the merger, realistically we could see a deflationary ETH, which means that ETH is decreasing supply. So, you know, that's how it goes, right? If sound money describe something that has a cap supply, then ultrasound money describes something that has a decreasing supply.
00:02:04.654 - 00:02:53.454, Speaker A: Now, I think it's just something that shouldn't be taken too seriously. I think it is obviously a meme, right? It's something that is very easily digestible and an easy way to describe a world where a deflationary ETH is kind of a reality. And it's something that people can put in their Twitter names and spread the word like that. But I think, unfortunately, a lot of people are taking it way too seriously and they're kind of like going on about it, berating people about it, basically saying, you know, this is a cringe meme, whatever, blah, blah. But I think that the meme is still doing its job at the end of the day, because the meme's job, in my opinion, anyway, is to kind of disseminate information as fast as possible about whatever you want to kind of disseminate information about. Now, with the ultrasound money meme, people will see that and they'll see this bat signal and the speaker emoji, and they'll, you know, they'll be like, okay, what's this? Like, I don't understand this. And they'll go google it.
00:02:53.454 - 00:03:26.976, Speaker A: And then a bunch of kind of results will come up and they'll learn about it. And, you know, even if they think it's cringe, the actual meme, they still get to learn about its potential, kind of like reality or world where we have a deflationary supply. Now the ultrasound money account here is teasing a supply graph that they're going to be publishing soon. I think this is a really cool way to show kind of how ETH supply has evolved over time. You know, people say, oh, ethereum is centralized because the monetary policy can be changed whenever at will or whatever, but it's only changed a few times in the past. It's only changed three times. So, so far.
00:03:26.976 - 00:03:53.784, Speaker A: Um, sorry, no, two times. Um, we had, obviously at Genesis we had five ETH per block, uh, plus uncle rewards, plus fees. Then in Byzantium we had three earth per block. Constantinople is two ETH per block. And then the next change will happen when the merger goes through, it'll dramatically reduce the current, uh, kind of issuance from 4.5% to, um, under, well, under 1%. Um, and then, you know, with, obviously with 1559, we're also going to have ETH being burned.
00:03:53.784 - 00:04:34.241, Speaker A: And then, I mean, they split out the kind of like, I guess, merge and proof of stake going live here. Because technically, when proof of stake went live in December, we added about 0.5% extra issuance onto what we already have with ETH one, because obviously that's a separate chain and everything like that, but that only lasts for a little while. And then we have 1559 going live, which offsets a bit of that with fee burning. And then once the proof of work consensus mechanism is removed and we've done the merge, and then it drops issuance, like a massive amount. So you can see that kind of, yeah. And in this chart, they also show kind of like the amount of ETH in addresses, in smart contracts and in staking, which I think is a really cool breakdown as well, to kind of see where the supply is sitting.
00:04:34.241 - 00:05:21.192, Speaker A: And then down the bottom, you're going to have a tool that allows you to kind of like, play with the staked amount, what the base fee is going to be in 1559, which, which means, like, what the fee burn is going to be. And then, you know, kind of do a merge date, kind of like guess here or assumption, kind of like do a slider there to change the date, which I think is really cool. I mean, it allows us to kind of play around with things, allows just general users to play around with things. And, you know, if you assume that ETH's kind of gas prices are going to remain over ten gway, or the base fee at least is going to remain over ten Gwei post merge, well, then we're going to have a deflationary ETH. That's what the current math is like, because we'll be burning more ethnic then we were issuing a year to secure the network, and then we'll get like, you know, ultrasound money. So I can't wait for this to go live. I'd love to play around with it and see, I mean, I've played around with justin drake's spreadsheets before.
00:05:21.192 - 00:05:54.472, Speaker A: He's put out numerous spreadsheets with all of this information in it, but they're obviously not as user friendly as, like, just a basic slide or anything like that. And I really like how, you know, at a glance, you can just see how much ETH is, you know, in smart contracts, in staking in addresses and things like that. Um, and you'll be able to kind of, like, project that out as well. So I think that's a really, really cool, uh, way to go about it. Uh, and I really love this site. I actually, you know, I'm assuming that once this countdown is finished, this site's actually going to be tracking, uh, the amount of ETH that it's being burned at, like, front and center, just like how watchtheburn.com does it as well.
00:05:54.472 - 00:06:30.136, Speaker A: We're going to have plenty of these websites, and I think it's going to be something that people really want to build because they know it's going to be a high traffic website or, you know, something like doing analytics will have a bunch of different charts for this, and you can kind of see how it evolves over time. It's going to be really, really cool watching it all play out. You know, 23 days to go until 1559 is activated on Mainnet. So close. So close. And speaking of that, loop ring has also put out an interesting tweet that, I don't know how many people got this, but basically they said our security layer ETH is becoming ultrasound on August 4, 2021. Now, loopring is obviously a L2 ecosystem.
00:06:30.136 - 00:07:27.398, Speaker A: Their security layer is ethereum because of that. But I think, you know, when you kind of take, take this a step further and look into this tweet a step further, you can kind of realize that all these L2s, most of the ETH that they're going to be paying will be the base fee, and they'll be burning ETH, too, which is really, really awesome. You know, just because your users aren't doing transactions on layer one, if they're on a L2, obviously they're not, they aren't burning that ETH at L2, but it does trickle down to layer one because the L2s have to pay for security there and that ETH ends up getting burned. So just something that I think is really cool is that basically the L2s all inherit this kind of, I guess, burning. And then, you know, they're just going to pay their normal security spend on layer one, but also have that ETH being burned. And also they're going to have a, basically an on chain gas Oracle with 1559 that allows them to better plan out when they're going to post their proofs and kind of like guarantee that they can get their transactions into a block and then there's no kind of delays there. They can kind of automate that whole process.
00:07:27.398 - 00:07:54.746, Speaker A: So that's another kind of big advantage of, of 1559 in addition to the fee burning, of course. Speaking of loopering as well, you know, they're teasing. The L2 landscape is about to heat up, which it is this site that I hadn't checked in a while, alt two beat.com dot. I've showed this website on the refuel before, basically tracks all the different L2s, the value locked, the market share, the technology that they're using. This is going to blow up. And I'm going to go over optimism and Arbitrum's announcements that happened over the weekend.
00:07:54.746 - 00:08:32.582, Speaker A: But this is all going to blow up massively. I reckon in the next, you know, six to twelve months, this is gonna, this is gonna be huge. There's gonna be billions here locked in here, and there's gonna be basically all different types of technology, obviously ZK roll up, optimistic roll ups, validium, plasma, all those sorts of things. It's just gonna get crazy from here. And on that note, arbitram put out a development update over the weekend. So the TL doctor is that like, most of the things that need to be deployed have been deployed, they're just missing a couple of critical infrastructure projects that need to go live before they can launch arbitrum to the public. And I'm, they didn't specify what those critical infrastructure projects are.
00:08:32.582 - 00:09:02.606, Speaker A: I'm going to assume that one of them is Chainlink because I've explained before that without chain link a lot of defi apps can't work. Like Aave wouldn't work without Chainlink because you need, obviously an oracle. If compounds on there compound is integrating chainlink, that's not going to work. Synthetix obviously isn't on there, but there's a bunch of other projects on there. I mean, I can't remember all of them right now, but there is definitely more projects that require something like chain link on there. And they did say there's a couple others as well. I kind of didn't really think too hard about that.
00:09:02.606 - 00:09:34.110, Speaker A: I'm not exactly sure what those would be, but maybe things like alchemy and Infuria aren't just ready just yet in the graph. Maybe, you know, they announced that they're going to be integrating, but that doesn't mean that they were ready. So maybe those things have to be, have to be ready as well. Now, you know, I, obviously, I've spoken a lot about these things before. I've said, you know, hopefully treatment, optimism launched this month or else I'm going to eat my hat. I'm not going to eat my hat. Obviously, if they don't launch this month and I don't even think it really matters too much, I think that, you know, obviously people are getting frustrated at this point because they're hearing soon, soon.
00:09:34.110 - 00:10:00.370, Speaker A: They're hearing me say it all the time, you know, it's coming soon. It's coming soon. I get that. But, you know, it's funny, there's a lot of things just inside and outside of crypto that are like this, where teams will, will tend to like, just keep putting out updates because they want to stay front of mind, they want to make sure that people don't forget about them and that people just aren't kind of wondering what's happening with the project. And I. And I get that. But then some other teams don't say anything and then they'll just come out with a big update when it's ready.
00:10:00.370 - 00:10:38.730, Speaker A: They won't actually tease it or anything like that. They'll only announce it when it's ready to ship. There's just two different approaches that different teams take. I don't think there's a right or wrong approach. I just think that that, you know, depending on the project, depending on the team, they're going to take a slightly different approach to how they kind of announce things, when they announce it, how they do releases, all that sort of stuff. I am more in favor of teams just giving regular updates regardless if they have something to kind of like for me to play around with or not, because going quiet in my mind, like, as someone with a marketing background is probably one of the worst things you can do in kind of an ecosystem like this, because people will forget about you. There's too much going on within crypto.
00:10:38.730 - 00:11:10.710, Speaker A: You need to stay top of mind. So I think that it's fine to do this, but obviously, eventually it wears on people and they're just like, you know, I'm sick of hearing about this. I just want it live. And I'm pretty sure we're almost at that point with L2's, like, arbitrary and optimism. So, yeah, they'll launch soon, but, like, you know, don't be surprised if you see another announcement of an announcement, you know, coming out from. From either of these teams or from anyone really in crypto. But on that note, there is a date that was given, you know, to kind of like, I guess, await us over until these things are fully live.
00:11:10.710 - 00:11:32.404, Speaker A: And that's the date for Synthetix is exchange launch on optimism. So they're saying this will happen the week of July 26 and with a final deployment date pending the spartan council approval. This has been a very long time coming for Synthetix. They are the first team on optimism. They have been pioneers. They have been working with the team for. With the optimism team for a very long time now.
00:11:32.404 - 00:12:19.632, Speaker A: Obviously, synthetic staking has been live there. For those of you like me, who are SNX holders, you'll know all about that. But this is their exchange launch, which is obviously their feature product. Now, this going live is going to represent a huge deal. I think it's going to basically show, you know, is synthetix something that's going to be used or is it something that's just like a fad or whatever? Because obviously synthetix has had trouble with the gas market on Ethereum at high gas fees, have kind of like, hampered adoption. So that's why they were very early pioneer and very early adopter of L2s. So I'm really excited to see them going live finally with their exchange on optimism and seeing what the experience is like on there and basically, basically having a very smooth, low fee experience that people can actually enjoy rather than having to kind of, like, suffer from the high fees.
00:12:19.632 - 00:12:41.152, Speaker A: So really exciting that there's a date there from. From synthetix on optimism. I don't know if this means that optimism is going to go live in like, a super public mainnet fashion. I wouldn't count on it. Like, I don't know. I haven't heard much from optimism besides them announcing kind of like integration partnerships and things like that. But I wouldn't take this as a optimism launch date.
00:12:41.152 - 00:13:05.316, Speaker A: I would take this as a synthetics on optimism launch date where anyone can use it. But, you know, I think the picture is becoming clearer for a lot of people that this stuff is going to be rolled out in phases. It's not going to be an all or nothing thing where, you know, something launches and then, like, everyone's on there from day one. Everything's, you know, amazing from day one. Nothing that needs to be fixed or upgraded. It's going to be a gradual thing, and that's fine. I think people just want to play around with this, with these tools.
00:13:05.316 - 00:13:33.960, Speaker A: They want to experience L2s on ethereum because the closest they've gotten to a. I guess experiencing Ethereum without the fees is something like polygon, right? Where polygon is obviously not a L2. It is the polygon pos chain, at least, is not a L2. It's, you know, what some people consider a side chain, but that has given a lot of users a low fee environment to play around with that. That, you know, feels like ethereum, just without the fees. Now, that's exactly what these L2s are going to be offering as well. And, you know, I'm itching for it.
00:13:33.960 - 00:14:07.354, Speaker A: Everyone I know is itching for it. We just want to play around with it. We just want to be able to use it. We've, we've heard enough about kind of like these announcements and things like that, and that's fine. But I'm excited to play around with Synthetix on July 26 or the week of July 26, whenever it launches during that week. I think it's going to be awesome and it's going to be a really great event for the synthetix community to basically celebrate because it's been a long time coming. So I put out this tweet today where I said, with Daos, we're witnessing the creation of truly global, decentralized, and digital first organizations that allow literally anyone to participate.
00:14:07.354 - 00:15:03.406, Speaker A: What an absolutely incredible time to be alive. Now, I wanted to expand on this, on the refuel. You know, it's funny, I used to expand on these tweets in tweet threads, but, like, now I just leave it for the refuel because it's just so much easier for me to speak than it is for me to type out something and then make sure that I haven't made any spelling errors and make sure no one's going to call me out on anything, whatever. Essentially, what I meant by this tweet and to expand on it was that there's never been a digitally native, global kind of organization that has existed outside of the, I guess, like any nation state, there's plenty of global organizations, don't get me wrong, but they all have a home base. Like, a lot of them will have a home based in your tax, I guess, tax friendly jurisdictions. A lot of them will have basically an office in their home country, obviously, like big companies like Apple obviously are situated in the US, and same with Microsoft and things like that. But they're technically registered in tax friendly jurisdictions, obviously, because they like to pay as little tax as possible.
00:15:03.406 - 00:15:29.898, Speaker A: But we've never had a digital first, no physical location organization before. And we've had some of them attempt to do this. Like, for example, binance attempts to do what's called regulatory arbitrage, where they say they have no physical location. They exist purely in cyberspace. And, I mean, I don't really think that's the same thing. Obviously, binance is centralized. Obviously the exchange isn't managed by a dow or anything like that.
00:15:29.898 - 00:15:54.856, Speaker A: They still have bank accounts linked to the exchange. They still deal a lot with the traditional world, and they are registered somewhere because they have to pay taxes, right? So. Or at least record income or whatever. So they're registered somewhere. As much as they want to try and hide where they are, they have to be registered somewhere. Somewhere. At least from what I can kind of suspect with daos, they are registered on ethereum, right? Ethereum is their jurisdiction.
00:15:54.856 - 00:16:10.992, Speaker A: They're not registered in any kind of, like, country or anything like that. They do not have any, you know, you don't have to have, like, a visa to work for the DAO. Anyone in the world can work for the DAO. It doesn't even matter who you are. You didn't have to reveal your identity. You can literally work for the DAO. Being a completely anonymous character.
00:16:10.992 - 00:16:28.748, Speaker A: You're judged based on your merit. You can get paid in crypto. You don't even have to have a bank account. So this is what I mean by digitally. First organization. Now, a lot of daos aren't truly decentralized today, so calling them a decentralized organization maybe isn't the best way to frame it. But I guess by decentralized, there are some out there.
00:16:28.748 - 00:16:49.930, Speaker A: But I think maybe the better term is distributed because they're, they obviously are distributed. They're completely global. I know. You know, I've seen many daos have people from literally all over the world, like, from opposite ends of the world. I mean, I participate in some daos that, that maybe have, like, a heavy presence in Europe or a heavy presence in the US. And I'm in Australia. Like, Australia is very far away from both of those.
00:16:49.930 - 00:17:26.846, Speaker A: Both of those places. So from that point of view, it's just really awesome that I can contribute to these daos if I wanted to, or I could be like a multi sig sign or anything like that, and I can get compensated for my work, or I can just do it on a volunteer basis as well. And, you know, I mean, obviously I'm known very known within the community, so maybe I'm a bad example. But there's plenty of people out there who remain anonymous and are either multi sig signers for a dow or they are very, you know, core contributors. I mean, perfect example of this is Banteg from yearn. I mean, I'm sure some people know who that person is. I'm assuming it's a he, but no one know, like, it's not a public thing.
00:17:26.846 - 00:17:50.364, Speaker A: They're not a really public person. They have bantag is their, their name. That's their kind of like, avatar on, on Twitter and everything like that. And that's what everyone knows him as. And there's plenty of examples of this happening right now within, within crypto. And I think it's just going to keep going like that. So the fact that this exists means that we don't have to kind of, like, deal with all the burdens and the inefficiencies of the traditional system anymore.
00:17:50.364 - 00:18:22.992, Speaker A: We don't have to deal with setting up a company and then getting people to have visas just so they can work for a company. We don't have to deal with all the different tax jurisdictions and anything like that. We can just basically say, okay, let's spin up a dao, let's make it token holder voting, or let's have like a council, or let's have like a multi sig and then let's kind of issue a token. And then we can just like pay out from the treasury to people to help us build this thing. And that can all be done in a day, like even less than a day. You can, you can start a dao within an hour if you wanted to. It doesn't, like, it really doesn't take very long.
00:18:22.992 - 00:18:59.720, Speaker A: And you can ignore and leapfrog all of the bullshit from the traditional, you know, meat space world, which I think is absolutely amazing. And I don't think people have really come to terms with just how world changing this is for a lot of organizations where we're going to see tons of these Dow spin up, a lot of them will fail, just like a lot of businesses fail. But the ones that succeed will go on to be worth trillions of dollars. Like their protocols will essentially go on to be worth trillions of dollars. And you know, some protocols can start out having like a completely centralized core team and then turn into a Dao over time. We've seen that happen many times. Like Uniswap happened like that, compound happened like that.
00:18:59.720 - 00:19:47.834, Speaker A: It's basically this concept of exit to community where you build up the product over time. Obviously, compound labs, Uniswap Labs built up the product over time. Then instead of going public on the stock market, you tokenize and you exit to your community. So you do an airdrop of the token, you create a dao, you have people, you have tokens in a treasury, and then you start kind of like paying that out to people and things like that. So I think that is super, super cool and that is kind of like the future of organizations. So that's kind of what I meant by, by this tweet here. And I did want to touch on, like John Henderson said, link to tweet thread here, which is basically going over like how token based governance is like a fantasy because of the fact that, I mean, there's multiple reasons that you can be bearish on token based kind of governance, from voter apathy to people just like not paying much attention, stuff like that.
00:19:47.834 - 00:20:11.358, Speaker A: And that's fine. But I think the evolution of that is what we're seeing with projects like Gitcoin stewardship or sorry. With Gitcoindao, how they have the steward thing where you can essentially delegate your tokens to a steward and they'll act on your behalf. And sort of like a liquid democracy kind of system here. Compound has this, uniswap has this. I mean, many protocols have this and that. That is, I think the future of these daos.
00:20:11.358 - 00:20:53.246, Speaker A: And I think that's totally fine. I don't think that takes away from the global kind of like decentralized, you know, digitally first native kind of like uh, thing that these things they have going on. I think that that's just a way to scale them because at the end of the day, it's very hard to scale humans. So you're not going to be able to have like thousands of Dow members all voting on everything. You're going to have to have like a core set of people who represent these thousands of people of members, just like we have in the political system today, but we have like a liquid democracy type system where essentially you can basically put your tokens towards someone say, okay, well, I'm going to delegate my tokens to you because I, because I trust you. I think that you're doing really well within the Dow. You're a well known community member.
00:20:53.246 - 00:21:26.320, Speaker A: You know, you can, you can have my vote essentially, or you can have my voting power. And then if they start doing things that you don't like or if they start screwing up, you can just take your, your delegation away and then delegate to someone else. Whereas within the, I guess, current political system, the traditional political system, I should say, you don't really have that option. You have a vote, sure, but you can't change your vote like on the fly sort of thing. You have to vote and then you're stuck with that person for their term. And you know, depending on what position it is, that term can be up to four years and it could be longer. I mean, it could, depending on what country you're in, it could be much longer.
00:21:26.320 - 00:22:08.108, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I think that it's really cool that we're seeing like this liquid democracy happening within daos and kind of like how token holder voting is evolved, is evolving there. So I'm really interested to see how that plays out over time. So yeah, hopefully that kind of explains this tweet for those who saw it and gives you something to think about. So Kyber's liquidity mining program for their new DMM is now live on both Ethereum and Polygon. So for those of you who don't know the DMM is Kyber's new dynamic market maker model that they've basically been teasing for quite a while. And they have this liquidity mining program called Rainmaker that's now live. So yeah, as I said, this is live on Ethereum and Polygon.
00:22:08.108 - 00:22:51.948, Speaker A: If you want to kind of supply liquidity here to either on either of those chains, you can do so and you can start earning Kyber token rewards for doing so. Now, the list of eligible pools on Ethereum include everyone's, you know, favorite popular pools with stablecoin pools, ETH, WBTC and KNC, of course. And then on polygon it's very similar, except there's a matic pool that's as well there. So yeah, that's really, really cool. If you want the full details of it, it'll be linked in the YouTube description, this blog post, you can go check it out. I mean it's packed full of details and a guide on how to get started as well. So Xerox Mons basically published a new white paper over the weekend called LSSVM or a liquidity provision protocol for nfts.
00:22:51.948 - 00:23:49.630, Speaker A: Now what this white paper describes is a new way to bring liquidity to nfts on Ethereum here. Now, for those of you who haven't been maybe paying too much close attention to how nfts are kind of getting liquidity, there's two kind of ways that that's happening right now. One of them is what NFTX is doing, which is basically creating an index of, of these kind of nfts. And basically you can trade that as like a fungible asset. And then there's the second kind of thing which is fractionalization of nfts where you can kind of like break up nfts into small bits and things like that and kind of like trade them like that, whatever you want to do there. Whereas this kind of like new LSS VM kind of protocol is basically going to be able to essentially create range orders from what I'm understanding here, or kind of like range liquidity for different nfts. I did speak to Xerox Mons and DM's about this, and if I'm being honest, like, I don't think I can explain it like you're five just yet.
00:23:49.630 - 00:24:49.354, Speaker A: There is a bit of complexity here. Maybe hopefully they put out some visual kind of like aids for this because I think that obviously our white paper is well, is well and good, but you definitely want some visual aids for people to, to be able to kind of, I guess, understand exactly what's going on here. But essentially, the gist of it is basically Xerox Mons wants to create a way to bring even more liquidity to nfts and to enable flexibility of liquidity as well so people can essentially stop fragmenting the liquidity, bring it all together, and have more flexibility in how they buy and sell nfts. So, yeah, I'll be keeping an eye on this. Hopefully Xeroxmoms publishes some visual aids and I'll be able to show them on the refuel when they're available. So Seb, the co founder and CEO of Zappa, is Alpha leaking something on Twitter zapmail ETH, which I'm assuming is a decentralized messaging service or something like that. Now, someone said here a decentralized email question mark, and Seb said, maybe, who knows what it is.
00:24:49.354 - 00:25:27.304, Speaker A: I actually think that it'd be really cool for a decentralized messaging service to be built into Zappa, where you can basically have your own, I guess, like you would have like Anthony at Zapmail ETH or Anthony Zappmail ETH, and you can send messages to each other or anything like that. I think that would be really, really cool. I'm not sure exactly what this is or how it's going to work. Obviously, this is just a small leak here, but, you know, the Zappa team's always cooking up really fun things, so I'm looking forward to seeing what this is. Just wanted to put it on your radar as well to kind of get you hyped about this. I'm, you know, I'm hyped. I'll obviously go over this on the refuel once it comes out, but until then, I'm just going to leave it in speculation zone for now.
00:25:27.304 - 00:25:50.152, Speaker A: So Linda Shea reposted her, I guess. What is it, a beginner's guide to nfts here on mirror. And the fun thing about this is that she actually posted this to Mira, and you can actually collect an NFT using kind of like this post on Mira. So this is an old post that she did. She did. That's actually very good. I highly recommend reading it if you haven't already.
00:25:50.152 - 00:26:11.848, Speaker A: You can go check out kind of like what nfts are all about and everything like that. But by using mirror, she's been able to essentially either get a tip from. From readers or sell nfts directly in the post here. And the proceeds from these nfts will go to Gitcoin grants. So there's 3.7 $3,700 raised. So far 1.76
00:26:11.848 - 00:26:30.242, Speaker A: ETH. And this is all going to get coin. I think it's probably going to go into their treasury or part, part of the next next grants matching round. But it's really, really cool. So if you go collect NFT here, it'll kind of pop up with a bunch of nfts. You can even either choose the legendary, rare or common one. So essentially legendary costs like one eight.
00:26:30.242 - 00:26:51.024, Speaker A: Rare costs 0.18 and a common is 0.018. And this is how you support the author. And you can basically get like this exclusive NFT of this post. And obviously there's different editions here. There's only five editions of the rare, sorry, the legendary one and then different editions for the other ones. Now this, you know, I guess, is similar to what the Beacon book did.
00:26:51.024 - 00:27:32.226, Speaker A: I've talked about the Beacon book a lot on the refill before where you could mince nfts on mirror and there were limited editions and all that sort of stuff. And I do really think this is awesome. This is like, to me, the future of publishing. And I'm actually going to be experimenting with some stuff hopefully in the near future with the Daily Gwei on Mira because I think, you know, me personally, I want to get off substack eventually because it's centralized. I want to fully embrace a decentralized kind of service there with my newsletter. But I also want to do really cool things like obviously the delegate newsletter book that I spoke about on the refuel last week, where I want to essentially create a book out of the first 300 newsletter pieces, do some cool nfts with it, have the community involved with it. I'm still specking it out.
00:27:32.226 - 00:28:17.394, Speaker A: It's probably going to be like a longer term project. You know, I spoke to Trent Van Epps, the person who was the lead on the Beacon Book project, and he said it took a while to get that altogether. So definitely not going to happen overnight. But I'm still pretty excited to do that and to do it on mirror. But also, you know, I might, I might republish some of my longer newsletters or I guess like more of my most popular pieces from the newsletter on Tamir and kind of like auction them off as nfts and have the proceeds going to the gitcoin or something like that. Because I just think it's a really good way to essentially give kind of like people a way to support like myself, but also to support myself by redirecting those funds to something like a public good. And, you know, getting kind of like having some form of ownership over the kind of, I guess, article and things like that.
00:28:17.394 - 00:28:46.672, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but I'll be keeping an eye on what mirror is doing specifically as well. I think they've got a lot of things planned. They really do want to change the way publishing works on the web. They want to be able to drive the value to publishers, to authors, instead of it going to kind of like centralized parties, which is what I guess, like Ethereum is all about. So really looking forward to seeing how that evolves. So Meg Lister posted a blog post that she put together here, which is index, which is describing the index co ops internship program.
00:28:46.672 - 00:29:29.756, Speaker A: So if you're interested in getting involved with a dow, with the index cop, with working within DeFi that I've been hammering on about four months now, this is probably the best way to do it. Now, I should disclose here that I am an advisor to set, which is heavily involved with the index co op. But I mean, I love the index co op. They are, in my opinion, one of the best, if not the best, Daos on Ethereum right now. They are absolutely killing it across all fronts from what I've seen. Like, I obviously keep tabs in it because I'm involved with it at a kind of like higher level here. And they have internship positions for basically everything, like whether it's business development, growth, community and people, analytics, product, whatever you want to work on, you know, this program is for you.
00:29:29.756 - 00:30:02.686, Speaker A: And that the expected kind of like time input is about 15 hours per week. So obviously, if you have a full time job and an extra 15 hours per week, working on this would be kind of like a bit difficult to manage. But I definitely think that it is well worth it. So the internship is going to begin July 12, which is today, and run for six weeks. So if you're interested, definitely go check out, sorry, check out this, this medium post here. Applications are open today on July 10, and we'll close July 12, and we'll close on July 23. So I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:30:02.686 - 00:30:14.894, Speaker A: You can go check it out. And I think that's it for today's refill. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
