00:00:00.090 - 00:00:31.810, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co hosts today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. You everyone, we've got a great episode here, but before we do, I just wanted to give a quick shout out to Permissionless.
00:00:31.810 - 00:00:55.290, Speaker A: This is the biggest and best conference in all of DFI. It's the one that we do with Bankless, who's a great partner for us. Last year we had almost 7000 people there in West Palm Beach. We are moving this year to Austin, Texas from September 11 through the 13th. And if you are a listener of Bell Curve, any of these last five seasons, this conference is basically custom made for you. We're going to be talking about Liquid Staking, the theme of this season. We've got a bunch of great panels on mev.
00:00:55.290 - 00:01:19.954, Speaker A: If you listen to the app chain thesis, we've got a bunch of Cosmos folks out there in full force. We're talking about the converging architecture of Salana, the roll up space in ETH and Cosmos. So I would love to see all of you there and to reward you for being such great listeners to Bell Curve. You get a special 30% off code. It's Bell Curve 30 that'll get you 30% off tickets. Click the link in the show notes and then head over to the permissionless site and make sure that you get your ticket today. Again.
00:01:19.954 - 00:01:31.370, Speaker A: That is Bell curve 30. Click the link in the show notes. All right, everyone, welcome back to another roundup edition of Bell Curve. By popular demand, you've only got the best two of the show today. Michael's one and two. Michael.
00:01:34.270 - 00:01:38.454, Speaker B: Yep. You know the best. Addition by subtraction.
00:01:38.582 - 00:02:11.750, Speaker A: Addition by subtraction in the beginning, when Jason and I were doing podcasts, we used to listen to each other's shows and he was like, so I've noticed every podcast, you just start with a dad joke and then go right into the content. I was like, yeah, I guess I do do that actually. Whatever, man. If it works, it works. We got some pretty big stories this week, actually. So I think the big one that it makes sense to start with, probably just in terms of long term impact. Although there's a question on how the execution is going to play out.
00:02:11.750 - 00:02:40.826, Speaker A: Is the PayPal stablecoin? So pyusd. I guess we're calling that pay USD will be issued by Paxos. This is a company that's previously worked with finance to issue the USD backed BUSD. PayPal USD will be compatible with the Web Three environment and soon will be available on Venmo, which obviously is gigantic. Very active user base. Reserves are held in a separate NYDFS trust structure. So if anything were to happen to Paxos or PayPal, all stablecoin reserves would be untouchable by company creditors.
00:02:40.826 - 00:02:49.554, Speaker A: I know we were talking a little bit about the fee structure and how that's going to work with PayPal USD, but what do you just think about the broad implications of this?
00:02:49.672 - 00:03:46.206, Speaker B: The big things are, if you break it down, you've kind of got everything that's going on in Washington right now as a backdrop to all of this. You now have a second major publicly traded company that's a major financial services provider in the United States coming out with their own stablecoin. I know Maxine Waters had a number of choice perspectives as to her thoughts on the fact that PayPal is launching a stable coin. Some of them seem to be educated and most of them were not. Just the fact that you're going to have the ability to have Venmo arguably up there with cash app. In terms of usage, I think it's number two right now in terms of P to P transactions. Integrate in a stablecoin, just produces a lot more network effects for number one stablecoin issuance and the ability to have a stable reserve dollar that you can use within the blockchain ecosystem.
00:03:46.206 - 00:04:15.214, Speaker B: And number two, it solidifies ethereum, because that's another major component of this. The Pi or Pay USD will be based on ethereum as well, at least initially. So I think it solidifies a lot of the narratives around stablecoins being a core component. We've known that for a long time, and ethereum being the core substrate for DFI. And yeah, I saw a tweet. I'm not sure if this is 100% accurate. I would imagine it is.
00:04:15.214 - 00:04:57.094, Speaker B: It looked like it was a screenshot of the conversion costs of using Pay USD. It was something like thirty cents up to ten dollars, and then it maxes out, volume based max out at 1.75% to convert USD to Pay USD. I think it's going to be if that is true, and that's actually what they're going with from a business model perspective, it's going to be exceedingly difficult to get adoption from that versus a USDC which has automatic conversions. And I think that we're going to start to see these different stablecoins test each other's business model for growth and distribution, but also how do you get value capture? So it's good to see more shots on Dole altogether.
00:04:57.222 - 00:05:45.002, Speaker A: What this sort of reminds me of is there was a period of time, I think it was mid 2019, just in the doldrums, when Libra kind of got launched out of the gate. And right now we think of Stablecoins as this $125,000,000,000 opportunity, and it's only growing on crypto. But at that time, I think the amount of Stablecoins that were issued were something like two or $3 billion or something like that, and it was much more of a, wow, that's a very interesting take. And to Libra's credit or to face Meta's credit. They did see the opportunity and ended up getting shut down in Congress. I suppose you could ask the question, why would that not happen to PayPal? I think optically it's pretty different. PayPal launching a stablecoin as opposed to meta, where there's plenty of backlash and antitrust sentiment and all that kind of stuff.
00:05:45.002 - 00:06:09.486, Speaker A: I think it's pretty safe to say this is bullish. I think this is a really encouraging sign of institutional adoption. It's a reminder to all of us that just because there's negative sentiment out there does not mean these institutions do tend to think on very long time horizons. And PayPal has kind of been in and out. But this is definitely a big, I think, confirmation and it could bring a lot of users into crypto.
00:06:09.598 - 00:06:57.614, Speaker B: 100% agree it's bullish. And I think no matter what the business model is, once again we're just pushing more things out. We're testing the waters. Major institutional adoption from places like PayPal, Coinbase, even rumors of X or Twitter, whatever we're calling it, know the origination of X.com was a financial services platform. And even talking to Peter Thiel about the initial version or the initial thought with Max Levchin around what this could be, what they wanted it to be in 1996 through 1999 was effectively what a lot of the blockchain ecosystem represents right now. I think being able to intertwine social networks and social connectivity with financial services is a fundamentally interesting proposition.
00:06:57.614 - 00:07:10.386, Speaker B: And that's what Cash app venmo, kind of all the like, even Robinhood to a certain extent, that's the basis of their success. So having more opportunities to see new products come out fundamentally bullish.
00:07:10.498 - 00:07:31.454, Speaker A: How do you see the eventual market structure for stablecoins playing out? Is there one or two or three dominant providers? Do you end up segmenting it mentally in your head between just fiat, collateralized, very centralized stablecoins, versus some of these more decentralized alternatives like Dai or Fracs or something like that? What do you think the end state structure ends up looking like?
00:07:31.492 - 00:08:11.626, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think you can disaggregate, let's call it some flavor of centralized versus decentralized. And by decentralized I mean Fracs, Dai, SUSD, anything that is existing and created by specifically a smart contract. You probably with some collateral basis. I think we've also seen that the under collateralized, decentralized, stable coins, just are not going to work. We have yet to see anything in the same way of luna. Terra fracs, I know, has some slight under collateralization, but it's still backed by other assets. It seems to be a more robust model.
00:08:11.626 - 00:08:38.420, Speaker B: We'll put that to the test. On the flip side, centralized stablecoins, I think, is probably the bigger question here. And obviously what Pay USD is in the camp of. Frankly, I think the biggest variable there is just regulations. We've got the Stablecoin bill that has passed committee. It'll go to a House vote after the August recess. Whether it gets adopted by the Senate in this current iteration or if it happens in a couple of years down the road.
00:08:38.420 - 00:09:49.030, Speaker B: We know that we've had a number of conversations with companies who are wanting to build centralized stablecoins. We have companies that are going after state banking charters to try and build their own stablecoins. The Fed. It's unclear as what it actually means, but the Fed came out earlier this week and said we are going to have a process for if you want to have a stablecoin that is produced by a state bank or a national bank, we're going to have to give a non objective opinion on that before it can launch. So I think everything that exists and frankly, you know, going back to it with Payusd, I think we're probably going to see a similar perspective to what Libra had as well, which was congressional and regulatory backlash or at least a pausing or a pressuring to kind of call things back. We'll see if it gets fully called back or if it actually goes through the full lieber equivalent process. But I would imagine with all of the new regulations that are pushing through, maybe there's some okay, this actually helps us push the perspective of stablecoin bill and these companies are going to continue forward unless there's a black and white go forward playbook.
00:09:49.030 - 00:10:08.698, Speaker B: All this is to say, I think really on the centralized side, we just frankly don't know. And it's not going to be a business model or a distribution model that necessarily wins. It could be something that is regulatory grandfathering or a new playbook for how to have a bank based stablecoin.
00:10:08.794 - 00:10:39.034, Speaker A: I would have to imagine I'm sort of been living in LST Land recently and that has firmly solidified for me in a mental model of a winner take all or winner take most market structure. And it would make sense that to me that stable coins would play out. Similarly, I think it's pretty unlikely that we live in a world with many different PY. USD. USDT, USDC. That's just very confusing from a user experience. So I would imagine that eventually someone ends up winning out.
00:10:39.034 - 00:11:01.440, Speaker A: But yeah, it'll be interesting to see play out. USDC has a gigantic head start. USDT, who knows what is going on over there and PayPal has an enormous, very engaged user base. And if they don't get Fudded out by the regulators, then they'll have a huge set of advantages as well. So just be interesting to see how it all plays out.
00:11:01.970 - 00:11:03.554, Speaker B: Exactly. Fully agree.
00:11:03.672 - 00:11:48.734, Speaker A: Yeah. Let's talk a little bit about Coinbase. Coinbase recently they've been doing a lot of big we actually Coinbase earnings just came out while Miles and I were recording last week's roundup. But it was overall revenues were down quarter over quarter, but it was still ahead of expectations for analysts who were frankly expecting a bloodbath. So revenue was down 12% quarter over quarter, but that was still well ahead of analysts expectations. Revenues came in at 708,000,000 for the first time. I think the thing that stood out the most to me from this earnings call was that their subscriptions and services contributed 51% of their revenue at 327,000,000.
00:11:48.734 - 00:12:28.090, Speaker A: So they actually did more from subscription and services than they did from transactions. And that's always been the knock against Coinbase, right? They generate most of their fees from pretty transaction costs, from an uninformed retail base that are kind of getting scraped on that and everyone thinks it's going to be a race to zero. And I remember Brian coming out probably a year and a half or two years ago and saying, eventually subscriptions and services are going to make up a very large part of our revenue. And as a supporter of Coinbase, I was kind of, you know, sure, but how are you going to do that? And to their credit, they've done it and they've done a very good job at it. What did you think about earnings?
00:12:28.990 - 00:13:09.026, Speaker B: Positive and kind of exactly what you would expect. I also too was surprised by that. I mean, the transactional revenue Wall Street is so interesting. It's funny. They want predictable revenue growth is exactly what Wall Street wants. They want you to beat, but not beat by too much because then you're outside of the bounds and maybe something's wrong with your business model and they want you to be predictable and being able to forecast your guidance and be accurate about where it's going next month. Well, the best way of having a successful business that has predictable revenue growth is something that isn't transaction based, where not only is it erased to zero potentially for transaction fees themselves per volume, but it's also something that's highly cyclical.
00:13:09.026 - 00:13:52.066, Speaker B: And we've seen that as well where as the crypto market ebbs and flows what seems to be every three to four years these days, transaction revenue is going to EB and flow with that. And so the shift is fundamentally important for the success, the long term duration success of Coinbase. And they knew that a couple of years ago and it's great to see that. I mean, the things that are really contributing to that success right now are twofold. One, interest income. So as they have USDC, we're talking about business models of stablecoins interest income is one of the core variables that gets put into that bucket. But then you also have all of the services revenue that stems from staking.
00:13:52.066 - 00:15:02.346, Speaker B: And I think we're going to as you've been talking about, Lstfi or LST summer, whatever the common phrase is now, the new target of how much ETH is going to be staked I think is higher than basically anybody else predicted. I remember talking about this maybe like a couple of months ago, right as the merge was going in and we were saying, oh, all of this ETH is going to become unlocked and you're going to see a massive withdraw queue and blah, blah, blah. Well, in fact, the withdrawal queue has been effectively at zero for the last two months and the queue to become a validator has been at like 60 to 70 to 80,000 waiting, which is about a month of time. And so I think a lot of that is going to continue to go to Coinbase. A lot of that's also going to some of the Lstfi. I know Lido just hit 8 million ETH within Lido earlier this week, but I think those numbers are going to continue to crop up. I wouldn't be surprised if we ended the year at 30 to 40 million ETH state.
00:15:02.346 - 00:16:09.214, Speaker B: So there's obviously interest income and CPI came out earlier today. It was slightly higher than expected and for the first time since June 2022, the headline CPI number rose from 3% to 3.2%. I think that has to do more with the previous year effect of where the numbers were last year because it's a year over year number. But if we assume that interest rates are going to continue to stay higher for longer, that gives a great kind of COVID for Coinbase USDC to continue to make money off of their interest income. You can see it here, Q, 2201,000,000 out of the 335 massive number. I think they're going to continue to outperform there and that gives them plenty of time to build up blockchain rewards, custodial fee revenue, other subscriptions. And earlier this week, and I know we're going to talk about it, base launched yesterday and yesterday I think they did $216,000 worth of revenue, or somebody calculated that, which is about a $78 million run rate of revenue and that's off of the first day and obviously everybody was incentivized with the first day of Mint.
00:16:09.214 - 00:16:30.422, Speaker B: But Base is really getting a lot of attention right now and I think not many people fully understand the ramifications of having a blockchain that you own and derive revenues from and people actually want to use. And having that encapsured within a publicly traded equity I think is going to be a really powerful example of the Wall Street as to what you can do.
00:16:30.556 - 00:17:15.286, Speaker A: Yeah, I tend to agree with you on all of that, Mike. So just to break down some of the, what we're looking at here for folks who are following along is we're looking at Coinbase's revenue, which is broken up into transaction revenues that's between their consumer and institutional segments. And then we're looking at their subscription and services buckets which is blockchain rewards, which is I think primarily staking. Then there's custodial fee revenue, interest income and other subscriptions and services. So I'd guess that's sort of a bucket of Coinbase one and other the interest income which has been a rocket ship has gone down a little bit. It's about a 20% decline. I'd guess that's just because USDC's market cap has continued to decline, I think since around like april or May of this year.
00:17:15.286 - 00:18:10.746, Speaker A: But staking to your point, blockchain rewards has trended up. And yeah, it was interesting to see. I was very curious to see how the analysts were going to discuss base and if they were going to ask any questions about it. And they have, and they did. They asked a couple of questions about it and I think Brian confirmed that the sequencer was going to be the way that they were going to Monetize, which is very interesting to hear because there's a lot of talk about decentralizing sequencers and talked about on this podcast a couple of times. But I feel like it's a growing groundswell that maybe we don't actually need to do that and that has big implications for value accrual on these layer twos. The interesting thing about Coinbase, I saw someone tweet this out, but one of the interesting opportunities that Coinbase has is they have the opportunity to actually do identity on base.
00:18:10.746 - 00:19:10.540, Speaker A: And we covered WorldCoin a couple of episodes ago and while I think there are some qualms about WorldCoin, some of which are probably pretty well deserved, figuring out that proof of personhood idea has a lot of benefits. Mostly it's civil resistance and you can do more accurately airdrops and stuff like that. So the ability for Coinbase to do that for customers on their layer two on base is the way I would draw. They kind of created this new category of you used to have just CFI over here and totally unregulated lawless Wild West DFI over here. They have this really unique opportunity to kind of find maybe this middle ground where it still has the spirit of crypto, but they can add in a little bit like do things like proof of personhood for people from the exchange, for instance. I don't know yet. I'm pretty excited about it.
00:19:11.950 - 00:19:42.710, Speaker B: That to me and frankly, us at Framework has always been the thesis on base. It's not going to be the place where everybody moves. I think there still will be a lot of interest just based off of liquidity and interest. Right now there's still potential for it to become a hub of liquidity. But I think to your point exactly, I mean, at Framework we call it public permission DeFi, where it is still public. It exists on a public blockchain and you can verify authenticity, you can verify scarcity, whatever. The superpowers of blockchain still exist.
00:19:42.710 - 00:20:36.006, Speaker B: And I saw that tweet as well. Imagine having Venmo, but you can see where all the money is and you can see everything on chain and that would require KYC. And imagine you attach your Coinbase wallet to your base wallet and you have a permanent KYC NFT that goes into your wallet that you can then use to verify KYC and the different types of applications. Now that you can assume that the 40 million Coinbase customers now all have a verified wallet address is huge. I mean, that opens up the aperture lens for new types of financial products, specifically for US persons, because KYC is a requirement for think. You know, it's just a new ecosystem for application development. I think that's one layer of it.
00:20:36.006 - 00:21:15.730, Speaker B: I think the other layer, too, is also just the fact that there's a ton of interest right now. I mean, the whole Bald situation and you've got all this excitement and people are minting all kinds of stuff and it's sort of like the anhole spirits. When this stuff starts to happen and the hotball of money starts to roll around, that's when you can start to assess the tea leaves and see, okay, the green shoots exist. We can see where the market is trending and trajectory is up, but you have to start to see the roll bit rolling into the Unibot, rolling into the base ecosystem. It just starts to compile. And so I also just love to see that.
00:21:15.800 - 00:21:26.402, Speaker A: Me too, man. I'm so with you. Okay, let me ask you this question. Do you think we had a debate about this on last week's roundup. Do you think that Bald going live on base was a good thing or a bad thing for their rollout?
00:21:26.466 - 00:21:27.974, Speaker B: Ultimately a very positive thing.
00:21:28.012 - 00:21:28.780, Speaker A: Me too.
00:21:29.550 - 00:21:59.902, Speaker B: And everyone was like, oh, well, is it going to erode the trust with consumers? It's like, no, it brings people in, people hear about it because of it and oh, well, Wall Street is going to get really scared and not trust the sanctity of this ecosystem. You think Wall Street actually understands anything about these ecosystems? Like, absolutely not. So no, that was 100% positive. I don't think it was planned, but sometimes you have to get lucky.
00:21:59.966 - 00:22:41.342, Speaker A: I did a little Wish upon a star. None of the analysts asked Brian about Bald, which really would have been the cherry on top of that earnings call, but what are you going to do so good? But I agree with you. I think the Miles and I had this actually came out on different sides of this on last week's Roundup. But I think it know what would have sort of crushed my soul a little bit is for Coinbase to say, hey, we're not going to have that kind of stuff on our chain. And I think this was actually an opportunity for them to let their hair down a little bit. And I don't know, I think it is going to end up being a long term positive thing because everyone has this aspiration of well, these aren't the customers that we'd like to have. Wouldn't it just be great if we had these Utilitarian apps that people want? You have to meet the market where it's at.
00:22:41.342 - 00:22:51.234, Speaker A: I don't know. Yeah, I'd like it too, if we had less moon coins and more apps that were getting utility. But meet the market where it's at today and build towards something longer term. I don't know.
00:22:51.352 - 00:24:03.046, Speaker B: Here's a strange analogy, but I've been thinking a lot about it because of everything that's been going on this week. Think of it as the tight, really buttoned up version of what is sports commentary and the professionalism versus Dave Portnoy and Barstool, just the difference know, sanctity and professionalism versus talking to where the market actually is and what those types of outcomes can actually be. It's sort of like the ESPN versus Barstool perspective completely. And I think Coinbase, because of who they represented in the industry and being publicly traded, what they couldn't, couldn't do, et cetera, et cetera, they haven't had an opportunity to participate in a lot of what's been going on in the community and the culture around crypto. And I think Base is actually a great opportunity for them to participate and help proliferate a lot of that culture without necessarily being directly involved. They're a technology platform now that anyone can build on top of. So yeah, I'm 100% with you.
00:24:03.046 - 00:24:10.460, Speaker B: You got to be able to go where the market is. And I think they've been stuck with hands tied behind their back historically, so I'm excited to see what they can do now.
00:24:11.150 - 00:24:29.410, Speaker A: Yeah, me as well. Not to go too far down this rabbit hole, but I don't know if you saw that Penn did some big deal with ESPN and they actually cut bar stool. I think Prez just got it back for $0, but it's 50% of the proceeds of a future sale.
00:24:30.950 - 00:25:30.898, Speaker B: Yeah, so that's what I was referring to. It's just like the person who made the best deal of the year so far is Dave Portnoy sold it for $500 million and bought it back basically fully intact for one dollars. That is the whole thing of what I was referencing with, Barstool versus ESPN. ESPN told Penn, allegedly, we will do this billion and a half dollar deal with you, a ten year license agreement to create ESPN Bet, which is the new betting platform that they wanted to have. Barstool has been this anchor on Penn for the last two, three years because they haven't been able to get the gambling licenses that they need or the gaming licenses, and they haven't been able to move past the 16 states that they have, whereas ESPN is sort of like the polished sports perspective in the industry. And they basically said, hey, if you want to do this deal, you don't get rid of Barstool. And they said, all right, Dave, we need to get rid of Barstool.
00:25:30.898 - 00:25:43.130, Speaker B: And he said, great, I'll take it all and buys it back for a dollar. He also has to give up 50% of any proceeds of what he eventually sells it for. But what he said live was, I'm just never going to sell it.
00:25:43.200 - 00:26:43.514, Speaker A: So let's talk a little bit about the one thing I'd be curious, I've been thinking about a lot, and we talked about a little bit on last week's roll up is just the value accrual that's going to end up happening in the roll up space. So it's starting to get interesting, I think. So for me, value accrual on Ethereum is very elegant and very easy to understand. From my perspective it's really EIP 1559 and there is a burn mechanism and price is a function of supply and demand and the more demand that Ethereum gets, the less supply that there is. And there's a pretty clear relationship there. I think on layer two level it's a little bit more up for debate and I for one have really liked the architecture that a lot of these roll ups have taken on. I think the Op stack was the first one to really lean into an app specific architecture and since then you've had others arbitram Orbit which is a little bit different because you have to settle through Arbitrum.
00:26:43.514 - 00:27:38.894, Speaker A: Then you also have the ZK stack, et cetera. And it seems like a pretty elegant design decision. The question is where is the value capture going to take place? And I think this is playing out in a pretty interesting way, frankly, even between something like base because these revenues that base are going to generate, they're not going to optimism. And then the other thing that's happening I think over an optimism land is Conduit, which is essentially a Ras type solution that leverages optimism. And it's looking like there might be a risk from optimism's perspective that this is where the value capture is actually going to take place. I think probably the right analogy here is the open source Linux versus the $50 billion company Red Hat which monetize that really effectively. So they're going to be really asymmetric payouts depending on where you are in the stack and where the value capture ultimately ends up being.
00:27:38.894 - 00:28:22.190, Speaker A: And I think you're starting to see optimism realize this a little bit. They recently released something the Law of Chains, which is hey, you can really build whatever stack you want, but if you want to be in superchain you have to adhere to these standards. Then I think what they're creating there is a little bit of lock in and let's say if you want to integrate with it's more valuable, let's say you want to have an integration with a company like Fireblocks or something like that. Well, the specifications are going to be for anyone in the super chain and if you're not in the super chain then maybe you can do whatever you want but you're not going to have these easy set of built in integrations. So what do you think about this? What are your thoughts on how value capture is going to look on the rollup layer?
00:28:23.570 - 00:29:03.226, Speaker B: Yeah, really good question. And actually here's a question back to you. Do you know exactly what the business model of cantina or not cantina center what Conduit is? Because I would imagine it's probably some and the services they're providing, we're. Not investors. I don't know very much about them other than what's on their website but it seems like they help you spin up your own optimism based chain. And actually one of the people on our team, Rajiv, was saying he tried to do it just to see what it was like and he was like, yeah, it was up and running within three minutes. Obviously nothing was happening on it.
00:29:03.226 - 00:30:32.054, Speaker B: But you can truly spin these things up very quickly. I would imagine there is going to be a fundamental question around where does value accrue to the specific ecosystems but then also the specific chains base I think is very simple. It's you have the shared sequencer and that is owned by Coinbase Incorporated and you pay fees to run on base and those fees go back to Coinbase. The interesting part would be, okay, Cantina is going to create a diaspora of other op based chains. God not Cantina conduit it's going to create this explosion of new chains. Are they each going to have their own sequencer? Are they going to rely on a sequencer network? Where does the value accrue in those ecosystems as well? Does that go back to the Linux equivalent optimism or is it something that gets accrued to a Red Hat because they're able to provide services? And we were talking about this internally at Framework and sort of like what's the future potential of conduit and how are they going to work going forward? Easy to spin up, you pay a SaaS fee probably and what do they do afterwards? Well, maybe they help you with DevOps or maybe, but like Red Hat's business model isn't that you have Linux and it's this proprietary software that you can now pay them for it's, that they provide you services and DevOps and all the things that it takes to run at scale. And that's how they make their money.
00:30:32.054 - 00:31:30.070, Speaker B: And it's, I think, a 25 $30 billion purchase. So massive business on top of Linux. There's going to be a huge question as to where does value accrue in the same way. I do think that there is an element here that's differentiated in that you do have a sequencer that's extracting value and it costs a certain amount to pay to use it. Whereas Linux is just like it's free open source software. But it will be a question as to does eventually the optimism stack decentralize their sequencer? Does it go to a different model where you can tap into a shared sequencer network and that's the way that you pay for things but then they also share revenue or something along those lines. The other interesting variable here and so all of that to say, I don't know, but we're going to start to see a bunch of different models emerge of maybe run your own service, tap into an existing one and pay the existing one or pay Coinbase to use build on theirs.
00:31:30.070 - 00:32:17.106, Speaker B: The benefit though is I think you can be across all of these different ecosystems simultaneously. And so maybe it's sort of a let the users decide where they want to be type question. I know a number of the protocols in the synthetics ecosystem are talking about what if we launched on base? They're already on main net, they're on Optimism. And now the question is, well, what if we ported our stuff over to base just so that we have coverage of all the different ecosystems? It's really easy if you're building on Optimism technology to be able to have it cross compatibility. So it might ultimately end up being you have all the different versions of all these different ecosystems with different value capture, and ultimately the users will decide where they want to aggregate and where most of the revenue is generated.
00:32:17.298 - 00:32:56.738, Speaker A: It's tough. I think the way that at least I mentally walk through this is from the perspective of a potential new app chain. And let's say that I'm trying to spin this up and ultimately what I could do is figure out all these modular parts myself. And as much as we say this is open source technology and it's super easy, it's probably a lift if you're not technical. Or there could be some layer of abstraction that sits in between you and ultimately the code. That optimism has open sourced and you could pay a small fee, but it could save you an enormous amount of time. And if you're an entrepreneur, it's a really easy decision to probably make.
00:32:56.738 - 00:33:17.500, Speaker A: And right now, if I had to guess at where the value lock in happens, I feel like it's at the sequencer. That might be just being way too simplistic, but that's kind of the right and left part of the bell curve. That just that's what we all think, right? It's the sequencer. So it's probably a pretty good business model that they've got there.
00:33:18.110 - 00:33:19.030, Speaker B: Totally.
00:33:19.190 - 00:33:19.900, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:33:20.590 - 00:34:08.890, Speaker B: The other angle here, which I think is interesting yes, okay, you've got a crypto native app developer who wants to build potentially their own application on top of their own chain. I think the other variable here is what about all the people who are app developers who don't know a thing about blockchains? Where are they going to start? Where is Coca Cola going to come in and say, oh, we want to have our own L2 as well, right. And that'll. Have the Coca Cola NFTs on it. Well, they're probably going to intercontuit and spin things up and say, okay, boom, we've got ourselves an optimism stack. And maybe they're going to have cross compatibility with Coinbase to be able to say, hey, Coinbase users, if you connect your wallets, whatever it may be. Maybe it's a terrible example thinking out loud, but the idea is, I think, new entrants into the space, the easier it is.
00:34:08.890 - 00:34:22.782, Speaker B: They're probably going to go with that and it's going to be the least costly but even existing applications, if you wanted to move over, or new developers who understand the space, who want to build new apps, there's still going to be a lot of interest in going in that direction too.
00:34:22.916 - 00:35:15.440, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. It's interesting to listen to the Aiden from Stride, one of the co founders of Stride reminded me of this. But developers, not all developers are the same and usually infrastructure developers are very different from app developers. In Cosmos Land those lines are blurred a little bit more, but in Ethereum there's kind of this group of infra guys and gals and then there are the app developers and they're very different in terms of their skill set and mindset. And I think what products like Conduit will ultimately do is help abstract some of that distinction away so that if you only care about building an app, you can just come in and do that. And it could be Coca Cola, but it just could be crypto natives who aren't infrastructure developers but know laser focused on the app layer, which eventually we need. We eventually want more of that, I think.
00:35:16.210 - 00:36:06.838, Speaker B: I mean, there's so many examples of this, of like heroku and Docker and all the different just put your infrastructure in a box, get spun up. Sure, it's going to work for like 10,000 concurrent users, not 10 million. But you could test your app, you could build it, you can do all the different things you needed to without really having to worry about it. And I think easing the access points of infrastructure ultimately will make the applications better. And I know we were talking about this, a podcast or two of like infrastructure phase versus application phase and when are we finally going to start seeing the applications? It felt like ECC was a lot of infrastructure. Well it is because we still need to solve a lot in infrastructure. But one of the big ways that we can cross over into the application phase is we get a bunch of application developers to not have to worry about infrastructure.
00:36:06.838 - 00:36:09.746, Speaker B: And I think this is a good example of that.
00:36:09.848 - 00:37:05.602, Speaker A: I agree. One thing, the last question that I'll ask you here. It's interesting to hear you say that maybe the docker example being good of maybe there's some sort of sequence here where you first try to get a little bit of product market fit and you would use something like a conduit. Maybe even before that you're an app on Main chain or something like that. You're just trying to just get your product out there in an MVP type state and you don't care that much about the granularity of your ecosystem, but it's just really important that you get it out there in the cheapest, most cost efficient way. Then maybe step two is to build on a platform like the Op stack that leverages Conduit and that's infra in a box and maybe that gets you to, I don't know, 100,000, 205,000,000 users, maybe. But then eventually the question is, what do you do after that? Because once you have Product Market Fit, I think there's a technical part of this discussion which is, okay, does conduit still make sense for me at that level of scale? But there's also a bundling benefit.
00:37:05.602 - 00:37:44.570, Speaker A: I think one way to understand what's going on with Law of Chains and all of these different roll ups is there's always going to be a little bit of attention. I think the game they're trying to play is we want the next big app that gets Product Market Fit to be built on our chain. And if we put it all on the super chain, then everyone will derive the benefit of that. Yeah, everyone thinks like that, except for the app that gets Product Market Fit and is like, hey, you guys are riding my coattails. And that's challenging. So what I've always envisioned happening after that is Cosmos, because that's the next sort of logical step where you can own everything. You can own everything full stack.
00:37:44.570 - 00:37:56.674, Speaker A: And it doesn't make sense for so many products now because so few products have Product Market Fit. But eventually you could see a lot of springboarding layer twos moving over to the Cosmos system. What do you think about that?
00:37:56.712 - 00:38:27.118, Speaker B: I've always thought that you're going to have some similar progression of you start off as a smart contract on a really cost effective chain. It's not going to be built for scale. It's going to be built for assessing product market fit. Then maybe you move into a more cost effective environment where you need the scale, where the liquidity exists. You start to harden your product, your service. You test the scale, you test the capabilities of it, and then it moves into more of a multi chain experience. And I think that's where the growth phase comes in.
00:38:27.118 - 00:38:58.866, Speaker B: It's sort of like, okay, we built everything within Op, and we started off as a smart contract. Now we have our own Token or our own L2. But then we need to move to Base and E L One, and we need avalanche and everything salana. Who knows? We need to build instances everywhere to be able to attract all the potential users. And then, yeah, I think there is a question as to and we haven't really even seen that many examples of that right now. Like, you've got Aave across a bunch of different blockchains, and you've got uniswap. We'll see exactly how uniswap X works.
00:38:58.866 - 00:39:53.810, Speaker B: And maybe that's the router that enables the unified product experience across chain. I think it will be and you're starting to see cross chain compatibility. dYdX will be the first real kind of test for that fourth phase, which is own your own L One. And I think that there are obviously a ton of benefits for having that. There are also a lot of additional costs and a lot of new core competencies that you have to build within the team to be able to do that well. And this is like an oversimplification and personal example, but when I was at Dropbox, one of the big questions and Dropbox historically was basically like cloud storage built on top of AWS and with a nice syncing function in your utility bar. But all the storage data existed in S Three and we're the largest AWS customer by longshot.
00:39:53.810 - 00:41:32.106, Speaker B: There is this huge effort to move all the data off AWS and build your own data centers and own your own data yourself. And I think one of the more interesting things that happened with that was there was a strategic value to owning your own data and being able to, when the server goes down, call up a Dropbox employee versus an Amazon employee. But it was found to be NPV negative for that transaction to move everything off of AWS just because of the economies of scale that AWS had versus running your own infrastructure. Obviously not the same example, but there is a question of what is the scale and security guarantees that you get with an ETH L One. And one interesting variable here, I've already mentioned his name, but Rajiv within framework did some analysis on this of just like where is EIP 4844, where is that kind of trending and what are some of the updates? And the basic update is it's looking like it will be roughly ten times cheaper for an optimistic chain to put Call data on L One, at least Ethereum. And that does change the economics pretty fundamentally in favor of maybe it is actually just better to put the security guarantees into ethereum. The cost of call data is going to go down in order of magnitude and you're going to be able to have a pretty inexpensive to run potential roll up that you can have for yourself, maybe at that.
00:41:32.106 - 00:42:09.586, Speaker B: Third. Phase of growth where you're running your own l two hat tip to him for all the analysis that he did and kind of the understanding there. But it does beg the question of where do you want the value to accrue? Is it going to be something that exists in the sequencer layer and you kind of have differentiation on the sequencer as we've been talking about or do you eventually get to a state where you're like, okay, I just have to have my own chain and I have to run my own security model myself. I think it's probably more of the former, especially if prices continue to go down for L2 S and then you differentiate on business model of the sequencer.
00:42:09.698 - 00:42:46.030, Speaker A: So the point about Call data being more inexpensive is, I think a very good one. Someone posted a blog post a while ago transaction throughput is overrated. And the point they were trying to make is people cite TPS quite a bit in terms of cost efficiency. But really one of the big bottlenecks is data availability and the cost of posting data. So computation and throughput is obviously much cheaper, much faster on the layer twos. But there's still this bottleneck of Ethereum. Now, there are a couple of other solutions to this, right? Call data is going to be cheaper with 4844, I think is the name of the upgrade.
00:42:46.030 - 00:43:35.518, Speaker A: But there's also going to be some other data availability solutions. So Ignda is one where validators that opt into running an alternative data availability solution will be able to process that'll be another solution for posting call data. Celestia is another routing sort of solution. There was an interesting post from Dankrad on Twitter today. So one of the I actually posted something about this a couple of weeks ago coming back from Modular Summit, but kind of as an interesting thought experiment. If your chain, let's say you use the SVM for execution, you use Celestia for data availability, but then you settle to Ethereum, what kind of chain are you exactly? It's kind of interesting and it's sort of a malformed question, to be honest. But all of the responses that I got were it's the settlement layer.
00:43:35.518 - 00:43:43.218, Speaker A: I'm not 100% sure about that, actually. It's a worthwhile question, I think.
00:43:43.304 - 00:44:00.220, Speaker B: I think there's actually two different perspectives and it's a question of to whom are you asking the question of what blockchain are you? Is it the developers? Because that's the settlement chain. Is it the users? Because that's the execution engine.
00:44:01.390 - 00:44:02.860, Speaker A: That's a really good point.
00:44:03.310 - 00:44:04.060, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:44:05.150 - 00:44:25.806, Speaker A: Point being all this is just going to be exciting to watch how it plays out. And I think everyone's going to have their assumptions tested quite a bit in the coming years, but that'll be fun. Speaking of assumptions getting tested, we should move on to XRP. It looks like the SEC is feeling that decision. What do you think about that?
00:44:25.908 - 00:45:52.686, Speaker B: Yeah, well, so this is me putting on my fake legal hat, my fake lawyer hat. So it's an interlocutory appeal. And what that means is, and I read the whole thing yesterday, there's three variables that constitute whether or not there should be an interlocutory appeal. And paraphrasing, I'm going to miss parts, so forgive me, but it's effectively like, does this cause confusion in the marketplace? And is there sort of like an impending reason why we need to do this sooner rather than later? The typical appeal process would wait for the full conclusion of the suit to play through, and that would also include the specific complaints against the former and existing CEOs, which is probably a year away. And so you can either file an interlocutory appeal on the existing summary judgments right now and see how that plays out, or you can wait for the entire thing to be finalized and then appeal either the whole thing or components of the case. And so they chose the former in that they wanted to do the interlocutory appeal, specifically referencing two facts. Number one, that the judge in the Terra case said effectively dismissed the motion for dismissal by saying that the precedent that's set in the Ripple case does not apply here.
00:45:52.686 - 00:47:05.138, Speaker B: And that one is sort of a weak argument, but basically saying we can't use the precedent set in the Ripple case to therefore dismiss this case. These are two separate cases. The bigger one, I thought, was the confusion that lies now in the Coinbase suit, which they also referenced, saying, Coinbase has put through a motion to dismiss our case. And they referenced Ripple as one of the reasonings for why they should dismiss the obviously, you know, I think I obviously don't know exactly what's going to happen. I don't know where sort of the winds are blowing in terms of these perspectives. It seems like the timeline here is in the next weeks, not months, in terms of figuring out whether or not this will happen. I know that what does happen is the judge in the Ripple case, as well as the Second Circuit itself, will have to approve this interlocutory appeal, which will effectively pause all of the continuing stuff going on in the Ripple case until they can reassess the points that were summary judgmented a couple of weeks ago.
00:47:05.138 - 00:47:36.666, Speaker B: So it's interesting, I think a lot of people who know more than I do were expecting something like this to happen. So it's not as a huge surprise. And this was actually the week that everybody was saying, if it's going to happen, it's going to happen this week. So it'll just be interesting to see how it plays out. I think we can't hope for these different opinions and different judges to come and create the new standard. That's not how these rulings work. We have to have new rules and regulations.
00:47:36.666 - 00:48:00.806, Speaker B: So I think this just furthers the need for there to be congressional action and that stuff that's happening concurrently. And we'll see where that lands in a couple of months once recess is over. But yeah, it's unexpected or not anything that's unexpected, and I would say it's probably 50 50 as to where it ends up.
00:48:00.828 - 00:48:40.850, Speaker A: Now, I think the generally expected, or the consensus would be that if this were to get reversed, then the only two crypto assets that would be pretty safe from being deemed securities would be Bitcoin and ETH. I think it's up in the air for almost everything else. Then I think you need to probably reapply the discount rate that you were applying on other altcoins. Frankly, it's definitely something very meaningful. I have no knowledge, really, no special knowledge better than anyone else listening to this show on how these things play out in court. So I guess we'll just knock on some wood and cross our fingers here, because that would kind of suck if it got reversed.
00:48:41.430 - 00:49:36.798, Speaker B: I mean, the other thing here, too is, okay, so let's say this does get appealed and it does go through and it goes through in favor of the SEC. Well, the next step would be to reappeal and I'm sure Ripple would do this, reappeal to the, that's, you know, obviously a choice that the SEC has decided to go forward with. But one of the perspectives that I heard is, well if you appeal it, you run the risk of having it go your way the next time. But the next and final step after that is the final boss, the Supreme Court. And we know how they feel about overreaching administrative bodies just based off of some of the rulings that they've had in the last six months. And that court's probably not going to change in the next three to five years when that would get adjudicated. So it is a risk for the SEC as they progress this up and up the hill.
00:49:36.894 - 00:50:05.070, Speaker A: You guys led an investment in Spearbit. Now I think being formally named Cantina or that's the name of the marketplace that they're creating. But talk to us a little bit about that investment because I feel like auditing is just so critically important these days for DeFi protocols that we're coming off two weeks off the back of the curve exploit and it just feels more than ever that we need to solve this issue. So yeah, what was behind the investment or whatever you can say.
00:50:05.140 - 00:51:06.610, Speaker B: Yeah, so 100% agree on the need to solve this. It's probably one of the most glaring issues that has existed since day one that hasn't been solved and it's not something that you can really solve with a clean, easy fix. Cybersecurity in general is sort of a whack a mole problem, and everybody continues to get more sophisticated over time on both. The the backstory is spirit is, you know, they're one of the top brands in auditing over the last few years and have sort of the traditional business model of engagements where they dive in and do a project, do an audit. There are some cycles on it, but they're really kind of meaty sized projects where these can be 100 and 5200 thousand dollars per engagement with tens to hundreds of hours of security researchers time going into these specific audits. And that is big. They're clunky, they're kind of hard to schedule.
00:51:06.610 - 00:52:15.954, Speaker B: Back in the bull cycle, you'd hear of people like prescheduling nine months out for their audit with one of these firms because they wanted to reserve that time so that they wouldn't have to wait another six months once they finish the work to be able to get the audited. I mean, it's a finite resource and these things take time. And so from that and really kind of the thesis is cantina will become more of a marketplace for security where you can have bite sized engagements and continued work with consistent security researchers who know basically know extensions of your team that can help with hey, we can do a full engagement. We can do the full audit, but maybe you need to check an upgrade. Or maybe you need to spend three weeks this week, and it'll be on more of a bite size per hour type engagement. So really kind of turning the security model and the existing business model of a lot of these firms on its head. I mean, the other thing too is when you have an engagement, a vast minority of that total engagement value is actually going to the security researchers.
00:52:15.954 - 00:52:53.534, Speaker B: And so they miss out on a whole ton of the economics that they're generating. And we feel like that's unfair and we want to make sure that we are lifting up security researchers and being able to create brands for themselves, whether they're full time or part time workers in this industry. Being able to have reputation, I think, will go a long way to creating long standing relationships and you'll better understand who the best people are and they're going to be able to rise the ranks and it'll be kind of a fun game to see how it plays out. So yeah, excited to see this new model go forward and excited to invest in Spribbit.
00:52:53.662 - 00:53:17.226, Speaker A: How are you thinking about managing in terms of one of the things that I always think about with marketplaces like this, where you're connecting two different groups of people who will mostly be working in an offline sort of environment? How do you ensure that people don't kind of come off the platform and end, know, trying to Circumvent cantina and not pay the I mean, I think.
00:53:17.248 - 00:53:57.014, Speaker B: With any business, any marketplace, it comes down to a few things. It's sort of like ease of use. So how easy is it for the marketplace? If the marketplace is a point of friction, then you're DOA. If it's a facilitator of these types of interactions, then it actually is a lubricant. So things like payment facilitation and I think all of that makes it really easy. But the big one here is also reputation. And so if you have really high reputation on platform, you're able to garner more work or higher per hour work, that becomes your business.
00:53:57.014 - 00:54:42.598, Speaker B: Right? And I think a lot of that you could think about it like in an airbnb model of people wanting to be on the airbnb platform because that's their inflow of new opportunities and people will go to the branded place to find those opportunities when they're demanding the services and supply will exist there. And so if you can build successful controls around easing friction and making reputation and revenue opportunities on both sides, I think that's how you build a really liquid market for this. Because really that's what it is. It's a marketplace for security. And there's a lot of other stuff that's in the hopper in the works right now, but those are kind of.
00:54:42.604 - 00:55:21.474, Speaker A: The basic principles it's been a week. Hopefully we come back next week with more good news. Honestly, another PayPal type company launching a stable. But if this one thing that I have had a takeaway just being in Blockworks for the years, the news is just so uncorrelated to price some of the things that have happened in the last couple of months news wise. If this had been a bull market, there would have been Tweets with 10,000 likes and people would be saying the market's going up because of this news. And the market do not have the correlated relationship that people think. I really believe it.
00:55:21.512 - 00:56:26.914, Speaker B: So I was actually thinking about this this week, thinking about PayPal launching a stable coin on Ethereum. Okay, if you take it all the way back and you bring it back to 2017, ethereum would have popped 100% on that day, right? And it has a lot to do with liquidity and interest, but that's like, oh my gosh, enterprise Ethereum Alliance is actually doing something and it's legit. It's not just promises of these BD relationships which even move ethereum 40 or 50% when they announced that day, you get more mature and you're like, okay, in 2020, if we had a couple of stable coins and we had a couple of D Five protocols that were working, but then you have PayPal stepping in and the big brand and they're going to bring it like the institutions are coming. Became real because the institutions literally got here how big that would have been. That would have been a huge day as well. And I think Ethereum was flat when PayPal launched this year. I think there is an element of the industry matures to where proof is in the pudding.
00:56:26.914 - 00:57:35.070, Speaker B: Just because there's an announcement doesn't mean anything. Let's show me in the data after it's working. I think there's also some questions as to will they be able to get this or is this going to be another know, announce the protocol, the product and have know show up on your front door. And then also we already have so many working centralized and decentralized protocols, stablecoin protocols, and is the market saturated there with USDC? And the other one that we didn't really talk about on the decentralized side is like Dai has had a heck of a know with the DSR changes and it's jumped up like six or $700 million this week. And there's some really interesting stuff going on in the stablecoin market. So it's sort of like, do we need another one right now? But ultimately this will be positive. I think the data will actually come through and number of people who use PayPal religiously and I'm sure would love to entertain using Pay USD is actually pretty high.
00:57:35.070 - 00:57:40.480, Speaker B: So I'm very hopeful for this one. I don't think it's just to be a flash in the pan.
00:57:42.850 - 00:58:15.834, Speaker A: Yeah, me too. I've flip flopped a little bit. We covered makers endgame a little while ago. Where I was not super positive on it. I recently come around a little bit on it and think I maybe I still don't feel like I fully understand it, but I've started to change my mind on it a little bit. But here's what I generally think about stablecoins is that the market for a stablecoin, a successful stablecoin at scale is gigantic and it's very difficult to do. History would prove that out.
00:58:15.834 - 00:58:44.910, Speaker A: So if you're going to be offering a stablecoin, I would like to see that be the only thing that you do is generally how I think about this stuff because I think it's just too much. I think if you're viewing your stablecoin as an alternate revenue stream or something that fits into a broader pie, it's just too risky and it's already going to be hyper competitive and intense and I already think it's going to be a winner take most market. So that's sort of my thought on stable coins is that if you're going to issue a stable coin, it should just be the only thing you do.
00:58:45.000 - 00:59:07.718, Speaker B: Totally fair and endgame is going to be really fun to watch is kind of my perspective and I'm glad we're taking shots, like trying different things. Excited to see all that, but I agree. I think building your own currency is a difficult enough economic equation.
00:59:07.814 - 00:59:35.878, Speaker A: Circle had 779,000,000 in revenue for first half of year, already surpassing the 772,000,000 for all of 2022. The private firm generated 219,000,000 in adjusted earnings before interest. So EBITDA outpacing the 150,000,000 for all of last year. They have over a billion in cash on the balance sheet. So it's been a tough couple of months from the market perspective, like a market cap perspective of USDC, but they've got a money printing machine on their hands.
00:59:35.964 - 01:00:07.680, Speaker B: Definitely great for them. We need more Jeremy Alairs. And more circles. But it actually makes sense because think about it, june, July last year was when interest rates started rising and that's half the year. And we've just passed the first half of the year and it's almost the exact same. You turn you turn on interest rates for half of last year and the first half of this year, the number is probably going to be the same. I would guess they'll finish the year at twice what they did last year.
01:00:08.370 - 01:00:18.130, Speaker A: That's so Michael, do you think when JPOW started hiking interest rates, jeremy was just like, let's go, boys.
01:00:19.510 - 01:00:26.900, Speaker B: He's doing cartwheels. Yeah, it's an interest rate business.
01:00:30.010 - 01:00:57.566, Speaker A: I agree, though I feel like it prints in both directions because in a bull market, there's just more capital coming into the space. Overall, it's probably good for your business, but in a bear market, there's probably a pretty high correlation between bear markets and when interest rates are going up. And then at the same time, stablecoin dominance probably goes up. During a bear market, I would guess a lot of people used to move entirely into Bitcoin, but now they probably go into stables. What a business.
01:00:57.668 - 01:01:05.454, Speaker B: Exactly that is. Yeah. I also don't think we're getting back to Zerp anytime soon, so I think they're going to be around for a while.
01:01:05.652 - 01:01:23.302, Speaker A: No, I don't think so either. You referenced CPI. That report came out at 830 this morning. I think still below expectations. It was 3.2 headline versus 3.3 expected, but it was basically in line it was basically in line with what folks thought.
01:01:23.302 - 01:01:37.400, Speaker A: And Jpowell did say during the last FOMC that he doesn't expect 2% inflation to come back until 2025. So that's probably an important date to lock down.
01:01:39.290 - 01:01:39.982, Speaker B: Higher for long.
01:01:39.996 - 01:01:49.740, Speaker A: Longer hire for longer, baby. Higher for longer. Macro. We got our macro pod commentary in there. I think we can end it on that, Michael, and see you here next week.
