00:00:05.370 - 00:00:27.960, Speaker A: So with that, we are ready for our next talk, and that is us going deeper into how the Lens Protocol is set up so you can actually learn about the internals of what you can actually do from a graph standpoint. And without further ado, I'd like to welcome David and Josh to go into all those details. Josh, David, appreciate this and I'll let you get started.
00:00:30.570 - 00:00:42.634, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much. Let me get our little presentation up here. GM, everyone. My name is David. I'm the product manager for social over at Ave companies.
00:00:42.634 - 00:01:26.950, Speaker B: And that includes Lens. And I'm super fortunate to be joined today by Josh, josh Stevens. He is one of our amazing leading lead backend devs who helped create the Lens API, which we're going to get into later today. We just want to give a quick overview of the lens protocol. Why we built it, what you can do with it. What are some awesome things you can hack on it, try to give out some ideas, some alpha, as well as what the lens API is, why we built it, and what are some of the things you guys can build with it? So, without ado, let's kind of jump into a quick overview of Lens Protocol. So why did we go out and build Lens? Well, web two, social media is broken.
00:01:26.950 - 00:01:46.522, Speaker B: Networks, they sell your data. I think this was mentioned a lot in the last session. But you're paying with your personal information to get distribution. There's no such thing as privacy. The reason you're not paying for Facebook, you're not paying for Twitter is they're taking your data. They're turning around and selling ads. And additionally, your data is not portable.
00:01:46.522 - 00:02:33.306, Speaker B: As a creator, as a user, I am bound to the network I'm working with. If all of a sudden Facebook or YouTube decides to turn me off for any reason, I've lost my audience, I've lost my content, I've lost my connection to my fans. And that can spell the end of a career. In addition, I have no ability to go between any two services. It turns this social graph into a moat, whether or not the app is better. If I'm a startup and I've created this really great new user experience, these new fair algorithms or something that people like, I have to jump start this graph and I'm at a huge disadvantage even though I have an objectively better product. And lastly, user data centralized, right? We've all seen what happens when large databases exist.
00:02:33.306 - 00:03:11.810, Speaker B: They become targets for hackers, bad actors. Things can get hacked, data gets leaked. Never a good situation. The last thing we need is more scams and more hacks. And so the goal with Lens is to use Web Three tools to bring power back to the users, back to the creators, and really change the game theory of Web Two social. It's currently zero sum. Facebook only makes money off of data in their system, as does Twitter, as does TikTok, and they're all incentivized to really lock you into those ecosystems, build in positive feedback loops.
00:03:11.810 - 00:03:49.826, Speaker B: Using Web Three, we can turn on a Ted, and we're going to do that with Lens Protocol. We are going to allow developers to build apps and tools on a singular composable and decentralized social graph. So what does that mean? It means that we are going to have all of the data built using NFT technology owned by users on a permissionless blockchain. We are currently building on Polygon. Our testnets are on the Mumbai testnet. We're getting ready to go to Mainnet soon. And it allows app developers to focus on the user experience on a UI, a UX and content moderation rather than user acquisition.
00:03:49.826 - 00:04:31.118, Speaker B: And for creators and users, you own your links to your audience, you own your content and you own your monetization. And if you don't like a certain platform and you want to go elsewhere, it's as easy as clicking currently today Connect Wallet. I agree with what Bellaji said in the last session of hopefully we get better terminology. So with that, let's dive into a little bit of how Lens works under the hood. What is the actual kind of infrastructure that we're building? The first kind of key primitive is the profile. The profile NFT. If you've ever worked with unstoppable domains or very, very similar, we have this NFT that represents your profile.
00:04:31.118 - 00:04:59.078, Speaker B: It's got your handle. For example, I could be at David, Josh would be at Josh. It lives in my wallet. I can have multiple in the same way that when I'm on Twitter, I have at David E. Silverman, my nice fancy professional account, and a couple of anons where I like to post things that I want to keep personal. It's minted upon creation. I can have other metadata on there, maybe a bio, but I also have this special array that I can fill with publications.
00:04:59.078 - 00:05:32.546, Speaker B: This is where I kind of post my content to, and we'll come back to exactly what publications are in a minute. In addition, it has another field called a follow module, and we're going to come to that a bit later as well. The next thing we have is following. We represent follow with a follow. NFT if my wallet Davidv ETH wants to follow at Josh, I will execute that transaction using Lens and I will receive a at Josh follow NFT. It'll say that I follow at Josh. It will have a token ID based on the order I followed.
00:05:32.546 - 00:06:36.220, Speaker B: So I'm his fifth follower, and it will also have a reference to his latest publication, which is really interesting because it means when I go to try to render this, follow NFT in any wallet, whether that be rainbow. Or even a smart contract wallet like Nosisafe or I go to OpenSea or Zapper, it's going to resolve to whatever his last publication was. Which means every single wallet has now become a distribution mechanism for me as a creator, a content creator. In addition, these follow NFTs have built in governance, and so every creator has a built in social token, just without the ERC 20. Let's say Josh tweets out a bunch of really great developer alpha. He publishes out a lot of great stuff on Solidity. He can pull his audience should he be doing on snapshot? You can say I want my 1st 500 followers, have them tell me if I want to do some more stuff on maybe Ave V Three, or if I should be diving into Alchemy's V two and let his audience kind of decide what he wants to build.
00:06:36.220 - 00:07:12.600, Speaker B: We then kind of get into what a publication is. So a publication is just really kind of a bunch of metadata that says where to find content. And some things about that content lens takes is completely agnostic as to where the actual data itself is stored. You could reference a place on chain, you could also reference IPFS, AR, weave, ceramic, you could even reference old Web Two, a URL or an S three bucket. And that just tells you where to get the content. And in the metadata you can fill out anything as you normally would. You can even say what application it was posted with.
00:07:12.600 - 00:07:46.850, Speaker B: You can also add this thing called a collect module, which will produce a collect NFT. This allows any publication to be turned into its own standalone NFT, where the creator kind of defines the Minting logic. Let's say I post this really great image of a recent trip to London. I can set monetization. I want to allow anyone to be able to collect this. That's our term for mint for one ETH. And when they go through and pay me the One ETH, all of a sudden they have a collect NFT in their wallet exactly mirrored from the original publication.
00:07:46.850 - 00:08:32.910, Speaker B: I can even include additional logic for mirrors. Mirrors is how somebody retweets. So if somebody wants to share my content, let's say I post that really great image of my trip from London and Josh decides to mirror that on his own feed and somebody collects it from seeing Josh's feed. I can actually specify a certain amount of that Mint fee to go to Josh's wallet. And so we can actually even incentivize curation entirely on chain. Publications come in three types regular posts, which is the plain use case I've posted an image, or I've posted a piece of text, or I've posted a video using Livepeer. It also has this concept of comment, which is a reference to another publication as well as some additional content.
00:08:32.910 - 00:09:18.110, Speaker B: So I can comment on someone else's image with my own image, maybe it's a meme with my own text, this is a great image. Or again, any other arbitrary content. And the last type of publication is a mirror. Just a simple reference that's the same thing as a retweet or a share. We're talking in current web two formulation. Now, as a Web Three developer, how can I kind of build in interesting extensions to Lens? Well, Lens kind of has these things called modules and they allow you to build arbitrary logic onto Lens protocol and they come in three places and they are really powerful. The first one is the follow module and this is set on a per profile basis.
00:09:18.110 - 00:10:00.730, Speaker B: The follow module runs it's arbitrary, logical will run and it has to resolve to a boolean yes or no to let you know whether or not a follow NFT is minted. So when my wallet Davidv ETH tries to follow at Josh, his follow module will run and using some series of conditions, will decide whether or not me, David EV ETH the wallet is allowed to follow him. And we can do really powerful things with that. I can say that only people who hold certain NFTs are allowed to follow me. Maybe I want to restrict it to certain NFTs on Polygon. Or I could even use a chain link oracle to say you have to hold an AVAX warrior on AVAX or a Board Ape or a punk on Mainnet in order to follow me. I can make it payment.
00:10:00.730 - 00:10:31.990, Speaker B: You have to pay me five ETH to follow me. I could make it you have to have some co op or been at these different events. You can make it as complex as you would like any of these, so long as it kind of just comes back to a zero one balance. Additionally, you can have that follow NFT go to a smart contract. You could use that to build out subscriptions. If you don't top up this contract every now and then with Buymatic every month, I'm going to pull away your follow relationship. And now we've built kind of subscriptions.
00:10:31.990 - 00:11:16.494, Speaker B: The next one is a reference module and this is run before somebody tries to comment or mirror my piece of content. So I post an image, let's say via my at David profile. If at Josh wants to try to comment or mirror, the reference module will run on a per publication basis and decide whether or not remember a boolean answer at the end whether or not Josh is allowed to reference either comment or mirror. And again, I can do simple token gating. Only people with 32 FWB are allowed to reply to my content. Only people who have certain NFTs are allowed to reply to my content. And I can combine this with other higher level integrations.
00:11:16.494 - 00:12:20.902, Speaker B: A really interesting use case would be what if I wanted to build a completely private social network on top of Lens? Well, I could have the actual content in a publication be stored in ceramic encrypted using lit protocol, another sponsor in this hackathon, and I could have the access control be you need to have at least 32 ETH in your wallet to get the decryption in order to see what the post is. And I can also have the comment collect and mirror functions all require that I have 32 FWB in my wallet at a given time. And then the only people who are allowed to engage with my content view, sorry, read and write need to be in my community. So that's reference and the last area is collect. I think collect is really the most powerful and that is logic that is run to decide whether or not this kind of collect NFT, this NFT that references this original publication is minted. So the example is I post an image and I can say for one E this gets minted out into an NFT that you can control. I can set a cap.
00:12:20.902 - 00:12:37.418, Speaker B: Hey, you only can do this five times. You can do this five times with incrementing. So the first one is one ETH, the next one is 1.1 e. We can also do really complex logic. The community has really jumped at this. The community wrote one that does DeFi aware NFTs.
00:12:37.418 - 00:13:18.170, Speaker B: So I will sell my NFT for five matic, but before the transaction completes, it takes the matic, deposits it into Aave and sends the a tokens to the creators. Now, creators have kind of self driving NFTs. We have another one. The great folks over at Klima came and built in the refi collect module, which you could even extend the logic further and say, hey, take some of the look at how much gas this transaction used. Convert that to carbon offsets, take some of the incoming the incoming funds, convert it using toucan to base carbon token, retire it on chain and now my entire transaction is carbon neutral.
00:13:20.830 - 00:13:21.866, Speaker C: So that's some of the stuff you.
00:13:21.888 - 00:14:05.660, Speaker B: Can do with collect and different ways for people to build on top of Lens and what our goal with Lens is to really foster a broad, diverse and evolving social ecosystem. Fully composable and transferable on chain social graph. You can go from one application to another. You can bring all of your followers, you can bring all of your content, you can bring all of your NFTs and it's composable to any other application, whether it be NFT, Minters, whether it's DeFi or other blockchain. Applications that are yet to come, can build on top of these existing tools that we're building. Follower NFTs allow for social DAOs and new types of social tokens. Governance mechanisms including snapshot, delegation and compatibility with Ave Governance as well as Governor Bravo are fully built in.
00:14:05.660 - 00:14:56.310, Speaker B: And lastly, the real key thing is modularity. We allow developers to focus on the experience and the front end and leave the network effects to the protocol. You don't need to create a bootstrapping plan. As users start using any application built with Lens, your application has access to all of those users as well. We called the protocol Lens as the Lens plant enriches the soil around it and allows other plants to grow around it. And that's kind of our view from the ecosystem changing from a zero sum game that we currently see in Web Two to a collaborative sum game in Web three. Now, in addition to just the Web Three, the Web three hooks that we have with modules, josh is going to talk to you about the Lens API, which is something that we have built at Ave to allow solidity, free Web Three social development.
00:14:56.470 - 00:14:57.290, Speaker C: Josh.
00:14:58.590 - 00:15:05.946, Speaker D: Cheers, David. Bear with me, I have got COVID, but I should be okay. So, yeah, we have built an API.
00:15:05.978 - 00:15:06.814, Speaker E: For all of this.
00:15:06.932 - 00:15:57.482, Speaker D: So if you're building a social media site, the key things that are super important is speed. If you're on Twitter, et cetera, et cetera. If you lose that speed, it becomes unfun scalability and traceability. All these things are super important to be able to get to. Now, we were building an API anyway for our own internal needs, but we thought, why not share that with you guys? So the API abstracts all the complex things about the protocol away. So, as David's been talking about, how many amazing features there is, like modules, different kind of modules that take in different input parameters, all these kind of things, the API abstracts that away to a simple enum with standard stuff to pass in. If you want to enable a reference module that only your followers can comment, it's a boolean.
00:15:57.482 - 00:16:28.806, Speaker D: And it will construct the data for you, the sign type data, and then you just send it on the client. So it's more of more of a helper tool and a traceability tool. And we think it's super important that if we're going to build the next social platform, that we have tools. So Web Two developers can just focus on building a say, board, ape community or anything like that without having to understand the protocol completely, because it is quite overwhelming with how many features there is. So that's the idea. Do you want to hit the next slide?
00:16:28.838 - 00:16:29.530, Speaker C: David.
00:16:31.310 - 00:17:13.350, Speaker D: So build front ends fast with Lens API, so you don't have to worry about indexing or querying the data or reorgs or speed of fetching the data. Everything is done for you and everything's done super quick. So we have an indexer watching all the data. We index that data so we can grab it quick. And when you get a publication back, all that data is extracted for you. If someone said, hello world, that data would say Content, hello world, it would extract the module for you, saying they have a fee to collect this, which is zero one ETH. And then you have a simple way to be able to construct that and redeem it with another function called collect.
00:17:13.350 - 00:17:53.858, Speaker D: So all these things allow you to really just focus on what you guys need to build and want to build. You don't have to deal with any real data. So we have crons watching the data, making sure that the hash still exists and then removing them away from the queries if they don't exist anymore. We have full caching layer on there to allow this to be super quick. The queries are really fast to kind of grab everything that you want. Some of this data to grab is super complex. Like a publication can include how many times it's been mirrored, how many times it's been collected, how many comments it's got.
00:17:53.858 - 00:18:27.566, Speaker D: A publication is an unlimited pointer. So what I mean by that is you can have a post and a comment and it can go unlimited depth and it can keep pointing and pointing and pointing. So being able to scale that like how Facebook and Twitter do really quickly to have that user experience is super important. You don't have to worry about pre filling the contract data or validating it. And what I mean by that is we have these with SIG methods that you just pass. You want to collect a publication and all you literally do is pass the publication ID. It will construct you all the type data for you.
00:18:27.566 - 00:18:55.714, Speaker D: It will a validate that you conform to all the modules as well. So say you have to follow to collect this publication, it will validate that for you and throw a Web Two error saying hey, you don't follow this person so you can't collect. It does that for everything. If you don't have enough balance, if you haven't approved enough for the token, all these things allow a much better development experience where straight away you know, oh, that's gone wrong with the protocol and this person doesn't have enough balance.
00:18:55.762 - 00:18:57.010, Speaker C: Et cetera, et cetera.
00:18:57.170 - 00:19:35.730, Speaker D: As I said before, it's a web, two style interface. So if you go to the Twitter API, it's super easy to just go and get all the followers or following. Yes, it's heavily rate, limited, but we took inspiration from kind of the Web Two interfaces and just as easy as to get the followers that are on Twitter. It's just as easy to get the followers that are on Lens, it's just as easy to grab all the publications, it's just as easy to get everything a user has collected. And all these things is super important for growth for the Lens protocol. And I think one of the biggest things is there's not a huge learning curve. The whole API is built using GraphQL.
00:19:35.730 - 00:19:53.980, Speaker D: It's super easy to fetch what you need when you need it and you can just focus on the stuff that you want to build. So all the documentation is there for you to use. And yeah, we're super excited for you guys to use it and give us some feedback about how it helped you or how we could improve it. Yeah, it's super cool.
00:19:57.150 - 00:20:24.450, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks Josh. A few other things I want to point out about the API that I think are going to be kind of key and also point a bit about the strategy we're doing with Lens. The first thing is we want to give Web Three developers really awesome new, powerful tools to build with. Some of the ones we're super excited about are these DFI aware NFTs with collects. We're really trying to see what people can do with follow NFTs and this concept of social dows. On the web two side, we want to make things easy and approachable for brand new developers.
00:20:24.450 - 00:20:59.358, Speaker B: Not every single person wants to be an expert in solidity or should be an expert in solidity. The reason Web Three social is going to win out is because we're approachable for everyone, and that is really the goal with the Lens API. We also want to make sure that every single application built on the Lens API is going to get a top notch set of features. So beyond just access to the full social graph, there are built in queries for search, for timeline, for Explorer common pages. You may want to put in a social graph. In addition, we have a data science team. We've kind of said that Aave is working on its own front end.
00:20:59.358 - 00:21:22.994, Speaker B: The same algorithms will be powering that are going to be ported through the API. So as those algorithms kind of get built out and improved, your application will gain from that as well. We think that's kind of a big thing. We want to help out. Not everyone's a data science expert. You can kind of pump in from an existing awesome data science team. And the last thing is really making easy to use tools so people can focus on novel and unique experiences.
00:21:22.994 - 00:21:30.410, Speaker B: We want to abstract away the blockchain for developers who may not be familiar with it. And that's really the design goal of the Lens API.
00:21:30.910 - 00:22:17.142, Speaker D: Can I just add one more thing, just to put it into perspective of how much easier that it makes for you to unfollow someone? Actually, to do that, you have to burn the follower NFT of that profile. Now that profile itself, every profile has their own follower contract address, right? And you could have minted three or four different tokens in there. And on chain, there's no way to go, hey, how many tokens do I own of this? Without looking at the indexer. But with the API, you literally just go, I want to unfollow this profile. It will construct all the data for you, it will do all the joins that needs to happen, and all you do is sign and send that transaction and then you've unfollowed that person. That's just one of many examples where it really helps the development of anything.
00:22:17.196 - 00:22:18.630, Speaker C: That you do on this protocol.
00:22:19.850 - 00:22:52.130, Speaker B: Definitely a big thing I want to shout out is we have our bounty tracks. I think we teased this at the start of this session. We're really looking for people to build front ends on top of it. I know there was some people talking in the chat like, is there a reference UI? Well, we hope that people build a reference UI. There's been a couple of great tools in the Lens community that's been built so far inside of if you go to the Lens discord, I think there was a simple explorer, a profile creator, and a way to build statuses. And that was running on our testnet. For anyone building, please make sure you use the new testnet.
00:22:52.130 - 00:23:40.686, Speaker B: We're looking for protocols, people who are going to build some really novel, interesting collect modules, reference modules, and follow modules. I think there was a brainstorm session we were doing in the voice chat of discord and somebody was talking about it. They were thinking you could do on chain private DMs with read receipts using custom collect modules, lit protocol and ceramic. Not saying that hits a couple of different sponsors for the hackathon and partners. Maybe it's a cool thing to build. There's tons of really awesome things that can be built here. And on the tooling side, we want to make it so that this is still a friendly place for developers, building explorers, building vampire attacks to help the entire network gain from stealing users from Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, TikTok.
00:23:40.686 - 00:24:35.620, Speaker B: I'm probably going to get in trouble with legal for saying all these names, but I'm calling out targets. We want people, we want everyone to kind of gain from web three social show that there's more use cases for blockchain than just speculative tokens. And then lastly, Stannie said earlier in the last session, you're never building by yourself, but you're always part of an ecosystem. And we've learned this really early on with Lens. The community has jumped through our bounty program and built more modules than we even built as the original Genesis team and has given so much feedback, we had to redeploy a brand new testnet just for this hackathon to make sure that people were using the most up to date feature set. And so we really encourage, as you guys are building, please provide feedback. What else do you want to see in the contracts? What else should we be putting in to all of these different primitives? Or you can write updates to the primitives yourself.
00:24:35.620 - 00:25:11.002, Speaker B: Come help build this next generation social graph. And same for the API. What else do you want to see in this API? How can we make your lives easier as developers? How can we make this community grow? How can we do it all together? How can we really help this ecosystem? So we are going to be around all week in the ETH global discord. We're going to be in the Lens discord. We're going to be on Twitter to really definitely want to hear from you on what we can do best. So that's Lens at a very high level. As always, you can reach out to anyone on the team for questions, feedback, and comments.
00:25:11.002 - 00:25:15.730, Speaker B: And we look forward to seeing what everyone here builds, and we hope you guys have a great hackathon.
00:25:17.910 - 00:25:18.980, Speaker C: Thanks, guys.
00:25:32.260 - 00:25:34.370, Speaker B: Kartik, sending it back over to you.
00:25:43.280 - 00:26:01.550, Speaker F: Hey, we're back. Kartik broke away from the had a little technical issue there, so we're going to go to a quick break. Thank you guys. That was awesome. Much appreciated. And everybody, we can hold for just a couple of minutes till our next talk comes. Thanks, everyone.
00:26:47.220 - 00:26:59.350, Speaker A: All right. Sorry about that. I had some technical difficulties on my end. Everybody. I think we are a little bit ahead of kind of.
00:27:01.560 - 00:27:02.068, Speaker C: We'Re a little.
00:27:02.074 - 00:27:04.196, Speaker A: Bit ahead of schedule here. So what we'll do is kind of.
00:27:04.218 - 00:27:04.756, Speaker E: Take a quick break.
00:27:04.778 - 00:27:29.800, Speaker A: I know a lot of you have been kind of watching this for a good 2 hours already with the logistics and the last panel and the discussion. So while we wait for the next set of speakers to kind of join in and get ready for our next talk, we will take a quick five minute break and then come back. So we'll just kind of put on a timer. In the meantime, enjoy some lo fi beats and we'll see you all very shortly.
00:27:30.620 - 00:27:31.650, Speaker C: Bye. It.
00:33:53.830 - 00:34:12.934, Speaker A: All right. Welcome everybody. Hope you had a good quick five minute break. And with that, we are ready for our next talk. So next talk we're going to talk about what does it mean to kind of get more creative on building on top of Lens. And for this panel, we actually have three amazing people. So we have Rich, Ramon and Simon from We Three.
00:34:12.934 - 00:34:24.700, Speaker A: And they're going to be talking about all the things that you can do and how you can extend your creativity with Lens. So without further ado, let's welcome all of them here on stage and allow them to turn their videos on. And I'll let you all get started.
00:34:26.270 - 00:34:33.402, Speaker C: Hey, everyone. Nice to meet you. Should we just get started, Kardik?
00:34:33.466 - 00:34:38.900, Speaker A: Absolutely, yes. Also, you should flip the video on so the live stream can see you as well.
00:34:41.350 - 00:35:11.242, Speaker C: 1 second. Just going to the start of our slides. Okay, give me 1 second. Can you see at least my slides for now? Yes. Okay, cool. Okay, Rich, Simon, are you guys ready to so I can kick it off?
00:35:11.376 - 00:35:12.940, Speaker F: Absolutely. Go for it.
00:35:13.470 - 00:35:55.078, Speaker C: Okay, cool. So welcome everybody. Thanks for being this is talk number three four. So, still staying with us and excited to have quite a few folks here to kind of listen into what we have brought to you today. Today it's a lot about kind of like what can you do with Lens and how to think differently about what products or innovation you can build on top of it and kind of like where this could lead. So I think we already heard a lot from Stani and Josh and David of what Lens is. So I shortly just kind.
00:35:55.078 - 00:36:38.790, Speaker C: Of want to introduce us in the call and maybe Rich and Simon, once you talk, you maybe can just introduce yourself very shortly who you are and kind of like what you do. But I'm ramon. I'm part of we free. We Free is a web free design collective. So we're a bunch of designers who realize that web free is growing exponentially. And it's one of the most interesting area for design to come in because it's early, because we don't really know yet how to use it best because it's still hard to use. And so we came together and we realized there's a lot of space for making the space more accessible, more inclusive, opening it up for the next generation of users.
00:36:38.790 - 00:38:08.686, Speaker C: And we primarily do this through helping through product and product design and brand strategy and really help kind of like building narratives from early ideas to actually bring it to the market. Maybe a little bit of how we got involved in Lens just to kind of like as a little bit of disclosure, we have been working with them since quite a while in the background to really shape the brand itself of Lens, but also kind of like help expand what Lens could mean for the ecosystem. I think Stani was saying it's really about building an ecosystem. And so what we have been tasked to help out in the last few weeks is really kind of like pushing the edges of what Lens could do in several places and really help to kind of shape that. So with that, I would love to shortly talk about why we or we believe or I believe social graphs matter or what social graphs are. Being a designer in that space, I think it took me quite a while to understand what the hell is a social graph? Why does it matter? And we use the metaphor of kind of like it's a little bit an iceberg. So we know social media, we know newsfeeds, we know brands lists, we know that it matters to have brands online or being able to connect to them and write with them through messengers.
00:38:08.686 - 00:39:21.882, Speaker C: But it's really kind of like just the top of the iceberg that we really see here. And there's so much data and connections and content or connections that below the surface that are part of the social graph that are not really accessible for us, but they're also kind of like the bread and butter of the traditional web, two platforms like Facebook, Twitter and all of that. So kind of like think for most people that come into this space talking about the social graph, it's really just kind of like the top of the iceberg. But what is really exciting is what lies below that. And what we mean with that is that basically everything has a social graph, right? When we started to explore Lens, it was a lot about, is this social media? Is this a new news site. Is this a feed? Is this a friend's list? What is it really? And the reality today is that basically everything that Web Two touches and potentially web Three will touch too, has a social graph, has a social component where we connect with each other being it from sending and transacting from one wallet to one wallet. Kind of like following someone's on chain activity to kind of like the more traditional web Two applications like Twitter or all of that.
00:39:21.882 - 00:40:24.670, Speaker C: So when thinking about where Lens is going, I think one thing wrong button is this is bigger than decentralized Twitter. I feel like when we start to ideate in this space we often end up with decentralized Twitter, a new news site. It's like the go to things and we really wanted with this kind of like exploration. And what we're going to show you today to kind of push what an open graph can enable for an ecosystem itself. What we mean with this is that a social graph touches obviously social media and newsfeeds, right? It's about how a newsfeed is curated, what we're seeing there. But when we start to zoom out there, it's as much about music, movies and entertainment, right? We share playlists, we get recommendations, we play together, we watch things, let's play video on Twitch together. So it's kind of like all of those has a huge social component how we kind of connect with each other and do things together.
00:40:24.670 - 00:41:38.434, Speaker C: And that can be even broader in the sense of in the realm of matchmaking. So it can lean from creators matching to create something together on TikTok through a duet, to kind of like actual matchmaking through dating to finding collaborators in a dao. So a lot of those are built on social connections and doing that. So it's like web free is already inherently social and we need to get to the next step there. And I think when we think about where a social graph can be helpful, it's as much about social media, the metaverse, governance, shopping, working, gaming, it really can encompass all of this which makes it sometimes really hard to start but also kind of shows hopefully how broadly applicable a protocol like Lens could be. So with that we wanted to kind of highlight what are some core challenges that we think we can address through new experiences and new product design. And one thing is there's a huge chance to kind of give more power or control to users.
00:41:38.434 - 00:42:59.310, Speaker C: So with web Two, Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, you name it, TikTok, we surrendered a lot of power and control for convenience, right? We give away control over our data with sign in with Google and now we have Wallets. So we're really kind of like in a state of empowering the user again. But this empowering is also kind of frightening but it's actually really kind of like a new paradigm shift for social media that you're in control of your social graph, of your connections and that you can shape it and control it. And that's quite a novelty. So the question for us really should be so how might we balance the control and the power that we gain with kind of like also ease of use through better UX and UI design here so that we still get some of that convenience back? Number two that we think is super valuable here is around insights. And the reality is we have an information, asymmetry in the current social graph world, right? Platforms like Spotify, like Google, like all of that, they have a ton of data on us, and we might potentially even have access to that, but it's really hard for us to understand and acting on that. So platforms often more know about ourselves than we do.
00:42:59.310 - 00:44:36.174, Speaker C: And I think with opening up the social graph now of that, again, this power of insight, this reflection and understanding can shift back to us. So kind of like how can we use web free on chain activity, this general, more transparency in this space to give not just to create more trust but also more insights about ourselves. So what if those open graphs that we talk about kind of really allow us to understand and reflect about ourselves, our communities in new ways? Next, I think it's important to kind of acknowledge that lens is a protocol, not a platform. And I stole this one from one of my favorite paper called Protocols in a Platform. But I think that this kind of idea of portability that you are able to choose how you experience content or being in control of that or moving your friends list or your friends list is moving with you and doesn't have to be established again is quite a big change in how we understand opengraphs itself. So this idea of portability is not novel for us, I feel in web free where we have wormholes, where we have talk about cross chain and we're trying to figure that out. But this idea of that social media is not a unique universe, a world garden, but it's more like the Marvel Cinematic multiverse where things can coexist and connect with each other I feel is quite a like.
00:44:36.174 - 00:45:22.394, Speaker C: So thinking about this, what we're going to talk about is kind of like leaning into the last point is the more power we have, the more we understand ourselves and the data that's established through those places. And kind of like we create more portability that allows us to completely rethink what a front end could be, like, how we interact with it. Right. If you don't like what data you get out of a front end or if that could be more, you move on, you build your own. And that is a quite novel approach to kind of often also going a little bit more back how the internet was like a long time ago. So what this allows us to do. It allows to kind of lead with better design because there is more competition, hopefully more choice.
00:45:22.394 - 00:45:55.146, Speaker C: And also not everything has to be broad. You can also design for niches itself. So with that, that's kind of like a little bit an intro how we got excited about working with Lens itself and why social graphs matter. And I'm handing this over now to Rich and Simon to kind of dive a little bit into some clusters of ideas that we had so far. Rich, Simon, I'm going to mute myself but please free to move on. Nice.
00:45:55.328 - 00:46:28.420, Speaker E: Thanks Ramon. Yeah. So we've got a few ideas that we've been tinkering know. Obviously it's such a big space, such a big area, so much opportunity of where to innovate. So where do we begin? Well, we've sketched out a few ideas that we'll share with you just to get the juices flowing. And you can consider these as kind of like interesting territories to explore. Some of them are really kind of like the natural breaking points of where web two social media sort of breaks down or where you might sort of find the cracks there.
00:46:28.420 - 00:46:53.340, Speaker E: And other areas are really where sort of web three enables us to create something net new. So you'll hear us talk a lot about what ifs we'll be sort of posing a few questions. Really, these are just kind of prompts against which we think would be interesting to explore. So let us know what you think, riff with us, ask questions and throw ideas down in the chat as well. So let's dive right in.
00:46:54.190 - 00:46:54.890, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely.
00:46:54.960 - 00:47:35.718, Speaker F: You're going to hear a lot of what ifs from us for the next little while, so settle in. But we're kicking off with some ideas around Lens tooling because when we're building something new here, something from the ground up, which means that we get to start pretty fresh. We get to set up the tools and the systems that help make us make the most of that sort of like green pasture of new social. The issue is right now much of today's tooling for social is completely boxed off. It's like pretty hard or impossible to change or to interact with. So it's really exciting to start to think about breaking that and giving users the power of the tools that make the most of that new social. So we've been thinking a little bit about some tools that people can create to get the most of their Lens social graph.
00:47:35.718 - 00:48:56.370, Speaker F: And if you give it a little scroll now, we've got one here all about verification. Right now verification is controlled by social media platforms and not really the communities that grow into them or grow to use them. And that can stifle the innovation or it can lead to even verification being a centralized platform. Swim cough, cough. Blue tick. So what if social media verification meant more than just being a real person? What if it instead sort of captured any kind of label that was meaningful to a community or to an individual or set of individuals? Like broadening this idea of verification to an extensible system of tags that could be attached to users, to communities, even to posts would help us open up a rich new set of experiences. So again, some what ifs like what if a distributed fact checking community could tag posts that is researched and evaluated as trusted? Maybe what if a curated collection of articles written by award winners could easily be created and automatically kept up to date? What if an idea could even be traced back to its roots and its tree of posts and replies? And lastly, what if a company's online profile could be tagged with its global carbon footprint? But speaking of influence and that sort of like sense of meaning to community, how about kind of getting a sense of where you as an individual community stand in your graph?
00:48:57.590 - 00:48:57.954, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:48:57.992 - 00:49:28.138, Speaker E: So another thing we're sort of thinking about is really what's the default visual expression or sort of the visual viewing paradigm of your social media experience today. The typical just to give it some context so you can sort of understand where the ideas are coming from. But the typical viewing paradigm really centers around like an infinite feed of content that's designed by the businesses and the platforms really to drive as much engagement and as much consumption as possible.
00:49:28.224 - 00:49:29.806, Speaker C: And don't know if you guys have.
00:49:29.828 - 00:50:43.414, Speaker E: Seen the social dilemma, but the guy that invented Infinite Scroll sort of often regrets kind of how that's led to a lot of mindless consumption. So things like your relationships and what you actually might learn about them seem to be things that are really like secondary features in today's social media experience. So you don't really see those things. They're just lists of contacts in secondary features with something like the open social graph. Though I think what's interesting here is that because these experiences are being powered by that data, it's like this ever growing model that's capturing information about your relationships with people, groups and communities and even businesses now that we would have ownership over that. What's also interesting is that we also have choice or possibility about how data is actually expressed or visualized. So the question that we're exploring here is what other ways could you express or visualize your social graph? What other new paradigms might we create to view your experience? And in this little illustration we've got here, my digital roots, we're imagining something more of an interactive graphical view.
00:50:43.414 - 00:51:44.890, Speaker E: It's like a sketch but of what your relationships look like. And this is something that could emphasize relationships over content. So you can imagine different filters and different toggles that you switch on and off to kind of explore your network, but what else could it do? Perhaps it could actually help you see the degree of your influence or your reach or even your exposure to different types of people from different groups. Perhaps you could also even see timelines of your relationships and how your connections have flourished or diminished over time and perhaps even understand more insightfully like things like your frequency of contact or the dynamics or the interactions of your exchanges with others. So there's a lot of insight that could actually be drawn that we're not privy to at the moment in sort of web two social media. And these are things that could be interesting. And when you sort of frame it in the idea of could you actually improve your relationships with people? It starts to become quite interesting.
00:51:44.890 - 00:52:08.000, Speaker E: And then you think about what could this mean? Not just to your friendship circle, but when you start to consider teams or professional networks, what happens then? And yeah, to sort of close out this little sort of territory ritual, sort of chime in now on what tools could be like to make most of your experience with it.
00:52:09.410 - 00:53:15.350, Speaker F: Yeah, give us a scroll there, Ramon. Yeah, so right now we're all using the web and we're all subject to these really opaque algorithms that are kind of ruling the current social media experience. They're deciding what to show or even what vanishes into the ether and what doesn't get seen by users. And we've got very little sort of influence over what we actually see because those algos are trade secrets. We're unable to show how the inputs and the interactions can influence the kind of contents that we might then consume. So what if we were able to have greater control over our feeds, over the way we consume different media across platforms, set our own rules, even our own standards, our own algorithms by which to kind of sort, filter and discover that content? Then the open graph not only allows anyone to build their own front end experiences, but also perhaps the very engines themselves that define how content breaks through to the surface. You can infuse a point of view over which content should be prioritized and filtered based on different needs and different tastes at your own whim.
00:53:15.350 - 00:54:03.650, Speaker F: So a few what ifs what if you could choose from multiple open sourced algorithms or lenses by which you could view your lens feed? What if there are easy ways to manage permissions around what personal data a front end might use to personalize recommendations? Or what if those algorithms were completely transparent and tunable to this point that you might even be able to jump in and sort of change a lever to see what you're viewing. And then this is a fun one. What if you could even flick a switch and have a completely different content experience? Even like, view the world through the eyes of your friends, celebrities, or like total wildcards from the other side of an echo chamber. But that's enough about those kind of foundations that kind of tooling. What about what we should do specifically for creators?
00:54:05.510 - 00:56:02.474, Speaker E: Yeah, obviously when you think of Web Three and social media, it's very much synonymous with creators and the creator economy and it just feels like there's so much potential to create new types of experiences for creators but also for fans as well. And I think we're interested in also how you can sort of foster connection from nuanced data around tastes and preferences. How can that inform and power new types of connection between creators but also between creators and fans? So if we scroll down a little bit, one of the things we're wondering about is the idea of collaboration and how matchmaking could serve greater collaboration, how Lens sort of might facilitate that. And to give it some backstory, I mean today creators around the world, they collaborate with fellow artists and writers and musicians and brands to develop fresh content and often it's about furthering reach and actually growing audiences as well as experimenting with different types of content. And you tend to find that it creates new dialogue, can bring communities together and all that sort of good stuff. But I think what's sometimes challenging is how do you find and signal that you're sort of looking for this sort of collaboration? Whether it's for a project or for an art piece or for a dow or for brand, how do you find the people to work with? So the question we're exploring here is how might we use our insights in the open graph to match creators together and catalyze new content and creative collaborations? So how do we make that seamless more easy? We're thinking about tools for things like audience insight and matchmaking. So in our little sketch here, you can imagine a creator is seeing different types of potential matches or collaborators that are being served to them.
00:56:02.474 - 00:57:09.954, Speaker E: And here we've got kind of like Tinder style where you're seeing different types of folks perhaps matched on certain criteria or content or preferences or perhaps it's about how you're signaling certain project ambitions and then next to that the idea of this merged graph. So this is interesting when you have a visual overlay, what if you could have two creators that could easily and perhaps visually compare and contrast their audiences to see where they overlap in tastes and preferences, but also to sort of see the gaps and differences where they sort of might grow. So these are a few ideas just around matchmaking within the context of creators but matchmaking of course is a theme that is going to run through lots of different verticals as well. So as you take this forward, think about what does this mean across different platforms or even gaming or finding collaborators in dows to start projects together or even dating. But that's sort of a little bit about the creators. Now let's sort of think a little bit about the fans as well.
00:57:10.072 - 00:57:10.306, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:57:10.328 - 00:58:36.166, Speaker F: What about flipping? That about the sort of the fan experience, because fan engagement is obviously huge for growth and access to maybe if you're creator, access to the data about your followers is pretty limited on today's platforms. It means that it could be pretty tricky to have sort of valuable interactions or even any at all discussion to understand your fans and your followers. Oftentimes it's even fragmented across different channels, across different apps and it's really hard to have a sort of central discussion to engage the sort of feeling across different channels. So we're thinking about how might we provide creators with tools and resources, better understand their fans, even deepen their relationships and really unlock the full value of their fan base. And thinking that on the flip side as well, how can we also open it up for fans to basically get closer to the creators as their time is valued as well and their engagement is valued. So Lens potentially enable creators to engage with their fans in any way they want and really get a 360 view of their fan base, of their followers, maybe giving options to engage or to build connections that otherwise might not be possible. So, as some just ideas, what if creators could really get reports and breakdowns on who their fans are, who's consuming the most content, what they love, what they like, who they from, get a sort of holistic view of everyone that's involved.
00:58:36.166 - 00:58:55.170, Speaker F: And then maybe on a recognition point, what if creators could even recognize individual fans with rewards, perks personal experiences maybe, and gifts, perhaps even some direct contact as a way to sort of thank them for that support and show them that they're a valued fan, but then onto monetization. Over to you, Simon.
00:58:55.590 - 01:00:03.586, Speaker E: Yeah, this one's really about monetization or commercializing content and this is something that I think bugs a lot of creators today. And it's very difficult to find a way to have a viable, sustainable living on web two sort of social media. There's always a few issues at play. I mean, platforms take a large cut of any profits you make anyway. But also, creators aren't always just free to focus on their content because they have to worry about how do they beat the algorithm, how do they climb higher in the rankings in order to kind of better position themselves? To monetize their content and while also having to maintain towards community guidelines or guidelines on rules set by the platforms which seem to be ever changing. So it's a sort of frustrating loop that I think a lot of creators get stuck in. So really it sort of feels that it's a system in which there are limits to the freedom of how you might sort of thrive both financially and creatively.
01:00:03.586 - 01:01:20.610, Speaker E: So one question that we're thinking about for Lens and what it could imply for creators is really like what if you could relieve some of that pressure and what if you could put more control and better tools back into the hands of creators in how they commercialize their content so they can both thrive financially and creatively. Obviously with NFTs and the sort of the boom there, creating content on Chain is going to enable new forms of monetization different systems and also the way that could be tuned and targeted towards different audiences. Also it kind of lowers the barrier for new creators to enter the system. They don't have to fulfill minimum audience sizes and things like that to kind of actually participate and actually enjoy some revenue from their work. So a couple of ideas here. One of them is this idea of a dashboard, right? So monetization dashboard. What if it was easy and simple for folks to automate or configure different options or systems by which to monetize their content? So in the sketch you can kind of see maybe it's an ad model, the traditional ad model that I switch on and I match made to brands.
01:01:20.610 - 01:02:51.594, Speaker E: Perhaps it's pay per view or sort of surge pricing or even subscription. And on the right, perhaps I can just customize each post in different ways for different audiences. Maybe there's members I have or early Bloomers or just like what is it for everyone else? But also beyond this too with content sort of minted sort of released on Chain we're also imagining tools that can track content across apps built on Lens so that creators can monitor and track and receive income or royalties or attributions for any content that's used by other creators on Lens apps. And then the middle idea here is around membership. So obviously we're seeing this in different forms on certain platforms like Patreon, et cetera. But what if creators could design their own membership programs and where they define the tiers of access and the different perks and rewards that their different audiences might have? And also can they even pull in their audiences or their top fans into their kind of orbit and actually help them grow and incentivize those fans and audiences in different ways with financial rewards or tokens? So tons and tons of opportunities as it comes to monetization and then now sort of back over to Rich for a little bit on Dows.
01:02:51.722 - 01:03:37.310, Speaker F: Yeah, I hope everyone's clinging onto their seat in this avalanche of ideas, but we're getting there. But yeah, onto Dows because Dows and collectors, they're integral to the way of thinking, even the identity really of the sort of web three social world. Oftentimes the tooling and front ends that we work with today, they're limited for individual use or potentially even the ones there's less of a social aspect to them. It's more about sort of the hard financials or the governance. As we heard earlier, we've been thinking a little bit about how Dows can have a sort of collective presence giving them almost like a social soul of their own on this social graph. So you give a little bit of a scroll there. There we go.
01:03:37.310 - 01:04:27.686, Speaker F: Lovely. Yeah. Social media today really is built for individuals and groups and companies do have profiles. The user experience is still orientated, really, around an individual person who controls the organization's account or perhaps maybe a team in bigger organizations and the like as well. And those platforms really are not set up at all for any sort of decentralized or ad hoc communities that may have a range of ways of organizing themselves that might not fit into these sort of strict buckets. What if there was different voices in a community could come together under one profile, maybe one pop up ad hoc profile, without giving any one person complete control. And we kind of have this we have multi SIG crypto wallets where we can let a group of people follow a collective policy for transferring digital assets.
01:04:27.686 - 01:06:28.686, Speaker F: So how about that for sort of a profile, if you like, for managing a social presence of a collective? Yeah. What if a community could have a profile and a publication channel with a user interface that really suits its governance style, its tools, maybe? What if you could have pop up sort of communities around these things? What if there was, like, local fans of Takaria in Los Angeles where you would compete to win the right to post a review under a shared account? And then what if digital native companies could easily distribute control of their social media feed to every single employee so that everyone kind of has an ability to contribute to the presence on the web? And if you give us another scroll there, Ramon, yeah, we've got this sort of sense of how you can make decisions about identity, but how do we sort of get a sense of the members beyond just a pseudo anonymous address? And those have become obviously significant organizational structures in the web, three space bringing in completely new ways of organizing communities, treasuries, voting on change, distributing funds. But they're focused on right now maybe enabling the sort of the financials and the operations. They're becoming increasingly harder to manage, and they're becoming very fragmented and siloed across lots of different platforms. Like we all know the discord problem. So what if DAOs were built on a suite of tools that really helped to integrate not just governance and finance, but also a sense of identity and a sense of community communication? And those onshore tools for dows right now, they're typically centered around the voting and finance, like I mentioned, and they're by default sort of pseudo anonymous with no identity, no sort of social presence attached to any sort of voting or anything. But if you introduce sort of social connections between individuals and content represented on chain, then tools can expand to include that social and productivity features that otherwise would exist completely off chain in other different silos.
01:06:28.686 - 01:07:08.270, Speaker F: So what if DAOs had a dashboard for members that automatically showed. The collective interests, maybe the authorship and the favorite content of its members? What if DAOs had a set tools that enabled them to have one view of their operation, their communications, solving that discord problem? And what if DAOs had more elaborate voting systems based on group membership, allowing some communities to run in sort of representative manners, perhaps with boards of committees empowered to make certain decisions alone. We've just opened three sort of boxes just now, but there's a lot more to explore and I'm going to ping it over to Ramon to take us home with the wild card section.
01:07:09.670 - 01:07:52.654, Speaker C: Thank you. So that went broad. So we talked about kind of like the idea of an open social graph and how empowering that can be. We talked about kind of like building potential new lens tooling that kind of helps expand the ecosystem itself. We talked about kind of like the ideas or concepts that kind of to evolve to create the economy itself. And we know that Dow tooling is a huge emergent space that needs a lot that is growing and thriving right now and needs this social character. So kind of with those things.
01:07:52.654 - 01:09:58.694, Speaker C: One thing where we wanted to end with or go now is looking a little bit more and how could this manifest itself into front end experiences or looking into that space? We have a couple of sections here that we want to run through a little bit to just inspire you to kind of see how the world is already super social but it can now where we can hopefully now put a web free twist on it or make it more web free native. And we have a big belief that music is inherently social. We go to concerts, we share playlists, we have a deep connection to artists themselves and we want to be connected to them. We often are more willing to pay to an individual artist a significant amount than to kind of like to a service. So kind of like how can we rethink the relationship between an artist and us and create novel music platforms that take this web free mentality of ownership and relationship together and kind of like build new primitives that enable new things to do there? I think it's also going there with the gaming world that is social by default, right? It doesn't matter if you play alone together with others around you in a game like Fortnite Roblox or all of this, but those games become more alive if there are real people around you that you can interact with. But gaming is not just inside a game. It's like the whole world of Twitch Discord, all of this, this kind of like economies and worlds around games itself that even in this chat right now we have a chat going on on the site where we have a conversation going on and that we use the prompts to bring it into our live conversation right now here.
01:09:58.694 - 01:11:59.126, Speaker C: So kind of like how can we move from those very broadcasting tools to kind of like more interactive elements and conversations and that bring multiple worlds together in novel ways? So one way is how can play be even more social? What would it be to build the iOS game center on top of lines to easily find friends to play against? Like we all probably had our wordle moment in the last couple of weeks where we just kind of also love to show off how good we were on Twitter or not as me. But the idea is kind of like we love those connection, we love to compete, we love to kind of challenge our friends. And a lot of this kind of gaming is super social but right now it's locked into specific worlds. So can we do this even make more social? And what this makes me also super interested about is I spent way too much time building up my GTA Five character in GTA Online and that is a part of my identity too. What if an in game character has its own social graph too? And how can we build those worlds around that? One thing that we haven't touched yet, but we want to go back is yes, we talk a lot about length tooling and dow tools and all of this, but ecommerce is one of the prime reasons the Internet exists and thrives and grows. And what we know from history is that wherever you establish a market, a community will build around it. No matter if it was the Silk Road, a marketplace in a southern European city that the whole town is coming together to kind of exchange gossip and news and whatever happens around, like markets build culture, right? And even looking at marketplaces like Depop or Facebook, they're extremely social too.
01:11:59.126 - 01:12:53.262, Speaker C: And I think we can go to the next level where we can actually see what our friends are up to, what our friends are recommending, what they are using right now or not using, where we can maybe get early access to it. And even like Rich was talking about rethinking algorithms based on our preferences, there's a lot of ways how we can rethink shopping. And let's be honest, Instagram turned into one of the greatest shopping malls in all time. So shopping is social. So how can we gain the control a little bit more back and using it for us? The other thing is I think we sometimes miss that even the way we work and all of that is social too. This talk was created in Figma and figam, right? That's how we least as our team are working. It's like you're following other people around in a file and you're building connections there too.
01:12:53.262 - 01:13:42.810, Speaker C: So no matter if you use Notion, GitHub, Figma or all of those tools, even Google Slides, there's a lot of social elements and moments that we create. And I think again. It's about kind of like making sure that you find your friends, that you can create new assets and all of that together. That makes it extremely powerful to think about. What does it mean when we have an open graph and we bring it together with the composability of web three together with the potential new business models that we can think through that come through DFI and Blockchains in general to kind of create rethink work, social gaming and all of that together. I want to end with. One of my favorite things is I think it's easy to get super heavy weighted in those conversations.
01:13:42.810 - 01:14:57.734, Speaker C: And one of our favorite ideas that we just want to leak here and show here is around the ideas of memes. And a little bit background here is like, for me, when I think about TikTok or all of memes, it's like this is web free culture. Someone creates an expression and others start to build on it. Like memes are composable by default. That's how they work, right? We're building on top of each other and it creates this ecosystem of reactions and interactions and evolutions and all of those they grow. So one thing that we start to think about and even just kind of like how can we build a social network just around memes? And I think that for us shows the actual power of lens itself, right? We could build the next evolution of Apple Music or Spotify. We can lean into building a social network but it can be as small or nerdy as just a forkable meme creator on chain that kind of shows you to build how your memes are spreading and evolving over time and that for me makes this super interesting.
01:14:57.734 - 01:16:14.320, Speaker C: So to kind of summarize where we ended with our thing is we started with that a social graph. We really just kind of like at the tip of an iceberg here, right? We talked about it's really about empowering us ourselves. It's about kind of like that this is bigger than Twitter and Facebook and covers other things and it's really about expanding what lens can be from visualizing our networks to rethinking about how we label things and organizing it through better algorithm. It's about kind of like better matching between creators, more insights from our relationships between fans and audiences and new business model and also kind of like the whole aspect of community itself. So this was a lot of talking from our side and we hope that we at least could bring up the iceberg a little bit and show a little bit more potential of how big this opportunity actually is especially when we start to cross connect the services that we build on top of it all together. I do think we have a couple of audience questions so I think that's a perfect moment to kind of close this conversation and hear what are some questions. So let's freaking build this together.
01:16:16.290 - 01:16:54.566, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you so much for going through that amazing talk and there's so many amazing comments and how, well kind of thought out everything you talked about is, as well as just overall the detail and the attention you put into preparing this. So it was super insightful. So I have a few questions I want to ask, and we'll kind of go to as many as we can until we kind of run out of time. But I guess the first kind of question that comes in is from kind of your perspective, having been on now, both sites, what do you think is the difference between being a designer in Web Two and now in Web Three? Are there any specific things that stand out or kind of how do you assess or contrast?
01:16:54.758 - 01:16:55.500, Speaker E: Both?
01:16:56.590 - 01:17:30.290, Speaker C: I can take this one. I think on a craft level, it's not that much a difference. But what is different is that you have to think more about building for a community, building with others. You have to appreciate that everything is composable. Like, if you design a brand, it's about you have to embrace memes and that others will take the brand further. So it's a lot about giving control away and enabling others. So I think on that one, on a product design lens, I think the reality is that we have to acknowledge we are still in a super early nerdy stage.
01:17:30.290 - 01:17:56.560, Speaker C: It's very technical. Often you have to understand some of the smart contracts fundamentals to kind of especially in the more complicated DeFi areas, to kind of really push what design can do. And the reality is, I think there's just not as many of us designers out there. So you can't find that great inspiration first. So we need to find more of us to really push what design can do in this field.
01:17:58.290 - 01:18:03.380, Speaker A: Absolutely. And if anyone else wants to add something, feel free to go for it. I'll move on to the next question.
01:18:05.430 - 01:18:06.210, Speaker C: All right, cool.
01:18:06.280 - 01:18:43.678, Speaker A: I'll do the next one. So kind of the other piece is you talked about essentially kind of how do you present information and what will be a good way to think about how lens can make that easier. But what would you imagine sort of like the user ends up feeling? I was trying to read this for rhythm. So how do you imagine the users might feel different when interacting with a Web Three based social media network? What kind of different emotions do you think they might experience compared to the current social kind of norms or just networks out there? And do you think this is a different emotive experience too? Or is it just a different way of thinking about where the data is.
01:18:43.684 - 01:18:45.600, Speaker E: And who controls it at the end of the day?
01:18:47.010 - 01:18:48.490, Speaker A: And it's a bit of an abstract.
01:18:48.570 - 01:19:41.650, Speaker F: Question, but that is a great question, and I don't think it's one that we'll know the answer to until we start to build stuff, right, and we start to put things in front of people, engage reactions, but ultimately I think hopefully we'll be evoking an interesting reaction. The whole sense of ownership really is what a huge piece is here and hopefully a sense of a lot of trust has been degraded from some of the sort of bigger centralized social media providers. And I'm curious to see, and at least from research that I've done on other projects, how folk are sort of perceiving those current social media providers now versus sort of the newer ones, which are decentralized by default and sort of have a lot of sort of trustless stuff baked in as well. So I think lots to see, but hopefully a little bit of interesting stuff against the backlash of the centralized incumbents.
01:19:42.550 - 01:20:48.120, Speaker C: I think two things to add. I really think the fact that you own your content and you're in control of it and you can decide what happens with it will change quite a bit how we think about how we create content, what content will be created and how content is curated. I think we haven't touched that space enough, that creators are important, curators are the next big thing. The other thing is I actually think Rage Quitting will be a superpower in the sense of if your data is portable and you're in control, rage Quit is actually something that can be for good, right? If someone builds a better user experience, a better way to moderate the content as you want it to see, that has better privacy section, it's not like you're locked into a system, you quit and move over. And I think that hopefully creates a lot of new competition and innovation of actually exploring what this world even can be.
01:20:48.490 - 01:21:02.090, Speaker F: Yeah, big plus one to that. A lot of stuff that we heard from Lee Stani and Belaji earlier around this idea of a race to create the best front end, most novel and most interesting. And hopefully that's just going to drive great user experience, which we're all excited about.
01:21:02.240 - 01:21:02.822, Speaker C: Agreed.
01:21:02.886 - 01:21:25.970, Speaker A: And we have the final audience question I want to ask and then we can get to the next talk is how do you feel about the real time distributed collaboration sort of world in Web Three? Do you think that's going to be interactive like this call we're in? Or do you think that's more on kind of the broadcasting side where twitch, where people just kind of consuming what somebody's doing, but it's not really interactive?
01:21:29.590 - 01:22:09.994, Speaker C: Honestly, I think that the reality is COVID and Corona the pandemic changed the way how we think about collaborating together, right? I was at IDEO before and postits were my life and now I haven't touched a postit for two years and I do this all through figma and it changed the way we work. Before that I couldn't imagine it. And the technology might sometimes feel buggy not there. But I think real time, async we find new ways and we use it in appropriate ways. Right. Sometimes we want to lean back and just enjoy twitch. And sometimes I actually would love to kind of be the annoying person on the site that can actually influence as an audience twitch for the ones I'm watching playing.
01:22:09.994 - 01:22:22.040, Speaker C: And I think there will be new forms of interaction that can be enabled through those things. And it's not A or B, it's a gradient of things that we are enabling here.
01:22:23.050 - 01:22:32.054, Speaker A: Absolutely. Well, Simon, Ramon, Rich, thank you so much for that amazing talk and this was great. So thank you so much.
01:22:32.252 - 01:22:34.340, Speaker C: Thank you. Bye bye, everyone.
