00:00:05.490 - 00:00:58.280, Speaker A: You. So this is going to be short and real demo is going to be more very use cases. But right now I'm just going to show you around in the marketplace and tell about how this should be used by smart contract. So basically this is an API marketplace. Is it working? Yes. Okay. Basically an API marketplace for developing a chain link and it both have the API and an email listing service so that you can just create a chain if you can put an endpoint of an API with the parameters that you want.
00:00:58.280 - 00:01:57.640, Speaker A: And the ecosystem is composed of three main groups, smart contract developers, node operators and API providers. And for an ecosystem have to be in the same place, working together, cooperating. And currently we have launched the smart contract developer facing subdomain of the marketplace. So that's why we are here. And in the future we are going to also be providing the non creative facing subdomain and provider facing subdomain. They can also use the marketplace, but right now it is aimed at platforms like developers to be able to reach the kind of data that they want. So this is the API marketplace right now and there are twelve APIs listed, more than 20 are already on board are going to get listed in the future.
00:01:57.640 - 00:03:03.680, Speaker A: So what a smart protecting do in our mind is that we are giving them a lot of Lego blocks for them to play around with. So there are a lot of APIs and all of these APIs have a lot of endpoints and each of these endpoints returns multiple fields of data. So if you look at it from that there are more than 1000 types of data that you can get for the APIs. We directed the smart context developer to the API provided documentation. So we don't post our own documentation so that it is up to date. So the first thing that the developer would do is forward to the documentation and look up what the API is doing, what current data returning, and then if they decide that they like what they see and they want to use one of the endpoints, then you provide two different kinds of test functionality. The first one is similar to what you have in.
00:03:03.680 - 00:04:19.030, Speaker A: So this is like you see this in other API marketplaces as well. Basically you can make a call to the UI and see the result. But this is especially important for smart contracts, especially developing a change in smart contract because you want to see the format of the response and also you want to see the names of the field for them. You keep your copycat parameter. So for example I'm going to be enter the parameters in data format and just say payment. And basically how I know what parameters defeat is that I go to documentation my make it talk. I don't think I can itself execute.
00:04:19.030 - 00:05:25.414, Speaker A: Let me get the result for me because this is the main object that we get. So if I want to get how many articles are published about training, my copycat parameter would have been result. But for example if I want to get the date of the first article then my copycat parameter will be article zero as in the index of the first item that I can get. That's why this is important to be able to do this call. And these APIs that you see, they don't normally provide this kind of service anywhere else. So there are no other marketplace that for example let you test out aviation. So we got a special deal for ourselves for that.
00:05:25.414 - 00:06:05.218, Speaker A: And also after you touch this and for through the UI you can also have testnet right there. There are two networks that we operate on, mainly secure method and rocket. There may be other testnets or maintenance in the future. You choose the network, then you choose the data format that you want to be returned. For example, if I want to get a string from the endpoint, I would choose by 32. If I want a boolean I would choose this. If I want an integer.
00:06:05.218 - 00:07:27.540, Speaker A: So if it is signed I would choose this and if its number is unfree I would choose this. So basically we boil down, there are potentially infinitely many different job specs for each endpoint, but we boil this down to four, so that it covers more than 80% of use cases. But if you need something more specific then you can also provide that on a safe right now basis. For example, let me click on the data format, we see the oracle address, job ID and the link, right. So if you watch your tutorial, you know what to do. Changing about these names, these four. Yeah, so each of these have a different job spec.
00:07:27.540 - 00:08:31.298, Speaker A: For example, it first calls external glasses, then it calls copy to get the. So for example, if it is full it would cap that with a book and send it to series. For example, if it was this one it would also have an additional time. The idea is that you kind of. Yeah, so we premade all the jobs, so we don't wait for the smart contract to demand the type of job, but we rather just create it, have all node of it so that it is already there to be used. So then there are a lot of jobs, for example more than 500 per node, we add them in a super automatic way. So after you do the test network.
00:08:31.298 - 00:09:36.380, Speaker A: So let's say you're down with that, then you go to the main listing right now we have listed link for that IO 31 and our own node. And these are going to be increasing in the future. So basically we expect segregation to be done between the numbers of three and seven. And if you can provide a somewhat larger number of nodes than that, that is quite adequate for what use cases. So as you can see, they all have different link prices. And for the main Ethereum network, since you are going to be paying with real links, we also provide you with the USD price and approximately of that. So let's say there are two ways of like after doing a test and doing the MEP, there are two ways of reaching to production level and product.
00:09:36.380 - 00:10:19.906, Speaker A: In one of the options you would deploy your own aggregator and you just choose some of the jobs from here and also maybe some other jobs from other node operators, other listing services, et cetera. Set up your own aggregator and then get the data that way. And also you can contact us so that we find the nodes. So the demo, maybe I should mention, I'm going to do three demos tomorrow. One is going to be like a weather insurance use case. The other is going to be oracle certification. The third one will be chaining API for back to back single external adapters.
00:10:19.906 - 00:10:56.020, Speaker A: So in the personal weather insurance basically we set up an aggregator from multiple operators and multiple APIs. So basically if you wanted that kind of data then you don't even have to bother yourself with that and just come to us. You say I want this data from this many nodes, from this many APIs and we just can set that up for you. Deploy the aggregator and you will just have to develop the smart contract. So that's about it. Thanks for listening and if you have any questions I can take, I really.
