00:00:00.200 - 00:00:23.086, Speaker A: It feels like we had a big bull market because we did. Prices just pulled multiples for all of the majors. But the fact that we created more wealth in one kind of digital gold than this massive web3 vision and all these kind of extremely technical, massive challenges that we talk about every day, and that only created half of the value that digital gold created, that's actually insane.
00:00:23.158 - 00:00:25.734, Speaker B: Web three offers a brand new petri dish.
00:00:25.782 - 00:00:27.582, Speaker A: Our job is to buy great tech at great prices.
00:00:27.646 - 00:00:29.670, Speaker B: AI is also libertarian right?
00:00:29.710 - 00:00:31.962, Speaker A: Enable a use case that people haven't been able to do today.
00:00:32.046 - 00:00:33.602, Speaker C: The next hundreds of millions of players.
00:00:33.706 - 00:01:00.496, Speaker A: They will come to the market through mobile. My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is. Hey everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch Roundtable. With me, your host Jason Choi, co founder of Tangent. Now today I will be joined by my co host Sanad Kapoor from Dragonfly Capital, to discuss something that most don't really want to hear about, which is the bear market. Now before I start, I want to give some context.
00:01:00.496 - 00:01:55.438, Speaker A: I have dedicated my career for the past six or seven years to crypto. I've invested a majority of my personal savings into the space. I've funded with my own money teams to build things like wallets, browsers, security audit tools, apps, and spent more than 8000 hours on the phone with founders helping with onboarding customers, investors and hires. I was also a partner at one of Asia's first crypto hedge funds when the idea was mostly scoffed at. And now I'm very, very blessed to have the luxury of supporting eight extremely smart people across the podcast, the newsletter, and my fun tangent completely on my own dime with my co founder with no investors. Now this is not meant to impress you, but really to impress upon you the fact that calling me a crypto bull would be a massive, massive understatement. Now however, I believe one of the hallmarks of great investors, particularly in an asset class like crypto, where liquidity horizons are short, is the ability to navigate timeframes.
00:01:55.438 - 00:03:22.164, Speaker A: Now, in other words, are you able to reconcile potentially conflicting thoughts in your head to be bullish on a sector and think that it will grow ten x in five years, and also think that prices are elevated and conditions are frothy and maybe things can correct by 50%? Now this one skill is what I will attribute to whatever small modicum of success I've had the luxury to have in this space so far, and one that I hope would take me and my team further. Now, recently I shared a thread on why I think there is a decent chance we've entered an inflection point. I define this as the flipping from an environment where prices generally go up to one where prices generally go down. Now, as a long term investor, I tend to ignore short term price volatility, with one exception. Now, if I think I have a credible shot at avoiding massive pain, which I define as a 50% drawdown on my portfolio just to account for the volatility of crypto, or if I think I can massively increase my ownership in networks with lower prices, I would make that call. So even with the longer term investors, if you offered them a time machine back to 2021 to sell bitcoin at $71,000 and buy bitcoin at $15,000 in December 2022, just a year later, even those who claim to have the longest timeframes would probably take the opportunity because you can effectively multiply your stakes. Now on X I shared my thoughts on why I think we've been in the process of topping out as a market.
00:03:22.164 - 00:04:14.050, Speaker A: This is not an easy call to make, and I acknowledged in the thread the exact scenarios that I would consider to be invalidations of my view. But given the potential downside, I wanted to share my thinking, and I'm really grateful for many of you who engaged with thoughtful disagreements, who have since challenged my view when this post first came out, and even the countless trolls that helped drive engagement now. Since then, many altcoins have corrected 30% to 40% of this recording. But in my opinion, this is not really a validation of my framework because I wasn't predicting that we get a market wipe right away, only that we're shifting into a regime whereby prices generally trend down in the absence of new external catalysts. So I've shared the entire framework on X. I'll include in the show notes below, but I'll recap here briefly for those who haven't read it as well. I'm very excited to partner with Yield Guild games to bring you today's episode.
00:04:14.050 - 00:04:35.462, Speaker A: You may remember YGG as the leading guild in web3 that helped drive the success of games like Axie, Infinity, and Pixels, but they actually have much bigger ambitions than just that. I've really enjoyed co investing with and learning all about gaming from their founder, Gaby Dezahn, throughout the years. So here is Gabi to tell us more about why YGG is more than just a guild, and why you should care about YGG as the dominant guild protocol.
00:04:35.586 - 00:05:12.420, Speaker C: Yeah, the way to think of YGG is that it's a guild protocol or a platform that wants to scale all guilds operating in web3. For people to care about platforms, typically you have to jump start the content yourself. And we had to be the biggest guild in web3, which we've done in the last three years. But for this year, we're really making sure that we want to scale guilds of all levels that can put a gather community, bring themselves on chain, and go on quests that can have them earn crypto or own their own assets. And YGG is the protocol that will be able to scale that across all guilds.
00:05:12.460 - 00:05:57.848, Speaker A: So my framework is very simple. I think at inflection points you have four things you want to look for. So one thing is a credible reason for the market to stay offside. So we saw this in January 2023, when people were expecting that a grayscale blow up could happen, leading to majority of the market being offside or short. We saw this once again, just to give another recent example, in June 2022, where there were rumors of a big chinese miner blowing up after the three AC event, which led most people to be offside or short as well. In both scenarios, the market in the subsequent months massively punished people who were positioned on the obvious and credibly obvious side. And in my opinion, the credible reason to stay long currently for most people, seems to be launch of the ETH ETF.
00:05:57.848 - 00:06:36.280, Speaker A: Now, this is also one of the big main invalidation scenarios for my framework. If the ETH ETF launches to great success, which some analysts are predicting it to be, then obviously this framework would fall apart. But that is the setup. So number two is looking historically, a lot of the wealth creation in crypto happened in altcoins, defined as coins that are not bitcoin or ethereum. So if you look at the last cycle, for instance, look at an index called Toto three, which is the aggregate market cap of all coins outside of bitcoin and ethereum. In the times that it increased seven x, bitcoin only increased by 200 x 200%. Now, this time the dynamic is flipped.
00:06:36.280 - 00:07:31.898, Speaker A: In this cycle, since January 2023, bitcoin increased by 300%, while total three as an index increased by not even half of that. So there hasn't been much wealth creation in the crypto markets through these altcoins, where retails predominantly participate in for a massive wealth effect. And the other point about that also is that a lot of the increase in total three came from new supply in new tokens being launched, not necessarily people buying up tokens, with clear exceptions for things such as Solana. But there have been so many high fdv launches that added to this market cap, and it's been pretty clear that most retailers don't seem to have an appetite for that. Another big red flag for me is also the waning inflows of stablecoins. If you track the total market cap of USDT and USDC, we are entering some sort of a stagnating period for the first time since the beginning of this bull run. So that is the other kind of part of the setup.
00:07:31.898 - 00:08:34.618, Speaker A: The third part of my framework is looking at just qualitative heuristics, which is a little bit harder to define, but looking at things like big funds being raised, there are multiple big venture funds being raised. This usually is a sign to me that the market is running out of marginal buyers. So obviously in the long term, with venture capital coming into the space, I do believe that is bullish on development, because you need capital to develop. But in the relatively short term, in the multi months versus the multi years timeframe, that tends to be a decent signal that we've entered some sort of mainstream acceptance and penetration. And I think this is corroborated by celebrity coins being gambled on by the mainstream as well, which signals to me that maybe we are running out of marginal buyers for this market. And finally, the last part of my framework is the shortest timeframe, the shortest term input, which I think is the weakest of them all, but was also a little bit of a red flag recently. We had what I consider probably one of the biggest pieces of news to come for crypto in the past, call it six months, which is SEC dropping their case against consensus.
00:08:34.618 - 00:09:23.710, Speaker A: I saw this as a massive precedent, that the regulatory stance on crypto is softening, which is one of the big things that's been hampering development for crypto developers in the US, and the fact that this case was dropped. I would have expected prices to react massively positively, but the fact that prices actually traded down signaled to me that the risk appetite in the market was actually waning as well. Now, that is my four part framework. Obviously, all of these points have been debated on Twitter, and they could be disputed very soon as well. But this framework doesn't mean that prices go down in a straight line. And this podcast is not even about whether prices are going down or up, or where prices are going or where they have gone. This episode is really about the thinking process behind the stance and how founders, VC's and liquid investors can think about this.
00:09:23.710 - 00:10:28.362, Speaker A: Now, just to add a final note, I manage a fund that is both a liquid strategy and a venture strategy, and my co host Sanad is part of a fund that specifically focuses on venture only. So in this episode you can really see how our thinking differs, how our respective abilities and willingness to navigate timeframes as well to fit our investment styles. Now we talk about our disagreements on the ETF inflow expectations, some stories from the last bear market, signs of market exhaustion, and supply of new tokens in the market that Sanat is seeing in the venture market, and some that I see on both the liquid and venture market, as well as why it may or may not matter for investors of different time horizons. Now, given my own preference and Sanat's background, this episode focuses a lot more on the higher timeframe topics and tries to relate to mostly founders on what happens to now if you're curious to hear more about lower timeframe market views, or more Degen views as you call it, let me know on X. Maybe we can invite someone with a trading background to share their views on the show as well. Now, without further ado, here is this week's block crunch roundtable. I don't know if you got a chance to look at that tweet, but when you first saw that, what was your reaction set at?
00:10:28.426 - 00:11:09.780, Speaker B: Yeah, I did take a look. It's funny, right? Like, I'm probably like very unique in the crypto markets and as much as I really play the pure venture capitalist role, and so, like, on any given day, I actually don't know the price of bitcoin and Ethereum. I just don't pay a lot of attention. But obviously the sentiment shift on the timeline is very real. I'm as addicted to crypto Twitter as anyone else, and you can feel kind of sentiment shifting quite dramatically. I was also surprised by the kind of lack of market response to the Ethereum ETF. Like the fact that it kind of shot up in a single candle and just kind of made its way down surprised me a lot.
00:11:09.780 - 00:12:15.270, Speaker B: I've seen a lot of long threads and long articles on why the ETH ETF is not so bullish. Some of those reasons make sense, but I really think that overwhelmingly bringing Ethereum into the world of ETF's is bullish, and I would be surprised if it actually ends up being the case that six months later the ETF saw no inflows or saw very low inflows relative to what kind of the market is expecting right now. I've never believed this idea that Tradfi will not understand Ethereum I just think we are not giving tratfi enough credit. And quite frankly, as I said earlier, I spend a lot of time on the vc side. And so without having a specific view on where prices are, I think the two things that are really important to us are both helping founders navigate fundraising. And so, you know, we have a lot of founders who are looking to raise next rounds. We have a lot of founders who are coming to us looking to raise rounds, trying to figure out valuations.
00:12:15.270 - 00:13:16.716, Speaker B: One of the things I have seen, which is always an interesting signal, is that like, I've seen founders start like drop their valuations very dramatically in the last month, particularly for some infrastructure stuff, which is always an interesting signal and is both a good and bad sign as a VC. I guess given that some of them are your port course and others are not. And the second thing that I think is the most important that I think we'll chat about as well, is there's a ton of founders thinking about token launch timelines. And given kind of disappointing token launches in the last month for some pretty big name projects, I think that's going to be a big thinking point among founders in the space about what to do here, because there are literally 50 plus reasonably high quality projects that were planning to launch a token in the next six months. And it really feels like the market does not have capacity to absorb 50 plus tokens right now.
00:13:16.908 - 00:13:59.916, Speaker A: I think that's actually a great point because bringing back to the total three argument, which is there hasn't been a lot of wealth creation, and in altcoins, which is where retails tend to participate in a lot of that increase. This cycle so far has been creation of new tokens versus existing tokens being bid up, with the exception of things like Solana. And yeah, I do think the market is losing ability to absorb so much of this supply. Right. So, for instance, blast, I think even internally, I thought Blast would at least be a $5 billion network. It's one of the more hyped up networks when we had one of our team members try out everything on blast. And generally, I think the applications in blast are quite different from most of the other chains, with the exception of some of the earlier rugs.
00:13:59.916 - 00:14:37.350, Speaker A: There's actually some quite interesting stuff happening there, which is more than you can say for a lot of the other l one s. But this thing listed at like a $2 billion FTV, which is, you know, if it's equity value for a company, it's like it's seen as high, but for a crypto network, you know, that puts it in the vicinity of, you know, things like Vechain, which I don't think anybody uses. So I was quite surprised by that. And the fact that you said, I think there's like 50 or so new projects coming out in the new six months. Like total three could go up just by the function of having so much new supply coming in. But I don't know who's going to buy this. So that is a little bit scary to me.
00:14:37.350 - 00:14:57.974, Speaker A: But I don't want to get too bare hold here because I think people are a little bit confused on Twitter about, you know, how is it possible that you're long term bullish on the space, but you, you are, you have this kind of short term bearish view. So I think before we dive into that, we should probably define what a bear market even is because I don't think people have consensus on this. When I say bear market, what do you think about?
00:14:58.142 - 00:15:21.128, Speaker B: I think a lot about the time post FTX when one crypto sentiment was at all time lows. I had friends kind of calling me being like, are you sure you made the right career decision? Like, you want to go back to Uber, bro? I'm sure they would give you a job. I literally had three friends called me after FTX be like, hey, you had a job at Uber, maybe you should go back and do that job.
00:15:21.304 - 00:15:23.584, Speaker A: Were those friends from Uber? They're trying to get you back there?
00:15:23.632 - 00:15:59.052, Speaker B: No, but they were all like, Google people. And they were like, I think you made a big mistake. And then separate from that, I think private market valuations are actually very sensitive to public market valuations these days. And so you can kind of feel that energy flowing back in. And I remember valuations like a year ago were way lower and way less were way lower. And kind of, it was a much tougher market for founders to be raising. But the last signal that I actually think is interesting is like, just thinking about the quality of startups and the quality of founders.
00:15:59.052 - 00:16:31.590, Speaker B: And that's like a thing that I think doesn't get spoken about on crypto Twitter. And a lot of people talk about VC's should be countercyclical. But one of the truths is that, like, for example, last summer, there were just not that many founders who were interested in building things in crypto. There were just not that many good deals. High caliber founders were nowhere to be found. They were either being patient and waiting for better market conditions or just not in crypto. And so from that end, I actually think it doesn't feel like so much of a bear market, particularly relative to a year ago, deal flow is still very much elevated.
00:16:31.590 - 00:17:16.612, Speaker B: Maybe valuations have dropped a little bit, but we still see a ton of founders trying to build stuff in crypto. And as an example, there's recently this debate about whether ethereum should have pre conformations, which is basically a technique to get faster confirmations on a roll up that is settling to it, that is using Ethereum as a sequencer. And it's one of those things where Justin Drake mentioned this four, five months ago, and ever since he mentioned it as a research idea, there are now five startups building this. And so I think that we still see a lot of founder interest in the crypto space. And so I think when that shifts dramatically is when I really feel like we're in a bear market.
00:17:16.716 - 00:17:52.044, Speaker A: I actually think that could be a lagging signal, because with waning deal flow, that tends to happen in the depths of a bear market, when you're close to the inflection point. I think if I am correct, which I think right now may be like, in my mind, the odds are like 60%. We're technically an inflection point between a bull market and a bear market. So the excesses are still there, the left coins are still there. There's still a lot of interest in this space. And in my mind, when I think about a bear market as well, I think in equities, there's a dictionary definition. If indices correct by 20%, that's a bear market.
00:17:52.044 - 00:18:27.876, Speaker A: But in crypto, there's no such definition. Altcoin could go down 90%, and the community members would still be like, tomorrow we're going to like two x. So nobody really agrees on what it is. So in my mind, how I define it is basically extended period of time where prices generally head lower. But then, because of crypto's volatility, you also have periods where prices suddenly go up, like 50% in one day. So it's not a straight line down, just like things are not straight line up in general, I think there'll be shrinking liquidity, meaning less and less market participants. And some of the lagging effects, like you said, on the venture side, are deal flow kind of slowing down as well.
00:18:27.876 - 00:19:05.782, Speaker A: But actually, the signal of deal flow goes up a lot, I think I'd like to kind of quote my friend Richard, our mutual friend Richard, from one conversation, quite a lot on this, but every time you see a web two founder pivot from web two to web3 in the bull market, as prices are going up as Solana, just like five x off the lows. It's usually a pretty bad signal because they are fomoing into something they don't really have a thesis on. But if you're in the depths of a bear market, nobody's trading anything. There's no volume, there's no. Everybody's convinced that Solana is dead. And then this founder basically quits their business, quits the liquidity job of like $200,000 salary a year to come in and build on Solana. You know, that guy really believes in this.
00:19:05.782 - 00:19:35.220, Speaker A: And I think, you know, in 2022, 2023, there are a lot of examples of this as well. Well, not a lot, but there are a few examples. I think Athena was like a pretty good example right before. This is before ETH funding flipped perpetually positive. So before we moved into the structural bull market guy, the founder of Athena, was already pitching a product that was designed for bull market. So he had this vision of what's going to happen next, which most founders in crypto, I don't think actually have. They just follow what's happening now.
00:19:35.220 - 00:20:19.394, Speaker A: But, yeah, back to what a bear market is in general. I like to think in longer terms as well. I like to work with founders on a multi year horizon. I'm not really a trader type, where I look at prices every single day. I do track where the markets are, but I think for me, my job, within my fund at least, is basically just to figure out what the inflection points could be and to better protect ourselves against it, just because we've seen what happens during inflection points so many cycles. So, for me, how I reconcile my long term view and short term view is that in the long term, I would never sell any of my venture bags just because I think a bear market is coming. We don't flip safs or anything like that, but our shorter term liquid positions, things that we can actually risk manage.
00:20:19.394 - 00:21:15.860, Speaker A: If you tell me that, hey, there's a credible chance that within the next three months, I get to double my size in these positions in networks that I'm bullish on because the price has halved, then I'll be an idiot not to take that, especially if I think I have a credible shot of nailing that call. So that's how I think about bear market frameworks. Another way I think about it is if there's a credible risk to your portfolio being halved in value in the next three months, I think that's like, warrants action as well. But I know a lot of investors have kind of different strategies and different kind of fund mandates, which we'll talk about as well. Now, in terms of being a VC, you kind of touched on this a little bit in terms of how it affects deal flow, but how does it affect your kind of deal sourcing or working with founders or what advice you give to founders or maybe types of projects, you look at the, if we do get an inflection point and let's say prices just generally trend lower for the next few months, does it really change anything about the nature of your job?
00:21:16.320 - 00:21:54.146, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I'd say that one vc's are generally price takers and also kind of project takers in some sense. Like you just wake up, founders show up or they don't show up. Interesting projects show up or they don't show up and they have a certain price tag attached to them depending on the competitiveness of the deal. And it's your job to figure out whether you want to do it or not. You don't really get to control what's happening in the market in that sense. I think people group vc these days as one big category, but crypto VC has become large enough that there are funds like paradigms. Last fund was $2.5
00:21:54.146 - 00:22:37.760, Speaker B: billion and then there are funds that are 30, $40 million. And so there's a huge difference between doing early stage and late stage investing. And I think I define it as like when you do early stage seed stage investing and let's say like competitive high quality seed rounds of three to $4 million will be priced actually between 30 and 50 or maybe even $60 million depending on market conditions. But in some crazy sense, if you're shooting for a billion dollar outcome, it doesn't matter so much. Like, of course your returns are pretty different when you invested at 30 versus when you invested in 60. But like if you're going, if this thing is going to be a billion or 2 billion or 3 billion, it really does not matter so much. You are shooting for 1015, 2030, 40 50 xs.
00:22:37.760 - 00:23:32.976, Speaker B: And therefore, when you see a good seed deal, you should always do it. And if the market is competitive and it's pricing it at 60 instead of 40, I think it's like inane to be like, no, I would have invested at 40 and not at 60 because, you know, the return profile is just not that different if it is actually a huge success. On the other hand, with late stage investing, we see a lot of this in crypto. Like the pre Tge round is a huge phenomenon now and at that point, the truth is that whether you like it or not, once tokens go live or are very close to being live, you are betting on beta. Like, if you do an OTC deal with like, as an example, like, I don't think there's a thing that's happening, but let's say you did an OTC deal with arbitrum today. Whether you like it or not, the price of arbitrum over the next two, three years is going to be a function of beta. And so late stage investors, I think, have to be very careful about market timing and the larger kind of pre TG rounds.
00:23:32.976 - 00:23:51.800, Speaker B: You definitely have to be careful. And that's something we think about when we're doing slightly later stage deals as well. Like, market timing is not the biggest factor, but it matters. But we basically are totally willing to ignore market conditions for good early stage deals. And I think that's the right way to do it.
00:23:52.420 - 00:24:40.658, Speaker A: I think that's a great point. I think this is something that a lot of people don't understand if they only participate in one aspect of the market. So, because for me, my investment style is, I do long term venture investing where I'm very clear in my timeframe, where the timelines for crypto networks at a seed stage is maybe they're two, three, four years away from token launch or from mainnet launch. So my holding horizon is at least that, a multi year timeframe. And the more liquid you get, the more susceptible you are to beta. So any tokens that you can buy on an exchange, by definition, is already probably a late stage company unless you bootstrap the token as you launch the product. But for most of the tokens on binance, for instance, it's already a product that's live and the valuations are already at late stage valuations, we're talking about hundreds of millions to billions of dollars, if not tens of billions, for tier one projects.
00:24:40.658 - 00:25:38.274, Speaker A: So for those, you don't really have the luxury of saying, hey, we got in at such a low price. And there's a, you know, the outcome of the project will, the ability of the team to ship will affect the price more so than market beta. So I think you could make the case that, okay, if I buy Solana here, Solana is, what, $60 billion? Maybe if the team ships a lot and we get way more mainstream usage, maybe we do get a $600 billion outcome in five years time, in ten years time. But in the interim, in the timeframe, that's within a year or two years, I would argue that majority of the price move has more to do with the broader market than what the team is doing. You cannot be as market secular or market agnostic. The later stage you go. So that's why for the liquid portion of my portfolio, I like to, I'm very careful with kind of monitoring these inflection points.
00:25:38.274 - 00:26:21.550, Speaker A: And it affects your founders as well, because affects treasury management. A lot of projects have majority of the treasury denominated in their own tokens. And I think sometimes founders make the mistake of budgeting off of that without applying the proper discount. So if you have $100 million worth of your own token sitting in a treasury, and you start spending like a company with $100 million worth of cash, six months after an inflection point, you might find yourself sitting on $20 million instead and needing to lay off 90% of the team. So that is something that we try to instill in our founders. We don't try to pressure our founders to do one thing or the other because nobody knows where the market is going to go. We basically just highlight to them that, hey, these are the things we noticed during the last top, and this is what happened.
00:26:21.550 - 00:26:36.434, Speaker A: Three months, six months, twelve months after the top to some of the companies, just give you a heads up there is this some of the conversations that you've had with founders as well, where they maybe reach out and ask, hey, sana, I think markets think a little bit frothy. What should we do with our treasury or hiring Santa?
00:26:36.442 - 00:27:33.470, Speaker B: I think we always encourage companies to be capital efficient and there is definitely a sense of striking while the iron is hot. And so the truth is, companies are hot at a certain moment and then people forget about them and narratives are hot at a certain moment. And if you strike while the iron is hot, you will be able to raise at a very high valuation or it will be able to raise a massive war chest. And so we encourage companies to think along those lines and figure out when is a good time to raise. When is not a good time to raise. One caveat to this, I will say, is this stuff matters less to the best projects. Like if you think of the most exciting l one or the most exciting l two or the most exciting stuff happening on the app layer, it just tends to matter a lot less because there are so few of those companies and therefore they can always kind of manage this stuff.
00:27:33.470 - 00:28:05.618, Speaker B: And so in a weird sense, you do have to think around this stuff. And for example, like the pre tge round, you should probably do that because at that point, like, in some sense the option value of your company is the highest and you get a whole group of investors who believe it could be worth a lot and just kind of take their opinions. And obviously the life price involves the opinions of people who are bearish on your company as well. So I think it is worth thinking about this stuff. You definitely don't want to over hire. You never want to over hire as a crypto company. And a lot of that is also just not in a funny way.
00:28:05.618 - 00:28:44.788, Speaker B: I think some of that is market and treasury stuff, but a lot of that is just like companies that overhire tend to fail. Like their organizational processes tend to be bad. And so we always advise companies to be careful when over hiring and to make sure their talent bar is really high. And I do think it affects fundraising timelines for sure, particularly for projects that are kind of struggling or like kind of need, maybe let's say a bridge round. Like, I think projects that are kind of trying to pivot or raise a bridge round, or are generally not in the best place. I think they definitely need to be careful about timing market conditions and seeing where vc sentiment is.
00:28:44.894 - 00:29:42.354, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's not just treasury management and fundraising as well. I think the bigger part for founders with regards to the bear market is actually go to market because the number of active addresses on chain and the amount of liquidity you have, which means how many people are using your defi stuff and by extension how many people can play your games or your on chain apps and whatnot, they fall down drastically with the market as well. So crypto is deeply cyclical in the sense that the user base is the overlap of the Venn diagram between speculators and users. So when things are, when people are not making money on speculating, a lot of these users leave. So obviously you have some power users who find real utility beyond just speculation. But a lot of the applications today are kind of money applications or market applications. So for instance, like DeFi, you could argue that majority of defi enables some form of speculation, requires some form of liquidity, and if that goes away, that actually hurts your kind of product market fit.
00:29:42.354 - 00:30:21.022, Speaker A: So I think the biggest mistake that I saw last cycle was a lot of founders looking at existing trends in a bull market and thinking, hey, this is the be all and end all of the market. This is the equilibrium state of the market. Let's build a business off of this. And then as the bear market came, it washed out a lot of the things that people thought were here to stay. One big example is p two, e and guilds. A lot of people thought the scholarship model is how all games in the future will be built, and we actually invested in a very sharp team. They just had the wrong thesis at that time, which worked on offering buy now, pay later for nfts for people to use in games.
00:30:21.022 - 00:31:13.256, Speaker A: So you can buy now, pay later using their DeFi protocol, basically a credit protocol for guilds to sponsor scholars for things like Axie. So it sounded like a great idea at the time. If you just look at the existing users, 2 million, 3 million daily active users in Axie on the way up. So if you extrapolate, they could get to like 50 million users in three years time. But that just didn't happen when the bear market came. So confusing narratives and confusing kind of speculation for kind of secular adoption is one mistake that founders can make that they have to be very careful for. So trying to test out new products is easier in a bull market because there's a bigger user base, there's more liquidity, but also ascertaining what is real product market fit is also harder the closer you get to the inflection point, because anything goes, anything you launch will seem like a fair business.
00:31:13.256 - 00:31:52.136, Speaker A: And we talked about pump fund before. My view was that pump dot fund is purely a bull market phenomenon. Maybe they can pivot to something else, but in a bear market, do you really see the same number of people launching meme coins, the same amount of volume trading meme coins if prices have I really don't think so. But like you said, I think founders who are focused on the 510 year 20 year horizon, they don't really have to think too much about this. It's really kind of applications that are trying to find product market fit and then iterate on it that have to be very careful what sort of signals they choose, especially during these inflection points.
00:31:52.288 - 00:32:49.600, Speaker B: Just very quickly on pump dot fun. I'll take the other side of that. Funnily enough, I know everyone thinks that meme coins are a very short term phenomenon and it's very possible that we end up in an NFT like situation where kind of the market never, at least it feels like it's never going to climb back to the highs that it was in two, three years ago. But one, I don't know if you've seen that weekly feed chart on defi llama, it's really healthy. And if the last three weeks are supposed to be a bear market, pump fun is doing totally fine. They're very consistently making $5 million a week and more generally I think that, I don't know why I feel like we have pump fund in particular is very interesting speculation meta. And I'm generally of the view that meme coins feel like actually they have pretty high product market fit, which is not to say, of course, meme coin volumes will fall in the bear market, but ethereum trading volumes will fall in the bear market.
00:32:49.600 - 00:33:10.512, Speaker B: And so surviving crypto cycles is a big part of this, I guess. I've also had a chance to meet with the founder once, and I think he's actually very long term oriented and they're shipping a bunch of interesting features. So I actually think that there's something here that may outlast cycles. And I know most people disagree with me.
00:33:10.576 - 00:33:40.362, Speaker A: Yeah, I like how this comes up almost in every roundtable we do. So the interesting thing is, because if my view is correct, we're in net inflection point. We're not really in bear territory yet. So a lot of the excesses were still kind of take place, at least by my framework. And in my opinion, topping is kind of a process, right? You could have a few months of this excess, and, you know, bitcoin could be trading between, I don't know, 73 and 58 for a few more months. And in that time alts could pull a three, four x. I would not be surprised at all.
00:33:40.362 - 00:34:36.066, Speaker A: But then structurally, it's still not conducive for, you know, a very bullish outlook on say like a three, six month time frame on, I guess, on majors. Actually, let me clarify on that, because when I first posted my bear market views, I was mostly focusing on majors, ETH and BTC. And the assumption there is that alts are basically levered beta on ETH and BTC. But there could be pockets where that dispersion happens, which we've already seen for the past year, where alts are just not trading in line with ETHn bit BTC. So I think all I'm describing is basically a scenario where capital inflow seems to be shrinking, things seem to be very frothy. We at a place where nobody seems to believe that we're inflecting to some sort of extended bear market. But the caveat is things can still trade two, three, x up in the interim.
00:34:36.066 - 00:34:54.810, Speaker A: So it's not as clear cut as saying price is going straight down. Founders buckle in. So that's something I wanted to clarify, just given how many people seem to have questions about that. I guess on your side, when you look at the general markets, are there any signs of fatigue that you see that are causing a little bit of concern.
00:34:54.970 - 00:36:00.876, Speaker B: The infra fatigue thing definitely feels real, and I think part of the truth about it is, and this is something I mentioned earlier as well, is that crypto infrastructure is now like, the opportunities are far too legible and there are too many people willing to go chase them. And so one of the things you remember last cycle is that when there were kind of esoteric ideas, there were like two, three teams that would go after them. There was very often one credible team, but that never happens in infrastructure anymore. It's like we have this idea of ZK co processors, which are effectively startups that let you kind of access historical state via ZK proofs and make it cheaper to kind of build applications that leverage the historical state of a chain. This is an idea that took hold, I'd say, about a year ago, and now we have five credible startups like this. Teams like Axiom, teams like Lagrange, teams like Previs, teams like Rise Zero also are working on something like this. And so there's like five well funded startups working on this problem, and very, very few developers have adopted this way of thinking right now.
00:36:00.876 - 00:36:32.824, Speaker B: And so it definitely feels like there's just way more supply of ZK coprocessor compute than there is demand for it from developers. The pre conformations thing I mentioned as well. Pre conformations. There's a lot of debate on my timeline from intelligent infra people about whether we even need them, but there are six startups building them. And this is an idea that was floated about six, seven months ago. To give you another example, in the last month I've actually been pitched by three separate teams building GTO for Monadheendeh. And this is not a claim that Jito for Monad is not a big opportunity.
00:36:32.824 - 00:37:15.990, Speaker B: But the fact that there are three credible teams building in that space prior to the launch of Monad is just a sign that I think there's way less alpha in infrastructure ideas now. And so either you have to have some sort of distribution or execution edge, otherwise the market just does not have room for that many of these startups. And I think that's part of what we're seeing with the tokens as well. One of the things about layer Zero is that like everyone was surprised by the token launch, and I was as well. But the truth is, bridges are like a disgustingly competitive sector in crypto. Like you have wormhole, you have layer zero, you have across, you have Axelr, you have all these well funded intelligent teams going after the same space. And at a certain point the market will not reward all of them.
00:37:15.990 - 00:37:58.650, Speaker B: And this kind of comes back to something that all VC's are repeating these days. But one of the things you'll also notice is that the application layer is actually far less competitive. And so I know there are now pump fun competitors and Dexscreen have tried to launch one, but look, pump fund launched and it seems to have created a pretty good mode for itself. Something like a fantasy top or something like a time fun. I don't know how successful they'll be in the long run, but the truth is that there's lots of blue ocean in the application space. And even for example, deep in startups, it's not like there's like a six hivemappers. And so broadly, I do think it is true that there are some spaces in crypto that have become too legible.
00:37:58.650 - 00:38:46.858, Speaker B: And I think this is going to become much worse in a bear market, because right now if you're building pre conformations, you can probably get funded in a bear market, you won't. No one is going to be willing to fund the 7th or 8th. And so I do recommend founders kind of think a lot more deeply about like whether the space they're building in is too legible. Like one more example of this is when Ethereum launched staking, Lido launched, and for like nine months there was no competition. It's crazy to think of that like rocket pool launched nine months after Lido, and Lido was just sitting around for nine months taking in all of the liquid staking deposits. Before Eigen layer launched, there were five separate liquid restaking token projects. And so I do think like a big challenge is just that like infra opportunities are way too legible these days.
00:38:46.858 - 00:38:55.794, Speaker B: And that's something that I think founders need to be thinking about and try and find either crazy distribution and execution edges, or just look in places where other people aren't looking.
00:38:55.962 - 00:39:40.464, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean that was the entire thesis for tangent, right? When we first started, we were like, okay, this infra circle jerk cannot last forever, right? There's only so, so much bigger the crypto market can get without actual users if we just keep solving very crypto native problems. I get a lot of these problems are, you know, very, very essential for builders. You know, solving mev is obviously very important for infrastructure, but we cannot have all the capital in this space disproportionately flow into these infrastructure products. Because the promise every cycle that we've been given is that, oh, the infra's not good enough yet. We need to have better infra. That's why we don't have apps. But the flip side is also we haven't had a need for very, very good infra because there hasn't been an app where there's more than 50 million users.
00:39:40.464 - 00:40:20.708, Speaker A: So it's a chicken and egg thing. I get it. But I do think to really break us out of this constant PvP, which already started to see this cycle, where the creation of wealth in total three is less than bitcoin, which is a crazy concept if you think we had. It feels like we had a big bull market because we did. Prices just pulled multiples for all of the majors. But the fact that we created more wealth in one kind of digital gold, then this massive web3 vision and all these kind of extremely technical, massive challenges that we talk about every day, and that only created half of the value that digital gold created, that's actually insane. I think everybody should be very surprised by that.
00:40:20.708 - 00:40:56.578, Speaker A: And I think the reason that is, is because there's just not enough users. So obviously there are some exceptions. I like to cite the example of pixels, even though there might be some bots there, you know, millions of daily, I think at one point they reached like a million daily active users. That's still numbers you rarely see in crypto outside of exchanges and so on. So I think backing applications is the way to get out of this, is to create, if you really want to create some sort of a super cycle, you need to back applications to get people in. So that is one way to get us out of this. But again, obviously, I think both of us are very, very bullish on this.
00:40:56.578 - 00:41:31.680, Speaker A: Right. I was tweeting about how I genuinely think crypto is at least ten x bigger as an entire market within the decade. And I was looking at a lot of AI stuff recently, especially in the past twelve months, and it all seems to lead down to a role of massive centralization. You have this recent announcement of Apple intelligence as well, and all these big AI companies working together. So it seems to me like crypto is almost like a counteracting force to this. And Peter Thiel actually called this many years ago. I think he said that AI is communist and crypto is libertarian.
00:41:31.680 - 00:42:08.290, Speaker A: So it's almost like counteracting forces that are equally important in our lifetimes. So I think you and I have both kind of dedicated basically our careers to this. And I put in most of my majority of my personal savings into this. We've backed so many things that we thought could be useful, but didn't work out. So in long term, I think it's unquestionable in terms of our conviction and space. It's just okay, in an interim, do we get to buy things 50%, 80%, 90% cheaper? Those are the conversations that I try to. Those are the conversations that I have in my head at times like this when I start to see some of the frothy signs of fatigue that you mentioned.
00:42:08.370 - 00:42:26.740, Speaker B: Yeah, 100%. I mean, I've bet my life on this inasmuch as I also work at a fund that is, like, venture funds are long, only, like, there's nothing we can do other than long things. Like, we are effectively just long crypto succeeding. And so that's very much a bet I've taken in my life and feel very comfortable with.
00:42:27.040 - 00:42:41.416, Speaker A: And I guess in terms of, like, if you think about for the last bear market, for people who are not around, not to post too much bear porn, but what are some of the horror stories you remember, man? Like you said, the bear market, to you, in your mind is, like, after FTX, what happened after FTX?
00:42:41.568 - 00:43:33.932, Speaker B: The scariest thing was just this idea that, like, we may have got a lot of our ideas and stuff wrong. And I think just having, like, for me, it was very apparent that a bunch of very sharp builders had kind of decided this place was scammy. And there's still people who believe that, and that's a challenge that crypto faces. But just the thought that, like, okay, like, I've bet my life on this, and if this space doesn't get a lot bigger and remains kind of a niche asset class, then I'm kind of screwed, particularly as a venture capitalist. And that's kind of why, if you like people who are talking about bear posting today, like, just comparing it to the vibes then. And my vibes are really based on, like, who's building something interesting. Like, are people still betting on this technology being interesting? I'm, like, much less stressed right now.
00:43:33.932 - 00:44:02.152, Speaker B: Like, there are tons of people building things. Literally, every week, someone announces something exciting. For an infra nerd, this pre confirmation stuff is fun. Yesterday, Solana announced this super cool way of life of being able to link Solana actions to links. And you can just kind of, like, I don't know if you saw, you can, like, now basically buy a meme coin or stake Solana or, like, do some action directly through Twitter. And so people continue to build very cool shit in crypto. And so I don't know at that.
00:44:02.152 - 00:44:07.790, Speaker B: Like, the vibe was so bad then, that now feels totally fine.
00:44:08.250 - 00:44:33.736, Speaker A: No, I agree. So the reason why I'm not very bothered by a potentially extended period of lower prices is because if you've been around since 2018, you know that there was existential threats to the entire crypto space every cycle during bear markets. So in the 2018 cycle, it was the fact that crypto was literally vaporware. It's all just promises. Nobody's building shit. There's no defi yet. No, there's no apps.
00:44:33.736 - 00:45:04.988, Speaker A: It's just infra circle jerks. And there's a very credible probability that the entire space just goes away, and this becomes some sort of, like, cypherpunk niche hobby. And then by the second cycle, we have Defi NFTs games. Like, actual users who don't really give a shit about cypherpunk ideology. They're just here because they can make money on some games, or they can make money trading some interesting things, and that was already product market fit. So, you know, okay, at least this is gonna stick around. And then after this cycle, there's more robust infrastructure, and we start to see some social apps as well.
00:45:04.988 - 00:45:58.086, Speaker A: So, yes, I may be skeptical of pumped up fun and mixed views on meme coins, but the fact that it's getting mainstream people in to maybe check this out, set up a metamask wallet, set up a phantom wallet, start to use different crypto things, I think that is quite hard to take away. Once that mind bug has taken hold in the minds of the mainstream, that's really hard to take away. I think the scary thing for me, actually, for this cycle was after FTX, when the mainstream has kind of fully condemned crypto, and AI was starting to take off, and you have these kind of big wigs, Silicon Valley guys saying, hey, pivot to AI. I thought, there's a genuine chance that we get brain drain. And I started to see this in one of my own porcos as well, where they just kind of pivoted fully to AI, which is really smart people coming into crypto and realizing the market is shrinking. Let's work on this AI thing instead. Because smart people are like to go where they think their big challenges are, when the big opportunities are so secular.
00:45:58.086 - 00:47:01.040, Speaker A: Brain drain was a big, big kind of fear for me in terms of existential level threat, which I don't think enough people talked about. But by and large, I think that's kind of also done away with, now that the initial novelty aspect of chat GBT, when it first came out, has worn off, and a lot of these chat GBT rapper startups have completely died. Just because OpenAI just killed all of them. So yeah, this cycle I just don't see a lot of existential threats, especially with institutionalization of bitcoin and etH, which means like mainstream has fully accepted these things and also friendlier regulatory stance in us. So the long term outlook is extremely bullish for me and I think people are just very confused about how I'm able to have this view but also have this kind of bear market framework. So hopefully what we discussed is clear enough for people to understand that we try to operate on different timeframes. So for VC's they operate on four 5610 year timeframes and they don't have to worry about the kind of later stage type of concerns.
00:47:01.040 - 00:47:39.182, Speaker A: And I think, sada, you made a really great point. For growth stage investors or liquid market participants, these are the things that they have to really pay attention to in order to either grow their ownership and networks, they're bullish on bye. You know, keeping their cash and buying 50% lower or not blowing up by levering up too early. So I think this last part of the session, I want to turn to Twitter a little bit. A lot of people have questions since my initial post, so I'll just go through a few of them here and see if we have thoughts we can bounce off. So the first one is someone asked for my low targets, so I don't like to give price predictions. That's not the point of the show, honestly.
00:47:39.182 - 00:48:24.088, Speaker A: As I mentioned before, I think alts can do whatever. They've been down 30 40% since I first shared my view in most conventional definitions of a bear market, that even by crypto standards, that's half of it already. I just didn't expect it to play out so quickly. But to me it doesn't really matter where prices are in terms of my biases, I'm not going to set my bias based on how low price goes. If anything, I want to see some sign of reflexivity up. Like I want to be invalidated on the way up. So, like, if bitcoin breaks about 73, given how reflexive it is as an asset, if you look at ETF flows as well, a lot of them tend to lag prices, which means people pile in after prices have gone up because of how reflexive it is, it also occurs the same on the downside, reduce.
00:48:24.088 - 00:49:01.082, Speaker A: That's why you have these massive interest cycle drawdowns. With Solana, last cycle traded at $250. At the lows it was $19 because people were just selling and selling and selling. So I want to see some sort of reflexivity on the way up to prove me wrong, and there's really no way to say what price that would kick in at. Right, but the rough framework I would go by is as long as bitcoin is within this 58% to 73% massive range, it's a little bit hard for me to say with high conviction that we're out of the woods. Is that kind of how you view things as well, or is this just not something that you have the concern about much more?
00:49:01.106 - 00:49:52.046, Speaker B: The latter. I definitely don't have price ranges in mind at a high level. I think if, let's say three to four months after the Ethereum ETF, Ethereum still isn't able to break all time highs or be at least at 5000 or like somewhat a lot higher than it's been previously. That would be a sign that at least our timeframes for how excited we should be about this stuff may be wrong. I also think I also totally agree with you that I think the stage is definitely set for, and I thought this last cycle as well, and it didn't really happen. But I do think the stage is set for bitcoin and ethereum to start following different trajectories from a whole number of alts. And so I certainly would not say that like, all alts are going to go up or anything like that.
00:49:52.046 - 00:50:20.796, Speaker B: I'm totally with you. That thesis feels almost too brain dead for it to work at this point. And yeah, I think that's what I would end, I think just hoping that the Ethereum ETF in a few months after it. The other thing that is always a little depressing to see is like a big divergence in equities and crypto, which is something that we've been seeing recently. But it would also not be a great sign if kind of equities continue to reach all time highs while bitcoin and ethereum kind of lag.
00:50:20.868 - 00:51:10.124, Speaker A: No, I definitely see that in this psychology as well. I think that's a good point in terms of not needing to worry too much about midtime frame prices for secular investments, which is a point we keep coming back to, kind of this point about navigating timeframes. Second question that people had for us is, well, for me, I guess, when do I get back in? So I think the binary that people post is that, okay, if you have a somewhat bearish view on the market, you are either completely short or you're 100% cash. That is actually not the case for most. If you know what you're doing risk management is a spectrum. You could be very bearish on the market, but still be long. For instance, some hedge funds, even in tradfi, if they are very defensive, but they think maybe there's a probability that the market could explode upwards, but they're not very sure is low probability, high magnitude event.
00:51:10.124 - 00:51:57.166, Speaker A: They could be completely in cash, but by convexity, by long calls. So that is one example of how people can express one view and behet the other. That's why they're called hedge funds. And then on the flip side, if people are very, very bearish on the market, but they want to maintain exposure to networks they have, or equities they have bullish view on, they could buy puts and completely delta hedge the entire portfolio, which means if the market crashes tomorrow, they more or less maintain the value of their portfolio. So risk management is a spectrum. I don't want to go into too much of our own strategies there, but in terms of when do we get back into it? You know, I'm a secular investor in venture. Like you said, it really doesn't matter if you get in early enough, do you really worry about, hey, is this thing raising a 10 million or $5 million? Because if it fails, it's going to go to zero.
00:51:57.166 - 00:52:21.926, Speaker A: And I've seen many zeros in my life, but if it succeeds, you might get 100 x anyway. So the whole point of venture investing is to be secular. And the reason why I pay attention to liquid markets is because we can't raise money as a prop fund. So we have to make sure we have enough money to keep doing these venture investments. So that's kind of the answer there. I know it's not the answer that people want to look for. People want to know exactly what price I'm going to buy certain assets.
00:52:21.926 - 00:52:45.344, Speaker A: But again, risk management is really a spectrum. And then the last one, this one I'm actually curious your take on as well, because someone asked, if you're bullish long term, why not still have exposure now in case of a white swan event or unknown bullish catalyst for the sake of a potential ten to 30% drawdown, because the upside return far outweighs downside for crypto.
00:52:45.432 - 00:53:28.650, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I agree 100%, which is why I'm actually, like, a significant percentage of my net worth is in bitcoin and ethereum. Like, I literally, like, would never be like, oh, I would never try and be like, oh, let me sell ethereum at 3600 because I think I'll get to buy some more at 3100 like, I don't have the time and energy for that shit, honestly. So I'm just happy to like be long bitcoin and ethereum all the time. It sounds inane and kind of unintelligent, but in the long run I'm pretty convinced it works out. So I think this actually makes a lot of sense. The pain of not being long bitcoin, if it was, if it happened to have a huge run up because I thought I could buy in, 10% lower would kill me. So regret minimization 100%.
00:53:28.650 - 00:53:32.110, Speaker B: I'm all the time pretty much invested in bitcoin and ethereum.
00:53:32.440 - 00:54:01.688, Speaker A: That's the gigachad diamond hands bull versus the virgin bear like me. So I actually agree with this. So if my perceived downside is 10%, I would not bother. My time and energy is much better spent actually reading what's new, trying out new apps. I'm not going to try to stare at my charts all day. I don't want to be one of those guys that wake up and just look at trading view and then try to figure out, okay, is price going down 1% or 1%? Up or down? I know some people trade on the 1 second chart. Drives me crazy.
00:54:01.688 - 00:54:46.246, Speaker A: So for me, regret monetization is two ways. One is, like you said, I'm underexposed to things that I'm bullish on because of some short term view. The other is also not paying attention to things that I would consider disastrous. So what I would qualify as disastrous is if the value of my portfolio can half. That is kind of my rough framework. So if I think my holdings can have on the flip side, if I'm in cash right now and price is half and I can double my size in networks, I'm bullish on the I think that warrants action. But that's why when I mentioned that my job as an investor in crypto, at least on the liquid side, is purely to look at inflection points, is because inflection points are supposed to preempt those kind of 50% drawdowns.
00:54:46.246 - 00:55:09.804, Speaker A: And to a certain extent, for a lot of the alts, if I was fully exposed to alts as I was expressing that view, my portfolio would probably be 40% lower. So it's scenarios like that that I want to avoid. If it's a 1030 percent, who cares? It's crypto. Volatility is part of the game. So hopefully that answers most of you guys questions out there. I know you guys will have more questions, especially given something like this. So just tweet at me.
00:55:09.804 - 00:55:28.592, Speaker A: I'll reply there. And thanks again for dialing in. Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple Podcasts or whatever platform you're listening to this on. It really helps us a lot. Or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel on YouTube as well. To not miss an episode.
00:55:28.592 - 00:55:50.600, Speaker A: I'd love to hear from you guys as well, and I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me, so feel free to leave a comment there. Let us know what project you want us to bring on, or what trends you want us to talk about, or tweet at merjasontroy or heblockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting, and I'll see you in the next episode.
