00:00:12.890 - 00:01:14.260, Speaker A: My name is Xiaoi. I'm from Taiwan. I joined the Center Foundation research team as a researcher in 2017. So today it's a bit personal that I want to tell you some stories and lessons that I've learned over the past few years and as an Ethereum protocol workers, just my perspective, there are many symbiotes here. So first episode, I want to talk about the geographical boundaries. So my background is that I completed my undergrad and graduate education over in Taiwan in computer science. So in Taiwan, the semiconductor industry is the most popular and critical to the country.
00:01:14.260 - 00:03:05.752, Speaker A: So many of my classmates after graduation they work at semiconductor supply chain companies after yeah, but however, I was not that interested in spending the rest of my life in supply chain factories and to do the similar things every day. So I wanted to do something more challenging and more open to the rest of the world. So after graduation I started working as a backend software engineer in the first year. So all through the pay was not matched with hardware engineers in Taiwan but I did have more time to explore the skill sets that I am truly interested in. And in 2016, one day my university mate told me that their company was looking to hire blockchain developers. So at that time I didn't know what Ethereum is or how bitcoin works but after some research on the weekend I discovered that it was a brand new area and with new challenges and opportunities here and more important to me back then was that it's just really interesting. So in 2017, my former colleague Chang Dr.
00:03:05.752 - 00:04:42.810, Speaker A: Chang Chen he's sitting here he told me that external Foundation Vital 18 Self was building a team for Sharding and Casper research. So I had met Vitalik in Taipei before at the local community event but I didn't think he would remember me at all. So after some days of consideration I decided to take this shot. I sent my CV to Vitalik and expressed that I'm interested in the position sorry, in the potential position and would like to start with proponental work if he was willing to teach me. So two days later I got his response. It was a very magical moment for me and today I still think one of the reasons that had made Ethereum successful at the earlier time was that Vitaliki is such a wonderful approachable and down to earth person that he see the community. So the first lesson I learned from my experience joining the Serve Foundation in 2017 was that the geographic boundaries would not stop anyone from pursuing the opportunities in this field.
00:04:42.810 - 00:05:48.780, Speaker A: And at the time the Web Three industry was still in its infancy and the community was already globally distributed. I found myself working with individuals all over the world, from all over the world and collaborating on the project that transcended the geographic limitation. So the next thing, let me tell you a wild story when we kidnapped Barry WhiteHat. So in the summer of 2018, vitalik was like flying around the world. He was spending around three days in one city and he will fly to another city. So one time Talik was in Taipei and we discovered that the famous Barry White Hat was also in Taipei. So we seen this guy's handle from actually nowhere.
00:05:48.780 - 00:06:50.530, Speaker A: He was working on sound ZK snacks projects he called like Mixmas Right and Roll up something sounded like Sushi restaurant to us. And we haven't met this guy, he or she, he might be a criminal or not, we have no idea. He's totally anonymous to us. So one day Talik was departing from Taiwan to Hong Kong for another local conference. I was also going to the same conference, so I booked the same flight and the flight was scheduled at like 07:00 p.m.. So through the connection from Changwo, we met very wide hat in person at about 03:00 p.m. On the same day.
00:06:50.530 - 00:07:48.532, Speaker A: So the meeting was great in a tea place. Barry, he is not a murderer as far as I can tell. He's just a really nice guy who is willing to fight for the right to privacy and we wanted to learn more about him and his work. But we also had to go to the airport for the flight. So Vitalik proposed a solution. He said to Barry, yeah, Barry, do you want to come with us to the Hong Kong conference? He looked at his cotton watch, said the flight is in like 3 hours. So functionally Barry said yes.
00:07:48.532 - 00:09:13.840, Speaker A: And he was really good at packing his luggage. So we really just kidnapped him to Hong Kong to meet more people in the community. And then the foundation sort of hired him, founded him to continue his great work. And later on Barry Whitehead became known as the father of Ro apps. And so as the web three industry continues to grow and merge up, the new collaboration technology emerged with the post COVID work lifestyle became sorry for yeah, some plush, took some seat and become more well, efficient and regardless of their locations. So in 2023, I believe the geography boundary will no longer be a significant obstacle for people starting their career in Web Three industry. Episode Two about the Joy and Chaos so the progress of ethereum crop protocol upgrades is like building a huge space station for some wild space colonization.
00:09:13.840 - 00:10:06.400, Speaker A: It requires multiple entities and teams work day and night to reach a consensus from time to time, the crew also have to do the daily maintenance work or sometimes a new research topic pop up and the ship has to address the destination or send a flight to somewhere during the development. So the space is full of chaos. Regular meetings at 10:00 p.m. 01:00 A.m. Or 06:00 a.m.. The in person meetings is in person meetups with the price of 20 hours flights. Also the roadmap changed every quarter.
00:10:06.400 - 00:11:19.460, Speaker A: But the good thing is that the teams are very motivated and collaborative. It's been my honor to work with many outstanding and talented people here. We are not working for one startup company. We are working for a protocol that changes people's lives in a better way. So the merge is an epic tale that shows the incredible resilience and the adaptability of the ethereum community. So by successfully transition from the proof of work to proof of stake, we were able to dramatically reduce the energy consumption of the network by a factor of 30,000. Especially considering the fact that the transition involved like coordination with more than ten or 20 different teams and the support teams.
00:11:19.460 - 00:12:23.580, Speaker A: The successful of the merge is actually a proof of the power of collaboration and the determination from the CERN community. The lessons I've learned over these years are first, one perfect is perfection is the enemy of progress. So Aya, she also talked about it in her speech yesterday. So Ethernet protocol has just plenty of technical depths that we soon understood that it's impossible to fix everything in one hard fork. We can only set goals and investigate how to achieve them step by step. So a complete system needs complete tests. The layer one is getting more complicated while adding more scalabilities.
00:12:23.580 - 00:13:47.430, Speaker A: But it's also getting simpler in some way in the whole up centric roadmap. So personally, I'm still learning to bear with the imperfection so we can actually deliver. Lesson two is that building common good doesn't mean that you are not spatial. So technical speaking, in a decentralized model, the centralized clients, everyone is sort of replaceable. However, it doesn't erase the fact that your contribution is part of reason, like why the decentralized system is strong and robust. So the input of device perspectives on the expertise from broader group of the participation is really essential to the success of search and system. So while it's true that every individual can be replaced, it is also true that each person's unique contribution is integral to the overall functionality of this decentralized system.
00:13:47.430 - 00:14:58.880, Speaker A: So lesson three here is like try to take a break to reflect, to reflect your work maybe once a year. So personally, the tiredness of my really bad work life balance had eaten my might a couple of times. And I think clients have suffered more since. They are maintaining a system that never turns off. And after one spring another taking a break can help you to come back and refreshed and be focused and ultimately leading to a better result. Okay, let's talk about onboarding. So I always say like certain culture is the most valuable properties of why I want to continue.
00:14:58.880 - 00:15:56.290, Speaker A: But to talk about this topic, I found that the culture in my mind might not be exactly what other people think because it's a huge community. However, one of the common properties I think we all agreed is agreed on is the openness. So ethereum is open sourced. Everyone can use it and to contribute it in some way immediately. Working at the Eastern Foundation has been a unique experience to me. Personally, I'm really grateful to working with such brilliant coworkers. And it's also thanks to the opportunities that given to me by the EF that I'm able to present at this stage and explore my career.
00:15:56.290 - 00:17:15.546, Speaker A: So there are multiple approaches to join Ethereum core development. For example, Danny Ryan, he started to contribute by reading the Ethereum Protocols Ethereum documents and found typos. And many clients are hiring now. The EF always embraced talents and for example, the EPF Ethereum Protocol Fellowship is a program to seek for talents, to look on the protocol works and to unborn them to make a real impact. So we had several successful cohorts previously. For the next one, please stay tuned on the EF blog post. Here are some more resource to get to know the core protocol and the topics the things ethereum community is the backbone of the EF.
00:17:15.546 - 00:18:23.738, Speaker A: And while the EF is gathering and cooperating the Ethereum ecosystem, it's also important to found a sustainable model to building the common good. So Pro Gold Games to achieve a big picture of a sustainable, independent funding source for the Coral Protocol in the long term. So we really appreciate the support from the community that helps us to build Ethereum and also to make the ecosystem become healthier. So if you feel East Tokyo is too short and the typhoon by too fast, congratulations. You may want to consider go to attending the East Taipei next week, just in couple days. So it's a local event organized by the Taiwanese community. It's an event with like three days dedicated to headstone and two days for conference.
00:18:23.738 - 00:19:41.440, Speaker A: So check it out. So the last thing here is my Them Japanese challenge. So I have to read it. Sorry. Please give me a frag. Saigoni shudiki niuto ajiani Sundayamuno koa protocol kaihat shao ga sukunakude zanin dato OMOs adiya zen pang de kini ding saiju dijutu ga shinkokuna shu kyo de is Kaigani sorry, forgot Kaigani ikitakut nai baoi so stay. Sorry, so stay.
00:19:41.440 - 00:21:54.140, Speaker A: Remote ki do baoi remote software semir kotomo Mamuru kotomo dekidu YOI center Kudes blockchain challenge to omo shiloi kotoka AFULE TEDU bong yades Tashkani hokano sangyo niko hokano Sangoni collabete kanali tokuina sunzai des katit karisangyo tomo yemas shikash segao kairu kanon sen no ARU Shinkong Shinkong sangyo demo Arimas so IMA Kokode kono hawksong de hai pyo shita atara sheet Project toga zukino Kira application Name nalu Kamo Shirle masem sango Matekit Kulate Ali adok zaimas koapotokoluno sega ni zori YOI Dikai alui WA Sankani Kyomi o mote itata ketala totemo ureshidas how ejo days? My name Barbara. Bring us.
