00:00:01.290 - 00:00:48.406, Speaker A: Hello, and thanks for tuning into this week's unchained weekly news recap. This is Michael Del Castillo, a Knight Badget fellow at Columbia University. This week, federal magistrate Judge Zia Faruki denied the US. Securities and Exchange Commission's request to inspect Binance US software, urging the regulatory body to narrow its demands for additional information. The SEC has been keen to scrutinize Binance US'relationship with crypto custodian Sefu, which, according to its own site, rebranded from Binance custody in February and is, quote, the only institutional custody partner of the Binance exchange. According to a statement from the company. Safu takes its name from Finance's secure Asset Fund for users or Safu.
00:00:48.406 - 00:02:00.862, Speaker A: Safu, an emergency insurance fund that CoinDesk last year reported had $700 million worth of BNB in one account now holding only $286,000,000 worth of BNB and $300 million worth of bitcoin in another account now holding $430,000,000 worth of bitcoin. While the assets remain in the accounts previously associated with Binance's insurance fund. A month after Sefu was rebranded, Binance released a statement saying it would start using two different stablecoins. This is all to say that the SEC now has come to suspect that Binance US and Sefu might not be quite as, quote, separate as Sefu's press release sought to make it appear. Accusing the custodian of facilitating the movement of US customer funds abroad, binance CEO Changpeng Czao denied the SEC's claims that Binance US used Sefu for handling customer assets. In a social media post, he wrote, quote Binance US does not use and has never used Sefu or Binance custody. You can't just make this stuff up, end quote.
00:02:00.862 - 00:03:38.782, Speaker A: That said, the judge has encouraged both parties to cooperate and try to find a middle ground to move the case forward. In a recent development that signals heightened scrutiny of the crypto industry, the head of the SEC's crypto assets and cyber unit, David Hirsch, announced that the agency is intensifying its focus on businesses operating similarly to industry giants like Coinbase and Binance. During Hirsch's address at a day long event in Chicago for both current and former SEC employees, he emphasized that the regulatory body is not limiting its investigations to prominent exchanges, but is extending its probes into intermediaries and decentralized finance products. Despite facing recent legal setbacks, including the previously mentioned denied request to access binance US. Software, and challenges in cases related to crypto investment firms, the SEC remains steadfast in its mission, Hirsch affirmed, quote we're going to continue to bring those charges, end quote, he said, indicating what appears to be the continuation of a steadfast approach to monitoring firms that potentially violate federal securities laws. However, Hirsch also acknowledged constraints on the agency, including its limited enforcement budget, which could hamper additional investigations against well funded exchanges embroiled in complex federal legal battles. In this week's episode of The Chopping Block, Zerox Labs founder Will Warren talked about the challenges smaller startups face in dealing with a lawsuit with legal fees amounting to large percentages of their capital raised.
00:03:38.782 - 00:04:32.446, Speaker A: It remains to be seen whether small DeFi projects will be able to survive the US. Regulatory onslaught, making matters potentially much worse for those in the crypto industry. Should any of these lightly funded startups lose their legal battles, it could set precedents that impact the rest of the industry. Meanwhile, in Washington, DC. US. Senator Elizabeth Warren, a member of the Democratic Party, gained robust support for her Digital Asset Antimoney Laundering Act, a legislative effort initiated in July 2023 to curb illicit activities facilitated by cryptocurrencies. The bill, backed by a growing coalition of ten senators, all Democrats or caucused with the Democratic Party, aims to tighten regulatory loopholes and impose stringent know your customer and antimoney laundering requirements on many participants in the crypto sector, including wallet providers and miners.
00:04:32.446 - 00:05:19.966, Speaker A: In a statement, Warren emphasized the urgency to halt criminal enterprises exploiting the digital asset ecosystem. In related news, New York's historically influential financial regulator, the same one behind the controversial Bit license proposed stricter guidelines for cryptocurrency listings focusing on technology, market and regulatory risk assessments. Contrary to Tether's previous claim that it would halt secured loans by the end of this year, the stablecoin issuer has continued to issue USDT denominated loans to its clients. The Wall Street Journal reports tether's latest quarterly financial update revealed a loan portfolio of $5.5 billion as of June 30. That's actually an increase from the $5.3 billion in the previous quarter.
00:05:19.966 - 00:06:23.026, Speaker A: Tether spokesperson Alex Welsh, in fact confirmed the new loans, stating they were issued to, quote, long standing clients, end quote, to prevent liquidity depletion or unfavorable collateral sales. Welsh added that Tether now aims to end its loans by next year. Welsh went on to defend Tether's actions, citing $3.3 billion in excess reserves and criticizing traditional financial institutions for not meeting crypto customer demand. The company's loan practices remain under scrutiny as its balance sheets lack transparency about which assets are being used as collateral to stabilize Tether's price. Ironically, though, more transparent stablecoin issuers like circle behind the USDC stablecoin continue to see the market caps of their stable assets decline. The legal skirmish between Gemini Trust and the digital currency group DCG intensified this week as Gemini vehemently opposed DCG's recent recovery proposal for Genesis Global creditors.
00:06:23.026 - 00:07:33.370, Speaker A: In a filing on September 15, Gemini's legal team denounced the plan as a total mirage, accusing DCG of presenting, quote, contrived, misleading and inaccurate assertions, end quote to Genesis creditors. The proposal suggested a recovery rate of 70% to 90% for unsecured creditors. With Gemini earn users potentially seeing a 95% to 110% recovery, it'll be interesting to see how a more than 100% recovery could pan out. Gemini insists that the proposed recovery rates do not reflect the real value terms. The ongoing dispute, marked by allegations of fraud and legal entanglements, sees both companies grappling. With a lawsuit filed by the SEC earlier this year, the ethereum based Decentralized Exchange Protocol Balancer faced yet another security breach on Tuesday night and urged users to refrain from interacting with its website following an attack last month that led to $900,000 worth of losses at the time. Representatives of the platform on Tuesday tweeted a warning about a front end attack, which, at the time of the tweet, they wrote was still being investigated.
00:07:33.370 - 00:08:43.326, Speaker A: Early reports from blockchain security firms indicate that approximately $238,000 in cryptocurrency might have been siphoned off following the previous attack. Users were advised to exercise caution as the website seemed to have suffered a redirect attack, tricking users into thinking they were using a real investor interface, when in fact they were willfully turning over their assets to the thieves following this attack, it looks like that warning might have been worth paying attention to. Hong Kong police intensified their investigation into the JPEG's crypto exchange, arresting six individuals, including crypto influencer Joseph Lamb, alleging they misled the public regarding the exchange's licensing and other operational aspects. The crackdown reportedly follows over 1400 complaints made to local authorities and suspected involvement of assets worth approximately HK$1 billion, or about 128,000,000 U. S. Dollars. Meanwhile, the exchange faces a liquidity crisis with halted operations and skyrocketed withdrawal fees, which Jpex attributes to quote, malicious end quote actions by third party market makers.
00:08:43.326 - 00:09:52.806, Speaker A: Of course, it's entirely possible that these were just investors making a better bet than the exchange could or wanted to handle. Japan securities and Futures Commission, or SFC, had previously flagged JPEGs for allegedly falsely claiming it had a valid license. The exchange, asserting its commitment to continue operations, is actively negotiating with market makers to resolve the cash flow shortage in the face of plummeting bitcoin NFT sales and a broader asset class downturn. The creator of the Bitcoin Ordinals protocol, Casey Rotomore, is advocating for a revamp of the current inscription numbering system that lets users draw or inscribe images and other data directly into the bitcoin blockchain. In a post on the GitHub repository that houses the Ordinal's code base, the software engineer argued that the existing method has led to complex code and hindered progress. Initially, the numbering was designed to remain stable, meaning encryptions would retain their original numbers forever. However, maintaining this stability has proven to be a significant challenge, especially with alterations to the inscription protocol.
00:09:52.806 - 00:11:15.810, Speaker A: The current system assigns negative numbers to unrecognized inscriptions, creating what Rotomore calls quote cursed end quote inscriptions that fail to indicate the order of creation and adding complexity and bugs to the system. Rodimore proposes integrating these cursed numbers into the main sequence and eliminating their use in URLs. This adjustment, he notes, would result in what he says are minimal changes, with new numbers differing from about by about 1% from the old ones. When Ordinals first launched this January, they were controversial for potentially bogging down bitcoin transaction volumes by creating traffic that some viewed as being not fundamental to bitcoin's core value proposition, while others saw them as a crucial step to remaining competitive against the likes of Ethereum, which started to popularize NFTs as far back as 2015. Those concerns have waned of late, with Ordinal's volume down 97% between May and August, according to a DAP Radar report. As always, there's plenty going on in DFI and Dows. Here's a quick roundup over 70% of Apecoin Dow members backed proposal AIP 297, coauthored by Animoco Brands chairman Yatsu to create a sister Dow and NFT community treasury for influential NFT acquisitions.
00:11:15.810 - 00:12:17.762, Speaker A: Layer One blockchain network Kanto set it plans to transition to an Ethereum Layer Two, utilizing the Polygon chain development kit for a network emphasizing the integration of real world assets. The creators of Layer Two network Optimism, announced a $26 million AirDrop, distributing 19.4 million Op tokens to 31 870 addresses as part of their engagement and reward strategy. After much deliberation, the founder of F Two Pool, a crypto mining operating business, decided to refund 19.8 bitcoin to blockchain infrastructure firm Paxos after the firm inadvertently paid a whopping $520,000 fee on a relatively tiny $2,000 transaction. Mark Cuban, the American billionaire investor, reportedly lost $870,000 in a DFI related scam. Looking for something more fun? Genesis is rebranding.
00:12:17.762 - 00:12:24.540, Speaker A: You may wonder why. To what? Take a closer listen to stand up comedian Jenny Hogan's take on the whole matter.
00:12:24.990 - 00:12:56.942, Speaker B: Huge news genesis is changing its name to Exodus, or at least its mission. Last week, the company announced its plan to Sunset, a term definitely created by a person who has never looked at a sunset all its trading services worldwide. The sun comes back a few hours later. Spokesperson said that this decision was made voluntarily, which is very good because I cannot support non consensual Sunsets. This is filed Chapter Eleven bankruptcy earlier this year, but at the time, they thought that their parent company, DCG, would bail them out. But no, daddy's out of cash, too. This is literally the plot of Schitt's Creek.
00:12:56.942 - 00:13:13.462, Speaker B: Good news is that Genesis has assured users that they'll be made nearly whole. The bad news is that they haven't specified what that means. Genesis owes its creditors nearly $3.5 billion. Some, such as the Winklevoss twins of Gemini, say that that is wholly insufficient. Okay, winklevy. Here's the rock.
00:13:13.462 - 00:13:24.800, Speaker B: Use your strong growing arms to squeeze some water out of it. For any Genesis users out there, you have until Wednesday to finish up your trades. 48 hours is an eternity in crypto. There's still plenty of time to lose thousands of dollars.
00:13:25.330 - 00:13:58.802, Speaker A: And that's all for now. Thanks so much for joining us. Today Unchained knows it's very hard to keep up with the latest news in the crypto ecosystem. That's why they have a daily and weekly newsletter to get you covered. Sign up for free and receive the latest updates right in your inbox, Monday through Friday. Check out the show notes and subscribe to their substack. Today unchained is produced by Laura Shin with help from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Juan Aronovich, Megan Gavis, Ginny Hogan Shawshank and Margaret Couria.
00:13:58.802 - 00:14:07.800, Speaker A: This weekly recap was written by Juan Iranovich and edited by myself, Michael Del Castillo. Thanks so much for listening. Looking forward to chatting with you next week.
00:14:10.050 - 00:14:24.730, Speaker C: Unchained is now a part of the CoinDesk Podcast network. For the latest in digital assets, check out markets daily seven days a week with new host Noel Atchison. Follow the CoinDesk Podcast Network for some of the best shows in crypto.
