00:00:01.610 - 00:00:25.910, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. Tether is not yet abiding by the sanctions on Tornado Cash Tether, the world's largest stablecoin issuer, announced it would stick to its decision to not freeze Tornado Cash addresses, at least for now. The announcement came shortly after a report from the Washington Post that alleged tornado was defying U. S. Sanctions on tornado cash. Earlier this month.
00:00:25.910 - 00:01:01.998, Speaker A: The US. Office of Foreign Assets and Control sanctioned Tornado Cash, a decentralized cryptocurrency mixer for allegedly laundering billions of dollars. Following the sanctions circle. The US. Based entity behind the stablecoin USDC froze over $75,000 in funds linked to Tornado Cash addresses. However, Tether, a Hong Kong based company whose legal obligations to the sanctions are unclear, has decided to take a different path as it has not yet frozen any assets related to the platform. According to the statement released on Wednesday, Tether has not received any requests from either U.
00:01:01.998 - 00:01:47.760, Speaker A: S. Law enforcement or regulators to freeze addresses involved with the mixer. Unilaterally freezing secondary market addresses could be a highly disruptive and reckless move by Tether, the company stated. Still, the company said it is in contact with law enforcement almost daily and also hinted that it would comply with regulators if it was asked to freeze addresses. Speaking of Tether, last week, BDO Italia, the accounting firm hired by the stablecoin issuer to publish attestation reports, revealed a 58% decrease in the company's commercial paper holdings at the end of the last quarter from the previous quarter. The reduction from $20 billion to $8.5 billion in commercial paper holdings is in line with its promise to cut its exposure to those assets by year's end.
00:01:47.760 - 00:02:09.080, Speaker A: Congressman demands answers on the Tornado Cash sanctions the news about Tornado Cash doesn't end with Tether this week. U. S. Congressman Tom Emmer sent a letter to U. S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen demanding answers on the tornado cash sanctions. Representative Emmer is an advocate of the crypto industry and has addressed many of the concerns raised by the community.
00:02:09.080 - 00:03:04.838, Speaker A: These sanctions are unique in that they were not levied against a person or an entity, but against privacy enabling code, he wrote. After Tornado Cash was sanctioned, alexey Perzev, one of the main developers of the platform, was arrested in Amsterdam last Saturday. A group of 50 people gathered in the city's dam square to protest against the arrest and demanded Perzev's freedom. However, on Wednesday, a judge in the Netherlands ruled that Perzev must stay in jail for 90 days until the initiation of the public hearing. Ethereum Merge's Kickoff date is Confirmed The Ethereum Foundation has confirmed September 6 as the date for the initial kickoff of the merge. In a blog post, the foundation wrote following years of hard work, Ethereum's proof of stake upgrade is finally here. The successful upgrade of all public testnets is now complete, and the merge has been scheduled for the Ethereum main net.
00:03:04.838 - 00:03:32.526, Speaker A: The transition to proof of stake is split into two upgrades called Bellatrix and Paris. The first upgrade, Bellatrix, is scheduled for September 6 at 11:34. A.m. UTC. In the blog post, the foundation included the links to upgrade the necessary ethereum clients. A compulsory step for the Bellatrix update to happen. Celsius Bankrupt and Embroiled in Legal Battles Crypto lender Celsius, which is going through bankruptcy proceedings, has filed two lawsuits this week.
00:03:32.526 - 00:04:37.958, Speaker A: The first one is against a former business partner, Prime Trust, which was providing Celsius with custody services. Celsius is claiming that when it terminated the business relationship with Prime Trust in June of 2021, the letter did not return all the assets it was handling. Prime Trust has allegedly kept $17 million worth of crypto assets, and Celsius is now asking those assets to be returned, plus damages to be determined by the court. The second one is actually a countersuit against Keyfi. In July, Jason Stone, Keyfi's founder, had filed a lawsuit claiming that Celsius manipulated the price of the Cel token, failed to hedge against Kefi's trading activities as they had agreed upon, and that the company's financial mismanagement had created an accounting hole of $200 million. Now Celsius is countersuing Kefi and its founder, accusing them of stealing, losing and laundering millions of dollars worth of cryptocurrency through tornado cash. As for Celsius's financial health, CFO Chris Ferraro said during a bankruptcy hearing call with creditors that the company will likely not run out of cash until the end of the year.
00:04:37.958 - 00:05:32.434, Speaker A: Previously, law firm Kirkland and Ellis had estimated that this would happen in October. Ferro is now saying that Celsius will receive additional funds from maturing loans, savings on sales and savings on use taxes on mining rigs, and it will be able to stay cash flow positive for the remainder of the year. This week, for my premium subscription, I interviewed Thomas Brazil, the founder of 507 Capital, who has been buying distressed crypto claims since the Mount Gox bankruptcy. He had a lot of insight into Celsius's bankruptcy and discussed the likelihood of its survival. Big Name Exchanges i. Voyager's Distressed Assets According to CoinDesk, the distressed assets of Voyager, another bankrupt crypto lender, are attracting some interest from the biggest players in the industry. FTX and Finance are reportedly among the companies exploring bidding for Voyager's assets, which will have to go through a sale.
00:05:32.434 - 00:06:30.562, Speaker A: Following the Chapter Eleven bankruptcy, Voyager was allowed by a court to pay employees retention bonuses for up to $1.6 million per the judge's decision. The names of the approximately 30 employees receiving the bonuses will not be publicly disclosed. On the topic of troubled crypto lenders, CoinDesk reported that FTX could end up buying Blockfly for only $15 million. After FTX gave Blockfly a 400 million dollar credit line, Sam Bankman Fried's Company got the option to acquire BlockFi for up to $240,000,000. However, Coindex revealed that the minimum price of the deal is actually $15 million, and that Blockfly is very far off from the goals established to be acquired at the maximum price. And for the last note this week on all these bankrupt and troubled companies, three Euro's Capital Liquidators got approval from a court in Singapore to recognize the liquidation order in that country.
00:06:30.562 - 00:07:23.162, Speaker A: This will allow Teneo, the company appointed to liquidate three AC's assets, to dig deeper into what happened with the hedge fund, as it will be able to request access to all the financial records. The case against NFTs as securities. A lot happened around NFTs this week. Nathaniel Chastain, former head of product at OpenSea, filed a motion with the DOJ to dismiss the charges that he engaged in insider trading. Chastain is accused of defrauding OpenSea by allegedly buying the digital assets prior to them being shown on the platform's homepage and then later selling them for a profit. His lawyers are arguing that since NFTs are neither securities nor commodities, the charges should be dropped. In addition, Chastain's attorneys made the case that their client wasn't concealing anything, as every transaction was made public on the Ethereum blockchain board.
00:07:23.162 - 00:08:19.846, Speaker A: Apes hit the Floor Speaking of NFTs, the floor price of the board Ape Yacht Club, or BYC NFT Collection, hit its lowest since the beginning of the year. It was even momentarily flipped by CryptoPunks, the second largest NFT collection by marketcap. This drop in the floor price caused concern about a major liquidation in the NFT market because of a situation that arose in an NFT lending protocol called Bendao. The protocol basically allows people to put up their NFTs as collateral to borrow Ether. As the prices of the NFTs were declining, liquidations were on order and the risk of a death spiral was now a real thing. To make matters worse, Bendao started suffering a classic bank run as lenders lost their confidence in the platform's ability to repay them and decided to withdraw their ETH. However, at the moment the issue has stabilized because the Dow voted in favor of an emergency proposal to change its liquidation parameters.
00:08:19.846 - 00:09:04.780, Speaker A: The lending rates on the platform, which had spiked to over 100% at the time of the bank run, now at 3% again. In addition, it looks like the recovery in the major NFT floor prices helped as well. In the past several days, BYC's floor price has increased by more than 10%. Anyone saying that this is the next three AC luna eight housing crisis, et cetera, was being sensationalist. The scale of the problem wasn't that big for the market, said NFT Statistics ETH, the director of research at Proof Collective. Another NFT project that saw great gains this week was the Pudgy Penguins Ethereum NFT collection, which almost doubled in the past few days. One penguin was sold for 400 e this week, around $650,000.
00:09:04.780 - 00:09:53.270, Speaker A: Lawsuit sparks solidarity in the Crypto community YouTuber Bitboy Crypto filed a defamation suit against another YouTuber called Atosi, who had made a video on how Bitboy promoted a crypto token that later failed. On Twitter, Atosi revealed that he was being sued and asked the community to help him with the funds needed to pay for the legal fees. Jordan fish, most commonly known as Kobe, donated 100,000 USDC. Then Ben Armstrong, the man behind Bitboy Crypto, decided to drop the legal charges because he never intended the suit to be public. It could be argued, though, that he dropped it because of all the bad commentary he was getting on social media. The $200,000 in funds raised will be returned. Once I have the confirmation that the lawsuit is officially pulled.
00:09:53.270 - 00:10:35.286, Speaker A: I will be refunding, everyone who donated said atosi time for fun bits. The latest strategy to 20 X Your Money ALGON Trading, a popular crypto Twitter account, is trying to turn $50,000 into $1 million. You might wonder how new trading indicators leveraging the merge trade. No, the strategy is much simpler than that. He will just do the exact opposite of whatever Jim Kramer says. Jim Kramer is a CNBC host and has become a meme due to his mistaken forecasts. There's even an account called Inverse Kramer ETF the incredible thing is that the inverse strategy is working out.
00:10:35.286 - 00:11:02.862, Speaker A: So far, Algod Trading has been able to double the net value of the account. I asked Algod Trading if there's a way to see how much you would lose if you followed Kramer's advice. Unluckily for me, he didn't want to spend the time researching my idea. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Travis the Merge and how to trade it, check out the show notes for this episode. Don't miss the Unchained daily newsletter roundup of the biggest news in crypto every weekday morning. Visit unchainedpodcast.com
00:11:02.862 - 00:11:15.620, Speaker A: to subscribe. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Wano Vanovich, Pama, Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening close.
