00:00:07.290 - 00:00:48.380, Speaker A: All right, let's get started. Hi, everyone. My name is Arisa, and I am the co founder and CEO of Sega Finance. Sega is a decentralized exotic options protocol, and we have created smart contracts that handle exotic options, which are conditional option statements. And so we'll go a little more into what our products are. But today the topic is building blocks of DeFi derivatives. This is a super loaded topic, and I think there's so much that I can go into about this, and I'm really, really excited to talk about this with you today.
00:00:48.380 - 00:02:21.318, Speaker A: So the thesis that I want to share with everyone today is this key takeaway that I believe DeFi derivatives will drive institutional adoption, and this is critical for the growth of the entire crypto ecosystem. What does that mean? So, first, how has crypto grown in the last 15 years of its existence? And what are derivatives and what are D? Five derivatives. There's been no denial that in the last few years, there is a capital market that has formed around blockchain technology. I think what people don't realize is that we have literally increased by almost 700 times since 2019 in terms of our market size. For everything that is on chain. This is a fascinating metric because it just shows that as of June of 2022, the size of onchain markets was essentially the size of a small emerging markets in traditional finance, or the size of a small commodities market in traditional finance. And so it is very much the size of a legitimate capital market that requires more institutional notice, more professionalism.
00:02:21.318 - 00:03:29.550, Speaker A: I think this is something that people don't realize. Like, DeFi is a very big market, but people don't realize this because it is a small dot compared to a traditional market. We can see here that in traditional finance, when you look at the market capitalization, it is over $100 trillion, whereas DFI, even at its height, was at $77 billion. So you can see that even though DFI itself is the size of a small emerging market or a small commodities market, we are very, very small, and we're at the cusp of this large growth and super, super excited to see what is going to drive this large growth. I think people don't realize this, and people in DFI, I'm sure, notices this. But people outside of DFI, I think, often conflate the timeline of DFI with the timeline of BTC. BTC and blockchain technology has been around for 15 years.
00:03:29.550 - 00:04:51.980, Speaker A: So it's been around I mean, it's still really early, but it's been around for a while. DFI has only really been around for the last five years, and since early adoption, it's only been like three years, maybe even less than that. And so really, we're talking about innovation that has happened at a third of the timeline of the entire blockchain history, I think, for how long DeFi has existed. The innovations that we've made in this space is fascinating. And I think it also shows that the issues that we talk about in mean, I would almost say it's natural that we have these issues because we are so early. And I think what will really trigger the massive growth of DFI is institutional adoption. So much of over 90% of existing usage in DFI is actually retail, and there's still a very small number of institutions willing to invest in DFI and DFI products.
00:04:51.980 - 00:06:09.620, Speaker A: And I'll go more into what the problems are in this space, but we need to bring in institutional adoption for mass adoption. And you can see that in the history of BTC, the cusp of institutional adoption was also the cusp of a large bull market cycle that really created the foundation of where BTC is trading today. So BTC, for instance, started in 2008, but in 2013, the very first Institutional Asset Manager was formed. Does anyone know the name of this first Institutional Asset Manager? Anyone? Well, so it was Pantera Capital, and they're one of our investors. And they were the very first institution that actually said all of their investments were going to be in blockchain asset classes. And in 2013, between 2013 and 2016, there was a very large cycle of the rise of a BTC price. And then in 2016, the Cabinet of Japan was one of the first developed economies to actually recognize BTC as a potential real money.
00:06:09.620 - 00:07:23.210, Speaker A: This, again, was the cusp of institutional adoption. And as all of you may know, from 2016 to 2018, there was another very large market movement and a very large adoption cycle that now created BTC as a very major currency in the world. And this has helped establish BTC as something that every country, every regulatory entity, and every institution talks about today. So how does this translate into DeFi? And what can we do in order to make something similar to this happen? In DeFi, where we see signs of institutional adoption, and I think it's DeFi derivatives. So for all of you here today, you might not be as familiar with DeFi derivatives. So I'll go a little more into what are derivatives and how does that translate into DeFi? And then later in my talk, I'll talk about how this is going to impact institutional adoption. So, in the purest form, derivatives are all about managing risks.
00:07:23.210 - 00:08:24.670, Speaker A: I put a farmer here because the very first use case of a derivatives contract was actually in agriculture. Farmers were worried about their crop yield every year because of a very volatile environment that was affected by weather. And so the very first form of a derivative contract was actually something that said, okay, I think the weather this year is looking bad, so I want to hedge the risk of bad weather and bad yield through having a contract with someone who is willing to insure my crops. So it's all about managing risks. Some can say it's insurance. And what a derivative is, is it is actually not the underlying asset, but it's a contract that bets on the behavior of the underlying assets. So here we have different asset classes like stocks, bonds and crypto.
00:08:24.670 - 00:09:24.126, Speaker A: And I put dotted lines around these boxes because this dotted line is what represents a derivative. It is a wrapped contract outside an asset class. And so as an issuer or a buyer of the derivative, you actually do not need to hold the underlying asset. It is a contract between two parties. So an example of this contract in this farmer's case is the buyer of the contract says, hey, I want to have the choice of receiving $100 for my apples in the next 27 days if I can't harvest. And if the apples do harvest, then they want the option of not actually having to exercise this contract. On the other hand, we have this issuer who thinks, okay, they're probably going to be able to harvest, but I can get $20 upfront.
00:09:24.126 - 00:10:21.540, Speaker A: So they're like, okay, pay me $20 right now and I can give you that choice. So this contract that helps establish this insurance is actually called a derivative. And both of these people are basically bound by this contract. And in DeFi this happens on a smart contract. So in traditional finance that insurance happens on a piece of paper and then there's a value of the contract which is the $20 that the issuer mentioned and then $100 is the payout. So in D five sense, the contract between the two parties is a tokenized smart contract that is worth $20. And then if certain events happen, the buyer of this contract can redeem $100 within 27 days.
00:10:21.540 - 00:11:06.770, Speaker A: So that was like DFI derivatives in a nutshell. And this is something that is still very up and coming within the DeFi ecosystem. I think DeFi derivatives is a very natural evolution in the market and it is imperative that this happens in the next few years. Any capital market forms from an asset creation. So in the case of DeFi, the last talk was someone from Makerdow. And Maker was one of the DeFi protocols that created the first type of decentralized asset, which in their case was a stablecoin. And then from an asset creation there's a spot market.
00:11:06.770 - 00:11:55.220, Speaker A: So spot markets, I'm sure all of you are familiar uniswap whatnot they created AMMS, they created clubs, they created exchanges. And then there's a lending market. So money markets form on top of spot markets because people start wanting to borrow and people start wanting to lend when they have multiple assets in their bags. So there's a lending market that forms and then based on a lending market, there's something called an interest rate. And this interest rate creates a foundation for more products to form on top of. It like a futures market that allows users to take on leverage. And on top of a futures market where you take linear leverage, you can take an options market which creates a nonlinear position for how you want to express your view in the market.
00:11:55.220 - 00:13:10.080, Speaker A: I know I went through this pretty fast, but the TLDR is DeFi is a capital market that has formed and you can't ignore it. There is a futures market and an options market that is forming in DeFi and it is going to be very, very big. So in order to become very big, we need institutional adoption. And the thesis today is that I actually think with all the builders here, if you build more DeFi derivative protocols, it will actually lead to more institutional adoption. So it's not that institutional adoption will bring DeFi derivatives, but I actually believe that the more DeFi derivative protocols that you build in this space, the more institutional adoption we will have in our markets. And I think this because institutions, in order to enter a capital market, need certain capabilities. And these capabilities are currently either fully there, not really there or somewhat there in DeFi.
00:13:10.080 - 00:13:58.044, Speaker A: And the categories are a bit unclean. But I think the first capability is actually having a benefit and utility in the products. And for institutional investors, benefit and utility means good returns. The second one is supply and liquidity. So for institutional investors they need to be able to invest a large amount in positions. But right now DFI market is still $77 billion at most. So it's really hard for institutional investors that want to take like a billion dollars in position because they'll be taking more than 1% of the market share.
00:13:58.044 - 00:14:55.948, Speaker A: So how do we increase the supply? How do we increase the liquidity? I think DFI derivatives is going to be able to answer this question. And then the third part is trust and safety. Obviously it's very different investing a couple of $100 out of your own wallet versus investing a couple of hundred million dollars out of a wallet that has a lot of stakeholders. So how do we make sure that there is more trust and safety in the market so that institutional investors want to invest? I actually think that by building DeFi derivatives we can build more trust and safety in DeFi. And lastly, it's about lower cost of operations. Right now we all talk about the philosophy and the love for DeFi, mentioning that by implementing more DeFi we're able to create accessibility and transparency. All these very beautiful stories.
00:14:55.948 - 00:15:51.490, Speaker A: But when you look at gas costs, it's pretty expensive. And the argument here is that by building more DeFi derivatives we're actually able to optimize for costs in the market. All of these are pretty interesting points, so I'm going to go through them one by one. The first is benefit and utility. So I mentioned that for institutional investors, benefit and utility means high returns and making money. What I think is that in current DeFi ecosystem the returns are sometimes a bit fluffy. I talk a lot online about this but for instance, I think V Tokenomics is very hard to actually create value.
00:15:51.490 - 00:17:10.456, Speaker A: And I think with the existing spot market and a lack of a strong money market and a very small options market, it's been very hard for people to find attractive yields. And high yields don't actually mean attractive yields because a lot of high yields are very fluffy in DeFi. And so by combining DeFi derivatives and by combining options where there's actually a lot more opportunities and information that could allow for more flexible views in the market, you're actually able to drive a much higher real return that is attractive for investors. So I think that is a key benefit for DeFi derivatives that will attract institutional investors. And then the second part is better trading mechanisms. So with DeFi derivatives you can actually implement things like much more efficient liquidation mechanisms which previously in DeFi were deemed very hard to implement. So for instance, in leverage in DeFi, existing markets require either over collateralization or dependency on external liquidity sourcing.
00:17:10.456 - 00:18:24.180, Speaker A: And this is super capital inefficient because for instance, you're trying to leverage, but you're still putting in locking up your asset into the platform for the duration of your trade. So essentially you're just putting in all of your assets there and taking on leverage with your own account. Or you are dependent on LPs, which obviously makes the protocol not very scalable. And as more leverage protocols form, or as more perpetuxes form, there's fragmentation of liquidity, so it becomes harder and harder to leverage as much as you want. With options, you can actually create liquidation mechanisms, for instance, where you can create spreads of, say, put options. And by having a put spread, you can actually create a baseline of where you get liquidated, so that in the smart contract there is a determined price point in which your returns become zero and it is deemed on the smart contract that you will get liquidated at this point. So you actually do not need to over collateralize or you do not need to source liquidity from an externally staked capital.
00:18:24.180 - 00:20:01.196, Speaker A: This is a super interesting idea, for instance, because then for the same 100 USDC that you were putting in and then trying to figure out liquidity through external stakers to leverage your position, the same 100 USDC can take on leverage without this external dependency and your $100 is the collateral for a position that is worth $500. And then the third part is flexible views on the market. So in spot markets you can only really bet up or down, which honestly, at a certain point for institutional investors this is no longer very interesting, especially in a market where volatility becomes lower as the market matures. Investors want there to be ways to show their views on the market, not just up or down. But for instance, is it going sideways? Is it going to have higher volatility? You can use derivatives to show views that are not just directional and this will allow for institutional investors to take on a much more interesting view that will allow for the market to mature faster. So all of these benefits are driven through DeFi derivatives that could lead to institutional adoption. The second is supply and liquidity.
00:20:01.196 - 00:21:11.064, Speaker A: This is actually a bit more of a chicken and egg issue, but I believe that by creating more DeFi derivatives protocols you're creating more liquidity in the market. Not just for DeFi derivatives, but also for the layers below, like money markets as well as spot as well as asset creation. So when you trade an option, for instance, you're buying a call, there is a market maker or an individual maker, whoever who is selling the call, in order to hedge out that position as a maker. Because as a taker you want to take on that position. But as a maker you're trying to neutralize that position. You actually need to do something called a hedge where you buy the underlying if you're selling a call and then you also want to buy some volatility so that you're hedging out the vega. And this type of hedging requires more, it brings up more demand in the market.
00:21:11.064 - 00:22:26.496, Speaker A: And so by creating more DeFi derivatives and tokenized derivative assets, it actually will lead to more demand and supply of the spot markets and money markets through these hedges. And also something called access, which are like all the positions that you hold. It also creates more secondary markets of your tokenized assets and that leads to more derivatives because people will then have a larger position that they want to hedge through having derivatives and then they'll hedge that derivative by having more liquidity of non derivative assets. And so it just becomes this flywheel of creating more and more volume in the market. So like creating DeFi derivative protocols will actually increase the volume of every part of DeFi and that is the key to creating the large supply that institutional investors will want in order to come into the market. The third part is trust and safety. So it's very different running a $10 million business out of your bedroom versus dealing with a $10 billion fund that you have a lot of stakeholders in.
00:22:26.496 - 00:23:50.540, Speaker A: So my thesis here is that by building DFI derivatives protocols you're actually able to build more transparency of flows. You're able to help derisk counterparty credit risks and you're also able to help with things like institutional custody. And a lot of this goes back to the example I mentioned about how derivatives can actually serve as an insurance and insurance brings trust and safety. So for instance, tokenized derivatives, if you are able to create single positions in a tokenized derivative, you're able to look at the flow of funds inside the contract and that creates more transparency, which creates a sense of safety for these institutional investors. So you're not just investing into something that you don't know what's going on about. And then the second part is counterparty credit risk. So a lot of people are working on this right now, but DeFi derivatives, such as credit derivatives are currently working on, on chain identity issues that helps actually look into how credible like your counterparty is.
00:23:50.540 - 00:25:20.312, Speaker A: And so these types of credit derivative protocols are actually helping to create ratings and limits of different wallets that you're interacting with. And the more credit ratings and safety measures that are being put in place, that allows you to understand who you're trading with, who the other position in your smart contract is, that creates a knowledge base that also helps create this trust and safety. And so in the next couple of years, as this DeFi market matures more, these derivative protocols are actually helping to create a database of everyone's trustability that is also going to serve as a data point for institutional investors. And then lastly, institutional custody is something I'm really interested about. And there's not a lot of this existing in the DeFi markets today, but I think DeFi derivatives will do a lot for institutional custody. So for those of you who don't know what custody means, if you're running like a $10 billion protocol or a $10 billion fund, you actually can't have a single person deploying all $10 billion. So what happens is there's smaller funds underneath that maybe allocate like $2 billion each.
00:25:20.312 - 00:26:38.640, Speaker A: And underneath there's even smaller funds that are allocating like say $500 million each. And so there's this whole notion of people who are allocating the funds for this main $10 billion fund and these funds will have to have custody of the assets. The issue with custody is that it could get lost. It's scary if you give it to someone that you don't know the face of, you don't know where it's going to go. But by implementing derivative protocols, you're able to do things like insure against the chance that a custodian of the assets loses the funds, for instance. And so again, this leads to this notion of trust and safety where creating more derivatives that are able to ensure against loss of funds, loss of assets, it helps institutional investors feel safer about deploying their large sum of money. And then lastly, my thesis is that DeFi derivatives will help optimize and reduce cost of all operations in DeFi.
00:26:38.640 - 00:27:52.420, Speaker A: This is kind of similar to the trust and safety portion, but for instance, gas optimization, maybe the engineers over here will be able to talk about this a lot better than I can. But by having DeFi derivatives, you're actually able to create two sided liquidity. What that means is there's a lot of buyers and there's a lot of sellers in the market, but oftentimes in a spot market, it could really bias towards one direction. And what that creates is when there's a very high concentration in one direction, it increases the cost and increases the communication cost. To the blockchain, which could increase the gas price. But if we are able to find ways to match orders, that happens before everything gets written in the transactions that could optimize your gas fee, which can reduce the total cost of operation. And then the second part is on chain pricing.
00:27:52.420 - 00:28:50.170, Speaker A: So right now on chain pricing is extremely complex. There is a lot of mechanisms that are being put into exchanges in order to figure out what the right price of an asset is. And what I actually think is through having derivatives, the price of derivatives actually increase data points of what the right price of the underlying asset is and so it creates more sample sizes. And basically with the availability of a DeFi derivative asset data, you are able to create a better pricing system that should also lower the cost in the long run. And then the last is protocol fees. We also take fees on all the transactions that happen on our platform. So this is something that I hope will reduce as time goes by.
00:28:50.170 - 00:29:40.824, Speaker A: I think DFI derivatives for instance, create real high yields. That was like one of my first points. By creating real high yields there is a lot of revenue potential that happens just with the positions. So protocols should be able to make money by taking on these positions rather than taking on a large fee from the trades itself, from the users. And so with the emergence of DeFi derivatives and real high yields, my thesis is that it will actually reduce the fee that is currently being imposed on the users in DeFi protocols. That again will make all of this opportunity attractive for institutional investors. And so actually, yeah, retail is a lot less sensitive to fees than institutional investors, so cost optimization is a pretty big trigger.
00:29:40.824 - 00:30:47.196, Speaker A: And with the emergence of more DeFi derivative protocols, we're able to optimize for gas, get better prices, and then we can also reduce protocol fees. So that was a lot of reasons why I think building DeFi derivatives will help bring in institutional adoption, which is the key for the growth of the entire ecosystem. Creating a robust DeFi derivatives ecosystem is very, very important and I hope that this was something that we all learned today. So I'll wrap my talk up by talking about where DeFi derivatives are today and where I think it's actually heading towards. So this is the DeFi derivatives landscape today. I categorized it into three main buckets, some of you might have different categorization and please feel free to let me know. I think the first part is exchanges.
00:30:47.196 - 00:31:38.476, Speaker A: So those are the very front facing platforms that people are able to trade DeFi derivatives on. And then the second part is operations. So this is more of the middle office, back office work that is really important for the building blocks to make sure that everything goes smoothly. And then the last is tokenization. So it is creating the actual smart contracts that represent financial positions and these capabilities vary greatly. But I think roughly these are like the three main categories and I put some representative protocols on the bottom of each category and I think for each of these categories I have some thoughts. So for DeFi derivative exchanges, these are actually maturing really well and I almost think it's a bit saturated.
00:31:38.476 - 00:32:22.640, Speaker A: I just feel like every single DeFi derivatives protocol I've spoken to is like trying to make an exchange. I think fast execution, low fee, all of that is really important. But yeah, these are all actually really good products that are existing in the market today. So we first have perpetual DEXs who I'm sure all of you guys are familiar. They are like futures that allows you to take on leverage in the direction of the market. And then we also have option DEXes that are forming. AVO just launched last week and I think there's a lot of interest in also offering nonlinear products on a Dex.
00:32:22.640 - 00:33:52.764, Speaker A: There's so many selections of exchanges and that's really exciting because that means there's just more platforms for different types of investors. But I think a really tough part is actually in DeFi derivatives. The operations are still very nascent, a lot of the tools and services in backend middle office operations are very limited and especially things like risk management, custodial solutions, clearing houses, insurance, these are the parts of DeFi derivatives that still needs to get worked on and these are very hard problems to solve. People haven't really figured out on chain identity yet, people haven't figured out how to figure out balance sheets on chain and clearing houses and custodial solutions. These are all very traditional financial terms. And how do we actually create custody of an asset in a very large wallet without it being centralized? Or how do we create accountability in a third party that helps clear transactions so that it reduces counterparty risk without that being centralized? And I think those solutions are imperative for institutions to deploy larger amounts of fund onto the market. And people have not solved this problem space yet.
00:33:52.764 - 00:35:17.540, Speaker A: So if you are a hackathon participant looking for ideas, I know it's already like the second day, but here are some ideas that I think you could work on and then this is my passion and what the problem space that I work in, which is tokenization. Tokenization is the act of putting DeFi derivative products on a smart contract. So it is transparent, it is accessible and you know that it has some sort of a payout and this area is not saturated but seeing a very exciting know in the last few years we've seen kind of the vanilla options space really form with emergence of open which tokenized options. And then I would say platforms like Ribbon, Finance Jonesdao, they really listed these tokenized options in order to distribute them to users. And then we also saw synthetic delta ones, which are more like tokenized linear payoff derivatives that people were also listing. Emergence of Sega. It was a key signal to innovating this tokenization space in DeFi derivatives as Sega created the first Exotic options smart contracts.
00:35:17.540 - 00:36:06.920, Speaker A: I'm going to talk a little more about Sega. So, Exotic Options is a very interesting space. It is actually kind of the most advanced type of derivatives where you create conditional statements on like, a normal option, and it helps create products with much more flexible views on the market. So an example of an Exotic Options position. So in Sega, a very popular strategy would be, I bet in the next 27 days, neither BTC nor ETH will fall more than 50%, and in return, I get 12% APY. So that is like an Exotic Options position that combines two things. It combines a basket of options, so you're looking at a basket of BTC and ETH options.
00:36:06.920 - 00:37:23.676, Speaker A: And then it also has something called a knock in barrier, which creates this principal protection of up to 50%, mentioning that you're actually not incurring any loss to your principal for 50% of the market movement. So even if the market falls like 45%, you're still making 100% of your principal and 100% of your returns. This type of product is very, very common in traditional finance. It's around $16 trillion in market size, and it is often marketed as a high yield savings account or it is offered to private bank clients in developed countries. And yeah, we put this on chain because we think it is a natural evolution of the market. It is very important to have exotic options on chain, and we think it will bring more institutional adoption into the space by creating safer yields involved, help market environments. And yeah, I talked a little more about our product, but in Sega's products, you deposit USDC into our smart contract and we run these Exotic Options trading strategies that helps you earn yields ranging anywhere from 5% to 50% APY.
00:37:23.676 - 00:38:18.640, Speaker A: And we offer protection against downside risks. So we actually protect your assets for anywhere from 30% to 90% of the market movements. And all of this happens on chain with a very efficient mechanism. So if you are interested in checking out more of our strategies, it's on Sega Phi. So do try it out after listening to this talk. And as I mentioned earlier, we're solving problems in this space, like lack of product innovation, declining yields and safety. Our mission is to create safer yields in volatile market environments because at the time that Sega was formed, which was at the end of 2021, beginning of 2022, we saw that the existing products in DFI derivatives were all vanilla and very risky, kind of dangerous.
00:38:18.640 - 00:39:04.060, Speaker A: We saw that everyone was forking each other's protocol and not really creating their new own protocol, not being very creative. And then there were a lot of unprofitable strategies. So we wanted to. Create real high yields that were not inflationary, that was not a ponzi. And then we also wanted to just make sure that we weren't rugging our users. So these are some of the concerns that we saw initially, and then now we're really building this in order to create an expansive DeFi derivatives ecosystem that will lead to an expansive crypto ecosystem for Sega. We're live on Ethereum as of last month, and we are also live on Salana.
00:39:04.060 - 00:39:37.150, Speaker A: We've done over $250,000,000 in trading volume to this date. So we're actually super excited. That makes us number one in Salana, DFI, and it also makes us number four across all chains in this world. So Sega has done quite well. And yeah, we just launched on Ethereum. So super excited to be speaking at an Ethereum conference today and also this week. It says today, but we actually used this slide like three times.
00:39:37.150 - 00:40:38.812, Speaker A: Today we are launching something called leveraged option vaults. I talked a little bit earlier about the beauty of having DeFi derivatives and building more efficient liquidation mechanisms. We created leveraged option vaults, which is at the cusp of DeFi derivatives innovation. It actually allows you to take on a leveraged position of our vaults without the need of additional collateralization or without the need of dependencies on external liquidity. And leverage option vaults will allow you to earn a magnified yield of 20% to 50% plus APY, on top of still having a principal protection of anywhere from 30% to 50% of the market movements. You can take two x, three x, four x, or five x leverage. And it's really an interesting product that you haven't really seen in any protocols ever.
00:40:38.812 - 00:41:13.060, Speaker A: So if you are interested in checking our products out, please try after this talk. And please come to me if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer. And yeah, thank you so much for listening to the talk today. Please try out our product. If you read this QR code, there's a bunch of links for how to get started with Sega. It also tells you it gives you documentations to our back, tests, our scenarios if you want to learn more about our products in detail. And our Twitter is Sega underscore Phi.
00:41:13.060 - 00:41:29.610, Speaker A: My personal Twitter is at toyo. So, yeah, please DM discord. Talk to me in person at the hackathon. Ask me any questions about DeFi derivatives, about the DeFi ecosystem, and about Sega. Thank you very much.
