00:00:00.250 - 00:00:19.470, Speaker A: Eventually you're just going to move to where the most capital efficient markets are. Unfortunately, with CFI and CFI lending, we confused leverage with capital efficiency. Now, I think there's an element that's transparency in addition to capital efficiency because you want to know that your counterparty is at least going to be around for the next week month quarter.
00:00:22.050 - 00:00:30.486, Speaker B: All right, everyone, welcome to the very first episode of Bell Curve of we actually had episode zero that went live before, but jason, what's going on, man? Welcome to the show.
00:00:30.588 - 00:00:32.710, Speaker C: Welcome to the show. I'm excited about this.
00:00:32.860 - 00:00:57.646, Speaker B: Yeah, me too, man. All right, we're going to be giving you guys an intro in case you guys just a refresher. For what? Bell curve the show is. Bell Curve is a two part show per week and it's divided into different seasons. So in season one, Jason and I are going to be going over a thesis which we call the DFI credit boom, which is we're going to be talking about the unlock that fixed income lending is going to have in crypto. We detailed the entire thing out in episode zero. So definitely go back and listen to that.
00:00:57.646 - 00:01:03.600, Speaker B: It's only like ten minutes. You only have to bear through so much of Jason ha. Sorry, budy, but it's good.
00:01:04.050 - 00:01:10.258, Speaker C: Says Mike number two, which we'll get into why Mike is Mike number two. But yeah, just be careful who you're roasting here.
00:01:10.344 - 00:01:26.866, Speaker B: I feel betrayed. I feel betrayed. But the TLDR of that basically is we've got a thesis. We're exploring it in three parts. Part one of the thesis, we're calling it the death of CFI. That's what Michael and Vance are going to be talking about with us today. So that's all of the recent implosion in CFI is going to push a bunch of activity out into DeFi.
00:01:26.866 - 00:02:08.246, Speaker B: That marginal activity is going to cause a big boom and renewed interest in DeFi. One of the unlocks that we're going to get is the transformation from variable into fixed rate interest. The ability to borrow at a fixed rate is going to lead to a renaissance in DeFi credit markets. There are going to be a whole bunch of different structured products on top of that fixed rate ability, and then we're going to see that's going to be a big part of the next boom, the next bull cycle. So today we're going to be talking to Michael and Vance basically about part one of that thesis, which is what are the repercussions, the second order ramifications of the recent implosion in CFI and what type of activity is that going to push out into DeFi and what their thesis is for DeFi in the next bull market?
00:02:08.428 - 00:02:10.200, Speaker C: Exactly. Let's get into the show.
00:02:10.570 - 00:02:11.480, Speaker B: Do it.
00:02:12.730 - 00:02:49.090, Speaker C: All right, everyone, we got episode number one of Belker, joined by Mike One and Mike two. It's still TVD on. Who is Mike one and who is Mike two? And then we got the real alpha coming from Vance today. This is episode one of a seven part series that we're doing, exploring what is going to kick off the next bull market, specifically around fixed rate lending. This entire episode is about kind of the death of CFI and the kicking off of DeFi. So, Mike, you want to do the honors to kick the show off? You want the first question of the first episode of the first season of Bell Curve?
00:02:49.590 - 00:03:04.390, Speaker B: Yeah. All right, Michael, I'll pose this to you because you actually were the one who used this on a phone call with me. You talked know, everything that we just saw in CFI is going to be basically CFI is done. We're moving into a new era of DeFi. You just walk us through why you think that is. What's the thesis?
00:03:05.370 - 00:04:06.870, Speaker A: Yeah. So to be specific, I would say centralized finance as it relates to crypto finance is just really having a tough time right now when everything was living in an opaque unregulated, and when all dust is done settling, we'll see how shady it potentially was, but in a potentially shady way as well. It's really hard to be able to put trust into those institutions anymore. And what I'm referring to is everything from the Celsius Voyager bankruptcies and everything else that has happened over basically the last four months, and it's really difficult to not see in the future, those types of institutions will need to be regulated like financial institutions in the way that we would trust a bank or a traditional lender. And I think that that potentially breaks their business model. They don't have the ability to get regulated right now. They don't have the strength of the balance sheet to be able to go off and compete with traditional financial lenders.
00:04:06.870 - 00:04:54.682, Speaker A: And so you're kind of stuck between a rock and a hard place. And what I think this does at the same time is it gives an opening for DeFi protocols who actually very well performed throughout all of this consternation and violent upheaval, liquidation, everything. DeFi performed pretty well throughout. There were liquidations, nothing really broke tangibly and everything kept on humming along. I think that was probably more of a feature of the over collateralization and basically the lack of capital efficiency that you potentially had with centralized crypto finance lenders. But you don't have the rehab hoffecation or the offsheet balance sheet or off balance sheet transactions that you'd have if it was centralized and not on chain and transparent. So there's a lot going on.
00:04:54.682 - 00:05:02.410, Speaker A: But ultimately, kind of the way that I put it when we talked, Mike was CFI lost and DeFi is kind of remaining to be the victor.
00:05:02.750 - 00:05:27.938, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd love to get a little bit concrete. I don't want to rehash the whole three arrow Celsius Voyager stuff. That's been pretty done. I want to start talking about second order effects. Right? So let's say one of the first order effects is that CFI is basically delevered, right? And the stats that I've kind of got is like these CFI lenders were kind of running at like six times leverage. They've taken that down to like one or 1.5 and basically they're just kind of in like a frozen wait and see type state.
00:05:27.938 - 00:05:44.550, Speaker B: So I'd love to get concrete thoughts from you guys about what were the services that centralized lenders, exchanges, et cetera, that were providing to the market, who is no longer going to be able to be served by those? What type of activity is going to move off of those platforms and find a new space in DFI?
00:05:44.710 - 00:06:40.582, Speaker D: Yeah, so the way that we borrowed just to break it down, when we do borrow, there's a few different kind of sources. One is just like on exchange leverage. So you'd lever up an ETH position, you go on the perp swap ten to 100 X, whatever your flavor of leverage is, you can do that for us as an institution, places like Genesis, places like Genesis, places like Nexo, that's kind of like another source. We kind of stuck to the Genesis side of that market. But the other kind of side of the institutional lending desk is like the Blockfis, the Celsius, the Voyagers, and those are the ones that I think are probably not going to be around anymore, the ones that were taking in retail customer deposits and lending them out. And Genesis will serve kind of like most institutions that go up to them that have good credit worthiness. KYC, good balance sheet.
00:06:40.582 - 00:07:36.426, Speaker D: I don't know what the process for Voyager Celsius underwriting was. I mean, like expos facto doesn't appear that it was very strong, but those are the people who will no longer be in the market. And if you think that Celsius was lending out half of its book at the peak, maybe that's like five to 10 billion. Voyager is probably like another billion. You could probably get towards like, okay, there was like 10 billion of net leverage that was lent out by those people and that's the stuff that frankly is gone. And I think that is Domino effect into places like Genesis tightening up their balance sheet as well. I think for us the question is now like, okay, there's cheaper rates in DeFi than in CFI and so why would we use CFI if we really didn't have to? And I think the answer is basically like, you can get white glove service, you can get billing statements, you can get all that stuff, but that's kind of trivial in the sense of on chain lending.
00:07:36.426 - 00:08:14.106, Speaker D: Like all of the information is on chain. There's tax accounting packages that are built around it. So yeah, it's a really good question as to do places like Genesis really stick around either because that is the avenue that seems most vulnerable to being disrupted and put on chain. And so yeah, I think this all happens in probably the next six months, genesis is going to figure out pretty quickly that there isn't quite as much borrowing demand as there once was. And any borrowing demand that there is, is rapidly moving on chain. And they're moving on chain for a couple of reasons. The rates are cheaper and I think the underwriting is actually more advanced on chain at this point.
00:08:14.106 - 00:08:33.722, Speaker D: Like if you look at things like Maple and the Credit Oracle that they use, they use an Oracle which basically can tell them what our balance sheet is doing without exposing our positions to them. And that's like perfect. That's what Genesis and all these big lenders should have been doing. And DeFi is just leading the way on innovation with underwriting and risk.
00:08:33.786 - 00:09:02.300, Speaker C: Vance do you think that some of this lend and borrow, especially the retail lend and borrow in the next cycle, will it basically get consolidated under the exchanges? Like will Coinbase and Binance and FTX almost play the function of like Nexo, Celsius and BlockFi in the next cycle or will the exchanges not even play in that market because of they learn their lesson, they see how it played out with some of these lend and borrow only platforms or will it all move to DeFi? What do you think there?
00:09:03.390 - 00:09:51.862, Speaker D: It's worth noting that the lending mean if you look at the FTX Margin Lending Book or if you look at Coinbase's Nascent lending program or you look at Binance's lending program, those are for the institutions. Retail can't get access to that. But I generally see institutional borrowing moving away from the Genesis of the world towards the exchanges because it's like a more holistic package. They can cut your fees, they can reduce your lending rate, they can charge you on custody. They have a larger business model around lending than just the lending desks themselves. And so I see them eating that lunch specifically, but for consumers they still can't get any credit from these exchanges. And so the highest and best use of their capital in terms of getting leverage is on chain.
00:09:51.862 - 00:10:23.218, Speaker D: And I think that's really kind of where the vortex in terms of the black hole liquidity comes from, where places like Celsius and Voyager were kind of like servicing that retail demand before. But now that those places are going to be gone and regulated like banks, the only place for that capital to go if it wants to get borrowed is on. So you know, for one reason or the other it'll get there. And I think by the next bull cycle I don't know if we're going to ever see another Celsius or Voyager again. I'm just not sure how that would play out.
00:10:23.304 - 00:10:33.974, Speaker C: So you think a lot of the institutional borrow lend stays potentially with these big exchanges and then the retail borrow lend is what drives into DeFi maybe.
00:10:34.012 - 00:11:04.906, Speaker A: To jump in there. I think it's a mismatch of product capabilities and needs right now, but that changes very rapidly over time. It's the ease of use. As we were talking about the fact that our CFO can get a brokerage or a bank statement or some printout statement every month from Genesis to say, hey, here's where your invoice is. That's just one product cycle away from being something that's built into a DB Five protocol as well. So I don't think that it's really going to stay. I think it's just right now there's a mismatch, but it's rapidly changing.
00:11:04.906 - 00:11:35.450, Speaker A: And frankly, if you can start to get more capital efficiency on chain, you're going to have a much deeper desire to go on chain. Eventually, you're just going to move to where the most capital efficient markets are. Unfortunately, with CFI and CFI lending, we confused leverage with capital efficiency. Now, I think there's an element that's transparency in addition to capital efficiency because you want to know that your counterparty is at least going to be around for the next week, month, quarter. That's a tough position to be in from an institution.
00:11:36.670 - 00:12:09.880, Speaker D: The other last part that I would say that we think about when we borrow on DeFi, you have the Oracle prints, you can kind of update tenderly to notify you if your positions are getting close to being in trouble with CFI, they'll just give you 48 hours and it's like, that's nice. But I think overall we prefer the transparency relative to counterparty risk for really large sums. And I think that is like the exact opposite of probably how we felt a year ago.
00:12:11.770 - 00:12:33.020, Speaker B: Is the reason for that switch just like, is the ultimate thesis here really about Opacity when it comes to because I think this was like we're not just talking about like an insignificant, like, oh, there was like one bad actor in the centralized lending space. It was like, arguably the majority, right? And if they weren't like, outright bad actors, it was like, at the very least, there was a lot of irresponsibility, I think, going on.
00:12:34.430 - 00:13:20.214, Speaker A: We fortunately never really ran into this issue. But imagine a situation where you call up a bank and you're like, hey, I need to get my capital back, I need to get my dollars back, I need to get my assets back. And they're like, sorry, that's a really tough position to be in, especially when you're trying to manage multiple positions, manage multiple counterparties, manage a wide array of active participation as we are. This is all the framework labs, kind of active side. The venture ecosystem, for us at least, is a lot more vanilla. But the active stuff, if you're an active participant, you're spread pretty far. And if one party, one counterparty gives you kind of like a block, it could have ripple effects throughout.
00:13:20.214 - 00:13:31.102, Speaker A: And just hearing the antidotes of what some of our peers have run through and what it's like to have that response on the other end, it's never something that we wanted to be in a position to have.
00:13:31.236 - 00:13:44.142, Speaker C: Michael, I mean, really what you're talking about is just a bank run, right? So all these small lend and borrow platforms saw bank runs. Can you just explain why the idea of a bank run doesn't exist as much in DeFi? Why isn't that possible in DeFi?
00:13:44.286 - 00:15:01.114, Speaker A: Yeah, and this is something I think I wanted to dig in earlier, but good time to bring it up now. Really what these centralized platforms were doing, they were taking in assets as collateral and these assets could be in the form of anything from USDC, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Link, any of the assets that are kind of like commonly used as collateral assets. The problem though is that when you have liquid volatile assets as your collateral base, it's very easy, especially in downturns, to be able to get close to a margin threshold where you won't be able to maintain the amount of borrow that you have in a way that they will accept. And therefore you'll probably get what's called a margin call. And you'll have to either put up more collateral to pay back, put up more collateral to recolateralize, or you'll have to pay back some of your loan. What's going on in the background, though, that I think is really important is it's not like Genesis is just sitting there and saying, okay, you have 100 BTC here and you've borrowed $50,000 and then we're just managing this as a separate account. They've got hundreds of accounts, they've got thousands of accounts and they're rehypothecating these borrow and lending scenarios where they're taking the bitcoin that you have as collateral and they're lending it out to somebody else.
00:15:01.114 - 00:15:54.478, Speaker A: And what happens in these types of situations is imagine we're getting stuck just because we have three or four counterparties. Well, imagine you multiply that by 100 and you're talking about a centralized provider and it could have been any of these and just using Genesis as the example, but it could have been any of these, that you go back to them and you say, hey, I want to get my bitcoin back. And they say, sorry, can't do that right now. And you basically have to wait for them to either have the term loan end or you have to pay back the collateral. Or you just kind of have to hope that they don't end up margin calling you and selling your collateral to pay back your loan that you have with them. So these types of situations become pretty hairy pretty quickly. But when you don't have the ability to view through to where your collateral is, as you would in DeFi, that's where you really get into a potentially tricky situation.
00:15:54.478 - 00:15:58.990, Speaker A: And once again, I think that's where we confuse leverage with capital efficiency.
00:15:59.330 - 00:16:49.082, Speaker B: So ultimately what we're talking about here is just two different models of providing financial services, right? And in this one model you have kind of the legacy model, which is this opaque bank. And the risk there is you have no transparency into what's actually going on. But two, your assets aren't actually yours. Right now the thesis is that a lot of people that were going to these basically shadow banks for financial services, they're actually going to go to this other source for different types of products and services, which is DeFi in general. And I think there's probably like what we've been largely talking about is the ability to speculate. So to take out leverage, but then also further off there's actually legitimate products and services that hedging right your risk in a business or doing longer term borrowing and lending, like real economy type stuff. I think those things walk hand in hand because usually those services require a deep market of speculators.
00:16:49.082 - 00:17:15.190, Speaker B: But let's actually just walk through one thing that I don't understand is let's talk about the leverage side of things first. So right now when you go to somewhere like Genesis, they're actually leveraging that flawed model of rehab authentication to provide you a loan, right? They're kind of underwriting you guys at Framework and they're being like, all right, these guys have a pretty good track record. They've got some capital, like in case things go sideways and then they write you the loan. How does that work in DeFi? How does leverage creation happen in a DeFi type scenario?
00:17:15.930 - 00:18:12.582, Speaker D: Yeah, it's pretty simple. You send funds to a contract and it's like a buy asset type of contract. And so you're sending it to an ETH pool on Aave. And then once you have that, you basically get what's called an LP token. So like you get a E and then once you have that you can access their USDC liquidity and you can borrow up to I think it's like probably if the value of your collateral dips lower than 120% of your loan, that's when you get liquidated. So that's about the most you can borrow in terms know those. And like usually when we borrow, we'll put up a lot of collateral, like two or three X, the amount of loan that we have and if it ever drops, like, we'll retop it out.
00:18:12.582 - 00:19:03.030, Speaker D: And that's kind of how it works for all of retail today. And the thing about if you look at Ave, they have variable rates but then they have kind of like fixed rates which get adjusted every probably like month or two or like they're not exactly fixed. And so you can kind of lock in your cost of capital to some degree. And so that's kind of like Ave. When you look at Maker, which is a different way that you can kind of get leveraged in DeFi, what they're doing is you're putting Ethan a contract and you're drawing Dai against it and people aren't holding Dai and lending it to you. That protocol is literally creating that Dai out of thin air backed by that collateral and the benefits of that model relative to something like Aave are the loans or the rates are usually a little bit cheaper because you're borrowing Dai, not USDC. They don't have to have someone source and provide the USDC to ave.
00:19:03.030 - 00:19:11.370, Speaker D: They can just create it out of thin air like they do with maker. And yeah it's a little bit different of approach but that's generally how leverage works.
00:19:11.440 - 00:19:29.650, Speaker B: In mean the big difference there between how we talk about leverage and crypto like what you just described and how leverage is typically referred to in TradFi is that's over collateralized, an over collateralized model versus if you trade like options or future or basically any type of derivatives. In TradFi. It's under collateralized.
00:19:30.630 - 00:20:10.906, Speaker A: I was going to maybe double click into that perspective. In particular we're starting to see with things like GMX and some of the new decentralized trading protocols where options and decentralized perpetual futures as they've been traded on centralized venues like BitMEX and derebit, they're actually becoming viable in DeFi as well. And so with a pretty strong liquid market you can get leverage from a perpetual future or an option for instance, which isn't the exact same process as what Vance is talking about. It's a little bit different but you can kind of get a more capital efficient model as you would have in centralized finance and DeFi.
00:20:10.938 - 00:20:18.942, Speaker B: Now can you explain how that works actually because my understand like at a bank, right, they send you like a line of credit. How does that work in a DeFi scenario?
00:20:19.086 - 00:21:33.286, Speaker A: It's very similar to the limitations and controls that you would have in the comparison of like an Aave or a maker to a centralized lending platform. If you put money into BitMEX, BitMEX is a centralized provider, they will take your Bitcoin, they will use it as collateral and then you'll be able to trade off of that collateral pool with some leverage effect. And let's say you go up to 50 x leveraged, something like a 2% move down means that or up means that your entire collateral that you have trade against is gone and their liquidation engine manages all of that and liquidates the Bitcoin and sells it on market. That's how it works. That's also generally the way that it works in DeFi, but you're putting up collateral that is then managed by a protocol as opposed to a centralized entity. The major difference here once again is it's probably not as fast because it's not centralized and as blockchains get faster it'll become more and more capital efficient in that respect, but it is much more transparent. You can see what all of your assets are in that wallet, all your positions are in that wallet and you can trust that it's a unified Oracle model that's updating the liquidation engine and then processing everything on chain.
00:21:33.286 - 00:22:11.080, Speaker A: And I know that historically centralized trading venues have had issues with people just kind of like randomly getting liquidated even though they didn't expect to be. So I think it becomes more fair and transparent. But then that also provides the ability to have potentially cross margin where you can use some positions that are maybe in that protocol in that platform that are a perpetual future or an option as an asset that you could then cross marginalize with something like a loan or something that you would borrow again. So there are kind of advantages to having that transparent nature, which is maybe the next step above where we are right now, but that's, I think directionally where things are going.
00:22:11.690 - 00:22:16.950, Speaker C: I feel like folks have been talking about DeFi options and DeFi derivatives for a while now. Why haven't they taken off yet?
00:22:17.020 - 00:22:53.758, Speaker D: I think a couple of reasons. The first one is blockchains just have not been fast or cheap enough for you to really run these protocols which require you to update every .5% price change, the Oracle and the actual system. So that's been one challenge. It's also been historically very expensive for people to do it on Ethel. One, we've kind of only had really blockchains that are fast, cheap and reliable enough for the past six or nine months for this to really happen at scale. And dYdX is like an interesting example, but they didn't write any of their own code on Starkware.
00:22:53.758 - 00:23:43.634, Speaker D: That wasn't really something that had a long term future. And so I think a lot of people had trouble adopting that as a result and getting to that platform and depositing it in something that frankly is more of like a centralized custodial model. Didn't also check all the boxes for us in terms of why we would use dYdX versus something like a binance. Longer term, I believe that basically all retail will eventually converge on decentralized venues. It'll be faster, it'll be cheaper, it'll be more transparent, you'll have more visibility into how the insurance fund works. When things that are bad happen, you'll have more guarantees. On the ethereum side, the protocol will continue running in perpetuity versus things like BitMEX, which have notably shut down in periods of high volatility and liquidated people.
00:23:43.634 - 00:24:09.270, Speaker D: And generally it's just like the most global platform for people to trade on and there's many benefits of that. Also. You can get tokenized ownership of it, you can give that to your users. Like the same playbooks that we saw work in DeFi will work in DeFi derivatives. In my opinion, it's mostly just been a timing thing. And so yeah, I mean, that is DeFi derivatives. I think that personally, the people who crack that are going to be some of the largest protocols in crypto.
00:24:09.270 - 00:25:07.934, Speaker D: Like if someone airdropped you into crypto and told you to point to where the profit centers were, it would be the perps and the options platforms. So on the perp side, I think that that's a product that's unique to crypto that doesn't really exist in TradFi and so options are really big on Robinhood, obviously, but people have never used perpetual swaps. That's like a really amazing product and I think if that had been in TradFi, options would probably be less popular. I think we're seeing kind of the opposite play out here where first we're going to see adoption of the perpetual swaps and I think we're starting to see that with Synthetix and GMX and dYdX now. And I think the ones that are fast follows behind that that require leverage to do things like Delta Hedging are the options protocols and people like mean, like, we've backed probably four or five options protocols and we've just been waiting for one of these to hit. Lyra seems like the first one that has the right confluence of the right ecosystem, the right users, the right user experience. And yeah, we're hopeful these things just take some time.
00:25:08.132 - 00:25:49.900, Speaker B: So for folks who are listening, who might not be aware, the market for options, but definitely derivatives writ large is like many orders of magnitude larger than it is for Spot. And that's a relationship that already exists in crypto on centralized exchanges, right? The derivatives market, which is basically just futures for crypto on centralized exchanges, is already larger than the market for Spot is. So I guess I'd be curious, do you guys see what do you think is the catalyst? Are you guys just like you mentioned, you've taken a couple of different bets on the space so far. Is it just like there's not enough liquidity yet? There's not enough people who want to use decentralized options? Is there something that gets us from point A to point B or is it just like a matter of time?
00:25:52.290 - 00:26:25.400, Speaker A: I frankly think it's not really a silver bullet. I think it's a bunch of lead bullets over time and we're slowly building out the infrastructure, the liquidity. I mean, think back to six months ago. Basically nothing was on layer two. From an ethereum perspective, you really didn't have any liquidity on any of them either. So people are just getting used to what it's like to bridge over and be comfortable with that in the first place. I don't know about you guys, but I get nervous every single time I touch a bridge, even if it is from L One to L two.
00:26:25.400 - 00:27:06.980, Speaker A: All of those things are just going to take muscle memory. And I think frankly, one of the things that I would love to see is a centralized bridge from L One to L two. Maybe a coinbase supported bridge, optimism, Arbitrum, wherever, just because you wouldn't have to use the decentralized version and that would just become the trustworthy on ramp. So those are some of the things that I think about mostly. I think also just given the backdrop of crypto macro and everything that's gone on over the last few months, there's not really a desire to jump back into the leverage game anytime. Soon. And so it's kind of a confluence of a lot of things, but I'd probably say those are the two biggest things in my book.
00:27:07.750 - 00:28:18.650, Speaker B: I think the reason that we're focusing a lot on just this particular part of it is like, speculation has been such a big use case for crypto writ large. So in DeFi it would feel incomplete to not talk about it, but also deep options markets that's kind of like the clay that you can use to make other types of financial products, right? Like the theme of this season is transforming variable into fixed interest rates. And you can't do that if you don't have a deep and liquid market for options. I actually kind of want to transition to that part of the discussion. What are some of the different types of financial products that you guys are excited about in DFI? Vance, I actually heard you describe this on an old episode of bankless, where basically one of the big innovations that DFI has is if you wanted to create a financial product before, your path to doing that was like working at goldman for like, 20 years and then making some weird institutional product and marketing it to a tiny group of people. Whereas now you can be like a twelve year old in Indonesia and write a contract and millions or hundreds of millions of dollars are flowing into it. So on the actual services, like products that people are going to use in DFI, what is the overall advantage of a DFI versus CFI system? And then what are some of the new products and services that you guys are either investing in and underwriting or that you see coming to market during this bear cycle?
00:28:20.850 - 00:29:07.450, Speaker D: DeFi relative to CFI advantages, I would say there's probably four. The first is just like global wallet distribution. So historically, you know, like, think about all the Australians in and you know, the whole gang, the GMX guys, all of these like historically Australians have been confined to like they have not been able to ship global financial products to every country in the world. But now you have global wallet distribution and so you write a contract if you're a kid in Indonesia, if you're a kid in Australia, you can have people in China, the US. Western Europe, Eastern Europe use it, you get instant global distribution. And that's just something that there are non geogated app stores globally. If you want approval to launch in one market, it looks very different from another, especially in a category like financial services.
00:29:07.450 - 00:29:41.334, Speaker D: So that's the first 1, second one is just like composability and just like the ease of development, it's a public blockchain. You can look at somebody's dai, stablecoin, you can put it into your contract. You don't have to go off and build that yourself. You can leverage and stand on the shoulders of everyone who's come before you from a development perspective. And that's what makes creating an insurance company in 50 to 100 lines of code possible on a blockchain where it's just not possible in a centralized institution. So that's the second one. The third one is just like tokens are very powerful and that's not something that's endogenous to DeFi itself.
00:29:41.334 - 00:30:37.110, Speaker D: It's endogenous to just this new ownership and governance model that is in crypto. And so if you're building a centralized financial service in Goldman, goldman owns like you're not bootstrapping an ecosystem around it, you're bootstrapping clients around it. But that relationship is not as symbiotic as you have somebody who uses it. You give them ownership, you give them a reason to come back, you make it more sticky, you direct fees to the token, you can spin the flywheel. It's just this way to generate more reflexivity, more ownership, more loyalty that doesn't exist in TradFi. And I think the fourth part of DeFi, which is advantageous relative to competitors is just like this is where the fringe of internet culture is and you're going to have different things develop on the margins than you will at the core of these large centralized financial institutions. Somebody's building an inflation protected stablecoin, they built that in the last six months.
00:30:37.110 - 00:30:59.120, Speaker D: That's crazy and nobody really builds that in centralized financial institutions. Sure, there's maybe products that service roughly the same area, but that's net new people are tokenizing commodities and figuring out interesting ways to use those in financial protocols on chain there's just this weird fringe culture that's just pushing things forward at just a much faster pace. And so I think there's basically four benefits and those are them.
00:30:59.890 - 00:32:03.026, Speaker A: No, I mean that's kind of the breakdown that we have of just how we view this space writ large and Vance kind of touched on this and there's a lot of elements that aren't necessarily d five specific but just endogenous to this industry overall. And I think that sort of the last point of the crypto. Native culture is really kind of the biggest component because right now it's really interesting and it's cool to be working in web3. And it's the one area of innovation in the tech industry that if you kind of take your scan around all the different subcategories, basically there's like two places to be if you're interested in technology. There's like, zero knowledge proofs in web3 or, like, artificial intelligence and what's going on in AI. And frankly, the stuff that's going to happen in AI is going to happen at the biggest companies because they have all the data and the trading models to be able to get there. If you want to push something new, if you want to push something that's creative, fundamentally creative, there's only really kind of one substrate to be dealing with right now and that's web3.
00:32:03.026 - 00:32:10.440, Speaker A: So I definitely would double click on the internet native culture as being a huge component of this whole thing.
00:32:11.690 - 00:32:47.490, Speaker C: Let's say all this plays out. Let's say we do have this big DeFi credit boom. If you look at the last cycle, there were kind of, I'd maybe say three buckets of borrowers. You had the retail borrowers, you had the funds that would borrow capital and deploy it because they thought they could earn more than the borrow rate. And then you had like the bitcoin miners ended up being a big group of borrowers. Who are the borrowers that fuel this next credit boom? Obviously, you probably have those three, the funds, the retail folks and the bitcoin miners. But is there another group that hasn't participated, that will now participate?
00:32:48.310 - 00:33:49.206, Speaker A: I actually think so. And that's ethereum stakers or ethereum staking pools and the ability to put even dollars into a unified staking pool that people are willing to borrow to be able to go off and stake and earn that yield and hedge their price risk. I mean, this is what we're talking about when it comes to things like options or perps and the ability to build structured financial products. If you have the ability to hedge the price risk of ETH and earn the nominal real yield sorry, not the nominal, the real yield of whatever percentage that is in ETH terms. That's a huge advantage product that just, frankly, isn't even possible in most crypto ecosystems right now, and definitely not at the scale that you would have with ethereum. And so I think that's actually one of the most undervalued components not only of just what DeFi can build, but also just what the merge means because someone's going to pick up that flag and run with it and it's probably going to be a large financial institution who structurally builds that product.
00:33:49.388 - 00:34:51.334, Speaker D: Yeah, I think the incentives for more borrowing are unique to staking over the next couple of years. And I say that because let's say that you want to start a credit fund and basically what a credit fund is, is you are taking on lower risk. You're not shooting for a double or a three X or a five X in the next year, you're shooting for like a 10% or 20% return and you want to do it relatively safely. And generally the types of strategies that these credit funds employ are like lending to other people, basis trading. So like doing cash and carry where you buy ETH and then you'll short the perp if it's in contango and you'll earn yield from that. And then I think the third kind of arrow that's about to be put in that quiver is like the staking carry trade where you borrow USD or you have USD, you buy ETH, you stake it, you're earning probably like at this .5% or 6% yield.
00:34:51.334 - 00:35:43.690, Speaker D: You'll borrow more USD against that, you'll buy ETH. Again, you'll stake that. And so you've kind of doubled your position at that point. And maybe instead of like 5% to 6%, you're earning like 10%. But it's a relatively safe trade because you're not just going to get blown out unless the divergence between staked ETH and ETH really kind of becomes material which over the next year should become less of a risk. But all of the incentives are geared towards these types of trades being the new ones that are put on and I think the ones that probably become less relevant in a scenario where ETH just is driving the market is like Bitcoin miner financing. And that's historically been like a very healthy area of the credit market because mining is super US dollar intensive in terms of like you have to buy machines, you have to pay people, you have to pay electricity costs.
00:35:43.690 - 00:36:06.430, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, after all of the bad loans at this past cycle, that feels like an area where it's probably less of. If you have three options in your credit fund manager, it's basis trading, it's lending to miners, and it's staking. Basis trading and staking feel like the relatively more attractive options and ones where you can actually lever them up and get larger returns.
00:36:07.810 - 00:36:56.100, Speaker B: I actually have a question for you guys about the way it was described to me about just variable yields in crypto. Where does that ultimately come from? I think you can trace a lot of that yield like the ultimate source, the stake rate from major L ones and really ETH, the ETH stake rate is like the variable yield. And in finance you have this concept of the risk free rate. Right? You also have a perpetual source of yield in the form of the US government which is like constantly borrowing and then the whole financial market kind of transformed that debt into various products. So do you guys view I mean, in the same way that bitcoin borrowers miners like a big form of borrow, do you eventually see kind of like a thriving market for the transformation of that variable stake rate for ETH into something that's fixed. So you get a bunch of options type activity around that and then you can build other structured financial products on top of that fixed rate.
00:36:56.470 - 00:37:38.766, Speaker A: Well, I think you just hit the nail on the head. It stems from the borrow rate or sorry, the real yield rate which then can be leveraged into structured products based on tenor. And what I mean by that is you'd basically be able to say, okay, the ETH real yield, let's say, is going to be somewhere around 5% in ETH terms, and then it's going to cost you some amount to be able to get basically the negative price impact of what that would be over a certain period of time. And you're going to have to pay for that duration. And so basically it's going to cost more and more the longer and longer you go out. Which means that you're going to have to pay more for that hedge. But you ladder it.
00:37:38.766 - 00:38:25.342, Speaker A: You could do a bunch of different things. And over time, I think we're going to start to see basically a yield curve for what is the risk free rate of crypto. And that risk free rate of crypto, I think, is going to be denominated. I mean, our bias is going to be that it's going to be denominated in some form of ethereum yield, the ethereum real yield because it's the most widely used and it's basically the most sustainable that you can assume. What's going to be really interesting, though, is activity and bull market bear market cycles are going to have a real impact on what that risk free rate is. And what we've seen, at least with ethereum in particular, is that more ETH, not just in dollar terms, but in ETH terms, is consumed basically in the form of revenue for the ethereum protocol as prices go up. And it has that effect over time.
00:38:25.342 - 00:39:08.058, Speaker A: And so what you can kind of assume is that the risk free rate will go up over time as markets go up, which may be kind of this auto hedging auto rebalancing effect where as markets get a little bit bullish or a little bit frothy, potentially, you kind of have this balancing out. We're like, oh, well, I'm going to go sell some of my assets because it's just safer for me to hold this ETH structured product or this ETH risk free rate kind of thing. And it'll be kind of like the shift from historically, you'd see stocks to bonds where it's like 60 40 and let's get a little frothy, let's move more into bonds. I could see that being kind of the thought process that you have over time.
00:39:08.144 - 00:39:31.780, Speaker B: The irony of what you just described there is like, we're talking about this on the day when Jerome Powell is divoting his tea leaves, right? And basically what you're talking about is like a market based pricing for interest rates, right, where when things get really frothy, the cost of capital goes up. That should turn things over. And then there's the same thing on the way down, cost of capital. The real yield that you're getting gets cheaper. So it encourages people to borrow. Right?
00:39:32.230 - 00:39:46.466, Speaker A: Well, yeah. Well, in particular what I was saying is the risk free rate, which would be probably a major variable into what you'd consider to be the cost of capital in other places and if it's risk free ish, that would be kind of the way that you'd have to assume it TradFi.
00:39:46.498 - 00:40:28.040, Speaker B: The risk free rate is basically the ten year, right? Whatever yield you're getting off the ten year, which the Fed doesn't directly control, but they control sort of they control the shallow end of the curve. So let's talk about Vance. You were starting to get into some of the fringe experimentation that was going on in DFI. What are some of those things that you guys might be interested in? Because really, I think the future that all of us envision here is DeFi eventually becoming larger than not only the CFI part of crypto, but even challenging the size and scope of TradFi in general. And you need some financial products, right, that people want to use writ large and en masse to do that. So where do you guys see that innovation occurring today? I guess in DeFi or what are some interesting areas that you guys might be looking at?
00:40:28.890 - 00:41:25.702, Speaker D: Yeah, so I think talking about kind of the four different superpowers of DeFi which are like global distribution, wallets, composability, just the ease of building tokens is a new form of just distribution, marketing incentivization, and then internet culture. I would probably add a fifth, which would be you just have this endogenous growth of wealth within crypto. You have 600,000 addresses that are active on a daily basis, they're super wealthy, they're willing to try new financial products. You have 100 billion or so of stablecoins on chain. You have 22 million ETH. I think that's almost $40 billion of ETH locked in DFI. So you kind of have all these interesting things happen, but at the same time in the background you have and depending on if you're a bull or a bear cycle, but over time, just like the amount of wealth on chain being created to use these products is increasing so much.
00:41:25.702 - 00:42:05.662, Speaker D: And if you were a traditional fintech, you would kill for these types of customers. These just don't frankly exist in traditional finance. This is like a crypto native thing and the crypto native customers are some of the most valuable part of the flywheel and that keeps it spinning. And they're not just static, they're growing wealthier, they're trying more things. They're bootstrapping new asset classes every single time. And so I think the things that we look for are there's like obvious unchecked boxes. And so if you want to look at the categories, you have borrow end, you have spot trading, you have derivatives, you have insurance, you have options, you have fixed rate lending, you have things like payment for order flow, you have things like staking.
00:42:05.662 - 00:42:54.878, Speaker D: Those are kind of like I would say some of those categories have their winners already. We don't see many people funding new AMMS to compete against Uniswap. We don't see a whole lot of new borrow lend protocols being funded to compete against compound Ravi. That is relatively settled. I think on the innovation side, I think frankly, one of the most innovative and new things that is essentially a little bit new and old is ethereum and the birth of real internet money. And internet money is a meme, obviously, but being able to create something that people identify as their base, like I would probably say my base asset, same with Michael is ETH. And it's just internet money that's not associated with a specific nation state that pays us a yield and that we have a lot of confidence using as not only money, but also just our largest asset.
00:42:54.878 - 00:44:15.434, Speaker D: And so I think that's relatively new. And I'm getting off on a little bit of a tangent here, but people say that the risk free rate of ETH is going to really hurt DFI, because what DFI protocol will be able to compete with 5% real yields? And I think that's actually the totally wrong way to think about it, because when you have 5% real yields and people are staking ETH and they're putting it in DFI, you're literally like supercharging DFI with these yields and with this additional wealth creation that's happening on a more rapid basis now that it has yield. And so I think the birth of that specific concept of internet money is so innovative and it's going to power a lot of use cases that frankly, we can't even see right now. But yeah, on the innovation side, I think it's kind of this dimension of like, okay, what are the new financial products that we can build? What are the new financial products that we should build? Like can build? I would put the wrong intersection of that as something like Squeeze, where it's like a really interesting financial product. It's really cool on paper, but nobody actually really wants to trade that because it's so complicated. And sure we can build it, but should we build it? Probably we should focus on things that are a little bit closer to home in terms of things that people understand and know. But yeah, I'm trying to think of the really new innovative stuff in DeFi that we've seen as of late.
00:44:15.434 - 00:44:51.282, Speaker D: Let me give you a couple of examples. One is like payment for order flow and the whole wallet dichotomy. So if you're phantom, if you're Zapper, if you're rainbow, if you're any of these wallets, a lot of these wallets just frankly have a monetization problem. And traditionally how the monetization problem is solved in regular finance is you basically sell your order flow. And this is actually like a really interesting monetization model. The only problem with it in traditional finance is that Citadel is the only person who is basically allowed, able to bid on any of this order flow. And we've backed a protocol, it's called Deflow.
00:44:51.282 - 00:45:41.500, Speaker D: It's basically the first on chain payment for order flow protocol, where if your wallet, you can just plug in deflow, and you have market makers, you have DAOs, you have individuals, you have anybody who can run this software who's able to bid on your order flow ahead of time. So it decentralizes the process, it opens it up to people just beyond Citadel, and it gives wallets like monetization in a box. And that is like a new trend where surprise, surprise, the person who started this protocol was an ex HFT trader at one of the largest HFT shops in the world. This new wave of people coming from Citadel, from Jump, from HRW, from DRW, these are the new people who are going to kind of define the D five of the next two or three years, and they're going to bring a lot of the tools and tricks that they learn in these places with them. And so I think broadly, it's hard to point to a ton of, okay, there's 50 new innovative trends. Here they are. But payment forward flow is one, mev is like another.
00:45:41.500 - 00:45:47.850, Speaker D: But all of these things are coming from the people who once kind of ruled the Roost in TradFi, which is exciting.
00:45:48.590 - 00:46:27.606, Speaker A: Only thing I'd add just to that real fast is I kind of think of it as like and historically, I can't remember who originated this concept. Maybe it was Fred Wilson at USV. But you have basically an infrastructure buildout and then an application that's enabled by that. I think we're fundamentally in an infrastructure buildout phase for the next generation. And a lot of the applications that are working now are the ones that were built based off of the last generation of infrastructure. And basically that's layer twos, that's oracles, that work, that's wallet solutions that are usable. But right now, we frankly are waiting to see what this next generation is going to be based on what the infra is doing right now.
00:46:27.708 - 00:47:55.620, Speaker B: I've got a question actually, and just a comment Vance, on that idea that a 5% real yield is really going to hurt innovation. That actually might be more a reflection of the times where basically everyone thinks you need 0% interest rates to fund anything or produce any sort of innovation. Because historically, I think that's actually pretty in line with what yields have been. But I guess one thing that the subject of this interview series is just debt products in crypto in general, which we haven't really seen, like DeFi native debt products. The TradFi equivalent, right, is like when even they're signaling about the drop of interest rates that leads this huge boom across everything, right? So I'd be curious, do you ever see a world where we're talking about real yields based on the e stake rate that kind of moderate, based on in these form, these very natural kind of boom and bust cycles? Do you ever see when there's basically a lowering of the real yield and therefore a corresponding drop in the cost of capital? Do you ever see that causing a boom? Because right now most of the boom cycles in crypto are based on new token distribution mechanisms, right? Be it like ICOs or yield farming or NFTs or whatever it is. But theoretically, a lowering of the cost of capital in crypto should lead to the funding of new projects on the margin and the way that it does in a TradFi type system. So do you guys ever see a world in which we have this rich ecosystem of DeFi native debt products and that is actually what sparks the boom or what kicks the cycle off as opposed to more of like the token distribution side of things.
00:47:57.190 - 00:49:13.578, Speaker D: I think if you have if the tenure is at 3% right now and the ETH stake rate is at like 6%, your total cost of if you're a rational person, if your cost to convert your USD into ETH stake it and then hedge out. That risk is less than the actual yield than you'll get. That should draw a lot of dollars into the system. And drawing more dollars into the system is fundamentally positive for crypto, more interest, more bullishness, more price action that kickstarts part of the flywheel on the other side when you're just like and that's kind of like drawing in capital from TradFi to DFI and I think that's fundamentally positive. And so that could bootstrap part of the cycle, I think on the other side, it's like if ETH is a 5% real yield, 6% real yield, whatever, and that's kind of just like the natural bar for a lot of the investment that happens in the space. And I think that that also kind of skews people towards more risk taking behavior if that is going to be the natural kind of barrier. And so more risk taking behavior means more things that are innovative getting funding.
00:49:13.578 - 00:50:19.090, Speaker D: It also probably means that if you think about how the ETH yields work, basically ETH yields are part inflation, but they're also just like revenue for the network. And revenue is calculated as the number of ETH spent per day times the price of that ETH. And for real yields to decrease, basically what you need is the following to happen price of ETH needs to go up enough where the quantity of ETH spent per day actually goes down. Because if you have picture ETH going up while fees rise on a quantity basis as well. So back when ETH was five k ten to 15K ETH per day was being spent, really what you need is for the quantity to decrease as the price increases. And there's some barrier where that happens, but it just implies that things would need to get much higher in price for quantity to decrease before any of this re rating actually happens. So I don't know, there's a lot of factors at play, but I could certainly see and I certainly expect ETH to draw a lot of attention capital and just innovation into the space overall.
00:50:19.670 - 00:51:13.970, Speaker A: Maybe one thing to touch on here, which actually I think just came out like yesterday or the day before, is the example of what happens when you kind of move past token incentives into something that's real yield as well. Synthetics. And we're an investor and have been for many years. They just came out with a proposal to stop inflationary rewards going to the stakers. And this would be basically a turning off of a massive amount of inflation inflationary yield every single week to synthetic stakers in lieu of just having SUSD which you kind of consider basically to be the real yield of the protocol going to the synthetic stakers only. And so I think there is an element of like okay, 5%, that's a really tough bar to hit. You don't have to hit that right out of the get go.
00:51:13.970 - 00:51:56.080, Speaker A: You can have inflationary rewards be something that subsidizes growth and engagement and frankly distributes ownership to the point where you get to that success benchmark of saying okay, now we can turn off the inflationary rewards. Like hey, we're ready to turn on just the real yield. And you could maybe say that's what Ethereum is doing. I don't think that it's really been planned to that effect. But it is kind of a similar one with getting rid of both of the inflationary rewards in the form of EIP 1559 where you burn the transaction fees and post merge, you're going to have lower inflationary rewards in the first place. So there are some elements of how you would do this, how you'd subsidize it, which I think are definitely success points.
00:51:56.690 - 00:52:41.166, Speaker C: Guys, if all this plays out and the debt markets really do get built in Vance, all those products that you're talking about do actually get built right now. The only real way that folks raise capital today is with just equity issuances, right? You issue tokens and you get capital and you use that capital to grow the project. In traditional capital markets, debt is much bigger than equity, right? And so I'm curious if you guys like how you see the debt markets playing out specifically for Dows, right? Do Dows go out and instead of issuing a bunch of tokens, do they go raise debt? Do they raise debt on a recurring basis based on the revenue that the protocol is spitting off? Is it like a one time raise? Does it look kind of like what Pipe has done for SaaS revenue? How do you guys see this role playing out? Maybe Michael too?
00:52:41.348 - 00:53:53.654, Speaker A: Yeah, I was going to say Pipe as a potential model here. If you have sustainable real yield in a dollar denominated core revenue producing function. There are a ton of new financing mechanisms that don't necessarily cost as much as early stage equity might and frankly aren't as potentially burdensome or disastrous in the form of a full on debt offering, as you would see in sort of the two models that exist in the corporate world. How this relates to Dows, I could see there being some flavor of somewhere in between having something where you have a debt like financing where there's some nominal yield associated with it and maybe a convertible element at a certain point based on some success criteria. I personally haven't seen anything like that. But as we get to a point where you have real yields becoming the norm, having these protocols be fee generative such that they can sustain themselves and you need to pull forward some. Of that revenue to be able to subsidize cost or grow headcount or do something new, I'm sure that there would be options for that.
00:53:53.654 - 00:54:18.720, Speaker A: But to go back to kind of the original point, that's a perfect place where structured products become a real viable option here. So that could be, I think, a point of innovation just in terms of the product categories. Going back to what Vance was saying, building something that we can versus building something that we really need. This feels like if there is a demand for it, it feels like something that we both can and potentially need to build.
00:54:19.170 - 00:55:03.694, Speaker B: I think maybe we can start to wind down here and just like rewinding to what we kind of talked about the beginning of the show, right? Death of CFI, this new era of increased growth, let's say in like if you look at exchange volumes versus maybe let's use the volumes that centralized exchanges do versus decentralized exchanges, still the majority of the volume is in centralized exchanges. Even though you're starting to see there were days where Uniswap flipped Coinbase in volume and stuff like that, I'd be curious to see just how you guys see and let's say the next bull cycle, whenever that ends up coming. How large do you see DeFi being in terms of the balance between CFI and DeFi activity? And if you're looking at it basically in terms of exchange volumes or if there's a better metric that you're paying.
00:55:03.732 - 00:55:36.182, Speaker D: Attention to, I think next cycle at least kind of how I expect it to play out. I think we'll have probably like a trillion in TBL locked in DFI. That would be kind of the next high watermark. We got to like 100 and 3140 billion. Actually probably more than that. I think it was like 150 or 160 last cycle and that was across all of the chains. I think Uniswap is probably flipping Coinbase on a more consistent basis or like Coinbase kind of gets out of the exchange business writ large.
00:55:36.182 - 00:56:30.166, Speaker D: Like Michael and I were talking about this last night, it seems like the future of Coinbase is really two or three things. One is Coinbase wallet, two is Coinbase staking. And then three is kind of like the exchange business that they have today. And I think Coinbase wallet eventually eats their exchange business where when you open your Coinbase app in the future, it's just your wallet and you're trading through open source liquidity pools on chain versus what Coinbase has on their back end. And then staking is generated, what, like $170,000,000 of the last quarter profit. That feels like a business that, if it grows in order of magnitude, is generating as much or more business than their exchange today. And so I think DFI will not only continue to grow and grow by an order magnitude or two, but it'll kind of fundamentally redesign a lot of the exchanges that are already in the space on the centralized side.
00:56:30.166 - 00:57:23.002, Speaker D: And so I think that the products that stay really close to the chest in centralized finance are probably like the derivatives platforms. Those are the most profitable, they're also the most regulated, but there's going to be an emergence of the decentralized options for people that want to use DeFi for the four or five major reasons that I kind of outlined before. But I think the other thing that we've noticed over the past year or so is that we launched 1000 DeFi protocols collectively as an industry, maybe more. And I think people are really mad that not all 1000 worked and not all 1000 have significant market share, but it was just never going to break down that way, frankly. And the fact that we have 20 winners is phenomenal. And we created those in the past two or three years and we're lucky to have probably five or six of those in our portfolio. We call that a dub and we absolutely love that.
00:57:23.002 - 00:58:06.966, Speaker D: And how many more D five protocols will there be? Will there be 20 more? Will there be 30, 40? Will there be 100 more? I would say probably there's going to be another 20 winners when all is said and done. Maybe they're more regional, maybe they're more regulated, maybe they just have a different angle on customer acquisition. But that's kind of my perspective. I think a lot of the winners keep on winning. I think the people who are still building and still innovating in the bear market are going to grow their market share just like Uniswap has like 80 or 90% of Spot AMM volume right now. When the Bull Run picks back up, a lot of their competitors are going to be basically out of business and they're just going to eat all of that upside as the Bull Run happens. So that's my perspective at least.
00:58:06.966 - 00:58:45.780, Speaker D: The other one I would say that we haven't talked about today is Maple. And Maple is just like probably the best positioned new credit creation venue in all of Crypto. They're doing like a billion, a billion five in loan originations every quarter. They're growing like crazy. Their underwriting standards and innovation on that side is just like way further ahead than CFI. And they're also like an interesting venue to get exposure to Staking where they have purpose built staking pools that go off and kind of facilitate the credit trades and carry trades that we were talking about. So, yeah, I mean, they're definitely one that we heavily watch.
00:58:45.780 - 00:58:52.680, Speaker D: You know, full disclosure, we own a lot of Maple, but yeah, they're good people. They're Australians, we love them, they're great.
00:58:53.690 - 00:59:34.722, Speaker C: Vance do you think in CFI you saw basically some of the winners like the Coinbases and FTXs and Binances of the world basically just try to eat market share across the board. So like an exchange would go into they might launch a custody product or acquire a custody product. Then they would acquire like a lend and borrow product and then they would acquire like a prime brokerage type software platform like coinbase acquiring Togomi. Is this going to happen in DeFi? Will the Aaves and the blue chips of the world eat market share from other folks? Or will just you think new, smaller companies like Startups will win? Like, will Uniswap and Aave and Compound expand out or what does that look like?
00:59:34.776 - 01:00:11.040, Speaker D: I mean, there's kind of like two schools of thought here. One is like the Aave and they're launching a stablecoin called Go Gho. And if you look at the rates between Aave and MakerDAO, the rates on Ave are usually a little bit higher just because they're not able to just hypotheficate the stablecoin out of thin air relative to Maker. And them creating their own stablecoin is just like a direct shot at Maker. They're trying to basically vertically integrate, lower their cost of capital, get more market share. And so I think there will be some people who choose to do that. Frankly, that's more of an opportunity that's available to international teams that are outside of the US.
01:00:11.040 - 01:00:52.030, Speaker D: I remember when Compound was going to have their own chain, was going to have their own stablecoin. None of those plans came to fruition, I think, for a number of different reasons, but one of them was probably regulatory. And so it kind of really matters where you're domiciled, you have a lot more degrees of freedom if you're international. And yeah, I mean, look at what Synthetix is doing versus what Dyidx is doing. It's like a very night and day comparison in terms of how aggressive they're being on the ecosystem side, on the incentivization side, on the vertical integration side. And so, yeah, we're going to see both approaches, but some people are going to be able to do it and others just won't.
01:00:53.010 - 01:01:01.520, Speaker B: All right, guys, really appreciate your time. It's been a fascinating conversation. We will see you next week for the roundup. Cheers, guys.
01:01:02.370 - 01:01:03.440, Speaker A: Thank you, guys.
01:01:04.530 - 01:01:09.970, Speaker B: All right, man. Man. Michael and Vance, wealth of knowledge there. What did you think of the episode?
01:01:10.470 - 01:01:24.626, Speaker C: Really good episode. Really good first episode. Just kind of setting everything up and framing the conversation for the entire season. Yeah, I'm always impressed talking to those guys. Just they have a wealth of knowledge of not just what has happened, but I will say what is coming down the pike.
01:01:24.818 - 01:02:05.406, Speaker B: Yeah, I would say that too, to just walk through everything again. To reiterate, the reason that we wanted to talk to these guys is I think they were the ones who really planted this idea in our heads of the death of CFI and a new reinvigorated growth in DeFi. Let's say I thought they did a really good job of just recapping what the advantages were of DeFi over CFI. Right? So with CFI, you've got the opacity, you have no visibility. But then there's also that persistent risk of rehypothecation that you have in CFI. And even if you do everything right, even if you manage your own risk appropriately, your lender, the person who's lending, or the person that you're depositing your assets with on the CFI side of things cannot be good. And then you just basically have no recourse, and they're more powerful.
01:02:05.406 - 01:02:16.678, Speaker B: And there are constant stories about this. Like Marco Hodis has a really if you want like a TradFi analog, go see what happened with Marco Hodis and really, really, you know, not great stuff and you have very little ability to.
01:02:16.684 - 01:02:19.400, Speaker C: Record what happened with Marco Hodis. I don't know that story.
01:02:20.090 - 01:02:52.866, Speaker B: I mean, Marco Hodis is a very famous short seller. I forget which position this was of his at the time, but basically he was completely in the right and he managed his march of requirements right and everything his side of the story. But it's been corroborated pretty widely and Goldman just seized his collateral anyway close stop this trade out at a big loss and he eventually ended up being right on the trade anyway. You can hear him talk about it on some episodes with Grant Williams. But I've heard that this, this happens to short sellers in particular. It's a big challenge. So just understanding who your counterparty is, there's only so much that you can do and only so much recourse you can have in a CFI type system.
01:02:52.968 - 01:02:57.810, Speaker C: Yeah. What do you think about Vance's idea that retail would actually be the first to flow into DeFi?
01:02:58.650 - 01:03:06.258, Speaker B: I completely agree with that. I think the obstacles to institutional DeFi is still there and ultimately at the end of the day, I think that's.
01:03:06.274 - 01:03:10.034, Speaker C: The big, the obstacle being what? Like the KYC. AML.
01:03:10.162 - 01:03:49.026, Speaker B: They don't trust KYC AML. And then also just the mental even just listening to Michael, right, like Michael and Vance are some of the most DeFi natives that you'll ever find and even they still have apprehensions about moving their assets on a bridge. Right. And their layer of trust, like their real trust really doesn't extend that far out past Ethereum main chain. So there's just a to you got to deal with the mental barrier for an older demographic in TradFi but then you also have to deal with it's much more highly regulated and there's career risk that's associated for them that isn't necessarily the kid. Like if Michael and Vance lose some, it wouldn't be good for them either. But it would be really unacceptable right.
01:03:49.026 - 01:04:32.962, Speaker B: If a pension fund loses money in crypto and then everyone's like, well, what did you think? It's a scam. So I think I totally agree that retail is going to be the first to move in in a big way. But I do think for our thesis right, to relate this back, the reason why we focused the two legs of the discussion on the market for options and derivatives and then the market for products is again, there's an inherent link between deep markets which are fueled by speculation and those are traditionally derivatives markets. That's the clay that goes into building new financial products. Right. Because the transformation that occurs from variable to fixed interest is basically you're basing it on a floating variable rate like Libor. You want to isolate a part of that and the way that you do that is via an options market.
01:04:32.962 - 01:04:57.962, Speaker B: So you need this deep speculative based market where there's a bunch of leverage and that's an options market and then you need that for there to be new financial product creation. And I think that's the biggest we should really be diving into that for the rest of our thesis because I think the biggest risk there is just time and we might be early on that part of that leg of the thesis, I think. But that's something that you and I should just be aware of and continue to ask guests moving forward in the future.
01:04:58.016 - 01:05:06.000, Speaker C: I think they made a good point too, that the introduction of Perps into the crypto markets will probably slow down options.
01:05:07.970 - 01:05:19.602, Speaker B: Well actually I want to double check this, but I think Vance might have been slightly wrong. I actually think the Perp contract actually does exist in Tradsfy. It had just been never been widely popularized actually.
01:05:19.656 - 01:05:21.554, Speaker C: I didn't know that. I didn't know that. I didn't realize that.
01:05:21.592 - 01:05:53.290, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm pretty sure it has been. We'll double check that and put it in the show notes. But yeah, I'm pretty sure that the Perp actually has existed. I'm actually not sure Perp is the big advantage there. It concentrates liquidity, right? If you have options markets then you have different expiries at different prices and suddenly you could basically be trying to hedge the same thing, which is your exposure to ethereum or something like that. But if you're doing it on a certain expiry then suddenly you just fragment liquidity. So there are some definite disadvantages to Perps as well.
01:05:53.290 - 01:06:04.138, Speaker B: But I think that's the big one that Perps has. But at the end of the day, I don't think it matters if it's Perps or if it's options or whatever it is. Basically you just need that ability to lock certain things in and hedge.
01:06:04.314 - 01:06:22.200, Speaker C: I love the conversation talking about the ability to create new products, right? If you are an innovator in finance and you want to innovate in finance, you have to go work at Goldman. You have to convince the risk team and the tech teams. It takes years and years to go build a new product. But in know it takes sometimes weeks or months. Right?
01:06:22.970 - 01:06:45.614, Speaker B: You know who transformed this view of the world for me is Matt Levine when he talked about brokerages or banks are investment and like you or I have different like, you and I have different needs. Like, hey, you need a computer, you need a phone. That's like very easy to understand, but we also have different financial needs. Right. I need access to borrow so that I can afford to buy a house. I need access to borrowers that I can afford to buy a car. I want to be able to take.
01:06:45.614 - 01:07:17.606, Speaker B: I have this particular bet on how I think the future is going to unfold. I need you to create a product so that I can get exposure to my particular view. Banks, hedge funds, brokerages, they're creators and then distributors of different financial products. It's just the system that they have to manufacture those products and distribute them to the masses. It's very legacy type system. I think the big advantage of DeFi is it just reduces the friction of product creation and distribution times. X I also think, for what it's worth, that's why people in TradFi get DeFi so much more intuitively and so much faster than they do.
01:07:17.606 - 01:07:35.726, Speaker B: Bitcoin that's completely anecdotal because they understand what financial services are and how they get marketed and distributed much better than the average person who if you were to say that a brokerage is basically distribution, they'd be like, what? A brokerage is where I go to buy stocks. It just doesn't compute in the same way I think that it does for Chad. Five people.
01:07:35.828 - 01:08:05.640, Speaker C: Yeah. Clear something up for me. So Vance mentioned that a lot of people think that the 5% rate on staking is going to pull capital is potentially net negative for DFI. My understanding of why people think that is because if you can get 4% on a protocol and in a pool or something, but you can get 5% just staking your ETH, then that's going to pull capital out of the pools. But it sounded like when you had a different interpretation and so can you just tell me.
01:08:07.450 - 01:08:09.990, Speaker B: Yes to both? It all has to do with opportunity cost.
01:08:10.060 - 01:08:10.342, Speaker D: Right.
01:08:10.396 - 01:08:13.338, Speaker B: So what would happen today if the Fed raised interest rates to 5%?
01:08:13.424 - 01:08:15.898, Speaker C: Yeah. Capital gets pulled out of stocks, right? Right, exactly.
01:08:15.984 - 01:08:41.534, Speaker B: Gets pulled out. But capital wouldn't get pulled out if the rate of return for stocks was 10%. The reason why interest rates are where they are is because markets collectively don't think you can earn higher than a certain percentage return on your other options. Right. People are very concerned about that other rate of return. The reason why it might work with a higher percent, like a 5% real yield, right. Risk free yield.
01:08:41.534 - 01:09:11.642, Speaker B: Real yield. Like your 5% is your hurdle rate essentially for new types of investments is crypto is growing like crazy. Right. Like the growth isn't really the worry quite so much, I think, in this space as it is for that's. What that's like the distinction as well between where the Fed controls interest rates at the shallow end of the curve, which is where banks borrow, versus the long end of the curve, which is less determined by what central banks are doing and more determined by where people think growth is going. Does that make sense?
01:09:11.696 - 01:09:12.682, Speaker C: It does make sense.
01:09:12.816 - 01:09:53.194, Speaker B: So the reason why the Fed is basically to lower their interest rate is because their understanding of the economy is that it cannot bear a higher hurdle rate. Whereas in crypto it is possible that you actually could bear that higher hurdle rate. And the reason why that's ultimately better is because if your hurdle rate for new investments is 5% as opposed to 1%, then all of the new investments that get funded will return at least 6%. Whereas all of the new investments that get funded in finance, in TradFi, in the economy today won't return as much because the cost of capital is much lower. Does that make sense?
01:09:53.232 - 01:09:54.122, Speaker C: That makes sense, yeah.
01:09:54.176 - 01:10:02.598, Speaker B: That's why we have all these zombie companies. That's why lowering interest rates to a certain point is actually counterproductive because it encourages mal investment.
01:10:02.694 - 01:10:10.506, Speaker C: Yeah. What's coming next? This was a really good episode to kick off the season. What is the next episode? What are we talking about with Tushar?
01:10:10.698 - 01:10:46.630, Speaker B: So we're talking about two things with Tushar, right? So here's what we covered on this episode where it relates to thesis and I think we were largely validated, right? What I think we did cover in depth is that we see a much diminished presence of CFI in this current cycle. But moving forward after that, it gets less and less and less in light. So almost like the new bitcoin dominance, right? Which is just like that's been a one way track down essentially. And I think that's what CFI is going to be relative to DeFi moving forward as well. So I came away from this conversation pretty confident that that's going to be the case. What we're going to be talking to Shar about is two different things. One, we're going to be talking about interest rate swaps.
01:10:46.630 - 01:11:31.302, Speaker B: So that's actually the market that performs that alchemy of transforming variable rate into fixed rates, right? So swap is basically you're swapping future cash flows. So people use it to hedge interest rates, but they also use it for options and things like that. So interest rate swap markets in crypto DeFi native interest rate swaps. Tushar also was the one who gave us the idea of, okay, largely what token financing is, is that some form of equity financing. And that's what catalyzes booms in crypto. We want to get his opinion on whether or not we think debt financing, right? The creation of a new suite of credit products, whether that can kick off a bull waving crypto in the same way that equity financing, token distribution innovation has in the past. That's what we're going to be talking to him about.
01:11:31.436 - 01:11:39.966, Speaker C: That episode drops next week. If you guys are excited about it, hit the subscribe button. Anything else? Mike? That's it. See you next week.
01:11:40.028 - 01:11:41.100, Speaker B: You see you next week.
