00:00:00.170 - 00:00:16.170, Speaker A: The fourth session, or if this is your first, it doesn't matter. We're excited to have you. Anyway. Paul, I'm kind of interested to hear a little bit about you. Thanks for joining us. First of all, we'd love to hear a little bit about sort of your background and how you got started with Op Games.
00:00:16.330 - 00:00:59.870, Speaker B: Yeah. Thank you, Luke. And I thought the sentiment that I'm happy to see people spending time hacking over a weekend. So I hope hope this session is pretty useful for everyone, but I can start with talking a little bit about Op Games. Op Games? I would say we're also a game development company. We started out Making games in I had a company called Altitude Games Making Games starting out in 2014, and when 2017 came around, we discovered blockchain, and that was kind of the impetus for us to start Op Games. And Op Games has always really been focused around helping game developers be successful in blockchain.
00:00:59.870 - 00:01:25.350, Speaker B: So that's the mission that we have always had in mind. And that's the reason why we want to do this hackathon with everyone. We want people to realize what can be done with Web Three and help them realize that and give them the tools needed to be able to do that. I'm really looking forward to sharing what we have and to getting any questions that you guys might have at the end of the presentation.
00:01:30.890 - 00:01:43.962, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you. As he mentioned, we'll be taking questions at the end, so feel free to drop them in the chat and we will get to them. But Paul, the floor is yours. Thank you for joining us again. Looking forward to hearing the thank you, Luke.
00:01:44.026 - 00:02:23.082, Speaker B: All right. Yeah, I'll get started. So this is my presentation on what we're hoping the hackers have built with us on Buildquest, and I'll be talking a bit about Arcadia, which is our platform and why we're building it and why we're looking for the kinds of games that we are looking for. Here we go. And I guess it's best for me to just play this video and talk through it. As it plays, it shows some of the games that we have on Arcadia. But essentially, Arcadia is an HTML five platform.
00:02:23.082 - 00:03:22.570, Speaker B: And I say HTML Five because that's really the focus that we have right now on Op Games. We feel that HTML Five is precisely the platform that needs to be disrupted by Web Three. A lot of game developers on HTML Five don't really have options in Monetization, they don't have options on distribution, and they don't have options of Discoverability as well. So Arcadia is that we are hoping to make it a distribution and discovery channel for HTML Five games. And some of the games here, all of the games are HTML Five, but they run the gamut of genres. So we have casual games. We have very simple hyper casual games like Crisca, which is one of the more popular games we have, we have a more complicated game, like the game we're building called Arcadium Arena, which is a game that uses NFTs that allows you to compete against other owners of the NFTs.
00:03:22.570 - 00:04:01.518, Speaker B: To talk a little bit more about the bounties, we're looking at three games, three HTML Five games that we were hoping to put on Oprcade. The best game will be awarded $2,000, and then we'll get two other ones which will be awarded $1,000 each. And for the criteria, the game should be deployed on a live URL. So that means it should be live. You can use Netlify or whatever hosting that you want to put it up. And another important thing is the game must use some of the buildquest sponsor APIs. So I think that's quite unique in what we're doing wherein we want to incentivize people to use our other partner APIs.
00:04:01.518 - 00:04:52.362, Speaker B: And the reason for that is in the third point, which is on the bonus points, we champion open gaming, which is something I'll talk a little bit more. And open gaming is really an exploration of what would games look like if the game is open source. So if your game is open source, then that would give you bonus points for the bounty. Definitely. And we do realize also that making games is hard. Twelve days of making a game will not allow you to build a really polished game. And our plan is we will be looking at all the games that are submitted on Build Quest and we do have a support platform for games after the hackathon, we have the GM Friends Accelerator wherein we kind of incubate games that are building on the future of Web Three.
00:04:52.362 - 00:05:55.214, Speaker B: So the goal here is if we see games that are very promising from the hackathon, then we would love to work with you further on GM Friends. I guess the rest of the slides, I'd be talking about open gaming and then I'll be talking a little bit more about how to get started with HTML Five games. But when I say open gaming, a lot of it was born out of the exploration of what if all games were open source and there's a bit more nuance there. There's a lot of factors that we'll need to consider if we want to open source our games. Definitely. But one vision that we see is if we do open source games and the right infrastructure and the right support systems are in place, then it will allow us to reclaim power back to independent game creators. And when I say independent creators, we mean game developers and hackers like you guys who are building new things, who want to explore this space with us.
00:05:55.214 - 00:06:49.498, Speaker B: So some of our partners are here. On Screen conquest. Eve from Ronan Sanford, flip flop from Feature creep and force duties from Antip games. So these are games that are built on HTML Five looking at how to do more on web3 and really exploring the space of finding new economies around web3, around blockchain, around decentralized technologies, I guess, to have a greater appreciation of what open gaming can do and what open source can do. It bears looking at how video games are right now, the current state of video games. And it's a story that I'd love to go through, that there's so many things to talk about, but I think these two gifs show kind of the history from then to now. Right? So when the internet came out, there was a Cambrian explosion of games.
00:06:49.498 - 00:07:40.698, Speaker B: We found a new genre. We created new genres like MMORPGs, like games like Diablo, where people can trade with each other. So we created new economies and it was really the start of the early metaverse. We hear metaverse all the time, but it has already been brewing, starting from the creation of the Internet and the introduction of the internet in games. And now if you look at the image on the right, I would say the language of game development and game designers have really been defined by the attention economy. And that's largely because most of the power really has been controlled by the social networks, by the web two platforms. So as a game designer, most of the things that we always hear, like that game designers mantra, is actually retention leads to monetization.
00:07:40.698 - 00:08:38.450, Speaker B: And that's the reason why you get all of these games that expect you to grind. And then game designers also have started to know how to use psychology in game design. So we find that randomness and the chance of getting something as a very powerful drive for us to play games. And that's the reason why a lot of the games you see now are all about grinding, all about loot boxes. They're games that are designed to keep us playing forever and maybe gamble on loot boxes when we can. Right? So I would say it's not really the kind of games I would want to see, and hopefully it's not the kind of games that all of you want to see as well. But one thing I do want to mention is the game industry moves in cycles, right? I mentioned that I had a games company before, I've been making games for quite a while and I've seen technology really shift what's happening in games.
00:08:38.450 - 00:09:29.502, Speaker B: I think we're at a space now that we're able to do that. I remember when mobile and social came around, that kind of shifted around the people who hold power in the space. So now that we have blockchains, now we have distributed, now that we have decentralized storage, these are the tools that will allow us to move farther from decentralized platforms and build something of our own. And yeah, so as I said, the market moves in cycles. Currently we're in a very mature market, I would say, where everything like every step of the game development process has largely been co opted by Web 2.0 platforms, from creation to distribution to discoverability to monetization. Each step of the way, there's mostly a Web Two platform that extracts value from the game developer.
00:09:29.502 - 00:10:01.306, Speaker B: And I feel like this isn't really right. Rent extraction. It works. It's something that we found to work, but it's something also that kind of leads us to these kinds of models where it's not really sustainable. So I guess I'll segue a little bit back to Arcadia. Arcadia not just is our distribution and Discovery Channel, it's also our storytelling channel. Like Arcadia has its own universe around it.
00:10:01.306 - 00:10:35.094, Speaker B: We have an Arcadians NFT. We're building stories around. The image here is Centro, who is the villain of Arcadia. He kind of stands for the things that we want to change. We want to be able to take these pillars back from Centro and allow us to build the ecosystems that we want to create. A few more slides on this. When we say value extraction and how it really works, we kind of have to think of how we want to create something new.
00:10:35.094 - 00:11:32.760, Speaker B: Right? So I guess the mindset that people should have isn't on extraction, but rather value creation. So what would it look like if instead of us building platforms or us using these platforms, the main goal for us is to create value as we go through the steps of these processes. So a lot of this is still being defined in Web Three, but I would say that we really are at a point in history where we can define value however we want. We kind of see all of these tokens, all of these NFTs value springing out of nowhere. And this is something I think we should really look at, something we should understand and put into our game designs. I guess I invite the game designers right now here and game developers to look at it from that space and to try and build something new. We are here in Buildquest to kind of explore the new things that we can do with all these new tools that our partners have.
00:11:32.760 - 00:12:20.830, Speaker B: So, yeah, let's look at how we can create value from there. And going back to open gaming, I see open gaming really as something that we should focus on, because if you look at DFI, DFI really took off because it was open, it was composable, and that's what open gaming allows us to do. Is this composability? I feel like if you look at what happened to DFI right now, it started out with the standard, the ERC 20 standard. Some of the peter talked about this earlier in his presentation as well, like ERC 20s, ERC 1155s. These were the standards that allow DFI to build on each other. So now we have uniswap, we have governance tokens, we have DFI 2.0 rebasing tokens.
00:12:20.830 - 00:13:26.800, Speaker B: And I think if you're designing a game, you have to understand that's what's happening in DFI, and also try to apply that in what's happening in your game development space as well. So in games we see games composed of primitives also. For example, if you're thinking of a chess game, it's composed of boards and pieces. A board can also have instead of chess pieces as cards. And then from these little legos, you can build up new genres like autobattler, CCGs, tower defense. So a lot of these game designs have built on each other, but it hasn't really been open source before. So if we create these standards as well, allow the value from ERC twenty s, the value from DFI to come into these primitives and build a webt game on top of it, and I think that's something really new that we can create, right? It's not something that we were told to create from the platforms, right? Because the platforms have defined the rules and now it's up to us to define the kind of games that we want to see.
00:13:26.800 - 00:14:24.798, Speaker B: And just to go back a little bit to how the web two platforms lock in and extract value from us. So I mentioned there are four pillars the creation, distribution, discovery and monetization. I suggest game developers take a look at the tools that they're using for each of these, realize that some of there are centralized web 2.0 platforms, and realize that there are alternatives in web3. So for example, if you just look at the tools that we are able to use here in buildquest for creation, we have open source game engines which I'll talk a little bit about later. So instead of using the closed source game engines that are out there, let's explore using open source game engines like phaser and default. Instead of using the in app or the app store APIs, maybe we can explore using other web3 APIs like the ones from morales chainlink covalent.
00:14:24.798 - 00:15:07.802, Speaker B: And instead of distributing through app stores, maybe we can look at IPFS and filecoin for distribution for discovery. Maybe let's look at NFT marketplaces like Kihotek to be able to get the word out about our game. We can use player guilds as well. We can use maybe new experiments like curation markets that we find in some of the web3 startups. And one thing to note is going a little bit back to arcadia again. Monetization is something that we feel that all game developers feel is the most problematic thing right now, right? So arcadia is focused on this. We're trying to solve the monetization piece and the hope is we get games built on Arcadia.
00:15:07.802 - 00:15:58.458, Speaker B: We collaborate with people on the smart contracts. We have smart contracts as well that we're building on top of NFTs, on top of tournaments, and explore the spaces of DAOs and DeFi as well. And really find new games that are able to break free from the centralized platforms that we know. And some games I would suggest people take a look at. Some of these are made by developers that are looking really deeply in the space. So the first is the dao, which is a play on DAOs, the decentralized autonomous organizations and game dao game. So the game is very similar to katan, I would say, where the goal is to reach an end goal, but that goal is defined by the players.
00:15:58.458 - 00:17:08.498, Speaker B: So it explores the space of governance in games, wherein what if the goal in a game was defined not by a game designer but democratically defined by a group of stakeholders? So that's something that you can only do in web3. Another is eternal. So it's a fully on chain exploration game. I guess it's a good exploration of what kind of game you can create if the whole gameplay is on chain and still, I guess leaning on understandable game two mechanics like dungeon crawling and classes and RPGs. And the last one is a very famous game, of course, dark forest, which explores the space of creating a gameplay around CK snarks. So I would suggest people take a look at these games, take a look at, join their discords, see what kind of conversations are happening between game designers and learn from them. And I guess I want to leave people also with this mantra, I guess, that I think of now, rather than retention leads to monetization.
00:17:08.498 - 00:17:54.830, Speaker B: I feel like game designers should try to realize that the way they think is shaped by the language that they use. And I want to suggest that instead of thinking that you're creating a game to make money, which is honestly what most game developers are doing right now, we want to create game because we want to create a game because we know that the market is big, that there's a lot of money to be had. But I want people to think instead of creating games to make money, to creating money to make games. This is something that we can do in web3. We now have the financial primitives to create our own tokens. We have the primitives to create virtual items that have massive amounts of value. So learn from these other games.
00:17:54.830 - 00:18:45.982, Speaker B: Take a look at the loot project for example, wherein the game was largely around building a game from primitives, from components. So what kind of games can we create if we approach it from that angle? Rather than creating maybe just a tired old game on web two and just adding a token on top of it. So we'll bound to see a lot more things if we do that. Just as last slide. If anyone wants to know how to get started making games for arcadia, it's honestly pretty simple for arcadia, we just want people to make HTML five games. Any fun game that people can play and enjoy and possibly build a web3 ecosystem out of will consider to be put on Arcadia. You can go to Docs.
00:18:45.982 - 00:19:29.422, Speaker B: Opgames.org for some documentation on how to do so. One thing I would suggest is to take a look at the videos that we put up there. One is we have a video with the creator of Phaser, Richard Davy, and he talks about how to use Phaser to create an HTML Five game and also integrates it with some Morales APIs. And if you want to go deeper into smart contracts, learn more about what you can do with them. Take a look at our video we created with Austin Griffith. He created a blockchain game with us very quickly, and he was able to create a Wolf game derivative, if I remember, just from quickly hacking on Scaffold ETH.
00:19:29.422 - 00:20:11.070, Speaker B: So these two tools, I feel Phaser and Scaffold ETH are a good foundation to start building an HML Five game. As long as you're able to make a fun game during the twelve days in Build Quest, then that's a great result, I would say. And as always, if there's a good game that we see from all the Buildquest participants, we would be very much interested to approach you guys and have you go through the GM French accelerator. And yeah, that's the presentation. I hope it was useful. And I'm here to take any questions from the chat.
00:20:14.070 - 00:20:26.838, Speaker A: Thanks for that. Excellent presentation, Paul. Very excited to see how our hackers build with Op games. There's one question in the chat right now. Is three JS react considered HTML five game?
00:20:27.004 - 00:21:01.520, Speaker B: Yeah, for Francine, it definitely is. When I say HTML Five, honestly, it's just anything that runs on a browser. And I think that's the power of the browser and HTML Five, right? Like, you can just tie in any API that you want there. So if you have a game that's on three JS, which is a 3D library for people also who don't know about three JS, we would love to see that. Of course, 3D also is very compelling when people see a 3D game. So, yeah, I would suggest you go and do that.
00:21:02.450 - 00:21:23.174, Speaker A: Right on. Make sure to continue the conversations in Discord. Unless you guys have any further questions here, highly recommend connecting with Paul. This has been an excellent presentation. I got to thank you again for coming out this afternoon. Looking forward to seeing what everyone builds with Op games. We're looking forward to it.
00:21:23.212 - 00:21:30.680, Speaker B: I know the hackers will be able to create a new kind of exciting game that we'd love to play.
00:21:31.290 - 00:21:52.000, Speaker A: That's what it's all about. The gaming space in 2017 versus now is so much more exciting. So very glad to have you guys on board for this event. Remember to connect with Paul in Discord and continue to ask the questions that are probably going to come up as soon as we close this session. I know how it is, but thanks again, Paul. We're going to be closing the session here.
00:21:52.610 - 00:21:55.020, Speaker B: Thank you everyone looking forward.
