00:02:27.920 - 00:02:50.824, Speaker A: Morning, good afternoon. Good evening everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of ETHGlobal. And welcome to the Avec Grant Style Summit. So all of you are watching this thing on. This is the live platform we're using for all of the talks today. Keep in mind that as we run the rest of the talks, if you have any questions for our panelists, you can ask all those questions directly on the chat.
00:02:50.824 - 00:03:24.980, Speaker A: And also, everybody who logs into the chat will get a POAP NFT token for your participation. So be sure to say hi and ask any questions. This event is organized by ETH Global. And for those of you who don't know what ETH Global is, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to get thousands of developers into the Web three ecosystem, and we primarily do this by running hackathons and Summits. So ETH Online is our biggest event of the year. And so far in ETH Global's history, we have over 1150 hackers from 77 different countries participating in the hackathon from 19 different time zones.
00:03:24.980 - 00:03:47.884, Speaker A: On top of that, we're doing an incredible set of Summits to talk about everything that's happening in our ecosystem. We had our first Summit last Friday, which was on NFTs and Creators. Today is the Ave Grant Style summit. Tomorrow will be our governance and Dow Summit. And next week is filled with or. The next few weeks are also filled with amazing Summits. So we're going to cover the compound grants ecosystem on the 7th.
00:03:47.884 - 00:04:25.368, Speaker A: On October eigth, we're going to talk about everything that's happening in the world of DevTools. And October 15 is going to be the finale of our hackathon, where we're going to talk about all the top projects as well as talk about the future of E Two. So let's get into the Ave Grants ecosystem. We have an amazing set up, just set lined up today. We're going to kick us off with a couple of remarks from Stani from Ave. Then we're going to go into a panel around just the landscape around how grants are set up in the DeFi ecosystem. Then Shreyas is going to talk about the feature of Aave Grant style.
00:04:25.368 - 00:05:07.000, Speaker A: And then we're going to talk about what does it mean to successfully receive a grant from the Ave ecosystem. And we're going to have a showcase on some of the incredible projects that have been funded by the Ave Grants program. And they're going to talk about what they're working on and how you may get involved. And then lastly, we'll have Shreyas give some closing remarks on how they are thinking about the future of Ave Grants. And there'll be a wrap. So before we kick off with our very first talk, I want to welcome Stani, who is the founder and CEO of Ave, to share some opening remarks on the future of the Ave ecosystem. So without further ado, let's welcome stani.
00:05:07.000 - 00:06:26.480, Speaker A: Thank you, Karthik, for the great introduction. And it's amazing that we have been able to have this opportunity to organize other grants. Dao Summit, and I think it global, has done a lot of good work in terms of expanding the developer ecosystem and culture around, not just in Ethereum, but in the web3 space in general. And the Avocrance Dow Summits is quite important, especially because the objective of Grants Dow is to propagate culture and especially the developer culture around the different ecosystems that we have in not just decentralized finance, but in web Three and especially the Ava grants. Dow's mission is pretty much to propagate this culture within the Ava ecosystem. And grants can be anything, essentially. They can be small pull request into current infrastructure that there is in the protocol, the front end that is community governed at the moment, or any other kind of a tooling that relates into the ecosystem.
00:06:26.480 - 00:08:05.172, Speaker A: Or it can be just something that benefits beyond what Ava is today. And I would say kind of like the vision for everything is that these protocols and all the tools and everything that is created in open source fashion should be owned and governed by the community and should be something. That will help and inspire newcomers and other developers to build new things and also educate themselves and learn more about what is decentralization, why it's important, and why we need to nurture this culture. And decentralization especially important because not for the perspective of being able to build things anywhere from any part of the world and contribute code, but also being able to participate and govern these protocols. Because if we don't actively govern the protocols, essentially we lose the power of decentralization, which means having a wider consensus on protocols that in the future will be maybe servicing hundreds of millions or even billions of users. So this is kind of a short introduction on the ground style Summit. And during this Summit, it's important that we are able to give you as much as context on what these grant styles are actually doing and what kind of grants you can apply for different kinds of projects that you're building, how to contribute and how to find also friends to help you to contribute into.
00:08:05.172 - 00:08:28.628, Speaker A: And we will delve into multiple grant style programs and that's about it. Amazing. Well, thank you so much for that intro, Stani. And I think this is a perfect segue for our very first panel. So for this, I'm going to introduce four amazing people. Stani from Ave, who's already here. We'll invite Robert Leschner from compound.
00:08:28.628 - 00:09:01.168, Speaker A: Mia Boris from the Uniswap grants ecosystem and moderating. This chat will be Imran from DeFi Alliance and we'll kind of COVID what the entire DeFi grant landscape looks like and some of the lessons learned. So without further ado, let's welcome all of our amazing panelists and let them kick this off. Awesome. Thank you so much, Kartik. And so I was a part of the obvious grant staO and I've been interviewing many of the applicants there. What I've realized is that many people don't really know how to interact with grant staos.
00:09:01.168 - 00:10:04.324, Speaker A: So maybe we'll start with could you talk a bit about the importance of establishing a grant staO and how has that been so far from a process perspective? And maybe we could start with you, Robert. Yeah, so I think the importance is extremely high. It doesn't matter whether it's Aave Compound, every new protocol being built by community members, once a protocol gets to a certain size, the number of contributors starts to scale far beyond the initial team that created the protocol or application. And so in order to organize this, at some point you have to have a different type of structure. One approach that some organizations have tried is having a central company or foundation organize grants. But I think for a crypto native protocol like Aave or Compound or MakerDAO, what I think will work best is actually having a decentralized process to award grants to the community. And there's a blurry set of lines between ongoing participants, contributors, RFP and bounty hunters.
00:10:04.324 - 00:11:34.474, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, if you have a global and decentralized community of people contributing to a protocol, the easiest way to organize that is with a Dao type structure in which applications and participants can interact directly with Dao and there's not decentralized bottlenecks to its success. And Boris or Stan, if you have anything else to add to that. No, I totally know. Just the other day I was talking to other Unison grant program committee members and we came to the conclusion that it's better to have more people trying and failing at things than to have five people executing flawlessly crypto. Right now it's all about innovation, different ideas, and yeah, you just need to include as many people as possible because if many people try enough times, there will be great ideas coming and that's what these projects need. I think I could add pretty much I agree what Robert and Boris said. And I think the interesting part is especially the fact that the founding teams usually try to kind of like kick start an idea, build a protocol.
00:11:34.474 - 00:13:05.998, Speaker A: And usually protocols aren't actually monoliths, they're just something that inspires others to build new things on top or improve the protocol, create additional features, and essentially giving a birth to something that has ongoing development. And this is nothing new in terms of open source development. This is how Linux is developed until this date. I think what's interesting is that we're just living in a time where now essentially we can in an open source, open, kind of like in an open system and in a transparent way actually contribute into financial protocols that actually bring a lot of efficiency, transparency into the financial system. And at the same time now it's possible to anyone kind of any part of the world just to contribute and improve this financial system. And I think what's especially important is that what the grant styles and all these programs are trying to achieve is that there's strong enough community to being able to take a community owned project and being able to do the operations that is involved and also continue building. And it's not an easy task because the space is very young, meaning that we don't have enough necessarily professionals and people that can help.
00:13:05.998 - 00:14:10.202, Speaker A: And it takes a bit of time to get into a level where there's sufficient. Amount of community developers that are actually taking care of the code base but it's a process, end of the day and this is what the grant programs is all about and also tooling because if you go a couple of years back, building DeFi or any kind of, like, ethereum based application and smart contracts wasn't as simple and easy as it is today. So definitely tooling is something we always can put more effort into and have more grants. Boris, you mentioned something which was quite intriguing, which is getting as grants as to many people as possible that have a really good idea. Previously in the web Two World, if people had an idea, they actually had to go out and get venture funding for it. But now those ideas could come to life and bring in products much faster into the ecosystem. So I guess what were some learnings on that regard? You mentioned giving grants to a bunch of teams.
00:14:10.202 - 00:15:31.578, Speaker A: How has that been, how has been the reaction to that and how has it helped Uniswap in this regard? Yeah, it helped immensely. For example, the tooling was mentioned so Uniswap Grant funded. For example, in first four months we funded two Python SDKs and you can see that some of the developers and builders prefer one while the others prefer the second, depending on their needs or how they're used to code. The first one is much simpler, it doesn't offer as many possibilities so people use it for some quick projects or like a bot or something while the other one gives you full control and then if they want to go really serious with their project, they'll use this one. We kind of think that enthusiasm is more important than the actual thing that people are working on, because if you have enthusiasm, you might spread it around to people that have really good ideas. And we want to encourage that enthusiasm. And, yeah, at the end, it's important what you're working on.
00:15:31.578 - 00:16:16.860, Speaker A: But even if it's a small project, we welcome you to the Uniswap grant program. Family, you join our slack. You join the discussions. You can contribute to other projects. Yeah, we had a couple of members like that. One member was working on a really simple Twitter bot and then he joined all kinds of different discussions and projects, opening pull requests, documenting stuff and yeah, we just want to reward this enthusiasm and the correct ideas will come along eventually if you have enough people really working and thinking about the protocol. Awesome, thank you.
00:16:16.860 - 00:17:19.546, Speaker A: So there's another area that I learned from this conversation, which is accessibility. It's incredible that people all over the world can get access to this grant, whereas previously it was very hard to get funding. How has that shaped the ecosystem and developer ecosystem for all the protocols? And what have you seen that work really well? And maybe, Stani, I can start with you. Well, I think grants program, they aren't that super new. I mean, Ethereum Foundation had their grants program and what I see it's interesting is it definitely sparked some innovation and gave some incentives to create and contribute. So definitely it's a way to kind of kick start the ecosystem. And before the community grants program, ava had its own internal grants program and I think we funded over 50 different grants.
00:17:19.546 - 00:18:17.786, Speaker A: So I think over a period of time, decentralized Dow based grants program will just expand. But also it might speed up a lot of the development and actually maybe projects that normally you wouldn't necessarily want to do from kind of like economical perspective. For example, it might be tooling or something that is very valuable for the ecosystem, but maybe it doesn't have some sort of like a protocol perspective or a product perspective, but it's just very valuable. So definitely in those cases, they are very helpful programs. Robert or Boris, do you have anything add to that? Yeah, I think the thing that's magical about it is that you can have people participate that otherwise would not be working in DeFi. You can have people participate with part of their time. You can have people participate in ways that they didn't think were possible before.
00:18:17.786 - 00:19:23.706, Speaker A: And I think an open program has the opportunity to grow the sort of ecosystem of DeFi contributors in ways that weren't imaginable even a couple of years ago. And I think that's really cool. One of the things that you see in these grants ecosystems are contributors that are also learning new skills in order to be able to contribute. And I think in a way, this is kind of like the new aged business school or coding boot camp in that you're having people growing their, in some ways, professional careers with protocols. And this is entirely new. What I find really exciting about that is that you can have people who are anonymous or known and reputable entities and everything in between contributing, and it just leads to such a different format of participation than anything we've seen in traditional software, traditional finance, and traditional markets. This is entirely new and the way that you contribute is entirely new.
00:19:23.706 - 00:19:57.480, Speaker A: And that's really cool. And I think it's going to evolve. I think there's going to be best practices that emerge and things that change. And I think five years from now the way a grants organization works might be a little bit different, but the core of it is just so novel that I think this is the future. Yeah, go ahead Burst. Yeah, I just wanted to add one thing. So grants program are always, doors are always open, but when giving out grants we are really careful to not do any kind of king making for example.
00:19:57.480 - 00:21:06.046, Speaker A: So one good example with Uniswap was when V Three was launched, then you had an opportunity to move your liquidity around to maximize the profits. And we had a lot of projects sending application for a grant and we thought that there's already such a big financial incentive that we shouldn't really do something in this space this early. Maybe later if there will be some contract audit, something like that, then that's okay. But you don't want to get involved in things like that to skew the open sourceness and promote somebody who maybe is just lucky that you chose him because he was early. So yeah, the grants doors are always open for contribution. But when giving out grants you need to be a bit careful with what you're saying with that grant that you're giving out. So it takes a lot of thinking and yeah, the projects that follow the ethos of your core project is really important.
00:21:06.046 - 00:22:03.554, Speaker A: So decentralization and open source. So it's not so simple with giving out grants. Maybe there are some great projects that you think will do great, but they are not good candidates for a grant. So that's just a detail that I wanted to point out, I guess. On that note, what are some of the challenges that each of the Dows are going through and how are you thinking about either finding next possible solution or is this just learning challenges? We just love to learn a little bit more about that. I'll start just because I have a very visible example. So yesterday there was a new proposal that was launched in the compound community that actually had a bug in it and it led to a lot of comp being distributed to users that weren't expecting it and didn't deserve it.
00:22:03.554 - 00:23:05.030, Speaker A: Or it was basically a bug that sent lots of this stockpile of comp meant for user distribution to random users. And this actually was a proposal that was created specifically to solve an RFP that was put up by the compound grants community. And I think this highlights the fact that you have a much wider surface area of development and contributors and errors can occur, they can be deliberate. We saw in Sushi Swap a few weeks ago, a contributor was malicious and deliberately tried to undermine the protocol and you can have accidents. And the larger the surface area of public contribution, the more risk that you add to the process just from things that can go wrong perspective. And I don't think this is a bad thing. I think long term, the more contributors you have, the faster you can move and the larger you can grow.
00:23:05.030 - 00:24:25.710, Speaker A: But I do think it highlights the fact that as you start to include sensitive work into a grant process, that the seriousness of additional layers of security also have to increase as well. And so I just think this highlights the sort of like technical risks of a grants process for changes to a core protocol or critical system. Whether it's a front end or protocol systems built entirely on top compartmentalize the risk much better. If you're incentivizing, hey, build this module that sits purely on top of the protocol, that can't add any risk to the underlying system, that's different. But when you start to touch the core systems and enable the community to touch the core systems, it changes the sort of threshold of risk. I can maybe add that I definitely agree. That's also something that scares me a lot in the sense how the grants that are kind of like core contributions into the core code or anything close or let's say into the user interface that kind of affect the whole process.
00:24:25.710 - 00:25:45.640, Speaker A: And either the application, the smart contract, like how it will be secure, blockchain practically kills confidence in the sense that it's just even if you review things multiple times, there might be something there that the contributor didn't see or reviewers didn't see. And it happens because it's pretty much humans are coding. And that's one of the things. And what amazes me still and what I think is a big challenge is that there is a lot of funding available for pretty much any kind of like a code contribution and improvement. But I think the market isn't yet there where there's enough people coming in with expertise, enough diligent and there is processes in place where there is multiple audits and these kind of procedures to contribute very safely the code. And I think the mishmash is between having the funding is there, but then there isn't enough actually contributors and processes in place and how to get these two parts closer together. And I think that's kind of like a challenge that we see a bit everywhere now.
00:25:45.640 - 00:27:11.474, Speaker A: Yeah, it's almost like you have this incredible, diverse group of developers that are actively supporting your protocol in so many different aspects and it's just putting a little bit more process structure, just making a better understanding of how the milestones are hit and supporting their protocols moving forward. And there's just going to be a lot of learnings behind that as well. So Robert, thank you for sharing that. So I guess from this perspective, from now till like a year from now to two years from now, let's say, what are some of the areas that you'd like to provide grants for? Obviously there's people that are building know protocols that can help connect with or hook into Aave compound or uniswap, but ultimately a year or two years from now. What are some success stories that you'd like to hear based on the grants you give today? Boris, you could go first. Yeah, well, for me personally, I do a lot of community and people engagement stuff, and my goal is to lower the barrier of entry, to participate with some kind of a crypto project as low as possible. So you don't need to have advanced solidity skills to be able to feel like you're contributing to a project and to feel part of the project.
00:27:11.474 - 00:28:29.020, Speaker A: So yeah, that's my main goal, that anybody who decides two years from now, this uniswap thing looks interesting, I have this set of skills, can I somehow contribute to it and get rewarded for it? That answer is mostly yes. And that's one of my personal goals, to be honest. Other than that, it's just to make the if there will be a grant program in two years that it gets within itself more decentralized. Because right now you have a committee of maybe five to six people that yeah, everybody is really careful with reviewing applications, thinking about them, weighing all the options, but maybe make it more open. So people from the outside can also do some kind of reviews and things like that just to come up with this process of how the Cryptocurrency grant program should look like in the open source world. But it's so early that we are still trying to find the right approach and right now it's not perfect. It obviously is not.
00:28:29.020 - 00:30:29.898, Speaker A: So yeah, Stani, if you want to go next and I'll caveat by saying I saw a really cool submission the other day where someone wanted to build out a mobile app for Ave, which I thought was quite interesting, but go ahead. Oh yeah, I mean, that was one of the coolest ones because it showcases what Robert said, that you don't need necessarily to be a smart contract developer and contribute, but you can just start what you actually know and go from there and learn. And something like a mobile wallet is a very good example where you can contribute from kind of like web two perspective and just connect the web3 components. And that is why I've seen in the future, the more there is long hanging fruits, the more we get developers in because it's easier to make contributions into something that is less complex. Also because many of the newcomers might contribute on their spare time and they might be working in a tech company as full time. I think in terms of what could be a successful idea is that we have actually people, developers might be community members that are working for DAOs directly, but also working in a way, in an inclusive way where they're contributing to different kinds of DAOs. So let's say we have a developer that is making code contributions into the compound ecosystem, makes the same way into the Aave ecosystem, maker ecosystem and uniswap ecosystem and we have this kind of like a inclusive way of building these protocols together that will be very successful path in terms of how you could participate in the future as a community member.
00:30:29.898 - 00:31:51.640, Speaker A: And I think that's the way to learn more and kind of not just learn more technology but learn also ecosystems and culture. Yeah, that's actually an interesting point because I've seen many applicants that come in that actually bring in create dashboards for ave, but they also do that for Compound and others as well. So it could be really cool to see something where we'll see a contributor that's actively supporting many protocols and there could be some sort of shared incentives of supporting this from a grants perspective. But Robert, feel free to add yeah, I just want to echo what everybody else said, strong points. If let's talk about today and we're seeing a lot of excitement around grants and a lot of cool tooling and things like that. What would you like to see if you had to divvy up all the kind of sectors that we could support, whether it's tooling, whether it's DeFi or just protocols, they're hooking into the protocols and other miscellaneous services. What area is most important for each protocol if you have to give it your six months? I know I've seen compounds RPS and I think that's a really good way to signal to the community of exactly what you want built.
00:31:51.640 - 00:32:57.870, Speaker A: But if you had to give your six month goal of what would you like done that hasn't been done yet, what would that be? Ultimately, we're in front of hundreds of developers today and so this could be a good way for them to think about what they should be building next. I'll start just because I think it's relatively different from other protocols. And I think at the end of the day, every protocol has its own goals, its own purposes. Like a great example is uniswap is really looking for an ecosystem around Uniswap. At Compound, we've really spent a lot of time starting to push the community forward in developing the core protocol itself. What I'd like to see in six months is a whole decentralized team of developers that are able to make improvements to the core compound protocol, add new functionality and really upgrade this system that has been operating for a really long time. And it's very focused on the core and not peripheral systems built on top or alongside of it.
00:32:57.870 - 00:34:42.450, Speaker A: We've dabbled as a community and other approaches, but I think what compound is focused on is really core development and decentralizing that yeah, so maybe I can continue. So Robert is right, uniswap is not looking for core contribution, it's more looking for everything on the outside and the weakest point of the whole uniswap project, it's the uniswap app which is only centralized part of the uniswap and people there were some bad experiences where there were scammy deployments of an app. And I would just like for the core uniswap developed interface for uniswap to be less dominant and that there are suitable alternatives so we get decentralized at this part as well. Smart contracts, they can't be changed, anybody can deploy a new pool or make a swap. But this one core piece is still somewhat centralized and I would like to see that changed in the future. Yeah, I would say that now in the I mean, it's pretty much up to the Ava community to decide how the whole community developers will structure themselves. There is code contributions all the time but kind of like what path to take.
00:34:42.450 - 00:36:28.000, Speaker A: I personally would love to see maybe also more core contributions but also building some of the parts on top that is part of the core core but expansion, but also the ability to improve the whole system in general. Is something very interesting because essentially what's interesting about, let's say, Ave and Compound is that they are systems that are running completely autonomously and at the same time there is so called like a collateral element there. These are very much protocols that require a lot of expertise and a very strong community to uphold. And I think this is something we're looking as well, like how we can make it possible that we get core contributions and how to establish especially how to establish a process where these contributions can be some diligent way reviewed and mitigated from risk perspective. So this is something that I'm personally looking into. And of course tooling, I think Tooling is important, especially if it helps all of the projects across web3 now in the process of giving a grant today, the way it works usually is that someone applies for a grant, they get interviewed and then they'll know whether or not they'll get a grant. Some may get payments upfront, some they have like a Dyco model where they'll get payments based on milestones.
00:36:28.000 - 00:37:33.160, Speaker A: What has worked and what hasn't worked and what would you like to see moving forward from that side? And just to explain like Daikon model is a model that was proposed by Vitalik which is more or less kind of like milestone based incentives. And so yeah, what are some models that you think may work for this? And I've seen pros and cons for both. Well, I can quickly jump in. So there is definitely like Daiko model is interesting because I think the issue why Daiquos hasn't picked up maybe is because of the name and association to ICOs a bit. But I've seen for example in the Avagochi ecosystem they have a Dai coin. It's interesting, like how kind of like there is like a tap where there is monthly payment for the Genesis team there to develop the metaverse. But at the same time nothing stops to create another kind of like a tap to develop some other part of the ecosystem.
00:37:33.160 - 00:38:50.364, Speaker A: So I definitely. Agree that the milestones are a good way to compensate, but also, I mean, if there is trust involved and contributors are committing into the ecosystem, what can be done is just like a lump sum payments. I also like the ability to stream payments and I think we've been looking into Superfluid and I don't know, Robert probably can explain more, but I think Compound has this streaming as well going on. Yeah, we have a system internal to the Compound protocol which looks very similar to that which does streaming, where you can have basically a streaming comp grant. And there's obviously external tools which might be long term an easier approach because it doesn't have to become part of the core protocol. But Compound's comp governance system can stream comp to contributors and there's, I believe, two active streaming grants to contributors currently. Yeah, for Uniswap, the different models work differently and there's not the right approach.
00:38:50.364 - 00:39:46.684, Speaker A: I think it all depends on the situation and what the project is. But just today we had like a wave five announced of the Uniswap grants and you'll see like four or five continuations of a project. So we agreed on the feature set for the initial grant and then that grant went great and a lot of success around it, so we continued support of it. So it's somewhat like a Daiko model with milestones, but not exactly. And yeah, to be honest, in the Uniswap grant program, the money was never the most important part. We have a lot of part time contributors. I think most of them know just integrating Uniswap into already existing products, so we support that partly.
00:39:46.684 - 00:40:24.264, Speaker A: So not many people know and food on the table depends on the Uniswap grant program. So the funding part was never really an issue. It was more about choosing the right grants and giving the opportunities to the right people and involving the right people in the Uniswap grants. Great, thank you so much. I'm going to pass it over to Kartik. He has maybe one or two questions that he'd like to ask audience. So I'll pass over to Kartik.
00:40:24.264 - 00:41:19.840, Speaker A: Awesome. That was an amazing discussion. I think there's been a handful of questions and some kind of very common themes that have kind of brought up on the chat, so I'll just kind of condense all that into a two part question. The first one is just overall, how do people find out about each of your grant programs and what can you tell about that just as a quick pitch and how people can learn more? The second part of that question is when people hear about ecosystem grants, they mostly assume that they have to kind of contribute to the technical piece of it. Is that true for each of your grant programs or what are some other ways people can get involved? Or do they always have to kind of work on something smart, contract related? So could you just clarify or maybe expand into how the program is set up. Is it based on a list of things that you want people to do or people can pick what they want to do or all that stuff around it. So just a quick but also slightly detailed pitch on each of your programs.
00:41:19.840 - 00:42:43.656, Speaker A: And maybe we can start off with of I would start by following the Ave Grants Twitter handle and just look into updates and what's going on in the space. And also maybe join the Telegram group where there's other peers looking into building various different kinds of things and discord as well. But essentially you always need to build specifically anything technical grants can be also like educational, it can be anything else. I personally am not involved in the grant staO or the grants itself, but this is how the process works from what I have seen. And yeah, I think what's important is that not taking any stress of these grants. Of course, if you propose something, propose in a way that you commit in building it and being as kind of like realistic as possible in describing on the time and what it takes to build. And also you can post it in a way that if you need more people but you're alone, maybe there is a way to find friends to help build from the community.
00:42:43.656 - 00:43:28.600, Speaker A: So this is actually a very cool way to make friends as well. So I would suggest that as a awesome maybe Boris can comment next. Yeah, during this panel I already mentioned that I personally try to keep the barrier of entrance the lowest possible. So one of the lowest barrier of entrance is every two weeks we have a community call and we're always looking for pop designs. So yeah, design a pop for us. We're not really strict. We let you do your own thing, your own style, and you get to be the part of the Uniswap Dao.
00:43:28.600 - 00:44:23.768, Speaker A: Of course there's more complex stuff, building smart contracts, I don't know the testing infrastructure, all those good things. But for example, if you see something cool that maybe other DeFi project has and you notice that Uniswap doesn't have it, you can just send an application, say this looked really cool for Aave or Compound. So I can create you this thing for Uniswap. So you can steal ideas, for example, a little bit. And yeah, there is no rule to it. If we think that the greater community will benefit from this, we will support it. You don't need to be only solidity developer and know the web3.
00:44:23.768 - 00:44:52.260, Speaker A: So that's my answer to it. Amazing. And I guess we'll close this out with Robert. Yeah. So anyone can get involved in compound grants. A lot of the outlined work right now is technical in nature, but there's always a lot of opportunity for those who are not technical to participate, whether it's in analyzing markets or interest rate models. Or playing on the economic side, creativity is welcomed.
00:44:52.260 - 00:45:33.840, Speaker A: You can see a list of RFPs and opportunities that are available on Compoundgrants.org, and there's also an active discord channel devoted specifically to grants in the compound discord. And fundamentally, if you're interested in participating, DeFi is an incredibly welcoming place. There's no right and wrong approach. I think we're all figuring this out as a community and as a society and as a series of DeFi protocols together. So if you're excited, check out Compound, check out Aave, check out Uniswap, check out all of the other programs that are out there. You'll find something exciting and hopefully a really good opportunity to participate and contribute.
00:45:33.840 - 00:46:03.284, Speaker A: That's an amazing note to end on. And yeah, I think the important thing is that everybody's figuring this out live, and that just requires a lot of experimentation. So I think just getting involved helps you figure out what the right model is. So that's kind of where we're at. So thank you so much for that amazing discussion and thank you so much, Emron, for facilitating. And with that, we are ready to move on to our next talk. And the next talk is going to be about covering the future of Ave Grant Style.
00:46:03.284 - 00:46:35.588, Speaker A: So we have Shreyas, who is going to be talking about all the things that are happening in the Avid Grants ecosystem and how everything is set up. So without further ado, let's welcome Shreyas. Hey, everyone. Can everyone hear me? Well, everything is great. Great. I'm just going to share my screen. Let me know if you can see this.
00:46:35.588 - 00:47:20.160, Speaker A: All set. Awesome. So, yeah, really excited to be here. I think I started my full time crypto journey, actually with an ETH global hackathon building something on Llama, so it's really cool to come back and speak here. And I think we've seen this with Ave grants too, but there's an amazing influx of developers and talent here and it's a really amazing onboarding experience for someone into web3. Stoked to be here. I'm the program lead for Ave Grant Style, and I also am the founder of Llama, which helps DAOs and DeFi protocols manage their treasury.
00:47:20.160 - 00:49:11.728, Speaker A: So one thing I thought would be interesting to start with is something that influenced my thinking of crypto protocols and ecosystems. And this was a post by Lakshman Shankar from the Ethereum Foundation where he compared crypto ecosystems to natural ecosystems. And he was talking about how biodiversity is just as important in crypto ecosystems as it is in natural ecosystems, and that the reason why ethereum as an ecosystem is kept alive is because of this constant influx of new developers and builders in this platform. When that dies, and when the sort of genetic variation of the ethereum ecosystem is stopped, ethereum will die. And I think of other protocols similarly, where ecosystem development is sort of at the heart of really what makes a protocol in the community thrive and ecosystem development includes sort of this community that's building the protocol and all these other integrations and support and culture and a bunch of other things around the protocol. So that's influenced, I think, how I've thought about the mission at Ave grants and how we approach it, which is building this thriving ecosystem of contributors building on Ave. And we are a team of nine reviewers plus two to three other folks on staff, and we basically provide grants to projects and ideas and community events that benefit the RV ecosystem.
00:49:11.728 - 00:50:16.756, Speaker A: And we're quite open minded to what that could be. We have a list of RFPs on our site, but we're very open to people coming up with creative ways that they can have benefit the Avi ecosystem and the broader sort of crypto ecosystem because anything built on Ave is open source and can really push the development of the space in general. So, summary of the program we launched in May 2021 and it got overwhelming community support. I was on the other panel. It's quite clear that grants programs are really a critical piece of what to do with a Dow, especially after a certain size. And it's probably one of the most obvious use cases of what to spend treasury money on. When you have hundreds of millions of dollars in assets you want to spend on some way to grow and maintain the protocol and build this ecosystem.
00:50:16.756 - 00:51:30.524, Speaker A: If contributors doing that. So the plan is to have a pilot program of two quarters that ends in on November 10, 2021. The budget that Governance has given us is a million dollars a quarter, and the hope is to expand that budget after we go back to Governance. With the work we've done so far, I think with the projects we're funded, there's definitely a case for a larger budget, especially if we need to support, I think, some of the events and some of the sort of sponsorship type work which right now is being done by the Know. Look forward to that over the next few months. Our group right now is nine reviewers, two staff members, one bill, who's, interesting, he actually posted threads when I did the initial community calls. He would post threads on these community calls and really useful threads on what happened in the community call in a summary of key activities in Aave.
00:51:30.524 - 00:52:33.700, Speaker A: And so I just reached out to him saying if he'd be interested in being a sort of content lead and a terrific job in terms of having an Avi GrandStar newsletter and sort of growing the Twitter community engagement beyond just what we had originally to actually hosting community calls and Twitter spaces with Grantees and things like that. And then we also have Neil Schraff who works on grant ops and ways to actually make the process much more efficient in terms of the review speed as well as the support to grantees after. And then we have Laura who's helped with the design of the Pops. We redesigned the logo because we wanted a different branding from Ave, but something that was related. And so we actually used this theme of ecosystem development to come up with that. And yeah, she's done a great job with that stuff. So the progress so far is about 37 grants.
00:52:33.700 - 00:53:31.450, Speaker A: It's 29 until yesterday, where we just approved a set of eight more that should come out soon, and a little over $1 million worth of grant awards. All this has not been distributed yet because these grants come in are milestone based. And so it's usually an initial upfront payment and then a payment after a completion of one or two milestones. If it's a really small grant, say below $5,000, in some cases we just make the payment up front. But if it's a grant, say anything from 20 to 50 60K, which is common, it's usually multiple milestones. And if it's a larger grant, we have few over $80,000. Then it's typically over three payments, an initial payment, one milestone, and then the final payment.
00:53:31.450 - 00:54:17.770, Speaker A: And we've typically awarded grants below one hundred k, and so anything between 105 hundred k, we can technically approve according to our initial sort of governance proposal. But we'd like to get community sentiment on whether we should approve it or not. And so we'll put up a snapshot vote, get community sentiment. We actually did this for the DFI app. There was this Ave mobile app that was going to be open sourced and built on the Ave repo. We went to the community and asked basically if it makes sense, funding this. I think it was about a $98,000 grant, and the community overwhelmingly supported this, so we went ahead with it.
00:54:17.770 - 00:55:25.896, Speaker A: The idea is to pretty much support any projects that really benefit the RV ecosystem. The focus is on things that are realistic, are possible to actually do, and can show some positive outcome for either Ave users or Ave governance or just like processes for the Dow. So yeah, here are just a few examples of projects that have actually shipped and launched and done well. On the left side you have Flipside Crypto, which has built some cool analytics. They have this community enabled analytics system that I think has really helped with improving the data accessibility for things that happen. On Aave, we have Symphony Finance that provides yield on limit orders and uses Aave to do that. Rabbit Hole had some cool tasks, sort of rewards for completion of tasks.
00:55:25.896 - 00:56:28.720, Speaker A: Actually on Polygon, I think it was completed within a few hours or something like that. And so it was cool to see the demand for something like that. And on the right side we have Gelato Network that basically built a really neat solution to prevent Avi users from getting to these really costly liquidations where they'd have something unique on the smart contract side to adjust positions to prevent those liquidations, which a huge value add for Ave users. These are a few examples. One of the things that we've been doing besides just the grant amount is actually supporting projects beyond just the dollar amount. So in some cases, if a project needs an auditor, we'll help them connect them to someone. We definitely provide sort of marketing support in terms of featuring them in the newsletter and on Twitter and on the governance forums.
00:56:28.720 - 00:57:50.792, Speaker A: If they need an integration with the Army Protocol, we'll make an intro to some from the Genesis team as long as they have time, and making sure that we can prioritize a review of something or an integration wherever possible. And we're trying to grow that more. I think there's much more we can do and we'd love to build some systems in place to just make that process really efficient and just take these projects to the next level. One other example of that is actually we funded DeFi Alliance to actually continue their accelerator program for two projects from the avi ecosystems. And it would be really cool to take some projects that have come out of the grants program, especially at a nascent stage, to the next level with additional support and funding if needed, or specific sort of expertise. That support and the feedback has been overwhelmingly positive from the grantees. Most of them have been quite happy with, of course, the amount, but also just the support in terms of the receptiveness of the grants group to the things they need and help they need.
00:57:50.792 - 00:59:25.270, Speaker A: So it's great to see that. I think there's a lot more we can do and a lot more we can set up to just make sure that the projects that we fund actually not just execute, but also achieve much more than they initially set out, even if that doesn't mean something. That the initial scope of what was laid out with the grant, but just like build this group of people that will continue to return to Ave in some way, even if they temporarily don't. The idea as we get into I'll go here first, so we get into the future of Aave grants. The way I think about it is we really want the current set of grantees to eventually have a say in the approval of these future grants and that's how we build this grant dow, which is through the set of contributors. So if we right now have nine people reviewing grants, we're setting up the processes right so that eventually it can actually scale to many more people having some sort of say on what grants get approved, ideally based on expertise and reputation. So, for example, if there's a group we funded for sort of a risk management type thing, and we get a bunch of grant proposals on risk related projects, then it'd be cool for them to approve it.
00:59:25.270 - 01:01:09.864, Speaker A: It'd be cool to have some sort of reputation weighted scoring for something like this and slowly build out the membership of the Grant staO and almost like I think of it as the people who have a reputation in the Ave ecosystem, which is people who have built for Aave will have some rights over treasury spending power, which is kind of different from maybe the typical token holder vote, which will be dominated by investors who hold a lot of tokens or the core teams. In this case you could actually move to a case where treasury spending power is allocated more to people who are actually contributing and building and have a reputation in the protocol which which might be a different set of people, might overlap. And so that's how I'd think about it. I'd say that we want to build this group that will expand it's right now, 37 projects. But it will expand to 50 to hundreds of projects and have some way that these folks can benefit from each other can. Support and vet the new set of grants and build this cool sort of network that continues to help ave and benefits themselves in terms of sort of their career crypto experience just a little bit on some of the content work that we've done. We've published 15 issues of this newsletter and it's actually a really cool way, I would say.
01:01:09.864 - 01:02:16.188, Speaker A: If you don't know anything about Ave, or even if you do, I still find it useful that I'm quite involved with Aave to just get a sense of what's happening in the community. And Aave actually does a lot, which is something I love. It has a strong culture of bottom up experimentation. There's of course the core lending protocol, but there's so many other things happening in the Avi E system like Avi Arc or the decentralized social network that's in the works or sort of Avi deployment on avalanche or other chains. And I think RV News is a cool way to track that. And Israel writes in quite an easy to access, like fund friendly way and said that's a cool way to, I think, start off just knowing what's happening in the RV ecosystem and we also give an overview of what's happening with the grants and the grants that we've funded so far. The community calls happen once a month and we do this on Twitter Spaces.
01:02:16.188 - 01:03:45.612, Speaker A: We've found that actually to be quite useful because it gets a higher degree of participation and it's cool at the end. To answer some questions, we typically have an initial intro and then I'll give an overview of some things that have happened in the GrandStar Sani, will chime in with Jenny what's happening at Arbay protocol? We'll have Emilio or someone else from the Dev team give a Dev update and then we'll just get into the community. And so this could be proposals that have come out from contributors from the community. So this could be like a liquidity mining proposal or a proposal for Aave to deploy in another chain we might include sort of say like one of the folks from the Arbitrum team or Avalanche to chat about why Ave should apply there. And then we feature a bunch of grantees who have gotten funding or are still in the iteration phase and just learn more about what they're building and get questions from the community. And so I think the community calls are usually always quite energizing and give a good sense of what's happening with Ave. And we've also started these AMAs with Grantees and with other community members where this is separate from the main community call.
01:03:45.612 - 01:04:33.484, Speaker A: But it's just getting a deeper dive into who the people are in the Ave ecosystem and how we can actually get to know them better and just, again, form connections between different people in the ecosystem so that they can actually help each other and take what they're doing to the next level. Great. This is kind of all I had. This is sort of a summary of some of the projects we're funded, but I'll stop there and happy to take any questions if there are any. If not, we can sort of move on. This was awesome. There's a couple of questions around just sort of your learnings from the past few months.
01:04:33.484 - 01:06:13.230, Speaker A: So I think you kind of talked about the new plan, but maybe it'll be good to dig into sort of what you did to come up with this new plan. How'd you go about getting feedback from all the other grant programs out there? What did you learn in terms of how things were set up for everybody else and some of the lessons learned? And could you just walk us through some of that decision making process and how you think changes you've adopted are going to help address some of those existing issues? Yeah, sure. I think in terms of the next evolution of grants, it's still definitely in the works and I would say it's still a work in progress. But I've spoken a bunch with Ken from Uni grants as well as Larry from Compound and they've been great in terms of sharing their lessons learned. And I think there's a lot of similarities between our grants programs and some differences I think just based on the way that Ave operates. And so I think the way I've gone about is thinking through talking to projects and seeing what's actually helped them and what's not and things that they sort of value and appreciate and ways that that can be improved. And so one of those things is definitely like the post grant support in terms of helping projects with doing things like sort of getting auditors or getting connected with the RV Genesis team when needed, or just someone.
01:06:13.230 - 01:07:15.824, Speaker A: Some of these are really young teams and have no sort of social capital in the ecosystem. And so just bridging that gap where we can. And right now it's been sort of done. Ready person one on one type basis, but I think there's definitely scope to systematize that and make sure that we actually actively reach out to projects even before they do, with asking them for the help they need. And then I think the next evolution is going to be a process and it might take some time, but slowly I think giving some of the existing grantees who are interested in doing it more of a say in what's happening with RV grants. I think that's really crucial just to make sure that they're still involved. These are folks who have clearly signaled that they want to do something for the RV ecosystem and a bunch of them have, and they've successfully completed something.
01:07:15.824 - 01:08:20.148, Speaker A: And so we don't want them to go away, we want them to continue to do that and there's some way we can incentivize them to stay in the ecosystem and continue to support. I think that would be great. Of course, first with their projects and with maintaining what they built or having a way that they can transition it to other groups who can do the maintenance. It's of course helpful that all this is open source, so that makes it a little easier. But there are cases, of course, where a project's built and then something goes stale after a few months because the original team sort of isn't there. But yeah, the goal is to make sure that these projects continue to engage with Avi after the initial grant and I think having them have a say in the future grantees is one really cool way to do that. No, that's really awesome.
01:08:20.148 - 01:09:25.304, Speaker A: I think one thing you touched on, and this is kind of one of the very kind of common themes is post grant support and you already kind of brought it up. What are some of the challenges here? And sort of obviously as you're giving out grants more actively, it can kind of go from ten teams to 100 very fast. How do you think about structuring the grants program or even the staff to actually position everybody to get the help? Yeah, it's a good question. I think one of them is marketing and just ways like I said, some of these projects, they might be an a non project or someone with very little social capital and they might build something really cool, but they actually need users and they need the RV community to be aware that they've built this. And so we really try to make sure we push that. So we'll invite them to the community call. We'll definitely share on Twitter, both in terms of the grand style con as well as personally, all of us.
01:09:25.304 - 01:10:20.104, Speaker A: And then when they launch, we'll try to make governance forum post, we'll try to make intros where possible. I've introred a bunch of teams to other protocols where needed. And so yeah, it's sort of personal help, but I would say just helping use some of the social capital that we have to make sure that really interesting projects get the attention they deserve. And what's great about the crypto ecosystem is that everyone's really receptive to this. And it's definitely like early enough days where everyone's down to sort of try out, actually take a chance on someone relatively new. So I'd say marketing is one. The other ones I would say, are more like they sort of differ by projects.
01:10:20.104 - 01:11:47.256, Speaker A: Like few projects have have asked for help with getting auditors. I think, you know, few projects have asked just for technical smart contract architecture type review and having someone getting connected to someone who can do that. A lot of times it is, I would say, getting connected to XYZ person, either from the Ave Genesis team or from outside and helping them with that. There's more we can do and I think it would be good to come up with one survey, Ave grant members, but also just come up with, hey, these are actually three to four things we should just do as a default for all projects and then there's something additional we can explore it case by case. That makes a lot of sense. And does that mean this is how the RFPs are set up for Abig grants? Who comes up with what is important or should be funded or we want to work on, and what's kind of the process of prioritizing or getting something on that list? Yeah, so we've sourced our list from one, the sort of Avec community, basically the governance forum and things that come up in the Telegram group. And so we sort of source it from there, we source it from the Ave team.
01:11:47.256 - 01:12:38.904, Speaker A: There's a bunch of things that they might want to build that they don't have time to build. We'd love the community to engage with building that. And as we speak to a bunch of these projects, there are ideas that come up that we have that might sort of direct, that might just help an existing sort of integration or something like that. And we will put that up. But I'd say that the top ones right now listed are a governance front end on Ave that's open sourced and built in the Aave repo. That's something that's high priority that we're looking for basically a simpler UI for anyone right now. If you're technical, it's relatively easy.
01:12:38.904 - 01:13:40.350, Speaker A: If you're not technical, it's not straightforward to actually make a governance proposal and so make it easier to do that. The second one is like a developers Dao that we're hoping to wrap up soonish, but actually have a team of developers work directly for a V protocol that work on some of the core development, but also some of the work like reviewing governance proposals or things like that. From what the Dow is, the the developer that was super interesting, actually. So how do you kind of set something like that up and sort of how. Do you in a way, if you were to look at it as like a chart yeah, I hate to say the word chart, but if you look at it that way, what is sort of like the set up here of who is responsible for what and which organization manages what? Yeah, it's a good question. I don't think we have it figured out. But the idea is to there will be a team lead and maybe five to six other people.
01:13:40.350 - 01:14:54.820, Speaker A: So the team lead I think will work full time. Five to six other people will work part time. I think in the beginning, Avi Grant style should have pretty much corbin from our team has been leading the process and either him or someone else should have some type of monitoring of what's happening with the developers Dao. And of course the developers know should be quite transparent with the work they're doing with the Aave community. So I'd say some of these structures, they start off maybe with especially when they're seeded by the Grants dow, where they I'm not going to say, like sort of hierarchical, but more that we at least take some ownership. Over monitoring what's happening and making sure that if there's a bunch of funds in the multi SIG besides having something like tally card, we also have some human monitoring of what's happening and make sure there's reporting to the governance forum and things like that. But I think eventually the pathway is you have these subdaos that come out of Ave Grant staO, but eventually if they're successful, they just get directly funded from the treasury and report to Ave Dao.
01:14:54.820 - 01:15:56.452, Speaker A: There's a mechanism to do that and maybe you see dozens of these DAOs that can actually coordinate on some level, that can function independently to some degree, but yeah, are able to report to governance and continue that way. But yeah, I think the structure of this is still TBD in terms of what works. I think we need to experiment with it, especially with the larger projects. There hasn't been too much of this and so it's cool for us to pioneer something like this, but there'll be some mistakes along the way and we can change the exact structuring of this as we go. Absolutely. And I think this is going to be a recurring theme in most of our talks here today, which is it is a pretty massive experiment we're doing at scale and so much we're trying to figure out as we kind of go through it too. So we'll take some time.
01:15:56.452 - 01:16:42.820, Speaker A: But given that this came out in May of this year and it feels like forever and you've already given out close to a million dollars in grants, it's just incredible that we've made so much progress already. I want to also give a special shout out to Bill on the Chat, who's been really been incredible at answering all these questions. And for those of you who are interested in learning more, especially about what's happening in the Ave ecosystem. Be sure to subscribe to Avenues substacks.com because that does cover all the great things that are happening. And I know we're getting I do want to ask a handful of other questions, but I feel like it'll probably take away from another talk that you have in about an hour, which is on how do you actually successfully receive a grant from the Ave Dao committee. So we'll save some of those questions for that.
01:16:42.820 - 01:17:20.556, Speaker A: In the meantime, I want to thank Shreyas for that amazing overview and we'll move on to our next talk. So thanks, Shreyas, and we'll see you soon. Yeah. Thanks, Kanti. All right, so with this, we are ready to move on to our next segment. So we are running five minutes ahead of schedule, but what we have up next is a ecosystem showcase of some amazing projects that have been funded and supported by the Ave grant style. So what we'll do is we'll kind of call up all these six speakers that are going to talk about who they are, what they do, and how you may be able to get involved.
01:17:20.556 - 01:17:57.600, Speaker A: So without further ado, let's bring on our very first talk, and that is Hilmar from Gelato. And Hilmar is going to talk about everything that's happening with Gelato. So I'll ask you to turn your camera on and we can get started. Hey, Kasek. How's it going? Good. Welcome. Let's do you guys hear me all right? Yeah, I think there might be an audio issue if you're not able to hear me, but I can hear you just fine.
01:17:57.600 - 01:19:16.116, Speaker A: It would be great to learn about Gelato and you can just take it from yeah, sure. So, yeah, I work at a project called Gelato. Gelato is a protocol that automates smart contract executions on ethereum and on other networks. And, yeah, basically we help developer teams to automate certain aspects of their DApps, kind of like taking away the burden of all the DevOps related technicalities that come with running sophisticated financial products on public blockchains. And, yeah, we received a grandstar grant some time ago to help build out a cool product which is available on a website called Kono Finance. And that's basically automate, like paying back debt positions and preventing liquidations by kind of periodically always selling some of your collateral off for the debt that you borrowed and then paying back your debt periodically to avoid getting liquidated and having to pay liquidation penalties. And yeah, that's basically what we built with the Ava grant style.
01:19:16.116 - 01:19:59.110, Speaker A: And I appreciate the support of Ava. There a lot amazing yeah, I'll kind of do some Q A here as well. So let's kind of go deeper into what Gelato is. You've obviously been part of the global side as a hack member, it's been for the past few years, and you've kind of learned so much about what's happening in this ecosystem. And I remember just chatting with you a while ago and you kind of also got into the Ava ecosystem a bit early. So just walk us through how Gelato is set up. What was the need for you to build this thing and sort of just everything's happened the past year and a yeah, so yeah, things developed fairly quickly.
01:19:59.110 - 01:21:23.280, Speaker A: I think like two to three years ago I was going to hackathons at ETH Global, hacking on some funny interest rate swap use cases using Ekland back then or now Ava. And so, yeah, I was always kind of fascinated and tried to kind of build more sophisticated financial applications also, like options on DeFi. And every time applications require something to happen on a conditional basis at some point in the future, you kind of require this second layer of servers or keepers or bots basically running that actually monitor all the states and then execute certain functions at future times, basically. And yeah, we kind of stumbled across this issue a lot of times during just hacking on stuff. And at some point, we were working on a project together with knosis and built in and became across this problem again. And we kind of decided, okay, that's for us developers, let's just build a tool that really just outsources that problem and try to kind of fix that for all of our future projects that we wanted to build. And we kind of got stuck on solving this issue because it is not that straightforward, actually, as it may seem.
01:21:23.280 - 01:22:56.912, Speaker A: Could you dig a little bit deeper into that? What are some of the complications? How do you think about some of these guarantees and also maybe give us some examples of what you can do or cannot do with Gelato right now. Yeah, so the very basic problem that you need to solve in such a system is basically making sure that transactions get mined in a certain period of time, at certain future times, right? It maybe sound quite easy, but it's actually like if you think about the blockchain, you only have a certain block limit, right? You have a certain capacity and there are a lot of transactions that want to get in during the same times, maybe if they're like high congestion times. And you need to make sure to actually fulfill the duties of your protocol to get your transaction mined in a certain time frame. And this is fairly easy if you do like one transactions, but if you do like 1000 transactions in a very short period of time, you need to resubmit transactions, you need to cancel certain transactions, then this becomes very complicated. And doing this on one network on the Ethereum, Mainet might still be okay, but if you then have your application deployed on Phantom, on Polygon, on Arbitrum, on optimism, you suddenly have to run nodes on all these networks. You have to deal with RPC issues, running full nodes on most of these networks is nearly impossible for the average development team without a full time DevOps team around it. So, yeah, there are very infrastructure related problems that you have to solve, first of all.
01:22:56.912 - 01:24:21.940, Speaker A: And then there's the whole issue about, okay, then you are kind of like the only one running this bot, right? And if your company kind of censors or acts maliciously or just kind of goes down for whatever reason, right, then your whole application, this decentralized application you build, is now not functioning as intended, right? So similar to kind of like how the graph picked the kind of like reading data from the chain problem, we picked the writing data to the chain on the conditional basis problem, basically. And yeah, we want to provide developers with just this infrastructure piece that is decentralized, that is censorship resistant, that runs also when Gelato, our core team at some point in the future is not there anymore, right, that they kind of can rely on and it takes a bit of time. We are not there yet. But yeah, one step at a time. This is great. And then I was going to say, I think in closing, I guess one obvious thing is that most of the people that are watching this thing and participating in Ethanline are developers. So as they think about their Akathon projects, can you give them some sort of thoughts or suggestions on how they might be able to use gelato? And what are some of the things that they can do problematic every time your application needs to execute certain functions at future times.
01:24:21.940 - 01:25:16.972, Speaker A: Be it, like, every ten minutes, or be it when Unisor prices rise above a certain threshold. Right. You would normally be required to kind of spin up your own server and kind of try to get these transactions mined for POC. That might work, but like in production, that rarely does. So rather than just do that, I would just encourage you to go to App Gelato network. There you can literally just input the contract address of the contract you want to automate, then all the functions appear and then you can just select the function that you want to automate and you can write a resolver contract that defines upon which condition you actually want that contract to be executed. You can, for example, say, hey, every hour, or you can say when the balance of this user is greater than X, right? And then you just deposit some east pay for the transactions or like some matic on Polygon, for example, and then that's it.
01:25:16.972 - 01:25:48.144, Speaker A: And you don't need to worry about running any infra. It should work right away, and if it doesn't, let us know. Come to our developer chats on Discord and we can help you out. Amazing. Well, hopefully everybody got excited about that because there's a lot of automation and scheduling you can do and there's so many interesting applications with that in DeFi. So thanks so much Omar. And for those who are interested, it looks like Bill's already posted a comment on how you can learn more and how you can find out the documentation for Gelato.
01:25:48.144 - 01:26:11.790, Speaker A: So thanks again and we'll move on to our next demo and showcase. And for that, I'd like to welcome Eric, who's going to talk about Omni Analytics. So Eric, whenever you're ready to get started. Awesome. Hi everyone. Hopefully you can hear me. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and share my screen as I have a couple slides, and so I'll talk about our project.
01:26:11.790 - 01:27:07.200, Speaker A: So basically for the Ave grants, Dow, what we did is we were building what we call like an intuitive and extensible analytics framework for the Ave ecosystem. That was part of the work we did. And so I just wanted to start by kind of talking more generally about Omni Analytics Group. I'm the chief data scientist at Omni Analytics Group, and basically we're a boutique data science firm, and we specialize in machine learning, data analysis, AI, and recently cryptocurrency. We've actually been active in the crypto ecosystem now really for a number of years. But especially in this last year, we've built tools for the Ethereum Foundation, Numerai Uniswap, Gitcoin Pool together, and many more. And we have a little following on Twitter and 5000 plus people, they like to kind of hear about data science, crypto related topics.
01:27:07.200 - 01:27:55.256, Speaker A: Basically, the goal underpinning what we do, it's always been about the power of data analytics and data driven decision making. So that includes things like insights from statistical modeling, EDA, exploratory, data analysis, dashboarding app development. And our whole goal with what we did for the Ave Grants Dao, is we wanted to bring some of this to Ave and the broader community. And so this was basically our focus. And it's still ongoing, but we basically broke it down into a three tiered kind of process. It began with a main net Dune dashboard. We later were sort of contracted into doing a polygon dashboard on Dune, and we followed a really similar structure.
01:27:55.256 - 01:28:36.424, Speaker A: I'll show you both of them in just a moment, but then we wanted to take it a step further. So basically we love Dune. We love the platform. For those of you who are familiar with it, it's just such a great way to collect data from the blockchain, display it, and look at trends and growth trends over time. So we love Dune, but we were thinking, what can we do to take this analysis to the next level? And by our day jobs, what we usually work in is in R. And for those of you who are familiar with the R language, it's effectively a statistical programming language. It has all kinds of toolkits packages, libraries that can be used to do some pretty cool analyses.
01:28:36.424 - 01:29:19.640, Speaker A: And we thought integrating with the Covalent API, where we can pull Ave data, produce a customized dashboard, and really take this to the next level as far as the flexibility would be what we can do to broaden the appeal of the work we've done. So let's take a look. I'm going to first show you the two Dune dashboards. Then I'm going to show you the R dashboard and just give you an idea of what we have here. So let me take a look at this. So this actually let me go first to the main net dashboard, then I'll show polygon. So this is our first dune dashboard and we structured it in such a way that we wanted to present what was essentially the most important information up front.
01:29:19.640 - 01:29:55.716, Speaker A: And really this is like illustrating the growth of Aave as a platform up front. And we sort of broke it down into these categories. So basically usage metrics where you can see like daily active users, new users of the platform, number of transactions on the platform. And then we basically have a whole section where you can see volume metrics. So this is things like deposit volume, flash loan volume, borrow volume, liquidation volume. And we sort of have this consistent structure where you can see there's always a counter. And that counter is like one day, seven day, 30 day, and then the total volume along with it.
01:29:55.716 - 01:30:39.380, Speaker A: We have time series. So basically you get an aggregate metric of each and then you get a time series metric where effectively that gives you a view of how the growth has taken place as a function of time. One of the challenges and things that we just had to overcome is ave. There's basically V one and V two versions of the contracts, and we aggregated this. So you can see it dates back to June for the V one and then I think since December for the V two. And these queries, unless we're indicated, are all at the aggregate level. You can see this dashboard has quite a lot of statistics, but we tried to keep it consistent, clean, and the relevant stats really prominent.
01:30:39.380 - 01:31:15.272, Speaker A: That's our main net dashboard. The second one, and I won't take too much time on this because you'll notice it's quite similar and that was by design. We basically rebuilt the dashboard for polygon. And so you'll notice most of the same metrics, some of them are still pending. Some data has recently been added to those tables that have enabled more and we're still working on some more, but a similar structure, basically all the metrics targeting polygon chain. So same idea there. And then finally I want to show you our start on the R dashboard.
01:31:15.272 - 01:31:58.552, Speaker A: So basically what this is here is R shiny. So those of you who are familiar with it, basically shiny itself is a way of turning an R analysis into an interactive web application. And we basically built a similar concept to the Dune dashboard. But what we've added so far is basically some interactivity for the user. So instead of just a big tall scrolling list of the volume metrics, you can select which one you're interested in viewing and then immediately get those results. You can also then filter to a specific date range. So for instance, maybe you're interested in since the beginning of the year to in this case September 16 to see the aggregate metrics across that time span.
01:31:58.552 - 01:32:31.552, Speaker A: Then you can get that. And we have plenty more functionality like usage metrics. And these all are dynamic plots. We try to include some ave branding. It's very much a work in progress, but we have a lot of great ideas for what we can do to keep making this more extensible and more sustainable. One other quick comment, just for those of you who are interested. This right here is our GitHub, and we're posting the code that basically is used to underpin the dashboard and the shiny dashboard itself on our GitHub.
01:32:31.552 - 01:33:07.676, Speaker A: Omni analytics group. Ave growth dashboard. Anyone's welcome to check it out, follow the instructions to install it and run it locally. And if you have any great ideas for what we could visualize in the dashboard, we're more than happy to hear those ideas. Okay, let me go back to the slides here and then I'll finish it up. Okay, so in conclusion, really what it comes down to, we're firm believers that when data underpins, like the decision making process, organizations run more efficiently. And so we really wanted to build upon the analytics done in the dune dashboards.
01:33:07.676 - 01:33:40.332, Speaker A: But with the R code, we're exposing the analysis to a wider swath of users. We're interfacing with the Covalent API and exposing that growth data in a way that really the whole community and other developers can access and explore themselves. And since this data is so rich, the potential is so vast, we believe there's a lot more that can be done beyond just what we've done. But we're really, really excited to keep working and about the potential of and that's all I had. Thank you so much. And if there's any questions, I'm happy to take them. This is amazing.
01:33:40.332 - 01:34:37.708, Speaker A: Eric, thanks for covering this. I think there's a couple of questions. So I think what would be good to know is it'd be great to get your take on sort of the comparison between now focusing on doing this thing for DeFi and crypto and sort of what you were doing before. What was it like? What were some of the learnings or rather insights or the things you were shocked about? I'll start with that and we can dig in a little bit more. Yeah, that's a really good question. So effectively, when Omni Analytics Group was started, we really were focusing on general statistical consulting and we were looking at what are especially more underserved areas as far as industries that don't typically think about statistical insights as being something that they need to really worry about. And so what ended up happening is as statistics and data science got a little bit more prevalent and people started figuring out that this is an industry that needs to be taken seriously, they need to make data driven decisions.
01:34:37.708 - 01:35:55.604, Speaker A: What happened is we sort of found the cryptocurrency community and things were starting to take off, but we were seeing some similar patterns, which is that there's a lot of data out there, but sometimes half the battle is just structuring it in a nice way so that you can start to find those insights. And that transition sort of was that this is another major community cryptocurrency and blockchain was exploding in 2017, but we didn't have all the analytical tools that we do now and we wanted to really kind of push in that direction. When you say you didn't have the tools, is that just a comment on not having access to the chain data or do you mean something specific? Yeah, mostly that I think just at the time that data was available, but now we have it basically in a way like Dune lets us just trivially access it and that just opens up so much potential. The Covalent API is another good example where effectively we've gone from, yeah, that data is all there, but now we have one unified API that we can just write some wrapper R code and pull all that and do some pretty cool analysis with it. No, it's amazing. And you kind of touched on this thing a little bit, but maybe it'd be awesome if you can dive a little bit more into what are some of these insights that you kind of hope to draw from. Kind of the Aave reports or the dashboards.
01:35:55.604 - 01:36:42.536, Speaker A: A lot of this is I guess the way I understood it, a lot of this was just being able to present the same information slightly differently. But how do you think about being actionable from that? Yeah, great question. So I actually had a discussion about this yesterday with the team because what we were thinking, like, we spent a lot of time building up the data infrastructure for this, effectively to show the growth of Ave as a platform. And I think we were really successful in doing that. But to take it to the next step, kind of what we're thinking here is there's all kinds of metrics that we're basically showing historical data on, that we're visualizing the historical data. But what we're not doing at this stage is actually making forecasts, fitting statistical models. So for instance, we're seeing a sustained growth in the number of transactions on the platform.
01:36:42.536 - 01:37:31.544, Speaker A: But what could those forecasts look like if we were to project them n months out into the future? And there's plenty of machine learning algorithms that we can do to have a pretty accurate time series forecast. And then it would be really interesting to do stuff like having these forecasts produced and then essentially compared against for accuracy as a function of time so we can continue seeing and refining the estimates over time. I think that would be one direction that would be really worth exploring. No, for sure. That makes a lot of sense. Is this something that requires more input from kind of the community or the governance sort of calls, or how do you think about prioritizing which ones to focus on? I think having some more input would be good because like you said, it's a question of prioritization. The sky is sort of the limit for what we can do, but maybe there's an immediate need.
01:37:31.544 - 01:38:16.064, Speaker A: We want to say, like, these projections are just one example, but if someone was interested to say, what is the projected borrow volume over the next ten months, and we started with something like that, we kind of could prototype it out, assess how the model is doing, and then expand it as the community sees fit. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah, exactly. It'll be case by case, I guess, or need based. And lastly, before we move on to our next top, how can people get involved in what you're doing and where can they find out more? Sure, so lots of ways to do that, but if you want to get in contact with us directly, our Twitter profile is probably the best way to do it. Twitter.com slash omnianalytics.
01:38:16.064 - 01:38:55.356, Speaker A: And if you DM us and just say you want to get involved with working on this, whatever aspect it is, we would love to collaborate. Like I said, everything that we've done for the R dashboard is on GitHub, and then everything for the Dune dashboards is obviously on Dune public facing. And we'd love anyone if they'd like to collaborate with us, just contact us on Twitter. My email also Eric at omnianlytics IO. If anyone wants to contact me directly, that works just fine as well. Amazing. Well, thank you so much, Eric, and hopefully more data scientists and your engineers come in and help out with those models.
01:38:55.356 - 01:39:10.932, Speaker A: Thank you very much. And with that, we are ready to move on to our next demo and want to welcome Denison, who's going to talk about Tally. Great to see you. Hello. Hello. Howdy howdy. Good to see you too.
01:39:10.932 - 01:39:32.856, Speaker A: Good to see everyone here. That was really great presentation. I was just writing out Eric's email address because it's like, oh, that's pretty cool. Yeah. So what I wanted to talk about today was the project that we worked on for Abe Grants. Ours was a pretty interesting project. It's called Tally Safeguard, and it was originally built from a Uniswap grant.
01:39:32.856 - 01:40:58.788, Speaker A: So the idea of Tally Safeguard was to address some concerns around the flexibility and permissions layer of DAOs. And our grant with Ave was specifically around funding the audit with OpenZeppelin of these contracts. So I think the best way to sort of describe the Tally Safeguard what the problem is is that you have a couple different camps when it comes to governance and the ability of governance to act quickly in event of an emergency. It's a little bit timely if some people are following the bug in compound introduced via a community proposal or introduced via proposal. There's this need to have a permissions layer around acting quickly. So what tally safeguard does is actually wraps the time lock, which is the sort of authority in your governance with a permission system where you can give different addresses, permissions around creating proposals, executing proposals, and canceling proposals. The idea here is that you can go from a governance structure where you have the token holders who directly control a time lock to a situation where the token holders directly control the time lock, but they can add other folks as controllers on the time lock with different permissions.
01:40:58.788 - 01:42:03.240, Speaker A: So, for example, they could say, hey, we want to add this multi SIG to have the authority to create proposals on this time lock, that then sit in the time lock for some duration of time during which governance could come in and cancel them. So the idea here is, if you have a trusted group of individuals that have the ability to create proposals at will, there should be some sort of administrative function where governance can come in and say, no, this proposal should not go through. Similarly, governance can give someone else the ability to cancel proposal. So what you end up having is this ability to compose authority in your governance. And the way that would look is a little bit how I just describe it. You may have one multi SIG that has the ability to create proposals, another multi SIG or an individual that has the ability to cancel proposals. So you could use that, for example, in a setup where governance is open and it can create a proposal.
01:42:03.240 - 01:43:20.640, Speaker A: But you could have sort of an overseeing group of security experts who have the ability to cancel a proposal. Or you could do it the other way around, right? The security experts can propose a proposal governance cancel it. You can also use it without a governance itself, where you could just simply have different combinations of multi sigs or different combinations of individual addresses that have different permissions to create, execute or cancel. So you can kind of imagine how you could build any sort of permission structure based around that, so that you can have a dow that both has true token holder governance, but also has the ability to execute things in a quick manner, or can be used as sort of like a subgroup for treasuries. A great example that we first had thought about when we were building safeguard was grants committees, where grants committees themselves have this interesting situation where a proposal is created on governance that says, okay, let's give a million dollars to this grants committee. And now this grants committee is a group. Of multisig holders, but now they receive the money and they have ultimate authority over this money, right? It's not possible for the governance to claim this money back from the multi SIG unless you ask the multi SIG nicely.
01:43:20.640 - 01:44:22.490, Speaker A: And this can sometimes be an issue, right? Like, you can distribute funds to a multi SIG that are worth a million dollars on day one, DFI can go to the moon and they can end up having $100 million in that multisig. So the sort of trust assumptions that the community may make around members or signers of this multisig may be different depending on the levels of maybe different based on how much value is being held there. But this sort of like delegation of authority in terms of delegating money is really one way. So the idea here around safeguard was that you could use it, for example, in grants committees, where you can delegate spending authority to a group, but the governance can still take it away without actually having to ask permission from the multisig holders to do that. So what I'll share here really briefly is just our repo so folks can see it and go check it out. This is what's being audited currently at Openzeplin. You can find it here@github.com
01:44:22.490 - 01:45:02.890, Speaker A: with tally safeguard. If you go through the README. I'm not going to go through the README fully, but if you go through the README, it talks about the sort of problems that I just laid out and the solution and vision that we have thought of, including sort of a preliminary specification on how it works. So this grant was for auditing it. The audit is almost complete. We've just gone through the process of addressing some just minor things that came up in the audit. Nothing major, but that audit should be completed in the next couple of weeks, optimistically, next week.
01:45:02.890 - 01:45:28.240, Speaker A: Probably safer to say in the next two or three weeks. And that will be available here. Obviously, it's open source. Anyone can use it. And happy to really talk to folks who are interested in finding ways to incorporate this with their multisig, with their governance and multisig with their governance. Multisig end user externally owned account. I always call it like end because it's e externally owned account.
01:45:28.240 - 01:46:08.988, Speaker A: So we're happy to speak with anyone about that, happy to talk more about that. You can go to the repo here. You can also always find us@withtally.com, which is here. So happy to take any questions and yeah, that was awesome. Thanks for that. I think it's less of a question, more of like, I want to give you more of a spotlight after the audit is done, specifically, what can people do and what would you like them to do? So after the audit is done, what I would like to see people do is two things.
01:46:08.988 - 01:47:35.880, Speaker A: One is I would like to see grants committees set up where the governance has true authority over the grant money, right? It doesn't feel long term, right? When we talk about Aave Grants Committee, uniswap Grants Committee, compound Grants Committee, these are very large Dows with a lot of money, with a lot of prestige. And it's not so hard for them to find pretty high profile individuals who can be trusted folks to manage these pools of money. However, when we talk about the future and Dows really spreading, not all Dows are going to always have access to these sort of like, quote, unquote famous individuals with a lot to lose and reputation in the space to manage their pools of money. And they can certainly run into situation where maybe today XYZ Dog Token, maybe it's worth $1,000, but something happens and boom, now it's worth $10 million. And, oh, by the way, it's managed by five anonymous users on a multi SIG that you've actually never met, right, of which you're not even sure they're all different people, right? It could all be one person. For these smaller communities, the risk becomes quite high and that becomes a kind of existential risk to the trust in the community. So if you use something like tally safeguard, these grant committees can sort of insulate themselves from that danger.
01:47:35.880 - 01:49:26.184, Speaker A: On the flip side, it also potentially, and I'm not a lawyer, I cannot give legal advice, but it can potentially help with the claim around decentralization, right? So currently, a lot of governances use multisigs as their governance. But in the eyes of some legal things, again, I'm not a lawyer, that might not actually fly, right? Like you have the concept of an unincorporated general partnership, which is what most multi sigs are. These multi sigs are if you create a Grants Committee with a bunch of friends, actually each of you is responsible for paying tax on the entire sum of money that is received in that multi SIG because it's unincorporated general partnership, again, this is not legal advice. So using something like tally safeguard, where actually the governance has the ultimate authority and for example, maybe the multisig holders can propose ideas that still go past governance and if governance does not take action, can be automatically effectuated, maybe in some cases supports the argument that you're truly decentralized, right? Because today using just a multi SIG straight really puts a lot of onus on the multisigs holders and a lot of liability potentially on the multisig holders. Again, not a lawyer, not legal advice. But the thoughts are like, how do you build a safe protocol that's both safe for the members and safe for the participants who are maybe signers? So I think that's a really great example for your governance, for your Grants Committee. It's awesome.
01:49:26.184 - 01:49:54.928, Speaker A: And I think I want to also say that as a side effect of this setup, you also get to design a system that scales with the user base. Like now you can have a lot of people come in instead of having two to three or whatever, five people just kind of making a hierarchy around 2000 person dow. So you also want to think about those because that prevents growing even more. Amazing. So thank you so much, Denison, and thank you check out safeguard on the tally GitHub repo. Excellent. Thank you folks.
01:49:54.928 - 01:50:20.940, Speaker A: All right, with that, we are ready to move on to our next talk. And introducing next is Will Robinson from DeFi Lines. And Will's going to talk about what DeFi Lines is and how they work with Aave and everything that you can do to get involved with DeFi Lines. So without further ado, let's welcome Will. Hi everybody. Excuse the background. I'm reporting from stairs as my house is under duress.
01:50:20.940 - 01:50:58.792, Speaker A: My name is Will. I've been at DeFi Alliance for six months. Proud recipient of an Ave grant. DeFi alliance has been around for over a year and a half, building out an accelerator that helps grow DFI users to 1 billion by 2025. It's an ambitious mission. It basically means that we're looking to find new projects, grow them, invest in them, connect them, teach them through a curriculum that runs basically four times a year. At this point, we're finishing up with Cohort Five.
01:50:58.792 - 01:52:09.810, Speaker A: We'll be doing a keynote next week hosted by Joey Krug, who is from Pantera and Auger. And there we will showcase 25 teams, two of which were sponsored by Ave Grants to build out protocols and grow on top of Ave. So, interestingly, early on we had partners from layer ones like Cello and Terra and Algorand. Now Solana and these ecosystems, they wanted us to bring DeFi to them and accelerate on top of them, but at a certain point realized that Ave is its own ecosystem, it's its own platform to grow and build on top of. And this is the promise of DeFi, right? Lego blocks. And so Ave, wanting to support projects building on top of its foundational Lego block like, thus increasing its moat and importance in DeFi, tapped us. And we tapped them, I guess, to try and do that.
01:52:09.810 - 01:52:53.736, Speaker A: And so only they and uniswap have been like layer 1.5 for us as partners. And I'll show you our website so you can get a sense of what we're all about. You should be able to see it here. So defilements Co helping web3 startups succeed. We have basically this theme around Terraforming new Lands and Ave's logo will be scrolling by in a moment there. So we have two Facets, we have the accelerators, which are DeFi and gaming.
01:52:53.736 - 01:53:48.120, Speaker A: Now, my own background is across both. I used to be a financial auditor looking at crypto wallets and multi sigs and making sure that the assets were there and that I could sign off on the books. But before that I did a PhD in video game design. And so mixed, I had to do both and think very closely about the intersection between DeFi and gaming as well because we see gaming as like the road to future DeFi users. And I suspect we will be letting in Avagatchi, if not in this accelerator, in the next one as like a very cool example of a game built on Aave. And then we have this industry network. These are companies that are made up of market makers and liquidity providers to help bootstrap our DeFi protocols, but also like lawyers who are really important, and code auditors and community managers.
01:53:48.120 - 01:54:25.308, Speaker A: The sort of penople of all things you would want to have to ensure success for your teams. And we've accelerated some pretty cool alumni. And yeah, what makes us unique is our access to liquidity and community and investment. And we have these amazing mentors. The list goes on forever. You could come see at some point who you'd like to meet maybe one day. And the grant has allowed us to essentially bring these teams on without taking equity in their product.
01:54:25.308 - 01:55:04.330, Speaker A: This is allowing us to source better teams that just want to grow and don't need to worry about the financials or anything. And so we give them this sort of like VC privileged accelerator process and that's covered by Aave. So in some ways we're like a grant regifter in that sense. And we have a variety of resources. We also manage something called DeFi grants where you can see not just Ave's grants, but everybody's grants in the ecosystem. And we're trying to make this the go to place to find capital. So if you're interested in that, definitely take a look here.
01:55:04.330 - 01:56:02.124, Speaker A: We also, in addition to DFI Grants, maintain something called DFI Jobs, which is over here. And we have like 206 jobs in DFI. It's all a work in progress. This is our old logo, but you can find like, for instance, the nine jobs at Ave or jobs at some of our cohort companies and other companies we've accelerated. The overall goal, right, is to foster a really rich community full of signal, filter, a lot of the noise that you find in crypto, and make sure that we find strong builders who want to come work together from a diverse set of backgrounds and skills. And if you're interested in doing that, we'd really love to get your application in. You can apply to DFI or gaming if you're building on top of Ave, we'd love to hear about you.
01:56:02.124 - 01:56:52.344, Speaker A: You can get your questions answered here. You can apply through our form right here. So here's the Cohort Six application form which will be starting sometime. We said November 23. We'll actually be pushing it because we're also, as the DFI Alliance about to go dow. We've been like a centralized organization trying to get this thing off the ground, but we really want to sort of dog food the Web Three that we're building and think that it's totally worthwhile to experience being a Web Three company. Accelerating Web Three companies in this way so deciding to do that has meant this is a 40 day delay on this cohort I also can show you our industry network.
01:56:52.344 - 01:58:22.790, Speaker A: So because we've succeeded at attracting such great companies, because they don't have to give up equity, we have great sort of service opportunities. So if you want and join DeFi Alliance, you'll jump the line at Quant Stamps, public queue for audits, for instance, or you'll get to talk to our Hype marketing team or directly to Jump Capital or Wintermute to get your liquidity. And so all of this is possible because of our sponsors like Ave Grants and the hope is just to grow DeFi as fast as possible and be along for the ride. My sense of this is that we're kind of summoning primordial forces when playing with crypto, these sort of like self perpetuating protocols that through value capture and then ability to redirect incentives, grow a whole new way of being and interacting. And I think it's terrifying and also amazing and that's why I'm really keen to join this ride and to see where this goes. And so I think that's the passion that fuels DeFi Alliance is just let's make DeFi happen faster and think about it critically while we do it. I am totally happy to take questions if those do happen, but otherwise I can also keep going.
01:58:22.790 - 01:59:18.232, Speaker A: Kartik, do you want to give me some guidance here? Yeah. So we got a couple of minutes, I think. If you have anything else you want to talk about, please feel free to. I think the one question we'd have is you sort of talked about the experience of the accelerator without the dilution, which is a pretty good incentive and a pretty good pitch, but could you go a little bit more into detail of how the accelerator works? What does it mean to be in a batch, what are the things that you do for each of those companies and just a little bit more about that experience? Yeah, definitely. So it's something of a moving target as we're always refining and we're evolving with the times. Currently the accelerator lasts six weeks, where we do about 6 hours of content per week. And that's like listening to Kane Warwick speak about how he built synthetics or listening to Wintermute about how to negotiate your liquidity deal.
01:59:18.232 - 02:00:33.616, Speaker A: Or listening to Larry Sukernick on how to structure your dao. Or Spencer Applebaum about how to give away governance tokens in order to bootstrap your liquidity that way. So these are really detailed lectures that aren't just like feel good motivational speeches, but technically difficult problems that you don't even know you have to solve from the industry experts, which is not like the Y Combinator who people compare us to, where it's just like here's how you beat those guys and raise your spirits. It's more like this is a complicated space. Here are some subject matter experts and then we have our ecosystem partners such as Ave and Uniswap and Solana and Celo and everybody sort of helping out in Polygon and teaching our teams how to build on their systems. We think the future is multi chain, although we love like super deeply, we do want to see all these other platforms give it a shot and grow, maybe teach Ethereum a thing or two and vice versa. And so they're helping our teams navigate their own grants and their own code reviews and they're also giving their State of the Union and their vision of how they're different.
02:00:33.616 - 02:01:38.550, Speaker A: So that's a pretty cool kind of value add. And then we have our regional chapters. So there's a European DeFi Alliance chapter where we get like a chat from Ajit Tripathi from Aave and Melton Demirz from CoinShares and that's always a hoot. And then we give a talk from China with our chapter there that's usually headed up by Mabel Zhang who's from Multicoin. And we have our Indian chapter where we'll have the Polygon people and otherwise Dan people and the other amazing companies coming out of India, give the lay of the land, how to hire there, how to market there, how to think about your community globally through the lens of these regional chapters. So that's like a big part of it, but it all sort of culminates with Demo Day. And a big part of our program is making sure you can pitch your company to a large audience of DeFi stakeholders who are going to know what you're talking about and need you to succinctly clarify what you're doing and who you are and why they should trust you.
02:01:38.550 - 02:02:26.768, Speaker A: Something that people often forget is that DeFi protocols, until they're living on their own, are people, right, and they're going to pivot and they're going to change and they're going to make code mistakes and you got to really know who the people are behind that protocol until it's past its Lindy effect stage. So yeah, that's our program. You get to chat with me and I get to help you out whenever you need it. That's another part of it. And when it comes to the game track, well, we're trying to get the best game tokenomics people and the twitch people and the discord people to sort of structure your community. So if DFI Alliance DFI program is about liquidity, the game program that we're launching is about community. Those are the sort of bloods that run through the veins of these different kinds of Web Three projects.
02:02:26.768 - 02:02:50.348, Speaker A: That's an excellent pitch that if I ask anything more, I'll probably ruin the good note that ascended on. So this is great. Everybody who wants to learn more about DeFi lines, head over to Defylines Co. And I'm sure you can contact Will on Twitter as well as through the website. So I guess encourage everybody to apply. And with that, we are ready to move on to our next talk. Thanks so much Will.
02:02:50.348 - 02:03:21.732, Speaker A: Bye. Bye everybody. So next up, I want to introduce Matthew who's going to talk about Llama. So Matthew is here. Whenever you're ready, feel free to get started. I think you are still muted, so we'll just give a quick second on being ready on the audio side. It all right.
02:03:21.732 - 02:03:39.864, Speaker A: Can you guys hear me now? Here we go. Yep. Cool. And can you see the screen okay? Everything is good. My full screen? Yeah, I don't know. Awesome. All right, so hello everyone, my name is Matthew from the Llama community.
02:03:39.864 - 02:04:41.180, Speaker A: The Llama community received a grant some time ago from Arve and it's focusing around Aave's Treasury Management. So some difficulties. So within this grant we have a few main deliverables. The main ones are focusing around the Vision for Arbay, what we would like to try and achieve with their treasury, how we want to put it to use and the direction we think we can take it in as a community. We're also putting together an asset management framework which kind of really structures a lot of the decisions, allocations, how we're going to implement it, how we kind of approach risk. We're also going to put in some initial strategies. So put forward some ideas, they'll present it on the Governance Forum and then they'll progress to an arc over time.
02:04:41.180 - 02:05:30.744, Speaker A: And then hopefully we'll get one of those through within this grant or maybe potentially the next grant and then touching on some of the areas around like financial reporting. What we're looking to create is income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets. And we want to start producing those periodically on a monthly basis. And with that what we're going to try and do different from more traditional companies, we want to try and make this kind of live data and we're trying to use data analytics and June to help us do that as a tool. So summarizing the first main deliverable, which is the Vision document. This is available on the RV Governance Forum if anyone wants to go have a read. So this document is this outlines the Vision.
02:05:30.744 - 02:06:45.924, Speaker A: The vision we're presenting to the community is to encourage innovation, accelerate growth, prudent financial management of assets while providing relevant and transparent financial reporting content. We suggest that the community should remain overweight Ave to capture the future growth upside whilst also hedging the risk against adverse market conditions. Assets are to be deployed productively within the guidance of best asset management practices. Real time financial metrics for performance tracking will be providing transparency to the community and support decisions around how best to deploy the community's capital and the treasury. Management and financial reporting is in its early days and requires nuanced thinking within crypto and this creates an opportunity for Aave to continue being a leader within the space. So within the Vision, we're also looking at how would you construct like a portfolio of assets that Ave would hold within its treasury. So within that we're also looking at a lot of risks which are going to be heavily detailed in kind of like the asset management guidelines we'll go into a little bit later.
02:06:45.924 - 02:07:43.850, Speaker A: We're looking to some of the unique features around like liquidity considerations at an asset portfolio level, but then also in DeFi specific like on chain liquidity. So getting in and out of positions. We're also looking at how do you remain long RV in your treasury and then also deploy it productively. And some of the ways doing that is through debt and whilst maintaining that really large long ave positioning, we kind of want to hedge away some of the market volatility. So if we go into say like a crypto winter, the treasury doesn't substantially fall with the market. So we're looking to try and offset some of that whilst also capturing that upside. So that's really about maximizing the upside and then minimizing the downside and really just trying to deploy assets when the treasuries productively so we can make the most out of DeFi really.
02:07:43.850 - 02:08:35.190, Speaker A: So when we talk into asset management, we're kind of really here, we're trying to really create a framework that the community can kind of understand and refer back to in times like turbulence. We're really trying to drive this preserve capital whilst growing the protocol, whilst also trying to reduce risk. So that's just touching on that hedging angle from a price. But then idiosyncratic risk is also where are you deploying your assets. If you deploy all your assets in a single area and something happens to it, then you've got a lot of exposure. But if you spread it out across the space, then you've got less specific risk on each investment. So with this, the risk angle is very important.
02:08:35.190 - 02:09:28.760, Speaker A: There's the credit risk, the market risk, there's liquidity, there's infrastructure. So I've kind of touched on those few times now. And then the nuance of DeFi is the DeFi specific risks and that's where you really start to think about like smart contract risk, admin keys, Oracles open source code, basically making sure where you're recommending to suggest to the community that you've done the due diligence and this is a safe suggestion. So the way in which we tend to implement treasury management is through the AIP process. That means everything's going to go through the governance forum. It's going to be open to community feedback and engagement. We really encourage people to review our posts and give constructive feedback.
02:09:28.760 - 02:10:26.440, Speaker A: We're all just trying to do the best we can. So anyone who comes up with an amazing idea, we really want to hear about it. Within the asset management guidelines, we're also trying to think about long term for ave if there's any strategic assets that have a place in there. So that could be just equity through alignment of two communities kind of objectives. And that could be like just through partnerships as well. If we introduce leverage into the treasury, we really need to have a strong understanding around that, like really know where our health factor is, like our interest cover ratios, what are we going to do in certain conditions, like a lot of forward planning there. If you think of the treasury as like this asset allocation or asset portfolio, periodically, you're probably looking to rebalance that.
02:10:26.440 - 02:11:13.092, Speaker A: And within each allocation in that portfolio, you've probably got bands of mins and maxes where you want to keep a certain allocation. So that's something that we expect to be ongoing over time. There's the potential there to do a treasury committee. And the suggestion we've presented is that that would be something that would meet quarterly to review the asset management guidelines, the existing composition, and how it all kind of fits together with the overall objectives we're trying to achieve. And we look to manage the treasury in perpetuity. So we're recognizing that the community has been around a fair while now, and it's going to be around for many, many years to come. And we want to make sure that we're planning for that extended time horizon.
02:11:13.092 - 02:11:53.136, Speaker A: So the best way for us to frame that is to consider this in perpetuity. This slide, trying to show some of the work we've already done. There's a June Analytics page that's out was done by one of the Llama community members. So what this is showing right now is at the top left you've got like the ethereum reserve factor, which is essentially your are they V two? V one, how much revenue has been generated from it. So as you can see here, we're looking at like 15.5 million, which is really good. We got the ecosystem reserve, which is basically the core.
02:11:53.136 - 02:12:45.700, Speaker A: Are they holding? And on the right we've got the Polygon reserve fact, which is how much revenue has been generated on the Polygon network. And you can see from the charts, particularly the one on the left, it looks a little bit exponential. Like, it's a really great chart, and Polygon has done really well. It's like coming out of the blocks and it's been super strong performance for the Aave community. So there's a lot more charts on this Aave and Llama dashboard. So for everyone who's keen to have a look at some of those financial metrics, we encourage you to go have a look. So coming into some of the more financial kind of reporting side of the grant, what we've got here is this is one of the first statements we've produced, which is basically a USD nominated RV twelve, like PNL statement.
02:12:45.700 - 02:13:30.704, Speaker A: So what it's doing is it's showing monthly the USD value that RBA, this revenue is generating in USD value. Now, you know from the previous chart that when you accumulate it, it looks pretty exponential. What you can see here is if you look across the bottom line, as you can see, Aave is actually quite performing quite strongly month on month. It's getting this good growth. You can think back and there's been a fair bit of volatility in the price of assets. What you can see in here is the bottom line at Aave is somewhat influenced, but potentially not as much as what you'd see at some other protocols. So what you're seeing is a really strong upwards trend in this and it's quite a good balance sheet.
02:13:30.704 - 02:14:30.916, Speaker A: So this is one of the three main financial deliverables that we've got, and these are all available through the Ave Governance Forum as well. And if we were to look at the breakdown of some of this, what we're seeing is the reserve factor is very heavily concentrated in USDC and Dai and USDT, which makes a lot of sense because those are the biggest pools on Aave for lending and borrowing. And the polygon network is generating very similar, but just in a smaller magnitude. But the distribution is a lot more balanced than say, V one, V two combined. So that's really what all the numbers are kind of presenting. And if we were to look forward to kind of what comes next, we're looking to build out the balance sheet. That's the one piece that we haven't really yet developed.
02:14:30.916 - 02:15:20.536, Speaker A: We've got the income statement, we've got the cash flow statement, we really want the balance sheet. And then we're really going to start going into a lot more data on June. We're going to start looking at a lot more financial metrics like how's Ave performing peer to peer ratio or peer to peer comparisons. So return on investment, all those kinds of statistics is where we're looking to kind of develop out. And we're looking to provide all this in a really easy format that the community can kind of take a glance at and really just kind of understand that's how our Llamas today, what we've done with Ave, and a little bit about where we're planning on taking it into the future. Awesome. Well, thank you so much, Matthew, and this is great.
02:15:20.536 - 02:16:06.984, Speaker A: Maybe just one question will be how can people get involved if they want to and sort of what are some ways to keep up with everything that's happening with Llama? Sure. So best way to keep up with what Llama is doing with Aave is via the Governance Forum. Like everything we do there is published. If someone wanted to get a little bit more actively involved in the treasury management side for Aave in particular, I'd definitely be on the Governance Forum trying to contribute and throw ideas around. That's really a good place to showcase what you've got to offer in terms of contributing to Llama itself. I think probably just reach out to us via Twitter. So we don't really have a website with a discord where you can come join yet.
02:16:06.984 - 02:16:39.168, Speaker A: That's something that will come in time. But yeah, just reach out to us over Twitter and we'd love to have a chat. Well, thank you so. Much for that, Matthew. And we are with that ready to move on to our next talk and demo. So I'd like to welcome Ben from Rabbit Hole and we'll just give Ben a quick second to get set up. And Ben, whenever you're ready, feel free to get everyone.
02:16:39.168 - 02:17:23.280, Speaker A: Thanks for, thanks for having me today. My name is Ben and I am the operations lead at Rabbit Hole. For those that don't know, Rabbit Hole is a platform that simultaneously does two things. One for communities and protocols like Aave. We help protocols find the best users and participants for their network. And then on the other side for users, we help them learn about onboard into different projects and use different crypto applications and help them earn crypto for genxa. So we recently did a quest.
02:17:23.280 - 02:18:23.376, Speaker A: The core function of Rabbit Hole is a quest where a protocol provides some amount of rewards that incentivizes a specific action for users to complete. If Rabbit Hole we verify using the graph that a user has completed a specific action that applies to the quest. We reward them with the tokens that are provided. So we recently did a quest through the Ave Grants program where we incentivized users to both lend and borrow funds. On ave polygon. We targeted 2000 users and actually had 2000 users complete this quest and redeem the rewards within 12 hours, I believe were the numbers, which was incredible. It really showed the excitement within our community and within our users for using and getting more acclimated.
02:18:23.376 - 02:19:40.360, Speaker A: With Ave, if we take a step back, Rabbit Hole is really appealing to users who are trying to get more involved in crypto and in Web Three and to become better and more knowledgeable citizens of the Web Three world. And so partnering with Rabbit Hole and doing quests on Rabbit Hole is a great way to gain exposure, to educate people and to bring in more eager participants and owners of the network. So we're extremely happy with the way this most recent quest with Ave went. We are working with a number of other leading program protocols and communities in the Web Three space. We've worked with Uniswap. We just did a quest this past week with Polygon. We've worked on stuff with the graph pool together all different types of protocols and DeFi NFTs layer ones, really focused on how to get users more educated and more involved in the leading projects in crypto.
02:19:40.360 - 02:20:37.080, Speaker A: And then for the leading projects in crypto like Ave, how do we find more users who actually want to use the product? We're not about speculation, we're about finding people who are into using projects, want to be good stewards for your community, want to be active users. And I think moving forward we'd like to move further and further on as a grand vision. We look at ourselves right now as pioneering learn to earn. So I'm sure most people are familiar with Axio Infinity and play to earn, you earn money for playing in a game. We look at Rabbit Hole right now as pioneering learn to earn, so you earn protocol's tokens for learning about them and most importantly, actually using them. But moving forward. I think what we'd like to get to is participate to earn.
02:20:37.080 - 02:21:48.004, Speaker A: And what participate to earn means is moving more and more into rewarding contributions to network and so what that might look like moving forward. And we're working on these capabilities and we'd love to continue discussing them with Aave and through the grants program. But what participate to earn looks like more and more is like how do we actually reward value that's contributed to the network. And so what that might be is you get rewarded if you've lent a certain amount of money and driven a certain amount of yield over six months period of time. And what that's doing is it's incentivizing real sustained contributions, real value provided to the network. And Rabbit Hole can be the place where you incentivize and reward those things. Rabbit Hole has, as I mentioned, an extremely eager set of users who love to participate in Web Three, who are constantly learning and upskilling and can be a really good partner for Ave as Ave thinks about new things.
02:21:48.004 - 02:23:11.404, Speaker A: That they'd like to incentivize and reward, whether that's launching on a new protocol like we recently did with Aave and polygon or whatever that might be. Rabbit hole can be the place where protocols go to find new participants, incentivize them, make sure that they're the right participants. We offer the ability to filter based on different skills, we offer civil protection so you know that every user you get is actually a unique human and can be a strong partner in helping Aave strengthen their community moving forward. As I mentioned, we're really pleased with the excitement from our Rabbit Hole community about the Aave quest we did a few weeks ago and look forward to more and more hopefully successful ventures down the line. Awesome. Thank you so much for that awesome intro, Ben. And just so people know how to get in touch with you, what is the best way to learn more? Yeah, if you'd like to reach out to me personally at benchector on Twitter, but for Rabbit Hole, you can go to Rabbit Hole GG and complete our quest, credential yourself through our skills.
02:23:11.404 - 02:23:38.936, Speaker A: If you've done different actions on chain, we provide credentials for that which can then be used to unlock new opportunities, unlock new quests in the future, and to dive further into being a Web Three user and citizen. Amazing. Thank you so much, Penn. Awesome. Thanks so much for having me. Great. So with that, we are ready to move on to our last talk of the day.
02:23:38.936 - 02:24:43.500, Speaker A: So we've already spent the past few hours talking about how each of the different grant programs are structured and how everything has evolved so far. And you've also even now seen a showcase of some of the incredible projects that the Aave grants has funded. But to kind of really sum it all up, I want to do this last panel on what does it mean to successfully receive a grant from Aave and how do you actually go from applying to the finish line and having this discussion will be Shreyas and Nimran who will help out with the Ave grants program. And I'll let them jump in directly. So welcome back, Sharia and Imran, and I'll let you take it from here. Thank you, Kartik. Hey, Sharia, how are you know, like, you know, we've been working with each other for quite some time now and there's just a lot of learnings both from working with other Dows and working with all of the new participants that are applying for Aave grants.
02:24:43.500 - 02:25:54.688, Speaker A: There's been many questions that have come up, at least for me, when I'm talking to the recipients. And one question I get very commonly is what are the right ideas or what are the right opportunities for Aave and other protocols and how should I be using my resources to help, let's say, Ave as an example? And so maybe we could start with that and then we can start to think about the design space, then the process, and then how we think about grants moving forward. Yeah, it's a good question. I think the number one thing is just something that benefits Aave. And it seems simple, but because of the nature of open source contributions and the types of projects that can apply, like there's startups, there's sort of a general public good type contribution, there can just be a lot. And I think at the very least, your project should benefit Ave in some way. And what that means is it can benefit, you know, like Genaldo Network builds something that saves Ave users from costly liquidations.
02:25:54.688 - 02:26:51.380, Speaker A: It could benefit governance contributors. And so making the governance interface easier or improving streamlining the governance process in some way, it could help Ave protocol directly. So like increasing TBL, bringing sort of stablecoin liquidity to Aave or yeah, it could help the general Dow. So like setting up a subdow that focuses on Risk or treasury or something else. And so I would say to start off a bunch of projects kind of get ruled out because they don't seem to be benefiting Ave in some way. It doesn't mean that the project should go on to do other things. It's just that the benefit to Ave shouldn't be like a really small tangential thing.
02:26:51.380 - 02:27:35.430, Speaker A: It should be something that's kind of a focus with the grant. And so I would say I wouldn't overcomplicate what's the best thing that Aave needs. And we of course have RFPs in our site and there's some things we prioritize, like the Governance UI and the developers. Dao but I would say that the problem is more basic than that, where a lot of projects are building something that might be really useful and actually a valuable either public good or a valuable startup. But it feels like the ave benefit is really forced nonexistent or it's just like a side note. Yeah, that's probably how I'd answer it. Thank you.
02:27:35.430 - 02:28:46.576, Speaker A: And you've touched on some interesting things, which I'll talk about in a bit, but one point that I wanted to make earlier with our conversation with Robert Leshner Stanny was the fact that accessibility has been an interesting play into how grants are being processed. Previously, like web two you could think about these grants are effectively like venture funds or venture investments to seed new ideas. Now the rate of seeding new ideas is exponentially growing because of all the grants that's out there. And so accessibility and then you have kind of the rate of speed of how we're supporting these newer founders or developers into the ecosystem. And so how are you seeing that landscape and are you talking to people from all over the world? What does your day to day look like from that perspective? Yeah, it's a good question. I think there's a lot of diverse developer and other contributor activity, more so than I would say in the traditional venture type ecosystem. And so one reason for that is just the nature of crypto.
02:28:46.576 - 02:29:46.684, Speaker A: Crypto generally has attracted all sorts of people from sort of the non traditionally credentialed backgrounds and that extends to these grants programs as well. The other element of crypto is like the pseudonymous component, like symphony finance. The Godanabe grant a fully synod and we did some sort of KYC verification, but yeah, that's sort of kept private and it's a fully synodmous team that can apply. That's quite hard in the traditional world. And yeah, the grants are from pretty much all over. I've spoken to a bunch of teams across Europe, vietnam team, there's a bunch of teams in India, teams in the US, canada, so pretty much from all over. Actually not thinking of it'd be cool to do a pie chart of these applicants and the folks with funding too.
02:29:46.684 - 02:30:26.844, Speaker A: But yeah, I'd say it's pretty much from all over. I would say I would like to see maybe more focused, maybe more female applicants. And there's definitely areas maybe we can do a better job just in terms of outreach. Maggie's from Shifai maybe some collaboration there or something. But yeah, in terms of geographic distribution, I think it's know pretty much from all over the place. Maybe the only restriction is you do have to apply for the grant in English. And so there's probably some areas that are restricted that way.
02:30:26.844 - 02:31:18.136, Speaker A: But outside of that we're quite open and accessible to pretty much all types of contributions. And this includes we're focused a lot on developer projects versus more community oriented ones though a bunch of them that are really interesting. I think as we expand our budget pending governance approval, and everything. We would like to focus more on this culture and community bit. But yeah, I think for now the focus has been on these developer projects. But there's of course, many more skills that you can apply, including analysis, community culture. There's stuff you could do in the NFT world that we can fund through Abigrant.
02:31:18.136 - 02:32:10.716, Speaker A: So would like to do more of that as we have more money to fund these projects. And what's also very interesting is I'm starting to see more and more of this within, just like when we're interviewing applicants is the fact that some of them don't even have web3 experience, right and they want to contribute in traditional sense like the web two world. I know we've seen a mobile app that's being proposed to build Ravi. I've seen dashboards risk analysis that are being proposed by Web two founders. And that's very interesting because I know Kartik and ETH global team has done a great job of bringing high quality developers into the Ethereum ecosystem. And now we're starting to see grants playing a part in that, which I thought was an indirect effect. So what are your thoughts about that? Yeah, it's really cool because I think it's actually a really good onboarding for people.
02:32:10.716 - 02:33:06.508, Speaker A: In fact, just like I would recommend someone who has some web two experience to just do a hackathon at eGlobal or Gitkind and make your way through. I would include Ave grants as one of them along with Uni and Compgrnts. I think it's really cool way that you can, if you don't know at all what to do, just look at the RFPs and there's something that you'll be able to fulfill with your skill set. And I actually recommended this to a few friends who wanted to kind of just get their hands dirty in getting into crypto. I actually think that's one of the advantages of a grants program. It seems very simple and straightforward that you have this application you can actually apply and you can do something concrete and you can get funded for it. It's very useful for a large swath of people.
02:33:06.508 - 02:34:14.900, Speaker A: Most people actually aren't sort of that comfortable just getting in front of a dow and just proposing what they want to do and you have to be a certain type of person which quite forthcoming and extroverted and willing to say what just take initiative and even when you don't know who it said, just push something forward. Which I think is a very useful thing too. But I think grants are very useful for a bunch of people who kind of want a more private, I think, application. If you'rejected you're rejected privately, it's not this sort of public facing dow that's rejecting you. There's also a way to just a lot of times the rejection isn't just something they can tweak. Maybe it's not a fit now because of what we're focusing on or something, but the relationship is still there and can continue. And so, yeah, I would say it's definitely one of those things.
02:34:14.900 - 02:35:03.636, Speaker A: I would say that a web two person should consider applying for one of these D Five grants to get in. I would also say once you do one of these, you can then go on to work for the developers now or work for Ave company. It's a really cool, almost career path. I don't know how long this is going to last because we're at the stage where we know every grant that's been funded. We have a lot of inbound, but it's not that overwhelming. Each of these projects get a lot of, I think, attention and are noticed. That's really cool too.
02:35:03.636 - 02:36:16.410, Speaker A: And I would like to expand our sort of reach and ability to do this more where we can actually be more targeted. I was speaking to the blockchain at Berkeley folks earlier today, and there's probably ways we can coordinate with some of the university groups to sort of source developer work and talent. That way there's definitely more we can sort of push from our side. But from the inbound perspective, I definitely think there's a lot of people who fit that category of they're not like solidity devs with a lot of experience. They're iterating and figuring their way out and the grants is like a good, safe space to do that. Yeah, and I want to touch on a very interesting point that's happened many times throughout just like the crypto history, which is like high quality founders will or people that want to become entrepreneurs will find any way to get access to funding so they can seed their idea. And this is for all the developers that are listening today.
02:36:16.410 - 02:37:04.728, Speaker A: I give you a clear example of the One Inch team and how they built the first iteration of One Inch at an ETH Global Hackathon, or Samay and team at Eat San Francisco and Eat India. And so people that are aspiring to be founders seed your idea. Right. You have this great opportunity. There's so many grants that are available to you and there's just a lot you could do with Dave ecosystem and others. And so for potential founders, this is like a great opportunity. And maybe Shreya is maybe highlighting what were some of the success stories been like for those that received grants from us at Abe? Yeah, and I just want to comment on that.
02:37:04.728 - 02:38:24.740, Speaker A: I want to add, in addition to the money, basically without diluting yourself, you're getting some capital to basically build something and learn and iterate and experiment. You also have, I think, a community that you're almost like taking along with your project. And so if you're building something alongside Ave, or you focus on one or two protocols and you're really sort of tailoring or integrating with them, you have their sort of support, I think, which is really useful, especially if you're a project without any visibility. It's cool to have that initial backing and integration to then do other things. And so that's I think a value add that I've seen some projects comment on in terms of the success stories, pretty much a lot of the grants for funding are really useful and important things. And the main thing is just to actually ship it and execute it. And if 100% of projects do that, all of them would be really great and useful in different ways.
02:38:24.740 - 02:39:34.010, Speaker A: And so in terms of the ones that have gelato comes to mind, they ship really quickly and they built this useful solution to prevent users from these costly liquidations. I think they had a lot of background on the solidity and smart contract side, but I think they used another group's hub to build a UI and so they were just like sort of hacky and quick and built something. Symphony Finance just went public, I think on launch their beta on Polygon. And so they're really cool too. They're building basically a way to earn yield with limit orders. I think there's Omni Analytics was another one where they kind of took over the sort of analytics function from some of the stuff that Ave company was doing. And we actually wanted an Ave grants like Dune Analytics Gun that they're helping manage.
02:39:34.010 - 02:41:05.112, Speaker A: They've put together some really cool analytics on Ave, on Polygon, on Dune, and they're also, I think, building a separate dashboard in R because Dune is limiting in some ways. And so the way I describe success is honestly like completing the scope grant that these projects have laid out and a few that there are definitely more that have completed it successfully. But I'd say just doing that is a big enough step because some of these projects are ambitious, but all of them are quite useful to the ecosystem, which is why we're funding it. So there's a wide spectrum of things from sort of analytics to some more ambitious projects, say, like bringing zero collateral loans to Ave or something that is more ambitious and will take more time and has more steps. But yeah, our approach from Ave grant side is if the project has a higher grant size, we just split into multiple milestones, but we don't shy away from funding those, it's just that we need to make sure that the execution can actually be done and there's a clear roadmap to that. And I guess we're almost at time. But one final question is how easy or hard is it to apply for Ravi and receive a grant? Yeah, it's very straightforward to apply.
02:41:05.112 - 02:42:02.330, Speaker A: It should be like 15 minutes to finish the application and there's no trick questions or something. It's quite straightforward, just say what you're working on. One thing to keep in mind is again clearly outlined why you're applying to the Aave grant. Like the benefit to ave the Ave system or users the community in some way. And then we'll get back to you with if it makes sense to schedule an interview with one of the grant debuts. And then after the interview, the interview basically, if there's any feedback to the other grant staff members, we'll ask for feedback. But then besides that, we should get back to you with the decision soon.
02:42:02.330 - 02:43:03.788, Speaker A: The only constraint is we like to batch things together. We'd like to send sort of maybe ten decisions together, so it might just be a little weird to just batch them together. But yeah, besides that, it should be quite straightforward to apply and if for some reason we think the project can be tweaked in some way to make it better suited, or maybe the grant amount is too exoplanet and there's a smaller amount that makes sense, we'll definitely let you know. And even the interview, it's sort of meant to be a conversation to understand just what you're building, some evidence that you'll actually execute on this and then why it's useful to the Avi system. That's pretty much a summary of things and we'll have maybe specific questions on the direction you're taking or something. Cool. Well, shreyas thank you so much.
02:43:03.788 - 02:43:40.612, Speaker A: I'll pass it over to Kartik for the final. Yeah, that was an incredible chat. I feel like Tris already has a whole pitch prepared for this thing. But I'll just ask you the kind of the closing sort of piece of it, how can people get involved, what's the next takeaway? And just everything around it. Yeah, thanks Kazik, this is great. I do want to shout out a bunch of our grants members. Imran has done an amazing job, especially coordinating with events besides reviewing grant applications.
02:43:40.612 - 02:44:31.396, Speaker A: I'm going to miss out on some people, but yeah, Nick from Gauntlet has done a terrific job. Alex, a bunch of others from the grant staff, so we definitely want to shout out to them. We're forming the developers Dao. Carvin page from our team is leading that and so if anyone has an interest in basically being part of a small group that's actually working directly for Aavedao and being involved in core development, it's a really cool opportunity. It's, I think, probably the only opportunity among the large DeFi protocols where you can directly work for the Dao and be part of something quite unique. So would recommend applying there. It should be on the Avigrants.org
02:44:31.396 - 02:45:18.052, Speaker A: website. I'd say in terms of applying for a grant, we just accept things rolling and so if you have anything that you think could improve the Avi ecosystem, Avi users, the community, feel free to apply. The application is short, should be like 15 minutes, and if you have any questions, just reach out to me or DM, the Avi grants Twitter account or something. But yeah, I think that should cover it. I also want to thank, I guess, the projects that have applied and built things. It definitely is quite inspiring and energizing. The RV community is really there's just a lot of experimentation and openness, I think, of the culture.
02:45:18.052 - 02:46:19.780, Speaker A: So definitely want to continue to support those projects and new ones as well. And we'll try to build our process out such that folks who have done a good job in these first rounds of grants get some way that they can be involved in the ecosystem and continue to have their sort of reputation carried within. The people can just reach out on Avi Grant's, Twitter or DM me at Hello Shreyas if they have anything. Amazing. I just want to make sure that I get to thank you because you give a shout out to everybody, but you're also a big part of that whole process and ecosystem. So thanks for kind of helping out with everything and thanks for an amazing set of talks today and talking about all the insights from Structuring, the Ave grants and everything that's next. Awesome.
02:46:19.780 - 02:46:36.844, Speaker A: Thank you. Really had a great time. Thanks everyone. Amazing. Well, thanks everybody for watching in. And I want to give also a really big special shout out to Bill Zero X for just really being super amazing on the chat here. Just giving all the additional context from all the things that we're talking about on chat.
02:46:36.844 - 02:47:05.440, Speaker A: So we'll keep doing that. And also, everybody sign up for the Avenues substac. So with that, I want to close this off today and we'll all see you on Discord with the rest of the hackathon. And for those of you who are interested in governance and dows, we'll see you tomorrow again at 12:00 p.m.. Eastern on Equivalent TV for the Governance and Dow Summit. So happy, happy hacking everybody and enjoy some lo fi beats in the meantime, take care. Bye.
