00:00:00.170 - 00:00:17.374, Speaker A: So to me, having a really good Unisop crosschain experience is I think, like maybe the most important unlock. And luckily I think Unisop x crosschain is a fantastic design that is going to really unlock a lot in terms of just in general, interoperability and moving assets between chains. You could imagine having the main unisoft chain not being on Ethereum. That requires, again, that people still be able to use it as if it is.
00:00:17.412 - 00:00:57.738, Speaker B: Alright everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment, but before we do, I want to share something that blockwork has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, Blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto, Goldman, JPMorgan, Zero 72, all in one room. So you can know what the big money is doing. So click the link at the bottom of this episode, it'll take you right over to the homepage and use Bell 20 for 20% off. And I will see you in sunny London town in March. Hey everyone. This episode is brought to you by Maverick Protocol, a suite of liquidity tools built around an innovative Amm maverick helps token projects, dow treasuries, lps, or basically anyone in DFI shape their liquidity with efficiency and flexibility.
00:00:57.738 - 00:01:26.198, Speaker B: How, you might ask? Stick around and you're going to be hearing about them more later. Now, on with the show. All right, everyone, welcome back to another bittersweet episode of Bell Curve because I'm joined by my co host of this season, Dan Robinson. And this is the final one. This is the wrap up. So it's sweet because it was a great season, but it's bitter because is this is unfortunately the end, but I'm looking forward to.
00:01:26.204 - 00:01:31.750, Speaker A: It's been a hell of a ride. Hopefully in a future season you can bring me back as a guest to talk about something other than Dex's and Mav.
00:01:32.650 - 00:02:22.762, Speaker B: Absolutely. We can do a whole dutch auction episode just special for you. I'm sure that'll feature in somewhere. But guys, yeah, this has been a really fun season with Dan. If you're just tuning in for the first one, I'd highly recommend you go back and listen to the interview episodes of this season. Dan and I dove really deep on a whole bunch of different topics related to Dexs, and this is going to be kind of the wrap up where we sort of do a TLDR and dive a little bit deeper into some of the highlights of the season. And Dan, it sort of feels appropriate to start off with the first topic that we spent the first couple episodes were dedicated to this, but it kept cropping up in subsequent episodes, which is this idea of minimizing mev leakage, specifically with a focus on mitigating lever, which is the sort of loss that lps take by not having constant access to sort of pricing data.
00:02:22.762 - 00:02:41.630, Speaker B: So when you look out into the future and you look at sort of promising solutions to lever or recapture a value at the application layer around Dexes, what were either some of your takeaways for the season, or things that you're really kind of excited about, promising areas of research, projects, et cetera?
00:02:41.970 - 00:04:12.478, Speaker A: Yeah, so first, I think we kicked off the season by talking a lot about this, but I think about why are we so focused on Mev when we talk about Dexes. I think part of the reason is that if you come to Dexes entirely as like a market design problem, and you treat it as using the same tools and concepts that people use in traditional finance, and you see it as largely a zero sum game between market sophisticated market makers and traders, I think there are very important insights to be taken from that. But it's worth thinking about that in traditional finance, the spreads we're talking about are so much smaller and so much more efficient. The experience is so much better than it is in Dexes that actually they're running up against these theoretical limits that we're not even close to. And so I think it's important to think about, when we're talking about Dex research, where is this value leaking out? What are the improvements that could actually make it better for all the wheel participants in the system before we start to actually hit these theoretical limits, and have to think about the same kind of problems that traditional finance systems do in at least the ways that they think about them. And I think Mev is one of the biggest, where if value is going functionally to the block proposer, rather than to any traders, to anyone who's doing any trading participating in the system, that's just generally, it's going to be a net negative for all, for liquidity, for trader experience, for everyone in the system. And I think that's why we see that as the biggest pot of value to take from before we have to worry about how we split it all between participants within the system.
00:04:12.478 - 00:04:34.978, Speaker A: And so I think that framing of there being this incredible pot of value to be reclaimed by Dex before we even have to hit some of the harder trade offs. With that being Mev, I think, is why so many Dex researchers are mev researchers, and why particularly loss versus rebalancing, which is one of the most tangible forms of that is, I think, a big topic right now.
00:04:35.144 - 00:05:15.970, Speaker B: Yeah, I tend to agree. One question that I had for you, and it's funny, we did this, it was the second episode of the season, we did it with Eugene and Doug, and we talked about amms versus central limit order books. And when we did the episode, this was sort of pre, this renaissance, this mini renaissance that Solana is having right now. And I think that the two interesting. Actually, there are sort of three interesting aspects when you look at that, which is one, the central limit order book design, which doesn't really make sense on Ethereum, does make sense on either your own specific app chain, maybe in cosmos, or on Solana. I think there was a very interesting discussion. We could have even dived a little bit deeper about the importance of block times, especially on something like lever Mev in general.
00:05:15.970 - 00:05:51.526, Speaker B: I feel like that's sort of rearing its head back again. But I'd be curious if you're looking on some of the Dex designs that are happening over in Solana, and maybe if we could sort of rediscus this idea of block times and the importance that it has on Mev and lever, because I actually saw Stefan of fame. He posted one of his predictions for the new year was actually doubling or tripling the Ethereum block size. And I've seen a lot of very different takes on block time. Yeah. And I've seen a lot of very different takes on. Very different takes on.
00:05:51.526 - 00:05:58.238, Speaker B: That's bad for mev. It's good for mev. You just sort of revisit this idea of the impact that block times have.
00:05:58.324 - 00:06:43.040, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think two different discussions get a bit bundled together here in a way that can lead to some confusion. And even, I think, has confused me in the past. And one is, I think there's this real line of research in traditional finance. We talked a lot about this season, about the Eric Brutish paper on frequent batch auctions as a solution, as a market design. And I think that's one. When you get to these very fast, incredibly fast blocks and these latency games, you often can have a lot of waste, a lot of unfairness, a lot of potential centralization in your market structure as a result of those games happening.
00:06:43.040 - 00:08:11.554, Speaker A: And I think once you get down to these fundamental latency limits, once you're below, I don't want to name maybe like half a second, maybe 1 second, maybe, or maybe less, then definitely, I think you start to see real trade offs under when you're, when you're hitting that, I do think when we're talking about like twelve second versus 24 2nd block times, I think these other factors start to dominate. It's a worry that I have is that these lessons that I think are correct about it's not always good to do first come, first served. And in fact, things break down at a certain level with first come, first served. If you do it at two latencies, doesn't necessarily mean that really long block times is necessarily the solution or that it makes it any better. And yeah, I think there's this school of thought, and mostly it's not coming from Dex designers. Mostly this is coming from people who are concerned, and I think often rightly, about the centralization of the base layer and about the Ethereum consensus in particular, that are pushing for, okay, we may want longer block times, but I think it does come with a real trade off for dexes that are trying to be built natively. On top of that, I think it will lead ultimately to people not relying on blocks, on block producers for ordering of transactions and dexes, which I think might be okay.
00:08:11.554 - 00:09:03.634, Speaker A: I think that probably is where we're going, and I think it might be healthier for everyone. Just one funny irony that I've noticed recently is I think the biggest problem facing app developers and layer two developers right now is that a lot of their mev is leaking to the base layer. And the biggest problem facing the base layer right now is that a lot of application MEV is leaking to the base layer and it's destabilizing their consensus. You see these things with timing games, for example, this is all a consequence of there being too many dexes, too many applications that are relying on the base layer for these things that produce a lot of mev, and that cause these timing games, that could destabilize just the stability of the consensus. And so there's actually an alignment here, a really nice alignment, where l two developers like, it's a shame that we're giving up so much mev to the l one. And the l one developers are like, we don't want the meV. We actually want you to keep the MEV because it's actually hurting us to be giving it to our proposals.
00:09:03.634 - 00:09:33.570, Speaker A: It's making our blockchain less stable. And so I think in the future, we're just going to see more of that MEv be captured at higher layers. And we talked to, to Ludwig about some of the solutions for this. But I think l two s are another, are another of course, just more general solution. And I think these solutions where we just say, all right, let's just not put mev on the l one, means that we might be able to have long block times on the l one. And I think that might be fine if again, you've got transactions being sequenced in some way by other parties.
00:09:33.990 - 00:09:41.046, Speaker B: Yeah, that is a really neat alignment. And for folks who are maybe less familiar, can you just sort of underline what are timing games when we talk about this?
00:09:41.068 - 00:10:17.594, Speaker A: Yeah, this is a phenomenon we've started to see in practice more recently. And so this is in Ethereum. I'm not an expert at this layer, so I may explain. Maybe this is simplified in a toy version of it. You're supposed to send your block basically at the beginning of this four second period. You have this four second period to send your block. And what people have realized is, you know, I can actually propose this if I'm a block proposer, I can get a few extra seconds of mev, maybe almost like 4 seconds extra of mev from this block by sending my block a little later.
00:10:17.594 - 00:10:53.786, Speaker A: Because attesters, the people who are going to sign off on this block are still going to sign it if they receive it at the end of this period. And that period is basically meant to support regular latency. But I can make a 16 2nd block rather than a twelve second block if I'm able to wait almost to the end of this period. But then of course, if the person before you is also doing this, they've actually taken 4 seconds off the beginning. So you end up with 12 seconds of mev anyway. You've just shifted it a lot later and put the network in a much less stable position. And this is because for the proposer, what you want is to have as much mev as possible in your block and not leave any of it for the next block.
00:10:53.786 - 00:11:22.230, Speaker A: So you're going to push that time to the limit. And I think this runs the risk of destabilizing Ethereum's consensus because it just means you're relying more on this very tight latency bound, basically that proposers are calculating for when they send their block. Without really necessarily improving anything in terms of user latency, you're just sort of shifting everything by 4 seconds. And this is because it's just so valuable to have a few seconds of block time when there's this big latency arb available on the block.
00:11:22.730 - 00:12:11.798, Speaker B: Yeah, it also does open up a potential vector of centralization, I'd say maybe within something like staking pools like lido sort of, or p to p, I guess whichever entity ultimately you kind of saw a bunch of their validators shift basically further in time. Exactly this. So I think there are implications that is that related. Dan, I'm also not super familiar with this, but there was a problem, I don't know, a couple of months back, I can't really remember where Ethereum was having trouble finalizing blocks for a little bit. And that has sort of led to this proposal to increase the max limit for the amount of stake. Just because there are so many different nodes out there that need to provide attestations, there's some sort of physical limit, right, for how far you can send information around the world to however many different validators. So that is interesting.
00:12:11.798 - 00:12:15.986, Speaker B: I don't know if those things are related, but I see the argument for destabilization.
00:12:16.178 - 00:12:50.814, Speaker A: There are a lot of reasons why I think Ethereum consensus researchers would be the first to tell you this, why a lot of the things in it are not optimal right now. I think one of the things is you have this maximum staking amount, 32, where you. So if you want to run a validator with more than 32 eth, you have to just run a bunch of different validators. But that's kind of just forcing you to basically civil attack this system. It's not really a civil attack because they know that people will do this and that's part of the system, but it means it's kind of pointless that they do it this way. And it's not really done for like it's not supposed to be actually more. They don't think it's causing more decentralization.
00:12:50.814 - 00:13:44.820, Speaker A: It's more just like it's sort of a simpler algorithm in some senses, if you have that. But yeah, it causes all these issues because you have to just have communication potentially between hundreds of thousands of different public keys, if not individual validators, in order to do this. So yeah, I think there's improvements to the kit as protocol that could possibly help with that. But I do think the more controversial change might be to raise that minimum and to say you need more than 32 weeks to stake, because ultimately that imposes some limits as well. And I think that's controversial because a lot of people want to maintain the possibility of solo staking of somebody being able to stake on Ethereum. And I don't know if you've done a season on Ethereum consensus or consensus or the base layer proof of stake, I think that would be a great thing to dive in on. I'm not the person to really the expert to talk about this, but I think you're starting to see a lot of really interesting things happen around that.
00:13:45.270 - 00:14:31.614, Speaker B: I'll tell you this one thing that I've been thinking a lot more about, because there's just not an enormous amount of info about it, is fee markets. There's a really interesting history of fee markets actually going from bitcoin to I was a huge nerd over Thanksgiving. I've talked about this, but I went back and listened to a bunch of old epicenter podcasts that were happening during the block size wars. Now, that's not necessarily just the fee market of bitcoin, but it was brought up quite a bit. And if you go back and actually listen to some of the old, like Tim Roughgarden episodes during EIP one, Tim is like, in my opinion, the way he describes fees and his level of knowledge is probably deeper than anyone else that I've come into contact with. But there's surprisingly little out there on fee markets for such a critical part of how all of these different l ones especially work. And it's actually something that feels very relevant.
00:14:31.614 - 00:14:53.260, Speaker B: Like we hosted a Salana research hangout this week in our office, and the only thing anyone wanted to talk about was fee markets because it's kind of broken as it exists on Salana today. But there's the ability to do something like multidimensional fee markets, where you're pricing out different resources in a more granular way, and there's an opportunity for a step function improvement as well.
00:14:55.070 - 00:15:35.202, Speaker A: I think maybe underappreciated part of it. I tend to be a big EIP 50 59 fan, and that's part because I was in the Uniswap discord a lot in 2020 when I didn't have anything else to do. And back then it was just really common for transactions. The most common support question would be people have transactions that have been in the mempool for like ten minutes and they want, I need to figure out how to up their fee manually. And eb, the design just completely changed that whole dynamic. It may have changed by ultimately, I think, increasing average fees that people were paying. So it's not necessarily entirely good, but I think just from a user experience perspective, I think it was fantastic.
00:15:35.202 - 00:15:58.186, Speaker A: And then I think, of course, at the time, certainly more value going to ethereum rather than going to miners was, I think, considered positive. Although again, that changes a bit in proof of stake, where all that value sort of functionally is going to stakers anyway. But ep 59 is getting a lot more controversial. Recently, some people have been, we actually roll it back. Yeah, you talked to Max Resnick about, I don't know if I'm not going to put those words about that we should roll back necessarily.
00:15:58.298 - 00:16:02.670, Speaker B: But what's the reason for that, just out of curiosity?
00:16:03.810 - 00:17:02.146, Speaker A: Some of the reasons I think maybe press, which has talked about this as well, is it may not be actually incentive compatible if proposers were to, certainly if they were to collude to basically push down the base fee, it's possible to actually have proposers capture more value. And so that's not necessarily damning in itself, but there are maybe alternative mechanisms that would be more resistant to that. Maybe not. Again, I haven't come to a conclusion on it yet, but I've been surprised to see more people being like, oh, I don't know if maybe we need a different fee market entirely on l one and then on l two. I think a lot of applications have adopt, a lot of l two s, have adopted 1559, and I think it mostly actually seems to work fairly well. But you may want to change that given l two s that work very differently. So there may be ways to, for example, you could have, when you have PBS versus PGA as one spectrum, right.
00:17:02.146 - 00:17:14.120, Speaker A: And most lt is using PGA right now and 1559 versus other fee mechanisms as another metric. I think there's a lot of different combinations that people would think about and they might be different on l two s versus l ones.
00:17:14.490 - 00:17:32.510, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm going to link this, actually, James, first of all, he has one of the best, I think, most underappreciated blogs in crypto. But you're reminding me of this, that the title of the blog post is, has anyone checked in on 1559 recently? And keep in mind, when 1559 was described or was designed.
00:17:34.210 - 00:17:35.038, Speaker A: This was before.
00:17:35.124 - 00:18:10.758, Speaker B: Anything like proposer builder separation and separating. The role of what has historically been the miner and is now the validator, but is now really the validator and builders, it changes the incentives. And there actually is, there was a sort of a baked in incentive at one point for the ultimate builders of the block to not push the target down. There's a target and a limit in 1559, but now that incentive is basically gone because you've cleaved these two roles in two. So it is very interesting, very nerdy cool stuff. The other thing I'll say about 1559, and we want to talk about Dexes, so we can make this be the last note. But it was relevant to Dexes as well.
00:18:10.758 - 00:18:43.314, Speaker B: We touched about it on it this season. But the other thing that's interesting about it is the reason for the burn originally was to make it incentive compatible with miners, right? The reason that you burn the base fee is so that there can't be some off chain sort of solution in between miners and whoever's paying the fee. Like, hey, all right, it's $90 worth of gas, but I don't want to pay $90. I'll pay 60, and then you just rebate me 30 off chain. If you burn the fee, then you eliminate that possibility. But that kind of morphed over time into ethereum tokenomics and buyback. And the narrative of it has changed over time.
00:18:43.314 - 00:19:28.786, Speaker B: And if you go back to the early days of the discussion, it was very much so about this ux improvement that you were just alluding to there, Dan. Like, it's much better user experience, but it's kind of changed over time into know celebrating the berm and ultrasound money and all that stuff. And not to say that any of that's wrong, but it's a little bit of a rewrite. So one thing I'd love to get your take on, just before we move into recapturing, I want to talk about, actually, specifically about fbas and the episode that we did with Ludwig and Anna. But the last thing about Solanas, one thing I've noticed is kind of this narrative is so, first of all, Solana Dex fees are creeping up to eth decks fees recently. Yeah. Here I'll find the actual statistics for you.
00:19:28.786 - 00:20:05.130, Speaker B: But if you look at TVL, it's like, much, much lower. And so there's this kind of idea of capital efficiency. Obviously, central limit order books are different from amms, but I'd be curious, from your perspective as a Dex designer who spent a lot of time thinking about this, is TVL an overly simplistic sort of metric? For instance, is it better on Univ two to have more? It'll show more tvL. But on V three, if people have the flexibility to kind of provide liquidity at different ticks, et cetera, how do you think about this kind of emerging sort of additional, maybe nuance of capital efficiency in the world of dexes?
00:20:05.290 - 00:20:10.414, Speaker A: Yeah, sorry, when you said salana fees are higher than it was.
00:20:10.452 - 00:20:13.150, Speaker B: Volumes. Salana Dex volumes.
00:20:13.230 - 00:21:00.240, Speaker A: Yeah, got it. Certainly, right. I think capital efficiency, obviously, the move from V two to V three was almost entirely driven by feeling like, actually, TvL is the wrong metric, trying to get as much unused capital as the wrong metric. And in fact, that liquidity at the margin is a much more important metric in general. And that volume as well, I think is ultimately more of an important goal to search for, to optimize. So I think it's great that we're finding new ways to provide liquidity with lower tbL. And I think if you look at the move also like Unisoft X potentially as a system has no TBL, but if it provides better execution for users, then that's a really important thing to have.
00:21:00.240 - 00:21:48.160, Speaker A: I think TVL as a metric, it matters when you're comparing like to like things, but I think comparing, certainly some people try to compare, like lending protocols to dexes to like. It's all extremely apples to oranges when talking about this. I think volume is not necessarily the right metric though, as well. I think volume obviously can be gamed, but even when it's not being gamed, it isn't necessarily telling you the thing you want. I think, yeah, for different things you might want different metrics, but I've started to try to think about things more in terms of order quality and order execution and price improvement, as maybe the thing, if you want to just hyper optimize one thing, then just giving best execution to better prices to users is really actually the thing you want, not necessarily getting as much volume as possible.
00:21:48.690 - 00:22:38.078, Speaker B: Okay, I think that's good. That actually segues really nicely into frequent batch. You know, I'd be curious. This actually ended up coming up as well in our interview with Antonio, where he discussed implementing an FBA within that's part of their new, you know, we talked a little bit about, from the perspective of the right, why lever is so important, because ultimately these lps need to be profitable. But on the other hand, there is the question of best execution, and how do you define best execution? And if so, what's their correct construction for an exchange to give users best execution? So I guess just to you, I know you have a relatively straightforward definition of what best execution is, but if you could define best execution and maybe touch on how suited is an FBA to doing that, or alternative designs that you're sort of interested in.
00:22:38.244 - 00:23:30.302, Speaker A: Yeah, so maybe I shouldn't have said best execution, because I think that's a term, term that can often be talking about if you've got the best possible execution available in the world, which is what stuff like regnms is trying to enforce. I'm talking here about price improvement. I think ultimately, if you have with Dexes, the end user for a Dex, I think that we're trying to optimize for is swappers is somebody showing up and wants to get from one asset into another. And what we want is, in the long term, an equilibrium for them to be able to trade at the best possible price. And I think that requires, in the moment, possibly giving them the best execution available anywhere. But it also requires you'll get a better price trading on this system than you will trading anywhere else. That might be part of it, or at least that we try to optimize for that price.
00:23:30.302 - 00:24:13.446, Speaker A: But the other thing it requires is that all these other participants actually engage in the system. Liquidity providers provide liquidity to the system, there to be a stable equilibrium where swappers get this. This is something that a lot of people have pointed out, including as a critique of some of my ideas, which I think are, you know, I think they have a point, which is you want to make sure that the whole. That all parties in the system are actually incentivized and are, and are getting some proper incentives to be. To participate, which might mean in an individual moment, somebody, you know, a swapper might be like, just, they might have to trust to the system. And it's possible the system gives them the worst price than they would get somewhere else. But in general, they know that on average, they will get a better price from this system.
00:24:13.446 - 00:24:29.650, Speaker A: And that can happen when you want to go trade on a batch auction. Sometimes you're taking the risk that maybe you will get a worse price than you might be able to get if you were trading somewhere else. But ultimately, on average, because, you know, that's what's going to get all the participants to participate in the system and create deeper.
00:24:31.990 - 00:25:16.530, Speaker B: You know, I'd like to return a little bit to that and go a little bit more in depth with that interview that we did with Ludwig and maybe transition this a little bit to how more mechanically some of the MEV is recaptured at the application layer. We didn't go quite as deep into the construction of something like Angstrom as would have been fun, I think, on that episode. And, yeah, I'd be curious, actually, if you could just maybe, first of all, if you could maybe just remind listeners what is the basic construction of angstrom and sort of all the different actors in Ludwig's design. And then maybe we can get into the weeds of what are some of the different flavors, especially on hooks or other dexes or whatever, of recapturing that mev at the application layer.
00:25:16.950 - 00:26:01.294, Speaker A: The general category of Amstrum solution is what I call an x post auction mev auction for lps. And what that means is that after volatility is realized. So during the process that a block is being constructed, an ethereum block is being built. During that process. At some point, ideally as late as possible, there is an auction held where somebody bids and pays to be able to be the first trader in the block. And the right to trade against liquidity providers, passive liquidity providers on that pool, on a particular dex pool. And with Angstrom, they're building it as a hook on uniswap before.
00:26:01.294 - 00:26:35.814, Speaker A: And so it's a before pool where there's a hook that just enforces that only the winner of this auction can trade on this pool initially. So that's at least one part, and that's the part we talked most about it. There's also a batch auction component to it, but maybe just talking first about the lever recapture component, top of block auction. So the obvious question there is who is holding this auction? So the auction happens during this block. So we know it can't be done entirely on chain, because the proposer for that block controls whatever goes on chain. And so in that case they'll just censor everyone else's bit. So they would end up winning this auction.
00:26:35.814 - 00:27:18.866, Speaker A: So we're back to where we started with the proposer captures all the lever and that ends up being Mev. So it has to be held somewhere else other than just like through bids on chain. And their solution is to effectively have a separate consensus process among validators, among a different set of validators who are holding this auction. And they do it in a way that is more censorship resistant. And I think the details of that auction aren't releasing much, but one that is, is the one we talked about with Dydx. DyDx put out a post about how to do this in the context of their batch auctions. And that's one where you have a consensus process that doesn't just have a monopolistic proposal where the proposer is the only determinant of what goes in the block.
00:27:18.866 - 00:28:07.362, Speaker A: You also have in general, something like tendermint, BfT consensus. You have a lot of other validators who are in normal tendermint are just voting on the block. They're just saying, here's what's, I say yes or no to what the proposer proposed, but with what DyDx has designed, in addition to voting and saying yes, they can also contribute additional information. They can add transactions. Generally, DyDX gets included in the next block rather than in the current block. But it's the same basic principle where you have this collaborative process, where you need more than a third of you end up getting input basically from two thirds of validators into every block. And that makes this individual consensus process more censorship resistant.
00:28:07.362 - 00:28:29.470, Speaker A: So to sum that up, there's a separate consensus process than Ethereum. But in order to avoid this problem, we have in Ethereum, where the block proposer basically can just censor all other things. You can run an auction just on chain. There you have a consensus process that works a little differently where you have input from other validators. And there's an assumption that at least that some percentage of those validators are honest and non censoring.
00:28:30.290 - 00:29:05.900, Speaker B: Let me ask you this just at a high level. This actually sounds a little bit like, it almost sounds like similar to the discussion on roll ups where, okay, we've got one centralized sequencer, but ultimately we'll have decentralized sequencers or shared sequencers, but then we have to do some form of symbol resistance and leader rotation. And then, oh, we're kind of running like a separate set of consensus on top of our Ethereum consensus. Does that feel, just as a mechanism designer, does that feel inefficient to you? Is there a reason why, you know what I mean? Is it inefficient or is it not? And for whatever reason, that actually makes a ton of sense. But you know what I mean?
00:29:06.590 - 00:30:08.990, Speaker A: I think there is an efficiency to it, and it's what comes from modularity, and it's a big meme recently. But I think there really is a lot of advantage of saying we're going to have one layer of consensus that just does that does one thing reaches like some extremely final, relatively slow consensus, for example, and very like just everyone in the world actually agrees on this. That's maybe like ethereum, l one consensus, and then at higher layers we could say, all right, we're going to have some consensus that maybe it is trusted for less. Maybe we're actually not as worried about reverts on it, because if you're able to violate the assumptions, you're not able to steal everybody's money, but you are able to extract a little value. So we can have different security assumptions about it. Maybe it's just like it could be detected if you misbehave, and then we'll just move to something else, right? It's not as all or nothing security. And so then we can actually get better properties out of it, and different systems might use different l two s, different sequencer solutions.
00:30:08.990 - 00:30:46.422, Speaker A: And I think there's a lot of efficiency gains there potentially. There's also gains just in terms of what kind of innovation you can have, the pace at which things can be discovered and can change. And I think it's with Ethereum, l one consensus, they rightly are just very careful about making any changes, but trying to push anything too aggressive, because if you break something, you break it for everybody and then it's broken. Whereas I think with l two s, you can be a lot more aggressive, especially if, again, you're enforcing these security properties so that you can't. Being too aggressive doesn't mean that everybody loses their money. It just means maybe your application doesn't work for what you designed it for. And I think we can have, it's nice to be able to have a lot more innovation at that layer.
00:30:46.422 - 00:31:23.430, Speaker A: And I think the key thing here is this has always been part of the Ethereum thesis, is that you have Ethereum as layer one, and then you get to have a lot more experimentation on the application layer. That's why Ethereum, whenever we got us all excited about Ethereum in the first place, is instead of if you had a cool idea for an application, you don't have to build your own blockchain and do all that stuff. You could just build it as an application on Ethereum. That's much simpler. I think what we've realized is you also may need to interpose a layer in between. You may need to have a separate consensus layer, a sequencer layer, and that could be an l two. It could be an application specific sequencer like Angstrom has designed.
00:31:23.430 - 00:31:32.582, Speaker A: It could be something else. But really it said, all right, this consensus that we're getting at the l one layer may not be enough, so we need to add another.
00:31:32.716 - 00:31:58.254, Speaker B: Interesting. All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment. But before we do, I want to share something that blockproof has been cooking up for these last couple of months. I'm march of this coming year in London, Blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto. We are gathering 1200 of the world's largest asset managers. So think tradfi, macro funds, crypto native funds, big allocators and financial institutions. So banks, payment processors, et cetera, all in one spot.
00:31:58.254 - 00:32:18.802, Speaker B: It's very rare to get the likes of Goldman, JPMorgan, zero, 72, whatever, all in one room. So you can know what the big money is doing. We're diving into the themes that they care about. So we're talking about the intersection of macro and crypto, where we are in the cycle, real world assets. So everything from stablecoins to onchain treasuries to tokenized assets. It's going to be a blast. But the other reason you really want to go is London, baby.
00:32:18.802 - 00:32:40.110, Speaker B: Center of the world at one point. You got pub culture, you got fish and chips, great beer, it's going to be a blast. So because you're such great listeners to Bell Curve, there's a code, Bell 20, that's going to get you 20% off. So click the link at the bottom of this episode, it'll take you right over to the homepage. You'll see all of our speakers and use Bell 20 for 20% off. Ticket prices are going up soon. Make sure you go use that code.
00:32:40.110 - 00:32:42.906, Speaker B: I will see you in sunny London town in March.
00:32:43.098 - 00:32:43.358, Speaker A: 1.
00:32:43.364 - 00:33:09.766, Speaker B: Of the other questions that I had for you around, speaking of Antonio was very interesting. We got through this entire season basically approaching things from the perspective of there being a general sort of l one that produces generalized block space like Ethereum. And then we're building apps, and then there's some sort of either competition or effort to redistribute value away from l one proposers back to apps and various different designs for what the best way.
00:33:09.788 - 00:33:10.530, Speaker A: To do that is.
00:33:10.620 - 00:34:00.802, Speaker B: And then we kind of ended on Antonio being this is a very different sort of paradigm where actually this is the cosmos, especially full stack app chain thesis, where your validators run both application and consensus layer code, and it's very much one and the same. And he had a very different kind of perspective on MeV because it's sort of a merged set of stakeholders, so to speak. Although he did include Dydx, the protocol, as an additional stakeholder. So we still ended up with basically the same amount. But I'd be curious, any takeaways that you had from the Antonio episode, or just for listeners who are trying to maybe merge this concept of preventing Mev leakage that we've been talking about again this entire season within the context of something like an app mean, how should people be thinking about that differently within the construct of an app chain?
00:34:00.946 - 00:34:54.038, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a great point. And one thing that DyDx got, and we touched on it a little, but maybe should emphasize more, is that just by moving to their own napchain, where DyDX tokens need to be staked with validators in order for those validators to have this power to extract mev. Just by doing that, do align the whole system somewhat more in that you'd expect in equilibrium, basically the mev that can be extracted if it is extracted is going to go to actually to just UIDX stakers. It's not going to go to those individual validators because they'll be competing validators, will be competing in whichever one you'd expect. If you're able to extract more mev from blocks, you'll have to end up kicking back more and maybe potentially paying people to delegate to you. Right. So you could end up with equilibrium where maximum MEv is extracted, but ultimately that all goes to ByDX holders.
00:34:54.038 - 00:35:29.446, Speaker A: That's analogous to situation we have where arbitrators are very competitive, but they're not actually capturing the profits from Ethereum. That's generally going to proposers, and the proposers in general aren't able. It's not like running a really good proposer means you get to get a lot more profit, because ultimately you're competing to get stake delegated to you in order to be able to validate more. So ultimately that tends to go toward Ethereum holders. And so with DydX, it's going to DyDX token holders rather than to some other platform. So in some sense leakage is reduced. So I think that as a first order effect is significant, and I think we don't want to discount that.
00:35:29.446 - 00:36:19.522, Speaker A: That said, there's these second order effects, which include the experience for users as a first order, as a second order here, experience for users is degraded. So swapper now has to think about, okay, my trade might get maximally value extracted and it's not great consolation for them, but it is going to the UIDX stakers. That's not necessarily great consolation for them. And I think there's also third order effects here. We're like, okay, that means they have to think about what kind of, that might discourage them from placing retail swappers from thropping on it. And so then now anyone who's providing liquidity on the system has to think about this, and you basically end up with just a collapse of this whole thing and everybody is worse off and there's less fees going to anybody. I think this is the same kind of thing we worry about with Mev.
00:36:19.522 - 00:37:04.260, Speaker A: With Mev, the worry for Ethereum really is not that holders will get too rich and too much of the money is going to come to them. It's that actually if you have a system where eth holders are extracting maximum value, that ultimately that's going to kill the golden goose that is providing all this value. And this is the even bigger non zero sum game that we also kicked off the season talking about is ultimately be like, it's possible that Ethereum holders, by extracting less value, could actually end up being more value because you decrease this dead weight loss, these costs to swapping. And so as a result, you get just like 100 times more volume or something. And as a result, people, a lot more volume happens and you make more money. And I think that's what we're really ultimately hoping for. And that's what I think DyDX is really focused on this.
00:37:04.260 - 00:37:32.780, Speaker A: Despite the fact that Dydx token holders, you'd expect to be the beneficiary of this, it's still very important for them to do this so that they don't degrade user experiences, so they don't end up collapsing the whole system. I think maximum value extractions can be short term, make a lot of sense, and in this game theory, it's possible that it just only makes sense. You are forced to maximally extract value. But I think everybody knows that potentially you end up with a tragedy of the commons there, where long term the system just doesn't work for.
00:37:34.530 - 00:38:03.878, Speaker B: So, so much to unpack there. But one of the reasons the interview that we did with Antonio is one of my favorite of the season is he's not afraid to just say his opinions. He comes out and he was like, hey, we should be prioritizing swappers over everyone, which probably is the right move. You can't just ignore everyone else, but that's probably the right thing to do. The other thing just, it sounds very good from a narrative standpoint. Oh, your stakers are part of the ecosystem, yada yada. But I think when you really examine that, it kind of breaks down a little bit.
00:38:03.878 - 00:38:46.370, Speaker B: It's like, well, who are your stakers? Usually in cosmos, it's like the same set of professional operators that are doing most of the validation. And actually with DyDX specifically, they have a really interesting validator set where there's a lot of like, it's actually very atypical of some of the other cosmos chains. There are some, it's kind of an interesting makeup. And then the other thing is, we did a season, it was the second season we did of the show on governance, but this kind of meme of token holders and users being the same thing is really a meme. It's not the same. It's like you have a separate set of investors and then you've got users of the product and you probably have to prioritize the users of the product. But some of the stuff that I think Antonio is doing with taking advantage of AbCI plus plus vote extensions, although there's still a lot of wood to chop.
00:38:46.370 - 00:39:27.198, Speaker B: Know there's a lot of work that's left to do, and we're not sure how performant you can be. I think it's extremely interesting, very holistic approach to Mev, and I know you were involved in the design of that as well, so pretty cool stuff. All right, last question that I had for you on that was just perps. We talked a little bit with Antonio about perps, and frankly, we could have gone down the rabbit hole of doing options and different sort of construction. There are some very interesting solid lay forks up on optimism right now, and we could have gone out a little bit further into the risk spectrum of new dexes, but I'm glad we talked just a little bit on perps as well. What are your thoughts there? Relative market share kind of moving out from here relative to spot?
00:39:27.374 - 00:40:29.474, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm not sure, certainly in the short term, I think in the long term, my personal goal with respect to Dex volumes is to get Dex is to basically replace the centralized exchange ecosystem with a decentralized exchange ecosystem and have the vast, any volume that currently is happening in centralized exchange crypto, in my view, should be happening in decentralized crypto. There's decisive centralized exchanges. There's no reason it shouldn't be. And so in some sense, I guess what you'd expect would be maybe then we'll end up with a somewhat similar market structure in decentralized exchanges, and there in centralized exchange crypto, prep volume par exceeds spot trading volume. And so possibly you'll end up actually with sort of something similar, where eventually prep decks volume exceeds centralized exchange, sorry, exceeds spot decks volume. I'm not sure that will happen. And one of the reasons is it seems like, to me like a no brainer for spot volume to happen on decentralized exchanges.
00:40:29.474 - 00:41:26.710, Speaker A: It's just better if we were to reduce the costs on these inefficiencies or whatever, this is a natively crypto asset, we should just rate it like a natively crypto asset. Once you start getting to derivatives, especially derivatives, say, on things that aren't on that same chain, you have some advantages, I think, in terms of like, you could have more decentralized oracles if you have derivative of a token that is also available in spot form in the same place. But once you get to other things, it starts to be a little bit less obvious that there's a huge advantage of doing it decentralized relative to centralized. You still have, in some sense, it's still noncustodial, but, yeah, so I'm less sure. And then there's also a lot of, you know, there's a lot of risk that comes from perps and a lot more sort of finicky governance. And maybe it's possible, it's just harder to get perp dexes to be quite as secure or safe as centralized exchange ones. That said, like, centralized ones are not very safe.
00:41:26.710 - 00:41:54.800, Speaker A: There's a lot of risks, including risks about custodialness of the collateral when we talk about centralized ones. So my take is, I think both will ultimately exceed. I'm not sure which one will end up larger in the long run. But honestly, just like, if you look at markets as well, like derivatives, the derivatives market is just much larger than for spot. There's a lot more demand to trade a thing than there is, and reference to a thing turns out than there is a trade that you do a thing. So I would guess probably it exceeds it index as well.
00:41:55.730 - 00:42:08.898, Speaker B: All right, I want to zoom out of some of the more specific episodes that we did and just ask you some of the big questions that we referred to our guests sort of time and time again. And this was at the end of the episode that we did with Anna and Ludwig. We got into this question.
00:42:09.064 - 00:42:09.986, Speaker A: There was a little bit of a.
00:42:10.008 - 00:42:57.386, Speaker B: Spirited back and forth, actually, between Ludwig and Anna about are we ever going to. Hey, everyone. Wanted to take a quick second to shout out this season's partner, Maverick Protocol. Now, many of you probably know Maverick as an innovative amm, which they are, but in reality, they're a lot more than that as well. Maverick is a suite of tools for DeFi users and builders that allows them to put liquidity where it will get the most work done. Since Maverick launched in March, they have been gobbling up market share, and at the time of this recording, which is the end of September, on a trailing seven day volume basis, Maverick is now a top three decks by volume, and they support over 50% of the volume on the l two ZK sync era chain. Maverick enables lps and token pairs to process higher volume with limited TvL, which allows them to support some of the highest levels of capital efficiency for lsts like wrap steep.
00:42:57.386 - 00:43:27.614, Speaker B: Another very cool feature is something called Maverick boosted positions. So that allows protocols looking to bootstrap their token liquidity to target the shape of liquidity of any token pair with surgical precision. Maverick is backed by some of the leading institutions in crypto, founders Fund, Pantera, Coinbase Ventures, Binance, labs. They are all backing Maverick in their vision to revolutionize the next generation of DeFi Dapps and helping them build their liquidity in all market conditions. Click the link at the bottom of this episode. Let them know that I sent you.
00:43:27.652 - 00:43:28.480, Speaker A: Thanks guys.
00:43:29.170 - 00:43:56.550, Speaker B: Bring price discovery on chain. And I think Ana was a more optimistic one about that, and Ludwig was slightly less optimistic, reversing stereotypes about agent and tech optimism. So my question to you is, like, going through the season, it was something that we asked at the very top of the season, but what are your sort of current thoughts about bringing price discovery on chain and competing with the likes of our centralized counterparts, Binance, Coinbase, et cetera?
00:43:57.710 - 00:44:46.310, Speaker A: I think ultimately, for that goal of mine to happen, for Dex volume to exceed centralized exchange volume, we're going to have to have discovery of everything on chain. Right. You already have price discovery of long tail tokens. I think that happens on chain largely of the really long tail certainly happens on chain. I think we see from that just a lot of the signs of, okay, Dex design is different in a world where you're doing this on chain. And in fact, I've been having interesting conversations with Alex's Logan. We had a guest about just how actually some of the insights, some of the intuitions you have for how to design a Dex for stuff like Ethereum is actually just reversed, or you want to do different things for long tail when you have price cover happening.
00:44:46.310 - 00:45:20.050, Speaker A: So I think there'll be a whole. The point there is, there's something interesting in designing dexes for the long tail, because that's the problem we're eventually going to face if we want to exceed binance volumes. And Ethereum and ETh USD on chain is ultimately, how do we actually design this so that price discovery can happen on it? I think ultimately it will. I think that's going to be the goal, but I'm not sure what that will look like or how exactly do it. I just think it's important for us to achieve that goal of having primarily noncustodial trading.
00:45:20.470 - 00:45:32.760, Speaker B: Yeah, I tend to agree with you. Every time I said that, there's someone on the comments said take a shot. Every single time Mike says, I tend to agree with you. So I got to stop doing that. Stop doing that.
00:45:33.130 - 00:45:33.734, Speaker A: Okay.
00:45:33.852 - 00:46:38.822, Speaker B: The other big question that we sort of continued to go back to over the season is the presence of passive stakers and specifically more passive lps and specifically retail. So in one sense, I think it's kind of a nice story for people to buy into. On the other hand, it's really how Uniswap got its start. It was such a cool like zero to one magical moment for something that you could do with magical Internet money. You could just be a passive market maker and people could just show up and trade and I think everyone kind of fell in love with that idea. But now as we move further and further towards our goal of bringing price discovery on chain market making is first of all very tough and it's also very active I would say. I think now as we're starting to move some of the larger components of exchanges off chain people are starting to question like hey, we're kind of disadvantaging the retail passive staker and we've kind of asked well does that even really ultimately make sense? Because actually market making is a really difficult job and we have big goals in terms of how much we want this industry to scale.
00:46:38.822 - 00:46:45.390, Speaker B: So where do you end this season thinking about sort of passive retail lp?
00:46:46.930 - 00:47:29.434, Speaker A: I think I end up almost agnostic on it. And so I think at times in my Dex research career I've been incredibly, I've believed extraordinarily deeply in the importance of passive liquidity providing provision as a component. And I think it was a key thing that made uniswap v one and v two work. I think it's an important thing that makes uniswap v three work. I think the fact that it supports passive liquidity provision on it and doesn't give up that ability. I think most of the design of v three, a lot of it is entirely constrained by okay, we still need to be able to actually provide passive liquidity on this. We're not going to just turn it into a limit order bub or something.
00:47:29.434 - 00:48:09.894, Speaker A: And there's a lot of practical and I think some ideological reasons why I think that's important. But then I think I've also at times been really extremely okay. Actually all that matters is swappers if that's actually our north star. And right now if in some cases it doesn't make sense to have passive liquidity provide liquidity for them then so much the worse for passive liquidity. And I think that's true in some situations as well. But then I think we're swinging back in some ways where you start to see actually it is very hard in some cases to provide a similar swapper experience without passive liquidity. Right.
00:48:09.894 - 00:48:55.410, Speaker A: I think people have been pointing out this out the whole time and I think you have to acknowledge it. My key point is always it's just important not to get too much religion about any of these things. It's important not to think because especially with uniswap, they had this big success with passive liquidity and then b one and b two. But that didn't stop them from saying, all right, how are we going to make the most best use of active liquidity? And it may involve doing this thing in v three that changes some of those principles for why it might have worked earlier. And I think this is an ongoing infinite game where you have sophisticated parties reacting and acting, reacting to both sides in ways that can't always be anticipated. And a principle that works very well for years may stop working. This is just what it's like to design markets or to participate in markets.
00:48:55.410 - 00:49:57.362, Speaker A: And I think if you get too much ideology, if you decide like, oh, I have this principle that actually passive liquidity or amms or console product or whatever is the thing, you're going to end up at some point being wrong or being blindsided, as opposed to thinking like just looking at the situation on the ground and being like, all right, what's actually the right move in this situation? And I think having lived through some of these shifts in ideology myself, it's made me think, all right, it's actually pretty important to have, you want to have the right North Star, but then within that, you can't have a lot of heuristics that you're claiming too strongly. And that's what I mean when I say it's important not to have too much religion about passive versus active or amms versus clobs or anything like that. You have to look at actually what's going on. And a lot of the time the devil's in the details. I think people talk about clobs versus amms, but there are some clubs that act extremely closely to amms USA b three acts, a lot like a club, as we've talked about a lot here in port of respects. And the difference, it's not something that comes up in these big ideological discussions. It's going to be some really finicky thing about how fees are charged or how trajectories are ordered.
00:49:57.362 - 00:50:28.454, Speaker A: It's going to be somewhere deep in the logic here that only one and implementing a nodes that turns out to make all the difference. And so I think if you're not deep in the details of these things, if you're just saying like, oh, I see amms, I believe in know. I believe in past liquidity and clots, it's like all know, if you look a lot deeper, I think know working on these things closely. And we saw this when we were talking with Doug and Eugene, is like, they have much nuanced views, I think, than some of the people who are just observing it from a distance. Because, again, you notice in practice, a lot of the time, these things change, and things are less clear cut than you might think.
00:50:28.652 - 00:51:32.790, Speaker B: Yeah, crypto is a funny industry for ideology. And if you think about something like bitcoin, why that specific ideology formed around decentralization is because the purpose of that app, specifically, bitcoin, is kind of the first app chain. It's the money app chain. And the reason why it was so religious about enforcing the particular properties of decentralization that it did was because that's what was needed for decentralized money, because there's a lot of risk of it being shut down by the state. But I think even you can see this in Ethereum a lot. They kind of inherited a lot of those same ideas, very specific ideas about decentralization, without maybe questioning, like, hey, we have a sort of a different North Star envision what level of decentralization specifically is appropriate, but because the history of crypto, too, is like very small, nuanced, technical differences that people have a hard time getting anyone else to pay attention to, so they kind of drum up this big sort of values based reason for why people should care. And again, I'm going to go back and show these old episodes around the blocks.
00:51:32.790 - 00:51:45.440, Speaker B: People go back and listen to what people are saying during the block size war. I find it extremely interesting. I don't tend to agree with you, I just agree with you. That sounds good.
00:51:47.010 - 00:52:27.174, Speaker A: What the religion can be useful for is, I think, when you have these degenerative equilibrium, when things will go in one direction if you don't stop it, sometimes just having religion and ideology and having people be like, we're actually going to stop this, even though it's rational and even though it maybe seems to make sense because we have this weird principle, it can be useful to actually have people do that. And I think MeV is one example. There have been times where we've been at risk of veering off the MeV cliff toward incentivized reorgs, for example, one example. And then you end up with people just being like, we're going to draw a line here, sort of. Maybe it doesn't make sense to draw the line here. Maybe we should have drawn the line somewhere else. Or you could make a rational argument for why everyone should do this, but actually we're just going to say, you're not allowed to do this.
00:52:27.174 - 00:53:05.320, Speaker A: And then people, for maybe religious reasons, agree, and then you end up in the spontaneous order that maybe it's better than you would have ended, otherwise ended up. So I don't mean to discount, obviously, all of crypto is about, is basically a religion about, okay, we have to believe this stuff is valuable, and if we all believe it, then it will be. And similarly, I think, again, we all sort of have to act, despite saying, if you don't have to trust anyone, you sort of have to trust the whole system. And people will not always act in their own individual, rational self interest, but sometimes in a broader interest that you might call religion. But I think ultimately, again, when that gets into like, oh, I better not add this feature to my decks because of some feature or whatever, I think it can end up sort of hampering actually the evolution of the space. Yeah.
00:53:06.330 - 00:54:09.482, Speaker B: Last question on this vein is we got into this a little bit with heart, where we talked about multi chain and bridging and intense and the role that. It's like every buzzword in one, but the role that market makers have, you know, I guess just to get your sort of final verdict, we've talked about this a good amount explicitly, so don't need to spend a ton of time. But I think when you look at basically interop and especially cross chain, has been a much more difficult authority problem than people originally thought it was going to be like if you rewind the clock five years and listen to some of the discourse, or just assume we'll just figure bridging out. And now, honestly, it feels like bridges are starting to converge actually around. I know you wouldn't call uniswap x a bridge, but we did talk about the similarities between crosschain, dexes and bridges. And certainly the across model seems to be something that other Dexs I'm starting to see converge around. As you know, we're relying on market makers to basically act as definitely sort of managing the inventory problem, the financial inventory problem, across these different trust zones, so to speak.
00:54:09.482 - 00:54:19.920, Speaker B: So how much do you care about, think about, consider it potentially an issue that we're relying increasingly on market makers and the design of a lot of these products.
00:54:21.010 - 00:55:14.046, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think in a lot of these systems, you end up with this sort of Scylla and corebdis, where you have to pick one kind of centralization, or I don't know if centralization is the right word, but there's one of these risks that is a state of head that people complain about. One of them is one design for something is we could say we're going to have a perfectly competitive market. We're going to design a system where anyone can participate and the best participant wins. And the other is we're going to basically have just one party that plays this role and we're just going to trust them that they do it properly. And I think some systems, for example, in the former, bitcoin mining is one example, where it's just a globally competitive market. Ethereum mining, mev extraction on chain in some ways is perfectly competitive.
00:55:14.046 - 00:56:00.458, Speaker A: When you have the PBS, the builder competition, right? You have this competition. And then some examples of the latter are like l two sequencers, where right now we have, generally there's a single party that adjusted the sequence transactions or blocks, and there's possible abuses that they could have there. But generally the system trusts that these parties won't do that. And I think both of these, the former sounds really good, but often what it means is this ends up going to whoever in the world is best at this, which may not be the person you would want to be running. It might be like whoever is best in the world at high frequency trading turns out to be the person who is now constructing blocks. Right? Yeah. And I think there's places in crypto for both of these systems.
00:56:00.458 - 00:57:02.498, Speaker A: But I think it's worth noting that's when we talk about a perfectly competitive system where it's just like we're going to have no barriers entry and just say it's perfect competitive means ultimately we're going to basically trust this, whoever's best at it. And I think in some cases that can have weird lateral consequences. And I think this is one case where sometimes there's this price of anarchy, where if you have this competition, then actually it's not socially optimal. And I think this is one example, the rise of integrated searcher builders, as one example, is where we might not have wanted it to happen, but it's a consequence of just having actually this open competition and total decentralization. And then the other end of the spectrum, you can have single trusted parties that do everything, right? I think most parties that have done this mostly seem like they're not front running users. I don't know, but people do it. But we say we don't actually want just to have a single trusted party, right? And so maybe there's places in that spectrum to go.
00:57:02.498 - 00:57:54.770, Speaker A: But I think it's important to note that, that the alternative to anyone can compete this meritocracy is potentially benevolent dictatorship, or that's the other end of the other extreme end of the spectrum here. And both of those can lead to. So when you're talking about, oh, we have this problem of that causes centralization, I think ultimately it's just because whoever's best at it, if you have a meritocratic system that's designed seemingly sort of pop perfectly, that can mean that whoever's best at it just ends up not running it, rather than. So rather than dictatorship, you might say, like, this is the comparison between just like meritocracy or competition and democracy, right? One where it's like everybody just chooses who the sequencer is, and then we just trust that sequencer and maybe we can replace them. It's not necessarily dictatorship. Yeah, I think there's places for both of these kind of dynamics, but both of them can be criticized, maybe rightly, as having some aspects of centralization or centralizing pressure. Yeah.
00:57:54.840 - 00:58:28.026, Speaker B: Well, the way that I also think about this is if we're building new financial infrastructure here, that just requires the participation of professional actors, and this is where it's important. Like, look, if you're going to be the values driven religious part of crypto, I think you're absolutely right. There's huge benefits to that. But I also think it shouldn't. Sometimes you can make a worse ultimate, like the decision that you make, if it's values guided, can ultimately end up being worse because you're not particularly realistic about what the outcome is going to be. And this is where I actually remember listening. I can't remember who said it anymore.
00:58:28.026 - 00:58:46.306, Speaker B: So I apologize. I don't mean to drag your view here, but I remember someone describing how dows were so great because permissionless participation, anyone can just participate. And I remember thinking, makes no sense to me. Imagine if Apple tomorrow was like, anyone can just be an employee to Apple and be like, would you be more bullish? Would they build a better like. I don't think so.
00:58:46.408 - 00:58:47.822, Speaker A: So I don't know.
00:58:47.896 - 00:58:52.822, Speaker B: I think there's layers of compromise that will lead to a better outcome for everyone.
00:58:52.956 - 00:59:26.660, Speaker A: That's right. Especially in market design. When designing markets, I think just a global, perfectly fair competition seems like the right, just general principle to be designing around. But again, I think there can be costs of it. I think you're right to point out this can to have centralizing effects. And so figuring out what the effects are is important. But, yeah, I think ultimately, if we just want it to work as well as possible, then I think we sort of have to say, like, all right, we're going to get whoever's best at this to be doing it, we're willing to accept that other people might not be, and so they will end up providing that service anyway, and maybe they'll be doing it in some other system.
00:59:26.660 - 00:59:27.890, Speaker A: Totally.
00:59:28.710 - 01:00:02.026, Speaker B: All right, last couple of questions here, but I would love to just get you. We talked a lot in a tertiary way, but also had some folks on the Uniswap team, Uniswap x shin on earlier this season. And I would just love to get a sense of anything you can tell us about Univ four, et cetera. It was very cool to talk to Ludwig as a builder of a hook. I actually ended up talking to a couple of other founders building hooks on Uniswap. It feels like that's actually quite rich as an ecosystem. It was actually a question, at least for me, going into this season, about, okay, it's very cool sort of platform design.
01:00:02.026 - 01:00:19.506, Speaker B: How many people are going to end up building hooks, especially talking to Ludwig, even off air, it's like, man, this is extremely, he was just very convinced, very compelling value proposition. And it feels from my vantage point, like, actually you are having a lot of people build these hooks. So what's the update on V four?
01:00:19.688 - 01:01:09.426, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think V four, they're checking along. It's an extremely difficult contract to get right. And so I think the security put it through just maybe one of the most extensive audits and security reviews in Ethereum history. And so I think that's one thing that's going to push back. But I think ultimately, yeah, I think the Unisoft team and I have just been incredibly excited as well about seeing all the interest in building on top of it. And I think that's something where what I love about it is it's unleashed this kind of wave of innovation of uniswap that I think we hadn't seen to date, in part because I think just Uniswap hadn't been quite designed to be modular enough that you can add these other improvements on top of it. And so, yeah, so I'm really optimistic about a lot of the projects that are building on top of it.
01:01:09.426 - 01:01:21.254, Speaker A: And, yeah, hopefully, I really hope the dominant hooks are something we would never have expected, and I think that's what makes it exciting to me.
01:01:21.452 - 01:01:45.630, Speaker B: Yeah. All right, Dan, we've made it through many episodes here, many hours of questions, and I've saved this one for you. Best for last. Is there ever going to be a unichain? Are we ever going to get uni chain? This is the long foretold Dan Elitzer thought piece from a while ago. As I was listening to Antonio in that interview, I was like, man, it's pretty compelling value prop from the perspective.
01:01:47.490 - 01:01:49.374, Speaker A: Of a mean.
01:01:49.412 - 01:01:54.510, Speaker B: I know there's lot you probably can't reveal, but I mean, how do you feel about the perspective of a potential?
01:01:57.170 - 01:02:42.320, Speaker A: It could. I think it could make a lot of sense, and I don't think I have that much more information on this, really, than anyone that has been put out publicly. So mostly I'm talking here just for you, from my own opinion and from first principles. To me, what's important, I think, is ultimately for a Dex chain to make sense. The really big challenge for it is the on and off ramp is getting people onto it and off of it. The amazing thing about Uniswap on Ethereum is that your money is already there. So when people started using tokens on chain for other things, when Defi summer started happening, the exchange they wanted to trade it on wasn't they didn't want to have to go deposit it into a centralized exchange and then trade it and then move it back.
01:02:42.320 - 01:03:09.558, Speaker A: They wanted to be able to trade it right where it was. And so it's actually fewer transactions and it's cheaper and simpler to be able to just trade it on chain. I think that was incredibly important for the rise of Dexes at all. I think if you have a Dex chain that is just for people to go on, live on that chain and speculate on tokens there in the way that people do with centralized exchanges, it's a huge use case. It's bigger than Dex trading right now, people doing this on centralized exchanges. Right. And so I think that's great.
01:03:09.558 - 01:03:49.880, Speaker A: But to me, the thing that I would really love and is really important for that to be able to work is this cross chain experience. It's the ability to say, I'm going to buy a token on that chain, even though my assets right now are not on that chain. To me, having a really good unisoft crosschain experience is, I think, maybe the most important unlock. And luckily, I think Unisoft back's crosschain is a fantastic design. And that, I think is going to really unlock a lot in terms of just in general, interoperability and moving assets between chains. I think, yeah, that's the kind of thing that unlocks. You could imagine having the main unisoft chain not being on the moon, one that requires, again, that people still be able to use it as if it is, or without that much experience degradation, as if it is, and I think that requires a good cross chain experience.
01:03:49.880 - 01:03:51.286, Speaker A: Yeah.
01:03:51.468 - 01:04:16.094, Speaker B: All right, well, Dan, this has been phenomenally fun season, again, bittersweet that it's coming to an end, but I think we did some, hosted some really good conversations and hopefully moved the dialogue forward in terms of lever Dex design, a whole bunch of stuff that we talked, you know, I appreciate it. Yeah. We'll have to have you back on in future Bell curve seasons. I will promise you an episode all on dutch auctions so we can get into the weeds there at some point.
01:04:16.132 - 01:04:48.470, Speaker A: But, yes, thanks so much, Mike, for inviting me to. I think Mike did by far most of the work and got most of the guests on, and I think it's great just for me to be able to join this and talk to some of my favorite people in the industry about these topics that I'm really interested in and be able to bloviate at depth about them. In response to open ended questions from Mike, who's a fantastic interviewer. And so thanks again for having me on. I think it's been a blast, no pun intended. And, yeah, hopefully I'll get to come on again in a future season as a guest.
01:04:49.130 - 01:04:52.610, Speaker B: Absolutely. My friend. Standing invite. All right, cheers.
