00:00:00.490 - 00:00:49.354, Speaker A: Welcome to Chainlink Research Reports, a YouTube series featuring research across the web, three industry and academia with scholarships that expand their understanding of decentralized technologies. I'm Dr. Jason Anasasopoulos, a researcher at ChainLink Labs and an assistant professor of public policy at the University of Georgia. Today, I'll be joined by Professor Joshua Fairfield, who'll be presenting a paper on NFTs and law entitled Tokenized the Law of NFT and Unique digital Property. Professor Fairfield is a William Donald Payne family professor of law at Washington Elite School of Law and an internationally recognized law and technology scholar. His paper argues that NFTs are personal property and should be treated as such under the law. In this interview, Professor Fairfield also shares his thoughts on digital private property and the role of blockchain in the legal system.
00:00:49.354 - 00:00:51.710, Speaker A: And now here's Professor Fairfield.
00:00:58.450 - 00:02:21.190, Speaker B: So, yeah, I'm just going to go ahead and talk about this paper, which is entitled tokenized the law of non fungible tokens and unique digital property. Let me just at the outset, maybe set the danger, the danger, as I've set up in two books now, the first book, which is very much on virtual property and sort of teed up a lot of these issues from Cambridge in 2017, was called owned property, privacy and the new digital serfdom, and was basically about how we don't own anything online. And then Cambridge in 2021, just last year, came out runaway technology. Can law keep up? And with the question of can law keep up, there's a fundamental problem when we're talking about law and blockchain, we're talking about law and NFTs that I want to start with from the very beginning, and that is that technology is moving faster than law. That law can't keep up with technology. And the problem with that argument is, one, it's simply not true. Most of the issues we're seeing now with blockchain, its legalization, are exactly the same issues we saw with magic swords or that we saw with Eve online, or that we saw with second life, that we saw very, very early on this tension between intellectual property interests holders and the people who want a personal property interest, right? So here's a not going to shamelessly promote my book, but I'll shamelessly promote my book.
00:02:21.190 - 00:02:59.414, Speaker B: Here's a copy of the book, right? So you can own the book, distinct from the copyright in the book. That's always been the deal in real space. The problem is that that deal has fundamentally broken down online, and we don't own a copy of the thing. Rather, when your itunes get deleted the whole thing's gone. Or when your Kindle app is deleted, then you just have all those licenses and they're gone. Okay, so what I want to do is raise the spectre. Why do we say that law can't keep up? And why is that so dangerous? Well, the reason that we say that law can't keep up and the reason that we say that and we don't say that, there are very specific industrial actors who say that.
00:02:59.414 - 00:03:43.982, Speaker B: And it's a very specific move intended to avoid the development of responsible law that says things like, when a person buys an NFT, they own something in it. That should not be a controversial statement to make, but it is. And that's why I wrote this paper, because the feedback that I got from the paper is, oh, people don't own anything in NFTs. They're just paying millions of dollars for a reputational association with something they like. It's like they're cheering from the stands with enormous amount, with enormous numbers of dollar bills that they're just throwing down. That's not what's going on. NFTs and tokenized property are there to invoke a sense of ownership.
00:03:43.982 - 00:04:14.134, Speaker B: Personal property is an intuition. This is mine. I can make use of it, I can enjoy it, I can display it without having to ask anyone else, without being beholden to others. The reasons for our demands on property go very, very deep. We use property, of course, to build wealth, and that's a big part of what's going on in the cryptocurrency and NFT space. Of course that's what's going on. But also, we use it to associate things with us that are part of our identities, right? So, for example, this is my property.
00:04:14.134 - 00:05:09.934, Speaker B: This is my wedding ring, right? This is my property. I hold it off of the market under Peggy Raiden's theories. I hold it off of the market precisely because it means something to me. I've chosen not to sell my home precisely because it means more to me than it does to anyone else. And so we use property to associate, to surround ourselves and give our identities meaning, having that stripped away from us in the online context because of the claim that intellectual property was threatened by the copy based nature of computing environments, therefore is a major threat to the rise of NFTs. When I've talked to people about interests in they, as I've said earlier, what routinely it comes across the board is you don't own the NFT, you just license it. It's the same story that we heard from your Kindle ebooks and that we heard from your movies, books and music.
00:05:09.934 - 00:05:41.766, Speaker B: And if that's true, the NFT space is going nowhere fast. And I think that it's really indicative. So then what I do in the paper is I basically lay that out. I say, look, that's the problem. The problem is we've forgotten history. And history says there's this tension between personal property interests in I own the object and intellectual property interests, which is I own the ability to make infinite copies. We have a technology now that, through blockchain, permits us to create true digital uniqueness, true digital scarcity.
00:05:41.766 - 00:06:27.478, Speaker B: And it does, it solves the copying problem. Blockchain was intended to solve the double spending problem. To say, no, I can't make infinite duplicates of tokens. The distributed ledger framework inhibits me effectively from doing that. And so now we've got both a crying need for personal property interests. People want to collect, they want to invest, they want to associate, they want to build their identity based on personal property, just like anyone who's listening to this might look around the room they're in and think, what objects in this room are important to you? And why? Right, why does it matter to you that somebody just can't come in and take them away from you? So we have this crying market need for it. We have a technology that'll do it.
00:06:27.478 - 00:07:05.630, Speaker B: And yet, as you can see, if you read through the paper, that's not at all the law. Where the rubber hits the road. So where the rubber hits the road, you look at these licenses, and these licenses say a bunch of quite surprising things. They more or less say you own something, but we don't really ever want to tell you what that is. And what you don't own is what you think you own. If you buy an NFT, if you buy a picture, in most cases, you don't own even much of a license to that picture. The copyright generator still retains the right to make copies.
00:07:05.630 - 00:07:51.486, Speaker B: Fair enough, they should, but they shouldn't have any rights anymore over this copy, especially over the marked copy. Over the copy, the first copy, the copy that has historical importance. That's one reason why people buy NFTs, for example, is because of the historical importance of the document, or the moment or whatever in the history of the Internet or in the history of the development of property. And we have solved that problem by associating intellectual property with a unique and non falsifiable, non duplicatable token, and that is on a distributed network. We have solved the problem of you can't make infinite copies of that copy. Sure, it's like the Mona Lisa, right? Anybody can go into the Louvre, and if you avoid the guard, you can take a snapshot of the Mona Lisa. But it's not the Mona Lisa.
00:07:51.486 - 00:08:13.690, Speaker B: It's not that one thing. We've solved that. And humans want to create enormous value by investing in that, by attaching to it, but they can't as long as these intellectual property licenses continue to act. They're drafted by lawyers. And in a sense, this is my profession's fault. That look like the Apple itunes agreement. That can't be how this goes anymore.
00:08:13.690 - 00:09:24.830, Speaker B: And so what I then do is point out that there are robust ways of pushing back against this conception that people who buy NFTs really don't own anything at all, that there are ways of pushing back and saying no. When you sell to someone, when you characterize the transaction as a sale, then there are real reasons to treat it as a sale of personal property. Just like anything else you buy in a store, there's reasons to treat it as a sale of personal property that the object, now, digital object, but fine, who cares? It's just like a physical object. We coded it to be so. Of course it is that it has the main characteristics. Now, what are those characteristics? Well, one characteristic is simply ownership. Ownership means that you can use, you can display, you can modify, you can change, you can destroy if you want, you can exclude others from using your property in any way that you wish, right? The old school definition, which has since been changed substantially, but it still has some emotional resonances.
00:09:24.830 - 00:10:05.486, Speaker B: Property is that soul and despotic dominion over something, right? The real ability to control it. And what you see in these licenses and these contracts that are attached to NFTs is. That's not the case. NFTs come with contractual, sneaky license strings attached. Strange things like, if your NFT blows up and becomes really valuable, you can only profit up to $10,000 worth of that, or you have to come and get a separate license from us to monetize it. Or every time, if your NFT rises in value, every time you and anyone else sells it forward, a little bit of money has to be kicked back to the originator. Now, these terms are hidden in the smart contracts themselves.
00:10:05.486 - 00:10:45.180, Speaker B: They're not even hidden the usual way where terms are hidden. Now, let me be clear. Nobody reads contracts to start with, right? Terms are hidden in paragraph 19 B, sub paragraph 43 of the regular contracts that we all click on online. To even turn on a computer, you have to sign a stack of contracts this high even to turn it on. But beyond that, these terms are hidden in the code in sort of nested legal language. That is nested inside code that is nested inside legal language. That's my alarm telling me to wrap it up and I'll bring this brief presentation to a close and we can then talk about whatever you want.
00:10:45.180 - 00:11:36.298, Speaker B: But having these trailing, hidden strings in NFTs, what it means is you never quite know what you're buying when you buy an NFT, right? Because it comes with layered legal language that nobody knows what it means yet. It comes layered with legal language that nobody reads. It comes layered with smart contract trailing provisions that may be quite surprising to someone who has embraced the legal metaphor of property. And that's the thing. If we're going to embrace the legal metaphor of personal property ownership by telling people, this is what you're buying, you're buying it, you're not renting it, you're not paying for reputational rights, this isn't sort of a shout out that you get. We're selling these things to people. And if we're going to tap into that intuition of property, it needs to have the legal characteristics of actual property.
00:11:36.298 - 00:12:09.160, Speaker B: So that's the paper in a nutshell saying, look, there's this history of saying law can't keep up with technology. It's not true. The problems of law have been here, the problems that NFTs face right now. The big complaint, oh, you can just right click on an NFT and make a copy of it. That's just straight back to Napster. That is the same problem we've always had. The technology has changed in ways that have enabled this groundswell of demand that people have to own things to really blow out into the open.
00:12:09.160 - 00:12:42.874, Speaker B: But people are still fundamentally being defrauded by these transactions because they're being sold things. They're being told that they're buying things, but they're not buying them. They're being told that they are the owners and investors in things that they don't really own or invest. And instead they have these hidden license terms and these hidden code terms that do not create good standardized models where people can, with confidence, buy and know what legal rights they're getting when they do. And that's where I'll turn it over to. Yeah, thanks.
00:12:42.932 - 00:13:45.262, Speaker A: Thanks, Josh. So following up on know you talk a lot about in the paper about kind of copyright law and something that I'm interested in, and I'm sure a lot of our viewers would be interested in hearing more about and you kind of talked about how law needs to be reformed in many ways to accommodate NFTs. So I was wondering if you could kind of expand upon that a little bit. You mentioned one of the problems with NFTs now is that there's this issue of ownership. People claim to own NFTs, but in know, they really know. In what areas of intellectual property or copyright law do you think should be reformed in order to ensure that ownership is true? In the sense of our traditional sense of ownership that we've known for physical objects, let's say, what forms do you think should be?
00:13:45.336 - 00:14:26.834, Speaker B: Sure, I think that there are a couple of ways of doing it. The easiest and cleanest is to make the strong analogy to physical space copies. We don't need to reform copyright law at all. In one sense, it's always said, if I sell you a copy of this book, you own the copy and can burn it, write in it, keep it as a collectible, keep it as a limited series, have me sign it and become more valuable, therefore unique. I can't come in and take it away from you. If we have a license dispute upstream. I wrote this book.
00:14:26.834 - 00:15:34.438, Speaker B: If I have a license dispute with Cambridge that doesn't affect you, you own the book, right? Those characteristics are already in law. The problem is the 20 years that happened sort of between, I'd say 1990, the early ninety s, and the mid 2000s, where there was this panicked reaction to the rise of the Internet, and we had a bunch of really dumb rules that courts came up with that said, any use of a computer constitutes copyright infringement. And so those would be the places to really, first of all, as a matter of legal reform, things like the Ram copy doctrine, which I'll just briefly say for your listeners, in case they're unfamiliar with it, the ram copy doctrine says this. When you turn on a computer, you're loading the program from storage into active use, and that makes a copy, and therefore you implicate copyright law. See, it doesn't implicate copyright law. If I just open a book, no copy has been made. A copyright holder can have nothing to say about me opening a book.
00:15:34.438 - 00:16:37.260, Speaker B: But if, for example, I open this book online, I have made a copy of it, say dumb courts, I have made a copy of it, and that implicates copyright law so that if I don't follow the terms of their license in doing so, then I have committed copyright infringement. That stuff needs to get cleaned out of the law substantially. The second thing that needs to happen is recognizing that NFTs and things like and there is a broad revolution in the common law of digital objects going on right now. It started with domain names. Domain names are not, they don't involve intellectual property. So it was clear enough to see they are personal property. And starting with a case called Kremen versus Cohen, which was the famous sex case, courts in California, in New York and across the country have begun to say, yeah, digital objects under certain circumstances do have personal property interests, that you can own them like personal property.
00:16:37.260 - 00:17:33.626, Speaker B: The difficulty arises when intellectual property is also asserted. And here the big challenge is not reforming the law so much as making it clear it's not either or, just like it's not either or offline. It's not that I do in fact own the copyright in this book, but I don't own every copy of the book once it's been sold. So there's no either or. Here I own the intellectual property and somebody else can own the personal property interest in the book. But online courts have gotten wildly confused because they haven't had a clear case that sets it in front of them saying there is a distinct interest different from intellectual property. That is, the personal property interest that's owned by the buyer, by the owner, and is not at all owned in any way, not an all owned or controlled by the intellectual property holder.
00:17:33.626 - 00:18:22.366, Speaker B: And what cryptocurrency does is it provides a technological basis for something to point to say, well, no, look right here. This thing, that thing, the token, is in fact the object that carries that personal property interest. It's quite distinct from any intellectual property interest. Is it bound to the intellectual property interest? Yes, it is. You can't just say that they're separate, right? Nobody wants to buy a crypto token that has no relationship to anything else, unless the thing that you want to buy it for is inherent on the chain itself, which fine, like cryptopunks, those are contained within the token itself. But generally speaking, these are loosely gathered up bundles of rights. Just like a book is a bundle of rights, right? It's a physical object, but then bundled inside it is the intellectual property of the book.
00:18:22.366 - 00:19:11.210, Speaker B: Same thing. An NFT has, that crypto token, and then bundled with it comes some intellectual property interest that gives you the right to treat this copy, this version of it that's been hashed to the crypto token as owned. But what we just need to do is revive that and remind courts that, just like they had no problem finding that there were personal property interests in domain names. And just like there's this revolution, sort of sweeping courts now across the country saying, yeah, things like domain names can have that personal property interest. We need to not lose the plot when somebody adds intellectual property interests into the picture. And we need to say, yes, it's both. And it's not either or and court cases for 20 years since the rise of the Internet have been either or.
00:19:11.210 - 00:19:29.140, Speaker B: And that's the part that's got to stop. So those are the major reform things. Basically, though, the answer is we need to stick with copyright law the way it's been developed for quite a long time, and we need to just adjust some of the more bizarre things that courts have said over the past 20 years.
00:19:30.150 - 00:19:58.250, Speaker A: Following up on this idea of the kind of book, I want to use it as an example to try to understand what your vision about, of ownership is in the NFT space with a book. I'll start with the example of the book and what it means to own a book as I understand it. So you have a publisher, right? They publish your book? I believe they own the copyright. Is that correct or do you own the copyright?
00:19:58.910 - 00:20:03.440, Speaker B: You negotiate that? I own the copyright for the books that I write.
00:20:04.530 - 00:20:07.034, Speaker A: So you own the copyright or the publisher owns the copyright.
00:20:07.082 - 00:20:07.294, Speaker B: Okay.
00:20:07.332 - 00:20:43.082, Speaker A: The publisher prints the books and you get a certain portion of the proceeds from the sales of the book and the publisher gets a certain portion. Now, when I hold a copy of this book, I have a physical thing that I'm able to distribute to other people. I'm able to read myself for my own enjoyment and that pretty much I can make copies for myself as long as I'm not profiting off of it. And that's pretty much the. I believe.
00:20:43.136 - 00:20:53.566, Speaker B: So, yeah, you can display it, you can show other people that you've got it, but, yeah, you can't make copies of it.
00:20:53.668 - 00:21:02.526, Speaker A: Fair enough. Fair enough. I'm limited with the book in terms of how it can be used.
00:21:02.628 - 00:21:03.280, Speaker B: Right.
00:21:04.530 - 00:21:12.366, Speaker A: One of the major limits here, of course, is that I can't reprint the book and then sell it to other people for a profit.
00:21:12.478 - 00:21:13.090, Speaker B: Right.
00:21:13.240 - 00:22:08.566, Speaker A: Because then you could come after me through the courts or the publisher could come after me through the courts and get kind of settlement with NFTs. That idea of ownership, it's different in a way that goes beyond the physicality of the book in this sense. So if you purchase an NFT as it currently exists, right. The state of NFTs currently exist. So if you purchase an NFT and you make the claim that you have ownership of the NFT, you can hold that as a digital asset and sell it. Okay. So that's one thing that you can do.
00:22:08.566 - 00:23:45.960, Speaker A: So that goes beyond the idea of the book in some sense, beyond the idea of copyright. But another problem is a problem with that is that you can't actually prevent other people from making copies of, at least as the law exists today. As I understand it, you can't prevent other people from making copies of the NFT and selling it as well. Like for example, in the simplest case where you have digital art and let's say you have some kind of crypto kitties piece and you own it, and I make a slight alteration and I mint my own NFT and I say, okay, I'm going to sell this now for half the price or whatever it is, right? I don't believe that I would be restricted from doing something like that, even though technically speaking, that might seem as if I'm violating your rights as the owner of the NFT. And of course people could use it for, people could use the NFT that you own for any type of commercial purpose that they want, as far as I know, in terms of displaying on their websites all the things that you wouldn't be able to do with a book. Right? So I was just wondering, to me, it seems like the fact of digital ownership that is being developed as the NFT space starts to grow is changing the notion of ownership itself. I don't know, does that make sense?
00:23:48.010 - 00:24:28.900, Speaker B: This is a great question and a really great thing to be really precise about. Your overall premise is right, that at the edges I have to be really careful. If we do develop a baseline of digital property where courts routinely come to accept that there are personal property interests in intangible objects, if we are able to cross that line and really get that established, then we can iterate. We have to do this remedial work first. Then we have to iterate and iterating. There are some real things that we need to talk about. This is different.
00:24:28.900 - 00:25:14.910, Speaker B: But then, second of all, I want to push back on the examples that you gave because they're not different. But then I want to go into a big example that's blowing up right now. That really is, that's sort of highlighting exactly what you're worried about, the change in the nature of property. So first of know, you said that your ownership of a book is different from your ownership of an NFT because of the ability to sell it. And let's just narrow down on that because a lot of people are buying NFTs as investments. There's no difference because if you own a book, other people sure can make copies of that book, and they can sell copies of that book. And if they do, it's an infringement of the copyright holders rights, but not yours.
00:25:14.910 - 00:25:56.142, Speaker B: And also if they do, and the reason that your book is valuable is because it's the first edition of the first edition, like it's the very first edition of Joshua Perfield's runaway technology, which is not all that fantastic. But if it's a first edition, if the copy is worth something, the fact that other people can go out and infringe copyright has nothing to do with that. Second of all, and so you say there are very few things you can do with a book. You can display it, you can keep it, you can read it. And that becomes important. You can read it without having to ask a copyright holder, if you may. And you can sell it, and you can sell the object, not the intellectual property.
00:25:56.142 - 00:27:06.660, Speaker B: You can sell the object, which is what most people are buying NFTs for right now. They can sell it and expect to capture the rise in value of the asset, which is the major thing that intellectual property holders are trying to get in on. For example, my students who buy here, hang on a second, I'm going to slide off the page here for a second. My students who buy property books, property textbooks, right? They can sell these property textbooks to the next generation of students and get a large chunk of their money back. The publishers hate that, and so they tie it to intellectual property licenses. Register your code today and online services that use the intellectual property rules, not the personal property rules, and those the codes can only be used once, therefore rendering the book less useful when sold forward. So that attack on aftermarket, or another way of putting it, is eBay is the big entity online that knows the distinction between this because they capture that secondary sale market.
00:27:06.660 - 00:28:01.138, Speaker B: So the important bit here is the biggest right you have as an owner of personal property is to sell it. The reason that you're able to sell it is because there's something unique and valuable about it, not because nobody else can make infinite copies of it, right? I can make infinite copies of the Mona Lisa. I can go online right now and right click and I can send you a copy of the Mona Lisa not worth anything. But that doesn't have anything to do with whether the Mona Lisa is valuable or whether or not the ability to sell the Mona Lisa forward without having the artist come in and take a cut or otherwise impede those rights is a valuable thing for those that buy them. The other thing that you sort of said is you have very few rights as an owner, and it's true, an owner of personal property as opposed to intellectual property. And that's very true. But there's a complicated discussion we could also have about more rights.
00:28:01.138 - 00:29:02.774, Speaker B: So when a company can impose rules on you for using something that you have fully bought and paid for, and they do go look at your Kindle license, they have additional rules that they impose on you for using something that's fully bought and paid for. The reason that they can add those extra rules is because you're not allowed to open your own book without a copyright license because of the Ram copy doctrine. Getting rid of that is enormously valuable because it takes away a whole range of restrictions and extra clawbacks, sneaky things that the originator of something can add to it, can stick to it and then stick to the people who buy it. A bunch of sort of bombs in the barrel, so to speak. And getting rid of that by treating this as a personal property interest removes their ability to do that. I could put a big fat copyright notice in this book, but it wouldn't do anything. I can't make you follow that copyright notice.
00:29:02.774 - 00:29:57.526, Speaker B: If you buy a physical copy and page through the book, you don't need a copyright license to do that. If I say you may only wear green shirts while reading this book online, you have to do that. If you do not wear a green shirt, you are a copyright infringer. That's the law. Offline, you can wear any color shirt you want because you haven't made a copy when you open it and you own the physical copy of the book. So the two things I wanted to bear down on, on the two things you mentioned were, one, yes, user rights owner rights are moderately restricted compared to copyright holders, but they do include the all important ability to capture the rise in value on resale. Second of all, which is threatened then by part two, if we treat this as personal property rather than intellectual property, it really shuts down copyright holders ability to add terms and conditions.
00:29:57.526 - 00:30:40.562, Speaker B: And guess what terms and conditions they add, they add ways to extract some of that money out of the aftermarket, after the secondary and third and fourth downstream sales. So then what are some places where, though, because your overall point is absolutely right, what's some places in which the nature of property is changing, especially as it goes to the court system? Well, we're running into this huge issue right now. Let's say you're an art thief and you steal people's 1st 5000 days worth $69 million, or was when it was sold. You get caught. Do you have to give it back. Turns out courts across the country have two problems. One, we have no developed law of what's called repllevant.
00:30:40.562 - 00:31:04.206, Speaker B: We have no developed law of making somebody give it back. The most we've got right now is an action in conversion, which is, you took my thing, you need to pay me for it. Well, imagine an art thief who steals something that's very much on the rise. They're happy to pay. They steal it. They're happy to pay what it was worth when they stole it. They want to capture the meteoric rise in value, right? And if they don't have to give it back, then this becomes a growth industry.
00:31:04.206 - 00:31:41.034, Speaker B: And indeed, we're seeing a lot of people sniping a lot of accounts, right? All my apes gone was the headline about two months ago. So that's a problem. And also the nature of digital property is, especially blockchain property is different. When we talk about the very basic concept of my property was taken, give it back. In the sense that blockchains are immutable. It's a court can't make the blockchain give it back. If they can find the person, if they can get their hands on the person, they can say, we'll put you in jail, under contempt of court until you give it back.
00:31:41.034 - 00:32:15.826, Speaker B: But they can't make them give it back without the private keys. It's not going anywhere. It's immutable on the blockchain. It's not like a court can order the sheriff to seize it and return it to the original owner. So those are some places where at the edges, the traditional law of property is, if you take my property, I either sue you and you have to pay me for it, or I sue you and you have to give it back. That's a real basic framework of personal property. And yet it does run up against some new parts of what it means to own something that's on a distributed ledger and that a court can't argue.
00:32:15.826 - 00:32:36.570, Speaker B: Now, I say that it's different. It's not unsolvably different. So, for example, there's a guy who took a bunch of money from investors to go look for a shipwreck and find gold. He found the shipwreck, he found gold, he hid the gold. The court said, you need to give the gold to the investors. The guy was like, no, don't think I will. Court said, you need to go to jail until you come up with the gold.
00:32:36.570 - 00:33:02.210, Speaker B: And the guy is still sitting in jail, to the best of my knowledge, to this day. Right. If the court can't find the property to send the sheriff after it. We're in the same position we've always been in with respect to immutable blockchain. So it's not all that different. But there are some places, like within clawback rules early on, where if I send money overseas, I have a certain period of time during which I can say, give me the money back. That doesn't work with distributed ledgers.
00:33:02.210 - 00:33:26.030, Speaker B: There are certain ways in which the system is quite different. And what we need to do is get step one done grounding this in our basic intuitions about what it means to own something so that we can get to step two. How is this way of holding wealth, how is this way of holding value distinct and different from both personal property ownership and intellectual property ownership?
00:33:26.530 - 00:34:16.510, Speaker A: Got you. Yeah, thanks. Following up on that, one thing that I was wondering is kind of like whether you think that there's any special enforcement or institution that you think should deal with violations of the law that are related to NFTs, or whether at least at the present moment, do you think that the courts and the current legal system is able to handle these kinds of issues? Because it seems to me, from what we've been talking about and from what you've been writing about regarding NFTs, that it seems to be that there needs to be, in a way, a new, or at least a heavily reformed institution to deal with this kind of newer form of property. So I was wondering if you could speak to that.
00:34:16.660 - 00:35:04.858, Speaker B: Yeah, I really think there's a big debate here. Before I tell you what I think, I just want to make sure that I say people who have got a lot of great points are on both sides of it. For example, a bunch of really good friends of mine are working with the Uniform Law Commission to make this draft new article twelve of the Uniform commercial code that would treat NFTs and other similar objects. This is very technical. As a subcategory of asset that we've seen before, which is a document subject to exclusive control. It's, for example, how we establish a lien, like a mortgage in your brokerage account. There's got to be one definitive record of who owns the stock.
00:35:04.858 - 00:35:51.598, Speaker B: And that definitive record is not even, by the way, held by your broker. Right. It's held by DTCC, by one major corporation that actually owns all stocks that are registered to it, and then it just assigns the beneficial ownership of it by basically having a massive single party list, which is how we had to do property like this before we had distributed ledgers but be that as it may, there is this fight saying we need to analogize NFTs to these controllable documents rather than to basic personal property objects. And that would be a new way of developing it and a new direction. I think it's actually unnecessary. I think the analogy, I'm often one saying, yes, we can develop new law. I wrote a whole book.
00:35:51.598 - 00:36:18.434, Speaker B: We can develop new law to cover new technology. And here's how. But I don't think we need to. In this case, the analogies are old enough and well settled enough in humans. We know, roughly speaking, what it means to own something. We know, roughly speaking, what it means to steal something. We know enough to be surprised and pissed when somebody else comes along and says, oh, yeah, I sold that to you, but cool story.
00:36:18.434 - 00:37:02.900, Speaker B: Every time you sell it from this point forward, you got to give me 5%, right? We know enough to be pissed when they say, okay, yeah, I know I sold you that, but cool story. It turns out that this object is not something I want anymore to exist. So what I'm going to do is wrap the entire smart contract in a new smart contract and deep six your connection so that essentially your digital object, your NFT, is voted out of the club. Think like a game, like magic the gathering, if anybody here watching has ever played or been a part of it, magic the gathering. And so they decide, oh, this old card, we don't want it anymore. So we'll just decide that the system no longer recognizes it, which very much can be done with wrapping and smart contracts. Those are surprises to people who own things.
00:37:02.900 - 00:37:48.274, Speaker B: And surprise is a way of measuring economic damage. When people who've invested in property or who've paid money for property are surprised by what they got, that is not a good outcome. And you'll see this in Sotheby's right, the auction houses that are trying to turn this NFT revolution into a major cash cow for them. They are desperate to establish basic, everyday personal property ownership in this stuff, because if they don't, nobody's going to buy their art for a billion dollars and they don't get a cut. And so you can see the economic damage that uncertainty about these legal rights causes. I think our best move, I want to say again, there are people who are very much on both sides of this. To me, the answer is really simple.
00:37:48.274 - 00:38:13.370, Speaker B: I think the people who are saying all of these things are so new that we can't possibly understand how to regulate them, and we can't possibly understand what law to develop at this point. What they're really saying is the same thing. Napster said you can't regulate that. It's the same thing that's been said. Virtual world creators said, you can't come into our virtual world and track money laundering. Like that didn't work. It's the same thing again.
00:38:13.370 - 00:38:49.574, Speaker B: Somehow law is supposed to wither away. Lawyers are supposed to go away after the advent of the smart contract, and it's all just absolute nonsense. This argument that we need new law, because the next argument is we need new law. Oh, and that law should take a very long time to develop and actually should never become law so that we remain entirely unregulated. And so my personal view is, no, the thing that we can do the fastest is to recognize how this is exactly the same as arguments that have been going on for decades. We have answers. We have law in place right now that can handle this perfectly well.
00:38:49.574 - 00:39:36.530, Speaker B: We do need to adjust some court decisions that were based on how computers worked in the 1970s and should not have anything to do with, like for example, the Ram copy doctrine. It's called the Ram copy doctrine because it was based on copying something from Rom into Ram. That has nothing to do with how solid state drives work at all. So why are we still using it? Things like that need to be adjusted. But my personal view is that the basic framework, what we need to do is iterate the law by common law analogy, by saying this is like that. And that's a pretty easy one. Beeple's NFT, the $69 million NFT is like the Mona Lisa.
00:39:36.530 - 00:39:56.810, Speaker B: There's a lot of law and a lot of thinking that goes on with that. But we know how that works out. We've got that law right now and it can meet people's settled expectations, permit people to get on with collecting, investing, using this stuff the way they thought they were going to be able to. Right?
00:39:56.960 - 00:40:33.160, Speaker A: Yeah. The body of common law goes back hundreds of years, at least back to Magna Cardi. So one would imagine that there would be some place that could be covered where this development. And of course we have common law in multiple countries, right? We have common law development in, of course, the UK and then the states. And so surely there must have been lots of cases or at least enough cases where we can find resolutions that were discussed in the past.
00:40:33.610 - 00:41:06.642, Speaker B: I think that's absolutely right. With NFTs attached to property, real property, right. Turns out Australia has been running a digital token system for know, we do this all the time. When we said, what's the problem with scraping know if I have a website. And you scrape it, and you cause a lot of server load and you drag down my server. What did we do? We dusted off the old law of scaring people's livestock. We said, okay, it's my chattel property.
00:41:06.642 - 00:41:26.534, Speaker B: The server is my chattel property. Even if it's a virtual server, the sheep are my chattel property. If you bother my sheep, that's called trespass to chattels. We know what the rules are. So if you overload my server, trespass to chattels, we know what the rules are. Like the basic technology. This is a major point that I make in the runaway technology book.
00:41:26.534 - 00:41:57.774, Speaker B: Law can keep up with technology because the change in technology usually doesn't matter, right? If a murder is a murder, whether it's by rock, stone, club, gun, machine gun, or lightsaber, it's a murder. The technology doesn't matter. Regulating cryptocurrency has been exactly like that. How do we regulate cryptocurrency? People ask, well, if you're using it as a currency, then we use financial controls. If you're using it as a commodity, we use commodity controls. If you're using it as a voting mechanism, guess what we use election law. If we're using it for NFTs.
00:41:57.774 - 00:42:21.558, Speaker B: Art law. It's not that hard. Blockchain is a way of keeping track of who owns what property is the law of who owns what. We've been writing down who owns what for hundreds of years. Think about your deed to your house, right? It's just who owns what written down in a really bad database. And then we upgrade the database, and everybody thinks, oh, wow, the law's got to change. No, it doesn't.
00:42:21.558 - 00:42:27.162, Speaker B: We just got a better database. Right? That's it. Yeah.
00:42:27.296 - 00:42:51.490, Speaker A: So following up on that, that's a really good kind of segue to a discussion I want to have with you about use cases, which I think this is kind of an interesting development that we're seeing. NFT. So the original uses for NFTs that people become very excited about is art.
00:42:51.560 - 00:42:51.794, Speaker B: Okay?
00:42:51.832 - 00:43:55.894, Speaker A: So there's this different nft gifs, or gifs, whatever you want to call them, that people made. And we have all this, a lot of excitement from the generation Z kind of group about NFT art. And that kind of gets a lot of those people into that NFT space. Now, what I find interesting that is developing in this NFT space is use cases that go way beyond the art realm. So I'll start with one seemingly exotic case and then kind of go on to other cases which make a little bit more sense to me. So one example is the use of NFTs to exchange data, personal data. I recently ran across an interesting article which discussed the use of NFTs to exchange genomic data.
00:43:55.894 - 00:45:21.714, Speaker A: And there's a leader in that space, name is George Church, and he's a professor at Harvard Medical School. And he actually had his own genome sequenced, and he minted an NFT from that sequence. And so now the NFT itself is his genomic data, and of course, he can sell it and exchange his genomic data as an NFT, which it's a very interesting type of use case that seems to be developing. Now, there are other ways to use NFTs which are a little bit less exotic, and those, to me, seem to be using NFTs as a way to record a deed for a house, for example. Right? So the fact that an NFT is non fungible means that you can generate just a unique token for anything, really. Right? And you can exchange that token on the blockchain. And the great thing about it is you don't have to go to your local courthouse to verify ownership of that physical object.
00:45:21.714 - 00:45:29.814, Speaker A: It's just right there on the blockchain, and it can't be lost or it can't be destroyed for the most part.
00:45:29.852 - 00:45:30.440, Speaker B: Right.
00:45:30.810 - 00:45:57.258, Speaker A: So I was just wondering if you have any thoughts about these different use cases for NFTs, especially the kind of data exchange use case, and what some of the problems might be in that area, and this idea of using NFTs for more practical purposes, like confirming ownership of physical objects. So any thoughts about those two areas be really appreciated.
00:45:57.434 - 00:46:56.126, Speaker B: Well, I should say here, I do a fair amount of consulting on the second question, and wrote well before NFTs came onto the scene in 2015, I put out an article called Bit property, which was very much about using cryptocurrency tokens to convey real property and real estate. And personal property and personal estate. There's a lot there, not just about real estate. And I'll take the genomic and data transfer stuff here in a second, because I think there's something I can say about property transfer that then gives us an abstracted idea that helps us understand this whole space. So it's clear that this is a killer app for things like real estate and personal property interests that use, right now, very complicated databases. So, for example, you buy a car, there's a security interest in your car. The bank needs to be able to come and repossess your car.
00:46:56.126 - 00:47:31.790, Speaker B: If you don't pay for it, they file a security interest with a state secretary of state or other filing office with one of these property registries so that you don't just take the car down the street and get another loan with that car as collateral. Like you could go to each bank down the street. Like, get a good enough car. You just go straight down, get a loan for each one of them saying, here, what collateral do you have? Oh, this car. The way that they stop that is they go and they look and they say, does this car have a previously filed security interest against them? Those kinds of databases are ripe for revolutionizing. They are hard to read. They're not national.
00:47:31.790 - 00:48:12.326, Speaker B: The consequences are quite severe if somebody extends a loan based on collateral, but somebody else has already had a security interest in it. Just like the same rule, by the way, obtains to deeds for physical property, right? You don't want to buy a house and not pay off the bank that has a mortgage on the house, because if that happens, you're going to have to pay off your mortgage and the person ahead of you's mortgage at the same time. Those mortgages don't just go away. That's why you always pay the other person's bank at closing. You have to pay their bank, not them. They'll take your money, go to Aruba, you want to pay the bank off. So systems like that really are ripe for reform.
00:48:12.326 - 00:49:03.914, Speaker B: And in the United States, the restriction is largely a little bit political, that these local filing offices have people with jobs. They don't want a distributed ledger system to come in and put them out of a job. I've seen some really cool ideas for dealing with that, like, why don't you turn this to be a semi permissioned blockchain and turn the filing offices into the nodes? And then they get a filing fee, and they run the nodes, and they're the ones that are permitted to write to the chain, et cetera, et cetera. But why does this work so well with security interests or mortgages or even basic property rights? Well, the basic problem is this. A lot of people have different interests in one piece of property. And as that piece of property passes from one person to the next, you want to make sure you don't miss anything. And that's what blockchains are for.
00:49:03.914 - 00:49:55.098, Speaker B: That is their killer app is perfect provenance, is moving something from one person to another and having a perfect, immutable record of how it got into somebody's hands. And so from there, from that perfect provenance standpoint, we just see all of these use cases exploding, including then genomic things like that. And this is why I don't know that we need NFTs for genome research, but personal data is a big one, because the problem with personal data is it could have been gathered from any one of a bunch of different sources. The laws of the United States are wildly and overly permissive regarding what companies are permitted to extract without our permission. We're on Zoom. They're extracting information from my face and from my expressions. That's not cool.
00:49:55.098 - 00:50:43.962, Speaker B: There's not much I can do about that. So the laws are just extraordinarily permissive in terms of what data managers and app creators and operating system creators for your smartphone, what they can extract from that device and use. And so it's almost impossible then to say, yes, but I do have some information you haven't gotten yet. I'll make it available to you, but only if you promise to use it, as I say so, and only if you pay for it specifically. And the way that we've done it up till now is we've taken that special information, we've put it in encrypted black boxes, and we've said, like, you can rummage around in the encrypted black box, we'll trace you. If you cheat by putting dummy data in there, that if that dummy data starts surfacing in what you do out there, we're going to sue you for violation of this contract. NFTs handle all of that.
00:50:43.962 - 00:51:16.754, Speaker B: We don't need contracts because we're going to treat this as property. If I just sell it, I sell it and I get paid up front, and then whatever happens after that point happens after that point, it's fully identifiable, we don't need to increase the supply at all. If I choose to have one piece of my data out there, if anybody else is ever caught using my data and they don't have the token, right, they're in breach. So it solves this provenance problem. It solves a supply problem. We want some of our most scarce data. We might not mind selling it.
00:51:16.754 - 00:51:32.842, Speaker B: We just don't want it everywhere. Right? And that lets us tag it to scarcity. It lets us track it. Yes. I sold it to you and not you. And so therefore, when it breaches, I know it was you and not you, right? We can track it far better. We can track its providence far better.
00:51:32.842 - 00:52:25.674, Speaker B: And I think, frankly, anything like that, any system of human arrangement where we need to track a resource from one person to the next, to the next, to the next. And determine that it determine perfect provenance where multiple entities are contributing in having like one person owns a mortgage and another person owns a security interest, the third person owns the house, but they're paying it down any circumstance like that. The provenance tracking function, the information function of this database technology is really going to rise to the forefront. We're going to see a bunch of killer apps, and that's where we're going to see real revolutions, where there's a crying need for it. I also have to say there are so many use cases that are just liquid crap that people just slapped an NFT on something and they think they're going to make a couple of million bucks. And what gets my goat is sometimes they do make a couple million bucks they shouldn't. Right.
00:52:25.674 - 00:52:37.550, Speaker B: This technology is not new, except where it's new. It's not new except where it does what it does best. And those are going to be where we see the really solid use cases coming to the forefront.
00:52:39.410 - 00:52:43.822, Speaker A: Well, thanks, Professor Fairfield, for your time. I really appreciate it.
00:52:43.876 - 00:52:45.410, Speaker B: Yeah, of course. Thanks so much for having me.
00:52:45.480 - 00:53:17.718, Speaker A: Yeah, my pleasure. I'll kind of end it there. And for those of you watching, go ahead and check out some of Professor Fairfield's work. He has some great books that are related to blockchain and NFTs. Runaway technology. Can law keep up and owned property, privacy and the new digital serfdom. Those are two really awesome books that I hope members of our audience will take a look at and own as their own property.
00:53:17.884 - 00:53:28.000, Speaker B: That's right. Buy the physical versions, not because it changes anything for me, but because Amazon wouldn't let me put a disclaimer in saying if you bought this online, I'm so sorry. Absolutely.
00:53:29.010 - 00:53:35.440, Speaker A: Thanks so much for Chainlink research reports. That's it.
00:53:35.890 - 00:53:36.810, Speaker B: Thanks very much, Jason.
