00:00:00.200 - 00:00:27.190, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the Anthony Cisino, and today's the 23 November 2022. All right everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies if my voice sounds a bit coarse and tired today. I just got home not too long ago from the NFT fest event in in Melbourne here I met a fair few of you loyal daily Gwei watchers and listeners. It was great to meet some of you there. Also gave my talk on censorship on Ethereum.
00:00:27.190 - 00:00:58.050, Speaker A: I think it went quite well the first ten to 15 minutes, or I guess like ten ish minutes I spent just giving background on what this censorship is and how it's a result of mev and going through all the related implications of that. I don't know if it was recorded. I think the talk was recorded. I'll have to dig up the link if you guys want to check it out. Nothing new, obviously. I talk about it on the refuel all the time, but I don't know. I felt like I gave a pretty concise summary that may be worth sharing, just more broadly for people who don't have all the moving pieces and don't know all the nuance to it.
00:00:58.050 - 00:01:30.444, Speaker A: But anyway, as I said, it was awesome to meet people there. But moving on from that. So Frank Shapiro from the block has some fresh news for us out about Genesis today. So he's quoting a letter that was sent to shareholders from Barry Silbert, shareholders in digital currency group, or DCG. So the quote reads, DCG will continue to be a leading builder. We weathered previous crypto winters, and while this 1 may feel more severe, collectively we will come out of it stronger. DCG has only raised $25 million in primary capital and we are pacing.
00:01:30.444 - 00:02:06.436, Speaker A: We are pacing to do $800 million in revenue this year. There's been a lot of noise over the past week, and I want to get in touch directly to clarify where we stand at DCG. We appreciate the words of encouragement and support, along with offers to invest in DCG. We'll let you know if we decide to do a financing round. Despite the difficulty, difficult industry conditions, I'm excited as ever about the potential for cryptocurrency. So bit of words of, I guess, confidence and encouragement from Barry here. And then he continued and gave us the meat by saying DCG currently has a liability to Genesis global capital of $575 million, which is due in May 2023.
00:02:06.436 - 00:02:49.670, Speaker A: So this is kind of the hole that we've been seeing, talked about this liability here, but the funny thing is, DCG owns Genesis, and they. They now have a liability to Genesis, so. And this isn't due till May 2023. So, I mean, that's not too far away. But still, it's not like it's due, like, tomorrow, right, or next week. So what. What will end up happening here is either they're going to find the money without having to raise it through maybe another DCG portfolio company, or they'll do some creative accounting in order to shift liabilities and shift assets around, or they're going to raise that half a million dollars, a half a billion dollars that I talked about yesterday, and that'll fill most of this hole in the other 75 million, I'm sure will be relatively easy for them to come up with.
00:02:49.670 - 00:03:32.792, Speaker A: Yeah, they could always negotiate, I guess, extensions on these liabilities as well. I'm not sure if, like, how hard this date is for that, but obviously, they'd rather pay these liabilities back rather than keep extending it out. So there are still people saying that they think there's a high chance genesis is going to declare bankruptcy. I'm not ruling that out, of course, but it seems like they're doing everything in their power to avoid this, and they're being, I guess, much more communicative than FTX was. I know Sam was putting out tweets during the whole FTX meltdown, but. But, you know, when comparing these things to each other, as I've been saying, I think it's really wrong to compare FTX, what happened with FTX, to everything. And I know that FTX isn't the only example.
00:03:32.792 - 00:04:01.320, Speaker A: Obviously, Celsius and Blockfi had fallen out as well. But just because there's been, you know, multiple instances of. Of these companies, of these founders saying everything was okay, and it turns out everything's not okay doesn't mean that literally nothing's going to be okay, or everything's going to die and everything's going to zero. I don't believe that to be the case. I think that's more doomer porn that people love to get off on these days, especially in the depths of the bear market. So I wouldn't put too much stock in that. But that seems to be the latest here.
00:04:01.320 - 00:04:28.384, Speaker A: Honestly, as I said, like, I still don't believe that they're going to file for. For bankruptcy. It seems they want to avoid that at all costs, because, as I've mentioned before, bankruptcy is not a process that you want to go down if you can avoid it. It is very lengthy. It means that third parties get involved. You lose complete control over the business, and the business pretty much has to start from zero again. It basically resets it, which is not a great outcome at a lot of overhead, a lot of distractions.
00:04:28.384 - 00:05:18.470, Speaker A: And I would think that at this point in time, DCG, as a company, wants to be shoring up everything, all their balance sheets, shoring up their operation, and getting ready to, or at least actively investing in the ecosystem, in the bear market, to profit from it, in the bull market, because that's the general rule of thumb, not just for, I guess, like, retail investors like you and I, but institutions, companies, VC's funds, whoever they are, the bigger players, they're in the same position that you or I are in right now. They're looking at this ecosystem and they're saying, okay, well, I have some money. I want to pick up some pieces here, because I think these pieces are going to be valuable going forward, and I think that's what binance is trying to do as well. CZ apparently spent some time in the Middle east trying to. To raise some capital. They're not for binance itself. People took it the wrong way, I think, and thought that binance needed to raise money.
00:05:18.470 - 00:05:40.050, Speaker A: They wanted to raise money for what they're calling a crypto recovery fund, which is basically a fund to pull, pick up the pieces. Right. Pick up the pieces of these teams that are building great things. But they may need some extra cash injection or a liquidity injection, because maybe they lost money in the FTX fallout. Maybe they didn't manage their treasury as well as they could have, or maybe just generally, they're running low on funds because they haven't raised in a while. Right. There's.
00:05:40.050 - 00:06:11.246, Speaker A: There's always that kind of scenario as well. So I think at this point in time, if you are in a strong position to pick up the pieces, then you want to remain in that position. And even if you're not in a strong position, you want to get yourself into that. I don't think anyone wants to be declaring bankruptcy if they don't have to. I just find that a rule of thumb. But if Genesis does, does end up declaring bankruptcy, then the way I see it is that I wouldn't be surprised, even though I think it's unlikely. I wouldn't be surprised, considering that we know the position that they're in right now, and.
00:06:11.246 - 00:06:30.190, Speaker A: But I do think it would. It seems like it would be the wrong. Wrong course of action. But obviously, I don't know the inner workings of Genesis and how DCG thinks about these things. But yeah, I feel like they're trying everything they can to avoid it. And I don't think. I've been saying, I don't think they're going to struggle to raise at least some money.
00:06:30.190 - 00:07:17.992, Speaker A: Maybe they won't hit their half a billion dollar goal, but there is capital out there that would be willing to go into a funding round here. And whether that's done for Genesis itself or maybe that's done for a DCG, and then because DCG has that liability, they pay that to Genesis. We'll see. We'll see how that plays out there. But, yeah, that's the latest on that one. Now, speaking of insolvency and bankruptcy and all that, that stuff, CZ actually put out a tweet that he promptly deleted today, basically saying that, or asking, you know, where is Coinbase storing all their BTC? Because all he can see, according to some sites that he was looking at, was that I think he said Coinbase had six to 800,000 BTC, whereas they should have a lot more than that. And then he deleted that tweet saying, and he followed it up with something else.
00:07:17.992 - 00:07:53.570, Speaker A: I can't remember the exact tweet, but that had Brian Armstrong replying with another tweet saying, if you see fight out there, remember our financials are public. We're a public company. Our being Coinbase, that we hold 2 million BTC, which is $39.9 billion worth as of 30 September, which is the last time they had to kind of go through their financials. So, like, when looking at these sorts of things, you've got to pick your battles here. I think what Czech did there was weird. I get, like, if he's trying to force Coinbase to do a proof of reserves, then fair enough.
00:07:53.570 - 00:08:34.868, Speaker A: But I think proof of reserves, while I've been in favor of it in the past, and I've thought it was a pretty good thing in the past, I think that it's not enough. Obviously, you can't just have proof of reserves. You need to have proof of liabilities. And it's impossible to prove liabilities on chain if those liabilities are off chain. Like if they're fiat liabilities, for example, or debt or anything like that. Like you can prove on chain things easily because you can point to an address, you can sign a message, and it's cryptographically proved, but when it comes to things off chain, you have to rely on promises on, I guess, like attestations from real world entities. Now, obviously Brian saying, hey, hey, our financials are public and we publish these and basically saying, well, these are truthful.
00:08:34.868 - 00:09:12.436, Speaker A: Well, we have to just trust him that this is truthful. Obviously, him and Coinbase could lie. Not that I think that they would. I actually think if they even attempt. If they lied, it would be the worst thing for them to do because they're a fully regulated us company that would suffer great consequences for lying because it would basically be defrauding people and, and, and breaking a ton of different regulations and laws. And Brian, you know, if he did that may end up in prison and Coinbase will definitely be finished as a company and Brian would definitely be out. So when you think of, like, worst case scenarios here, that's what it's like.
00:09:12.436 - 00:09:35.982, Speaker A: And people will say, well, SPF is still on the run. He's not arrested or anything like that. Well, I mean, SPF isn't in the US right now, right. He's in the Bahamas. I mean, like, if SBF was in the US at the time of FTX's collapse, he probably would have been arrested, or at least his mobility would have been severely limited because he would have a warrant out for his arrest. Right. Whereas in the Bahamas, it's obviously very different.
00:09:35.982 - 00:10:14.018, Speaker A: So that's what why I said, I think yesterday, I was saying about, like, pick the rumors that you. That, to pick the rumors that, that sound plausible if you want to actually dig deeper into them and potentially believe them, and don't pick just any rumor. I think that the rumors around Coinbase being insolvent are completely false. And we have a relative certainty that they are false because of Coinbase being a publicly public traded company here also, obviously in the US. And I do see the other side of things where people also like, well, Coinbase doesn't actually do proof of reserves at all. We don't know what addresses they own. We have to guess.
00:10:14.018 - 00:10:38.146, Speaker A: And look, that's always been the case with Coinbase. They have never publicly disclosed which addresses they have. They have a very complex setup from, from what I can tell in terms of cold storage and even their hot, hot wallets. So I don't think they're going to disclose that for their own reasons. Does that mean that they don't have the crypto that they say they do? No, not at all. I don't believe that for a second. And as I said, you have to pick your battles when it comes to these things.
00:10:38.146 - 00:11:02.982, Speaker A: So I just wanted to touch on that because I. Obviously, CZ gets a bit of credit because he called the FTX fallout. Right. He basically saw that coming. But I think that this isn't the first time he's made a mistake with the tweet. There's been two others that I can remember. The first one was when he suggested that bitcoin be rolled back in order to reverse a hack on binance, on binance user accounts.
00:11:02.982 - 00:11:32.054, Speaker A: And the second was when he assumed, or kind of put out the news that Uniswap smart contracts had been hacked when it had nothing to do with the Uniswap smart contracts at all. I believe it was a phishing scam or something like that. So he's not infallible, right? He doesn't pick everything. He puts out things that are wrong, you know, semi regularly, just like we all do. And I think deleting it is kind of weird. He could have. Could have just followed up the tweet and saying, you know, this is, this was a wrong tweet to say, you know, this is spreading unnecessary fud blah blah.
00:11:32.054 - 00:11:39.550, Speaker A: You know, here's a, here's the tweet from Brian. If you delete it, people still see it. They screenshot it. It's. It's never gone right. It's. Once you put it out there, it's out there.
00:11:39.550 - 00:12:10.836, Speaker A: So, yeah, anyway, moving on from that one on to some news about Alexei Purtsiev, the Tornado cash dev that was arrested in the Netherlands. We finally got some news here. So they kept him locked up for three months. And what did they charge him with? Well, they charged him with money laundering for writing Tornado, for writing some code, basically. Right? And there's more info in this thread that I link I in my tweet here from Aaron van Wydom here. Sorry, wodom here. Basically the TLDR of what they're charging him with and the reasoning for it.
00:12:10.836 - 00:12:53.000, Speaker A: So they're charging. Charging him with money laundering. And their reasoning is that because Alexei and a few of the other tornado cash devs owned the enough tokens to control or sway votes as part of the DAO. It defacto means that tornado cash was a centralized thing that was in the control of Alexei and these other developers. So the useless governance token that we all meme about actually is not so useless after all. And prosecutors look at this and are like, okay, well, you know, this token gives them control over things. In saying that the torn token does not give from, from my understanding, does not give anyone control over the tornado cache protocol itself in terms of its functionality and its usage.
00:12:53.000 - 00:13:40.462, Speaker A: It can't de anonymize anyone. It can't be used to change the rules of the protocol because it's of smart contracts, because they're immutable. So it can't be argued that he was logically argued that him and his teammates were in control of tornado cash, which means it was a centralized mixing service and not a decentralized one. And then, by extension, argue that because he was in control of it, he was enabling money laundering, and knowingly so doing that. So this is going to be a pretty long and drawn out case, I believe, because now that they've charged him with something, they're going to go into discovery, you know, and digging up evidence and trying to build a case against him so that they can win. Uh, whether it be a plea deal, I'm not sure how it works in the Netherlands. I'm sure they have plea deals, but whether it be in a plea deal or in court, and there's going to be precedent set here.
00:13:40.462 - 00:13:56.854, Speaker A: Um, now, I know the Netherlands obviously isn't the US. It's. It's relatively small to, to the US, but the Netherlands is in the EU and this has implications for the EU. And the EU is huge. Right. And Europe in general is very big as well. Obviously, not all of Europe is in the EU, but you get what I'm saying.
00:13:56.854 - 00:14:26.410, Speaker A: So some of the implications here, one is that it's got implications for daos. If a court sides with the prosecutor and says if the, you know, if a certain number of people, it doesn't matter if it's the team or other whales, own enough of the tokens in order to collude as a small group, then de facto, then by. By default, the protocol is actually centralized. It's not decentralized. Now, the thing is, I actually agree with that. I don't disagree with that. Right.
00:14:26.410 - 00:15:01.258, Speaker A: Because we've been saying that for a while, that if the token distribution is so bad that it's concentrated into just a few hands, and those hands can sway votes to whatever direction that they want the vote to go in, well, it's not decentralized then. Right. So that's the first implication that, funny enough, I actually agree with. Right, but. But it has to. So I agree with it into the extent that the Dow could actually change things on the protocol and change how the protocol functions. There are daos that can't actually change a lot, if anything, about protocols, even though they have token holders and token holder voting.
00:15:01.258 - 00:15:20.696, Speaker A: If it can't change the functionality of the core protocol, well, then you can't argue that the core protocol centralized because it can't be changed. It's immutable. Right. So there's nuance there, and that's the nuance that's gonna have to get, I guess, explained in court to a judge, of course, and everyone else that's. That's. That's involved in this whole process. But that, that's.
00:15:20.696 - 00:15:58.524, Speaker A: That the first thing. The second thing is, is the implication of having a token at all, really? Like, is a token a liability? I think, honestly, for some projects it is. And one of those projects, obviously, is tornado cash. And then, by extension, is governance in general a liability for a project? Should we be aiming for token, less, minimally govern government governance protocols or completely void of governance protocols? Yeah, in some instances, we should. I honestly think tornado cash should not have a token. It should be completely and decentralized with no dao attached to it, and it should just be a public good. That way there is no one to go after.
00:15:58.524 - 00:16:52.480, Speaker A: But because they issued the token, because they created a dao, they've opened, they being the tornado cash team, they opened themselves up to this. And I'm not saying whether it's right or wrong or anything like that, and obviously, I believe it's wrong to charge someone with money laundering for writing code, but, you know, they're not just doing it for writing code, they're justifying it by saying that he wrote the code, but he also enabled. So he was also in control of the platform that enabled the money laundering to happen. So because you can't just charge someone for writing some code, because that wouldn't fly, I don't think they'd be able to win that case. So they had to find other ways to do it. And, like, keeping him locked up for three months, they had a lot of time to think about what they wanted to actually charge him with, which is just the way it works in the Netherlands. I find that insane, that you can be locked up for three months without charge, and then he's also going to be sending another three months in prison because he didn't get bail, because he's considered a flight risk and all that.
00:16:52.480 - 00:17:45.526, Speaker A: I mean, obviously, there's a lot of political stuff going on, too, because Alexis is russian. I don't have to explain why that's political, for obvious reasons, but there's all that plays, that plays into it as well. So are we going to see, you know, I guess, like one of two things happening. Are we going to see more protocols launching without tokens and without daos and without any form of governance? I think so. It's not going to work for every protocol, of course, but the things that may be, I guess, like, or may run afoul of regulators and nation states more such as privacy mixes will probably fall into that camp. And two, I think we're going to see people take it more, take the concept of like jurisdictional arbitrage maybe more, more seriously. And what I mean by that is that people say, well, just go outside of the US and go to another country and do everything there and you don't have worry about it as much as you do in the US.
00:17:45.526 - 00:18:35.550, Speaker A: Well, the US is not the only place that you have to worry about these things when it comes to cryptography in general or kind of privacy preserving technology in general, from what I've read, the Netherlands isn't actually very good for that. They're, they've prosecuted people in the past in different cases for, for enabling privacy, for enabling mixing and things like that from, from what I've seen. So it's not just the US. It's very, it's probably a lot of different jurisdictions around the world. So if you can't play jurisdictional arbitrage with everything, then you have to default to one where if you want to develop these things, well, you put them out there on chain, completely immutable and decentralized, no doubt. No token, no way for you to profit from it, just pure code with incentives to make it work, of course. So obviously if you provide liquidity, you'll get fees for it.
00:18:35.550 - 00:19:00.908, Speaker A: That's fine. But, yeah, no token, no governance, none of that stuff. I think we're going to see more of that coming out. And honestly, like with tornado cash, I'm surprised no one has forked tornado cash and redeployed it on ethereum and kind of use that. And I would, it'd be funny to see if someone did that, if the OFAC would go ahead and sanction the new set of contracts because you could just rename it. Right. Could rename it to something else.
00:19:00.908 - 00:19:31.272, Speaker A: Maybe you rename it to hurricane cash or something, right. But then it would of a come along and say, well, these contracts are pretty much like the same as tornado cash. We're going to sanction these and it becomes a game of like, like whack a mole, so to speak. And I'm surprised people haven't done that. But what if they fork it and deploy it and then have no governance, no token, no dow, and, and, and then it's just out there. It's just a public good for people to use. Well, doesn't help any, the sanction side of things, obviously, because the sanctions would still exist.
00:19:31.272 - 00:19:52.356, Speaker A: But it does help on the, I guess, plausible deniability side of, well, no one actually controls it. There is no profit motive here. It is a public good. Anyone can use it and it's, it's decentralized and immutable. But you can argue both sides of the coin here, I think, when it comes to this stuff. But, but, yeah, this, this I guess, is the latest on, on Alexa. I don't want to ramble too much here.
00:19:52.356 - 00:20:17.578, Speaker A: It's sad. I'm personally really disappointed to see this. I'm not shocked at all because, I mean, they weren't going to just let him go, right? They're trying to set an example here. They're definitely trying to cozy up to the US as well. Given the, the nature of the, of the case. We're going to, I'm going to keep tabs on it, of course, but I don't think we're going to get any more answers for a little while now. So, yeah, I guess if there's a fund that spins up to, to fund Alexei's legal defense, I'll share it with you guys.
00:20:17.578 - 00:20:45.726, Speaker A: I haven't seen anything yet. If you've seen it, please share it with me. I'll definitely be sending some money his way because I believe this is a great injustice and I hope, I hope he can pull through. Through. All right, so a fresh update from Flashbots today, all about censorship resistance using, I guess like censoring relayers. This is really, really cool. So basically the blog post is titled the Cost of Resilience, and it's co authored by Elaine who? Alejo Saleh.
00:20:45.726 - 00:21:14.670, Speaker A: I probably butchered that name, sorry. And Hazu. So the TLDR is that there has, there is a new mev boost feature that has been introduced which allows validators to maximize Ethereum censorship resistance by building low mev blocks locally while still outsourcing the building of high MEV blocks. Using this feature carries an opportunity cost, the price of resilience, as most blocks are actually low MEV. However, forfeiting a little profit goes a long way in increasing resilience. Resilience is just another word for censorship resistance here. Right.
00:21:14.670 - 00:22:03.602, Speaker A: This is a breakthrough in the trade off between maximizing mev extraction and maximizing censorship resistance. So what does that mean in practice? Well, it means that if you're running mev boost and you're using a censoring relayer, or any relayer, really, you can set a minimum profit threshold here and it's been suggested to set a minimum profit threshold, or 0.05 ETH, and that's a minimum mev profit threshold. So that because most blocks low mev profit blocks, you can process those locally, you can build them locally, there's no need to build them through the relayers censoring or non censoring, which means that de facto by building them locally, it's non censoring. And the only thing you're giving up from the calculations that flashbots has run is 0.2% APR per year. So 0.2%
00:22:03.602 - 00:22:39.356, Speaker A: APR per year. If you weren't to do it, weren't to do it. So if you were going to make 5% APR in the year, you would instead make 4.8% by enabling this, which I actually think is a pretty amazing trade off, because not only do you still get to profit from mev by using censoring relayers, you also improve the censorship resistance of the Ethereum network, basically instantly. And by doing so, you improve Ethereum's credible neutrality. And logically, you would add value to ETH as a token. So what you lose in APR, you potentially make up for in an increasing ETH value.
00:22:39.356 - 00:23:23.204, Speaker A: So I actually think this is a genius, genius solution. I mean, it's not a permanent solution, obviously. It's something, just another tool in our toolkit to, to have censorship resistance or to improve censorship resistance here. But this, coupled with the open source builder, I really do think that, I mean, I don't want to call it, but like, it really feels like we've peaked in terms of the amount of censorship, that's the percentage of blocks that are engaging in censorship, or I guess they call it OFAC compliance on the network. I really do think we've peaked between 70 and 75%. We're going to need to wait probably a few months to see how it shake, how it shapes up. But if a lot of the validators enable this as part of the mev boost that they're running.
00:23:23.204 - 00:24:02.328, Speaker A: Right. And on top of that, if we get more non censoring relays, which, which are very profitable, I really do see that percentage coming down a lot of censoring blocks here, and this is before the protocol level, things like pbs and CR lists. So what an amazing thing that we're doing in the Ethereum ecosystem right now. Like, as I said when the, I think I said this the first time I saw it spoke about the OFAC sanctions, right. That I think they lit a fire under. The Ethereum ecosystem's asked to take censorship resistance much more seriously. And by doing that, it's, it's going to have a lot of positive externalities that are going to play out that otherwise wouldn't have.
00:24:02.328 - 00:24:44.596, Speaker A: And some of those include flashbots open sourcing their entire kit, you know, then try me v boost kit much earlier than they were going then they were originally going to do. And that enabled more builders to come online and made the builder network a lot healthier. And it made it so that we have, you know, censorship resistance builders, or relays, I should say, and the censoring run. So we have a choice there for users to choose. And now we have this new thing from, from flashbots where they basically come to this conclusion after doing research on it. So this is not just something that they came up with randomly. They did research on it, they put numbers to it, and they basically said to people, hey, if you put a 0.05
00:24:44.596 - 00:25:33.586, Speaker A: minimum mev profit threshold here, yeah, you'll lose a little bit of APR, but you'll increase Ethereum censorship resistance as a network. And they didn't imply that this would increase the value of ETH or anything like that. That's the, the connection that I'm making. But I think it's an important one because I really do think a lot of its value comes from it's sustainability, it's trustworthiness, it's credible neutrality and all the, and all the other stuff surrounding it that I've spoken about plenty of times, of course, but yeah, so if you are running mev boost on your validators right now, and you are running multiple relayers, you're not just talking to an uncensoring one, you're also talking to censoring ones because you're trying to maximize your, your profit. I would suggest setting this minimum kind of bid threshold here of 0.05. As I said, you will lose a little bit of APR on average, I think, to .2% a year.
00:25:33.586 - 00:25:50.658, Speaker A: But I mean, that's negligible, guys. Like, at least that's negligible to me. I don't think it's something that people should be concerned about. I think the censorship resistant properties that you get is well worth that sacrifice there. But anyway, check out this blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this was really great.
00:25:50.658 - 00:26:11.014, Speaker A: I loved seeing this announcement today. All right, so moving on to just a tweet from mario s here from Geth. He said, just started looking at z salt. Oh, man. Or salt, maybe the z silent there. I stuffed up the name and Cayman's work on beacon light clients and lite client sync. And I'm very excited.
00:26:11.014 - 00:26:29.878, Speaker A: Lite clients are the biggest. Zero to one change on Ethereum's roadmap. Beacon light clients are the first step enabling trustless lite clients on the consensus layer. Vocal trees will enable trustless lite clients on the execution layer. Just imagine every browser wallet being able to follow and verify the blockchain. No need to rely on trusted intermediaries to construct your transactions. No private order flow.
00:26:29.878 - 00:27:04.066, Speaker A: 100,000 more nodes verifying. That'd be amazing. I mean, I've talked about like clients before and about how they're a bit of a holy grail for the Ethereum ecosystem and it is on the roadmap. It is something that's being actively, actively developed. It is something that there are clients for. Helios from a 16 z and a client from I believe chainsafe or Nimbus, one of the two that brought out something on the consensus layer side. Obviously it's not complete until we have like client on the execution layer side, but that's coming with vocal trees, which I'm not going to say vocal trees are coming next year, but maybe the year after.
00:27:04.066 - 00:27:50.694, Speaker A: We'll have to see how that shakes out. But great to see the, the progress being made on the lite client front here. Now, I just realized I'm already at 27 minutes, so I'm going to try and get through the rest of these updates as quickly as possible. So coffee here introduced something today called Roll up Economics, which is a dashboard that they've been working on to track the economic health of arbitrum, optimism, loop ring, stocknet and more. By examining their revenues, operating cost and raw materials such as core data, usage dev activity and more, they can come to a conclusion about the activity of these networks. Now this is something that I've talked about a lot on the refuel and in the discord channel that I don't just looking like looking at one metric such as TVL, I like looking at a bunch of different metrics to see and visualize the growth of various l two ecosystems. And this is an amazing dashboard.
00:27:50.694 - 00:28:58.604, Speaker A: So it's got sections where it's got a, you know, roll up economics, optimism v two economics, arbitrary economics such as the profit that these l two s are making. So basically you can see here the, the profit that these l two s are making on a, I guess I could, there's a per month basis in terms of like pure profit from, from fees as measured in Ethio, then you have a profit split up between optimism and arbitram, publishing core data to l one. So how much they're actually spending for l one? Security cost in ETH cost publishing to l one on, on both optimism and arbitram there, and then a bunch of other metrics and charts here. So I definitely recommend checking this out because it's got things like monthly contract creators as well, you can see. And actually, the one thing I did want to mention here as well is that the theme is that this is all pretty much growing. Even though we're in a deep bear market, it's all actually growing and the trend is up. I mean, obviously it peaked in May and June because of the, the massive crash and the massive amount of volumes we saw, but since it came down a lot from there, it's actually been trending up again, which is really amazing to see.
00:28:58.604 - 00:29:21.030, Speaker A: So the Altus are growing by any measure of the imagination. Altus such as arbitrary and optimism are definitely growing. But you can check out this dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Another resource I came across today was something from Musedao called a Rolodex for Ethereum. They've introduced rollerdeath, an open source database of Ethereum addresses with names, tags and more. Now out.
00:29:21.030 - 00:29:43.902, Speaker A: With over 640,000 addresses already tagged, roller death enables builders, researchers and apps to quickly get metadata for a given address. The job of the database is to transform Ethereum addresses into something more human for eg, ethcmd.com uses it on the hot contract page. You can see a list of things here. So this is for developers and researchers out there. I just wanted to highlight that for you guys. You can go check this out.
00:29:43.902 - 00:30:26.264, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description, of course, but just moving through quickly here, there was a bit of drama around AavE and CRV and someone trying to short CRv over the last 24 48 hours. There's a thread here from Aave that you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I just wanted to highlight that because it does a good job explaining things. And also a thread here from Michael Bentley describing how Euler actually can be used to prevent bad debt scenarios that arose on Aave from, from this, this crv mess. So Michael explains this in his thread to the two factors are borrow, sorry, two innovations are borrow factors and protected collateral. You can read the thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:30:26.264 - 00:31:23.414, Speaker A: And another thing that curve that's got to do with curve is that they released something called curve stable today and here's an explain like I'm five from Alunara who said curve stable is an old fashioned CDP's that have a liquidation price. If your collateral goes below the price, then boom. Sorry, he's explaining the difference between old fashioned CDP's with hat, which have a liquidation price, and if your collateral goes below that price, then obviously you get liquidated. But, but llama, which is the new curve stable innovation, is a loan that constantly rebalances your collateral, such that if your collateral price dips, your collateral gets swapped for what you borrowed. So instead of a big bamboom when you're dead, your collateral slowly gets liquidated continuously so that as your loan nears liquidation price, your collateral is also enough to continue. Cover your death a debt, cover your death, cover your debt. And now this is a personal guess, but if you take a loan at $1,000, Ethan eats wicks from $1000 to $30, back to 1000, you probably won't be liquidated.
00:31:23.414 - 00:31:48.120, Speaker A: So it's basically, as Ali says here, makers cdp design with Defi saver baked into it. So it's pretty cool. I think it's a, it's a pretty cool little innovation here. I like the name, of course. Love all the llama ecosystem stuff that some, that, that's kind of formed around the curb ecosystem. And yeah, kudos to them for bringing out some, some new DeFi innovation in a bear market. But I'll link this in the YouTube description below.
00:31:48.120 - 00:32:43.780, Speaker A: There's a bunch of comments that you can read through to get more information about this. Of course, polygons out with another big bd related announcement today. So magic Eden, which is a NFT marketplace that first deployed to Solana, then to a theorem mainnet, is now on Polygon. So magic Eden, from what I saw, was really the one of the only things on Solana that managed to gain some sort of organic traction, especially during the NFT mania, because that's NFT stuff, right? Like people love NFTs and Solana NFT seem to have done okay ish, you know, relatively to, to other things on their network. Well, now, you know, Polygon has landed the magic marketplace on a magic Eden marketplace, I should say, on its PoS network here. So congrats to them for landing this, another big bd win for them. I'm sure magic Eden will be deployed to other networks such as arbitrary and optimism in the future.
00:32:43.780 - 00:33:28.494, Speaker A: But the fact that they went from Solana to Ethereum to the Polygon pos chain is pretty funny to me, right? Because usually projects don't like obviously start on ethereum and then go elsewhere, but they this time they started on Solana, but they still deployed to Ethereum and still deployed to polygon Pos. And as I said, I think they're still going to deploy to Altoos. So it's great to see that there's still that, I guess, like redeployment or cross deployment going on, even if the ecosystem isn't EVM compatible. Because magic Eden on Solana is had to be built for Solana, be built for Solana. It's not an EVM compatible network, so they had to actually build it again for ethereum, but obviously they didn't have to build it again for the Polygon POS chain, and it's much easier for them to redeploy. But the fact that they've put effort into doing this is really cool. So yeah, great to see this deployed to the POS chain.
00:33:28.494 - 00:34:21.198, Speaker A: And finally here an announcement from Maker. So rocker pool staked ETH or Reth has been deployed as a new collateral type on the maker protocol through the new ReTh, a vault type users can now generate DAi from Reth. The minimum collateralization ratio is 170%, a stability fee of 1.5%, and a debt ceiling of 5 million dai. Obviously that debt ceiling is quite small right now, but this is typical with new assets that are added and then over time the debt ceiling increases and you can borrow more. But this is huge for rocker pool. I have discussed, I actually discussed this a while ago when this was going through the voting process on Maker, but it's going to increase demand for our 8th, which will increase demand for Rockapool mini pools and generating obviously more re through the spinning up of all these new mini pools and obviously increase rocker pools share of the beacon of the validators on the beacon chain, which is always a positive.
00:34:21.198 - 00:34:33.214, Speaker A: But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
