00:00:00.280 - 00:00:34.114, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan Thesano. It has the 1 March 2024 hi everyone, let's get into it. So kicking off today's episode, we have some core dev updates. Now I've got a tweet here from Christine Kim summarising the latest all core devs call with a few reminders about Denkun. Obviously that's going live on March 13 here, less than two weeks away. So if you are someone who operates nodes on the Ethereum network, whether that be just a full node or a full node with validators, be sure to update all of your clients and also update your MevBoost software.
00:00:34.114 - 00:01:23.004, Speaker A: If you use mevBoost, which obviously the vast majority of the network does because, yeah, I mean, I think people typically forget to update Mev Boost and if you don't update it and then you come up and you're going to propose a block, you'll miss that block because you obviously haven't updated your software. So yeah, definitely don't forget to do that. There were a few discussions around Petra and the eips that are going to be included within it. As you guys know, there are a lot of eips currently slated for consideration, not for inclusion within Petra. And as Christine says here, lots of eips were discussed on today's all core devs call for inclusion in Petra, but there was little consensus on any of them. Most will be brought back for discussion on a future call, and the most controversial Petra eips discussed on today's call were related to account abstraction. Devs debated the merits of EIP 3072 versus 5806.
00:01:23.004 - 00:02:10.000, Speaker A: There was no clear consensus on either. And then a bunch of other kind of things that I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to kind of check out there. But I think the real kind of highlight here is the fact that I think, you know, the core devs have said, or at least a few of them have said they wanted to target like November for Petra, right? I honestly don't think that's going to happen. I think it's going to be like Q 120 25. I just don't see it happening by November. I know November is still quite a while away, but there are so many eips that are up for inclusion and basically none of them have really been kind of like concurrently said okay, we're including this, right? There are some of them that have better chances than others as I've discussed before, but there's been none where all the core devs are basically like, yep, 100%, we're going to, we want to include this and that's that. So until that starts kind of happening, no real movement can be made here.
00:02:10.000 - 00:02:36.832, Speaker A: Right. The client teams can't really do much because they're not going to, they're not going to build out an EIP or not going to implement one that's not going to get included in petrol. Maybe they, maybe they have time to do it, I don't know. But like they obviously going to prioritize the ones that are going to go into Petra. And as you guys know, when it comes to timelines, you know, you're always going to add like a few months to the, to the slated timeline here. So I could see this going live. Pectra going live probably more likely in Q 120 25 rather than in November or by the end of this year.
00:02:36.832 - 00:03:10.550, Speaker A: And as you guys know, December is basically a no go zone for upgrades because it's the holiday period, January to an extent as well, like at least the first half of January. So that gives us a similar timeline to, to Tankoon. And you know, I don't think that's necessarily kind of like a negative or a bad thing either, especially because as I said, there are a lot of eips that are probably going to get included within Petraeus and that means that we'll have like a bigger than usual upgrade, which would be nice. Now, as I said, we don't know which one's exactly going to be included. There are a bunch of different candidates. I'm hoping that the max effective balance EIP gets included. Like, I really am a huge advocate for that.
00:03:10.550 - 00:03:42.466, Speaker A: I mean, the two aips is that one, I think it's 7512. I don't remember the numbers off the top of my head. And then the inclusion lists one as well. Like those are the two top erp that I want to see included in Petra. I know there are a bunch of others that people want to see included as well, but, but they're my two picks and if we only get one of those, I mean, I'll still be happy if we get none of those. I'll be sad, obviously, but getting both of those will be like the dream for me, especially the max. I actually want the max effective balance increase more than the inclusion lists thing, even though as you guys know, I'm really big on censorship resistance and I think it is basically the whole point of what we're building.
00:03:42.466 - 00:04:17.634, Speaker A: But the max effective balance stuff has some really great properties, at least for the short to medium term. That allows us to kind of scale up the network even further. And going into a bull market, I think scalability should be taking priority, obviously, over everything else. But it just depends, you know, it depends on the complexities, depends what the teams and the core, core devs and researchers feel about this. So I'll keep you guys updated on that. But if you want to see the full write up or the full tweet, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of core dev updates, Josh Rudolph has another update on the Verge today.
00:04:17.634 - 00:05:06.482, Speaker A: So this week's agenda included client team updates, vocal shadow fork Testnet updates, code packaging in vocal and EIP 29 35. So updates on all of that will be in this tweet, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. As you guys know, the Verge is basically the next big thing within, within Ethereum, or at least like one of the major focuses going forward, especially into 2025. We're really trying to get this over the line because it has so many positive benefits for the network overall, especially when it comes to scaling the layer one. Like, that's what a lot of people don't understand, is that once we get these kind of upgrades in Verkle tree, statelessness, state expiry, we can actually start to materially increase the scale of l one for l one, not just l one for l two, right. Which is, you know, obviously fine. And we're doing that, and we've been doing that with things like ErP 4844 and dank sharding and all that sorts of stuff.
00:05:06.482 - 00:05:54.888, Speaker A: But the actual l one itself can be scaled even further because I know, you know, I always say that l one, you know, over the longer period, over the longer periods of time is going to be basically reserved for L2, settling their value there. For whales, it's not really going to be the end user chain. And I think that, that, that, I still obviously believe that view and I still think that's going to happen. But I think that even in that world, you still want to make it as scalable as possible, right? You still want to make the l one as scalable as you can without sacrificing the properties that we care about, which is obviously decentralization, resiliency, reliant, you know, sensor resistance, all the good stuff that we get by effectively limiting the l one. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't scale it when we can safely and that's exactly what we're trying to do with, with things like the verge. We're trying to make it so that we can scale it safely. And really the material impact would be increasing the gas limit, which is effectively Ethereum's block size.
00:05:54.888 - 00:06:22.622, Speaker A: I've talked about this before, and the fun thing is, is that, I mean, I'm just putting numbers to this from my understanding. Please don't quote me on these numbers, but I've seen estimates of like 100 x or more increase to the gas limit. And basically, once all these upgrades are going to the network here, and as I said, don't quote me on that. It could be less, it could be more than that. But like, let's just say it's 100 x. That's 100 x. The gas limit today, whatever, you know, whatever the gas limit is today, times by 100.
00:06:22.622 - 00:06:51.676, Speaker A: And then the layer one, and that's on layer one, which is obviously used by both L2s and by, by just regular everyday transactions. But that would be more. So kind of like for the, maybe the non blob transactions. Cause obviously L2s or roll ups are gonna be using blobs going forward. But I think what a lot of people maybe skip over is that L2 s aren't just, or roll ups aren't just kind of like the data that they store and the, the proofs that they store on Ethereum. They also involve things like bridges. Right? Like bridging in and out of these things.
00:06:51.676 - 00:07:14.022, Speaker A: I saw some people complaining on Twitter today about how it cost them a lot to bridge from l one to blast. Because I think the blast l two went live today and I was, I was kind of looking at that and a lot of it was just like, fud bullshit. Like they were actually just fake screenshots. A lot of them. The fees were not right. The fees were inflated by a really big amount, but that was still high regardless of that. And I was, and I was just looking at that and thinking about it and being like, yeah, okay.
00:07:14.022 - 00:07:52.606, Speaker A: I think one thing that's not focused on enough is the fact that, yes, you know, l two s are where users are going to be, but a lot of users still want to bridge from l one to l two s, even though you can actually just go from a centralized exchange to an l two. And I believe Coinbase does free transfers from their exchange to base, for example. So. But there is still a lot of capital on l one. There's a lot of people on l one, and they want to move to l two s, right? So by increasing the gas limit, that would reduce the cost of that, right? By increasing the scalability of l one, that would reduce the cost of that. And I think that that is going to be obviously a not like a permanent solution or anything like that. And l one is never going to be as scalable as the l two s.
00:07:52.606 - 00:08:31.610, Speaker A: But I do think that as long as we can get upgrades in that allow us to do this and allow us to expand the scalability of l one, not just the l two s, we should be doing that, of course. But anyway, enough of me rambling about verkle trees in the verge. You can go check out this tweet from Josh for a full breakdown on the latest updates of what's happening in that world. All right, so Hill Dobby has updated his ETH two staking dashboard and he's added a sub entity tags for entities that staked using another entity's contract. Below is a screenshot showcasing what shows up when you search for Kiln now. I mentioned Kiln yesterday. They are because they basically switched off of all of Geth and are 50% nevermind Geth now.
00:08:31.610 - 00:09:41.044, Speaker A: But what I really like about this new kind of feature on Hill Dobby's dashboard is that if you click into kiln, you can actually see where these people staked with kiln from. So you can see they staked from binance, us, ether capital, chorus one and Mev protocol. So they didn't just go go to like kiln itself, the entity, they actually went through these kind of like sub entities or third party entities, which is really great to see. And it really kind of illuminates things. And also he's said here to prevent double counting only this table, we include those sub entities, which is the kind of like each stake a table here as shown below, you will see them ranked by number of staked ethics without affecting the ranking once again because of the double counting that would cause so you guys know this dashboard, I've talked about it plenty of times before, and it still remains the best dashboard on e staking by far. Not just for like things like this, but also from the fact that I think that out of everyone monitoring anything not to do with staking within Ethereum, I think Hill Dobby is the only one who's been able to tag as many address like as many entities as possible. I think that there's other services out there, other kind of like data analytic platforms out there and other data and analysts out there who have looked at these things, but not to the extent that Hill Dobby has.
00:09:41.044 - 00:10:16.228, Speaker A: Has looked at it. I think that until Hill Dobby actually identified a bunch of stake that was through Coinbase, there was some undercounting going on with regards to Coinbase. Hill Dobby was able to find that. And Coinbase is notoriously difficult to monitor because they just move their wallets around all the time and they actually try to obfuscate it all for obvious reasons. Right. But I mean, I don't know how much material impact that would have on their security by doing that, but Hill Dobby obviously has been able to identify that. But like, he goes above and beyond and he's really quick to update this dashboard and keep it, kind of keep it relevant as the Ethereum staking and restaking ecosystem obviously now continues to grow here.
00:10:16.228 - 00:11:01.200, Speaker A: So yeah, kudos to him for putting these new features on his dashboard here. I don't know if the link can to the dashboard, but you can find it on his doing analytics profile. But I'll link this little tweet thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so I speak, I've been speaking a lot about this ETH Investors club kind of initiative that started a few months ago and how they've issued their first edition, which is now free to read. And I'm sure a lot of you have gone to the website, which is ETH Investors club, and kind of read it there, but you can also mint an NFT on the website. And what that NFT is going to give you access to is a physical edition of the reports you can see here. It's an actual physical magazine, which I can't wait to get my hands on, definitely, because, like, I love physical things.
00:11:01.200 - 00:11:40.648, Speaker A: Like, you know, the funny thing is people always ask me, like, why aren't you, you into nfts? You know, why don't you collect nfts? You're really into like, physical collectibles. Like, obviously all my figurines and I'm also into a bunch of other kind of things. And I say to them, it's because like, I just have a much stronger connection to like, the physical world, obviously, and the physical things that I have in physical collectibles than I do digital collectibles. Not to say I don't see value in the digital collectibles, of course I do. But, like, for me, I'm just like physical first. And that's why I love the fact that I'm going to be able to get my hands on like a physical copy of this while also being able to do so by buying an NFT. Because as you see, if you go to the website here, you scroll down, you can actually see that there's two different nfts you can mint.
00:11:40.648 - 00:12:10.452, Speaker A: There is the one on the left here for 0.0398 and the one on the right for 0.598 which are both open editions. They end on the 23rd, 28th of this month. So be sure to get your kind of um, get your thing in there. Uh, but essentially the one on the left will give you basically the um, the, the physical magazine. It's got uh, NFC ship chip, NFC chips for future drops and includes one season of the uM, Ethereum Investors club community membership, which is.
00:12:10.452 - 00:12:31.178, Speaker A: They're basically paid group, essentially. Uh, as I said, the report is free, but there are exclusive groups that you can pay to join. Uh, and kind of like be amongst a group of people who are like sharing Alpha with each other. And then there's the other issue, which costs a lot more at 0.598, which is a huge amount actually right now. What is it, 0.59? It's like half of 34, more than half of 3400.
00:12:31.178 - 00:13:02.100, Speaker A: So that's not, not a cheap addition. But this gives you two seasons of access to two seasons of that club and produce a credit in, in the second edition of the report and a founders club NFT as well, along with all the other perks there. But you can mint either edition, obviously the normal edition is much cheaper there. But as I said, you don't have to actually mint them at all. The report itself is free and a lot of these proceeds are going to the protocol guild as well. As they've announced previously. I've announced that all of the share that I was going to get is going to the protocol guild as well.
00:13:02.100 - 00:13:44.142, Speaker A: So you are helping Ethereum development too by kind of minting these things. But like, I'm not telling you to go mint them or anything like that. But if you do want the physical edition, the only way to get it is by minting an NFT. Otherwise you can read the report completely for free right now, which I'll obviously link in the YouTube description below for you all to check out. All right, speaking of nfTs, I've been talking about this EIP 4844, 1 minute animated short that Trenton van Epps has been working on with Nouns Dao the line studio and stateful works. I think that I mentioned that there is going to be an NFT for this video a little while ago and that you could go sign up to the waitlist. So the mint for this NFT is going to open on March 11 and run to March 25.
00:13:44.142 - 00:14:27.818, Speaker A: All proceeds from this are going to the protocol guild, of course, and the video itself, I believe, comes out on March 11, or the animation comes out on March 11. And in this tweet throw, there's a bit of a teaser of what the animation looks like and kind of like the characters involved. I'm really looking forward to this, even though it's only a minute long, I'm looking forward to it because we haven't had something like this in Ethereum before. We have another like a full blown professional animation studio making an animation for Ethereum, let alone for an EIp. Like this animation is actually for EIP 48 44. All about that one EIp and how it's kind of obviously going to affect Ethereum and how it's something that we've been working on within Ethereum for quite a while now. And then there's an NFT obviously to go with it as well, which you can check out the details for.
00:14:27.818 - 00:14:44.216, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below. You can subscribe to this to get notified, but I can't wait to mint NFT here. I can't wait to see the animation. And as I said, like all the ETH proceeds are going to the protocol guild and this will be available to mint on Zora, so not ETH main or anything. Zora is an l two. So. So yeah.
00:14:44.216 - 00:15:11.438, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out this post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I tweeted out this chart from growthepie xyz today, and it's basically just a chart of the L2 user base hitting an all time high. Now, this shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone, obviously. Layer twos are growing rapidly, are on fire as the market heats up. They get more and more growth, of course. But if I actually go to the grow the pie website here, you can see it's on the front page.
00:15:11.438 - 00:15:36.934, Speaker A: So yeah, all time high L2 user base at 3.12 million. The previous high was three, 3.092 million, which was set December 25, so Christmas day. And this obviously was set a few days ago. This is actually a weak lag, I think, on this right now. Now you can show ethereum as well and kind of see that the ethereum user base coupled with the l two user base is also at an kind of like a high two there.
00:15:36.934 - 00:16:11.440, Speaker A: But I just wanted to highlight the grow the pie website again for you guys, because this is still the best website to keep up with. Basically all of the different metrics of all these different l two s, such as things like transaction count, stablecoin market cap, which is also growing rapidly. Total value locked, of course, fees paid by users, you know, fees paid to l one. You know, there's so many kind of stats here. I mean, I'll obviously link the website in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out. But what I really wanted to focus on was kind of like the fact that we are at these all time highs here, but we ain't seen nothing yet, guys. Like, we really have not seen anything yet.
00:16:11.440 - 00:16:55.098, Speaker A: I think that when it comes to like l two s, every step change in scalability, every step change in fees and like material change is going to lead to a increase in activity. Like I'm pretty, pretty big increase in activity, maybe an even order of magnitude increase in activity. Because if you kind of look at what's happening in under two weeks, we have AIP 48 44 going live. And as I talked about yesterday, when it comes to the cost reduction on the roll ups themselves, it stands to be pretty substantial, at least, you know, until that capacity gets filled up again. But the really cool thing about blobs is that we can actually just increase the size of them and the count of them with hard forks going forward. And it's really easy to do. It's literally a variable change from what I understand, like a one line code change sort of thing to get this into the network.
00:16:55.098 - 00:17:33.756, Speaker A: So we can just keep materially scaling up these things and keep those fees low for users, which is just going to bring more and more users on board. And as we know, you know, entities like Coinbase have their own l two with base and they're going to be pushing more and more of their users to base. And as the market heats up, there's going to be more and more new users coming in and they're going to want to do things on chain. And you know, the, the crypto native social network farcaster that I've talked about a lot, obviously on the refuel is, is using base as well. They're doing a lot of things in there with their frames feature. There's a lot of other on chain stuff that they're kind of like doing with the, with the, the meme coins as well. Like there's this big meme coin on there called Djen and everyone like tips each other in it.
00:17:33.756 - 00:18:02.138, Speaker A: So there's a lot of stuff going on across the kind of spectrum on the l two s, but that's just like one. I'm just talking about base there. Then you have like all the other ones. And I mean, I'm going to talk about arbitrum in a sec, but you have arbitrum one, which is just killing it on the defi front. Op mainnet is doing really well on that front too, with a bunch of other kind of things. I mean the op stack is, is definitely more kind of, I guess like heteronious than homogeneous because of the fact that people are building their own chains more so than they are using arbitrams. Kind of orbit stuff stack.
00:18:02.138 - 00:18:32.630, Speaker A: People are building orbit and they more so doing kind of like gaming things. But like the op stack really has been top of mind for people. You have obviously stark net, you have zksync, which is really big. Then you have polygons pos chain which isn't a L2, but will be a ZK EvM volidium in the future. I know it's taken a while for them to do that conversion, but they're obviously still going to do it. They have their own Zkvm that's live as well. They have the ag layer stuff that they're doing now, the aggregation layout, which is gonna help a lot with the fragmentation of liquidity and all that sorts of stuff.
00:18:32.630 - 00:19:05.184, Speaker A: So really we're kind of still at day one, we're still early when it comes to L2s, guys. I know, like, and I'm not talking about the tokens, like, please don't think I'm talking about the tokens here because I don't know when that L2 episode is going live with that I did with bankless. It should be going live soon. I mean, it's been a little while since, since I recorded it with them, with the, the other panelists on there. But like, I've said this a lot on that episode, and you'll, you'll hear it when you listen to it. But essentially, like the tokens just have gotten so ahead of the activity that they're just pricing in this growth already. Like the market is forward looking.
00:19:05.184 - 00:19:50.274, Speaker A: Right? So even though we may be early on the tech side of things, that doesn't necessarily have to reflect in the prices as the, as the growth continues, because maybe it had already priced it in, right? And that's always the age old question when investing, like is this priced in? And you can never really tell if it's priced in or not. And in a bull market, a lot of that stuff goes out the window because there's just so much demand coming in to offset any of that. But if you're talking about like a, let's say a two year time horizon, we go through the whole bull market and then we probably get into another bear market at that point. We're talking about that time horizon, then it's very, very hard to know kind of what's going to happen with the token. So that's why I don't comment on these tokens, especially because I'm also an angel investor in a lot of them and I don't want to be shilling my bags to anyone. I actually actively fud my bags. You'll find you hear me do that in the L2 episode I did with bankless.
00:19:50.274 - 00:20:43.706, Speaker A: But my point of saying we're early with L2s is, is the user base, because like, obviously this user base here, the 3 million or whatever it is, that's not unique humans, right? That's addresses. We don't know how many unique humans are on there because we don't do KYC on chain, right? Like, and even if we did, it probably wouldn't give you, I mean, it will give you a semi accurate picture, but it wouldn't give you the most accurate picture. So you could reasonably say that there's probably way less than 3 million that are using like actual humans that are using L2s. And obviously there are way more than 3 million people in the world. So as that's why I said that every time we reduce the fees even further and further, we open up these l two s to more and more people, to more and more activity, and then we keep on boarding them as time goes on and over the next few years. But, and that's why I'm saying that we're still early today because we still have so many people left to on board, so many people left to bring on chain. Even though it may feel like, you know, we're not early because the prices are where they are.
00:20:43.706 - 00:21:05.678, Speaker A: I mean, crypto is no longer that, you know, that small, especially BTC. Trillion dollar market cap. ETH is approaching half a trillion dollars, right? It's not small. You wouldn't say that you're early to BTC and ETH especially. I mean, I think that ETH is going to perform really well. I think that it's going to be really valuable over the long term. But when people say early, I think they're expecting like a hundred x or a thousand x growth of the asset that they buy.
00:21:05.678 - 00:21:39.092, Speaker A: You're not going to get that from ETH. Or BTC, like maybe you'll get that from some kind of random thing that you buy or some meme coin or some gem that you find. I mean, the, it's, it's very hard to do that though. But when it comes to the actual user base growth and the actual on chain usage growth, that definitely still has like 10,000 x at least to go from here, that, that's still going to explode in growth. But when it comes to the actual asset prices themselves, like, it's. Anyone get guess a lot of the time, to be honest. But like, some of them, like BTC and ETH, definitely couldn't be considered early, especially because BTC has an ETF now.
00:21:39.092 - 00:22:14.200, Speaker A: It's fully integrated in the tradfi system. Well, at least like it is going to be fully integrated in. It obviously isn't yet, but it's there. It has that product and that really was kind of like the final boss there. But yeah, I think that it's good to separate those two things, user base and kind of token prices here. So when it comes to the user base, definitely lots of growth ahead, token prices, who knows? Maybe there's lots of growth ahead because it's a bull market. But then if we go into like a bear market again, or when we, I shouldn't say if because we definitely will go into a bear market at some point, we go into a bear market again, like who knows what's going to happen from there? And actually who knows who the actual winner is going to be of these l two s as well.
00:22:14.200 - 00:22:56.964, Speaker A: Because if you really look at it, like right now, I would say that albatrum one is probably the leader of the l two s. But the thing is, is that there are some l two s that have come out of nowhere recently and been able to gather a lot of market share. And we haven't even scratched the surface of what some of these can do. Like for example, blast went live today, as I mentioned, and what blast is actually doing in order to, I don't know if I call it a vampire attack, but in order to like get a lot of activity to their l two is that they've just gone full degen mode about it. Like they have so many incentive programs running. They've basically locked people in as well by saying that even if you leave, you sacrifice all of the points that you've been farming up until the launch, and that means you won't get an airdrop. So they're employing all of these strategies in order to keep capital in their ecosystem and then get more capital in.
00:22:56.964 - 00:23:13.650, Speaker A: So the game is far from over. Guys. Like, just because arbitrary one is the biggest today and they've been around for a while and they've done a lot of great work to get there doesn't mean that they're just there and that's it. Like, and then they're not going to be challenged. Of course they're going to be challenged and that is obviously good for everyone. Competition breeds innovation. Competition is better for the end user.
00:23:13.650 - 00:23:47.896, Speaker A: But that's why as well that I say it's like, it's very hard to invest in a lot of these things because you don't know who the winner is going to be. So you're taking a lot of risk doing that. And a lot of people have already done this because the l two s are obviously very hot and it's a very hyped thing. But in terms of like holding it for the long term, like, I don't know, you know, I don't know what that's going to kind of look like and I don't know what the winners are going to be like. I couldn't tell you which l two is going to win in ten years. Like if you look ten years out, I can't tell you which l two s are going to be the biggest. I mean, I can give you a reasonable kind of like assumption based on how long some of them have already been around for and how, how they've kind of conducted themselves.
00:23:47.896 - 00:24:29.618, Speaker A: I mean, I could say that I definitely believe like arbitrum op Polygon and maybe starknet, I think ZK sync, maybe those, I would say, but there are so many others out there that are building a lot of great tech. They have great teams behind them, but like, they haven't even gathered much market share yet. So we have to kind of like wait and see what they do and how they come to market and stuff like that before we can even kind of have any kind of confidence about this. And ten years in this industry is so long. Like, I mean, even me saying those, those teams that I said that I have relative confidence that they'll be around in ten years. Who knows? You know, they may not be, they may be around, but maybe they're really small compared to these other things. We just don't know at this point in time.
00:24:29.618 - 00:24:57.136, Speaker A: But anyway, enough rambling about l two s there. I just great to see this all time high on user base today and I expect this to continue growing exponentially, especially in the bear, in the bull market, not the bear market in the bull market. All right, so as I said, I wanted to talk about arbitram. So arbitrary. Had a pretty big announcement today. So they have teamed up with Robinhood, which is an investing app that's been very popular in the US for quite a while now. You guys know Robin Hood.
00:24:57.136 - 00:25:49.542, Speaker A: There was a bit of drama around them during the, the COVID years, I think, like 2021 or 2020, the whole GME thing, the meme stock trading thing. And Robin Hood has dipped their toes into crypto a bunch of times. But they also went back out of the pool once the SEC sued Coinbase and binance over a bunch of tokens that they said were securities. Robin Hood famously delisted those, and that was kind of the bottom for a lot of these tokens as well, which was hilarious looking back on. But what Arbitrum has, has done is basically that they're bringing the arbitrum trading experience to Robinhood. So you can see here that Robinhood sites Arbitrum one's low transaction costs, fast transaction speeds, and bustling community as requirements for their new cross chain swaps feature and ecosystem campaigns that we, that will be running in the future. So essentially, I think what this collaboration wants to do is get Robinhood's user base to trade on chain using Arbitrum's kind of technology here.
00:25:49.542 - 00:26:55.076, Speaker A: I'm using the arbitrum ecosystem or arbitrum network, which is something that I think I've predicted a little while ago, where I said that a lot of these centralized exchanges or like, centralized services, they're going to want to come on chain, and they're also going to want to push users on chain to trade assets because they don't want to have those assets, you know, trading on their platform for regulatory reasons. And I said this about Coinbase, where I said that Coinbase may not want to list a lot of these assets because of the fact that it might, you know, get them kind of stung by the SEC again, or they don't feel comfortable listing them, but then they can push people to base and they can say, hey, you can go trade these assets. It's available on base. And I think the same thing's going to happen here with Robin Hood, where they may not necessarily list the assets themselves under their own kind of Robinhood umbrella, but they'll have an integration with the arbitrum network or the Albatrum one network, where essentially you can swap and trade these assets, but you're actually not trading them on Robin Hood's platform. You're just, Robinhood just is acting like a front door, so to speak, or just hosting, like an interface for you to trade on arbitram one. I do think that is the future of. Of trading, guys.
00:26:55.076 - 00:27:36.000, Speaker A: Like on chain is where it's at. And I think that these, these centralized exchanges and services, they know that outside of being a fiat on and off ramp, a lot of the trading definitely has been moving on chain. And a lot of people prefer to do stuff on chain, and even these services prefer it, too, because it means that they don't have to necessarily do a lot of the really cumbersome KyC AML stuff they have to do. It's less overhead for them, but obviously, they want to keep that value in house. They want to capture that value. So the way it would work with Robinhood, I assume, is that they would still slap a fee on top of it, like how metamask swaps, slaps a fee on it, where essentially, if you do a swap using metamask swap feature, you're paying a 0.8% fee on top of whatever fee of the pool that you're using, like at 0.3%
00:27:36.000 - 00:28:04.406, Speaker A: with Uniswap, for example. And I'm assuming Robin Hood will be the same, where it's like, defeat probably will be even higher, where they essentially give you access to Arbitrum's entire list of assets that are on there that are trading. And if you want to trade using the Robinhood interface, you. You can pay like a 1% fee or something. So that's how they still get their take. And I'm sure Coinbase is probably working on an integration like that as well, where essentially they host assets, that they become a front front kind of like door and interface into base for users. And people can use that, and then they'll just take a fee from that.
00:28:04.406 - 00:28:40.848, Speaker A: So that's how they stay in the game without having to actually have the assets kind of like hosted on their platform. It's a very smart way to do it, I think, and it's very, very good for on chain stuff. So just great to see that Robinhood and arbitrary have teamed up. I know that people have different opinions on Robin Hood and don't think that they're, you know, crypto natives or defi natives or whatever, but the thing is, is that it doesn't matter to an extent, because they have such a large user base, and by bringing this user base on chain, it actually just net benefits us. So really the entire. And it also sends a signal to all these other trad five platforms, or the ones that have been in trad five, maybe dip their toes into crypto that you need to get on chain. Like, on chain is a new online.
00:28:40.848 - 00:29:07.996, Speaker A: It's like when everyone was falling over themselves to, you know, get their own domain, domain name and build a website right for themselves and get, get online, get an email address. That's the same thing that's happening here. Like, I think there's going to be a fomo of people getting on chain. You need to get on chain. Like people. Your users are going to be like, hey, are you on chain? Right? Can I do stuff on chain? Can I trade these assets on your platform? And that's going to cause a snowball effect and that's just going to bring so many users into the ecosystem, especially into l two s. But anyway, you can go read the full announcement here.
00:29:07.996 - 00:30:07.776, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, so speaking of l two s, or staying on the topic of l two s, Robbie Ferguson, one of the co founders of immutable, tweeted out this thread today that I just wanted to talk a little bit about. So he said, right now you can download gods unchained on your phone, sign up with immutable passport using Apple in less than 3 seconds, and invisibly receive and trade items that can never be taken away from you. The user experience required to onboard a billion players onto real property rights is here. And the reason I wanted to talk about this a little bit was because this is the abstraction that I've been talking about for years now. And this abstraction is being done at l two, right, on immutables, l two infrastructure here where they've got this full stack of integrations happening where they're bringing in users and they're abstracting away all of the kind of crypto jargon, all of the complex crypto stuff, and basically saying, hey, you want to play gods unchained? Cool. Get on your phone, sign up with immutable passport, which gives you a wallet, and then you can now trade and receive items that can never be taken away from you and bam, you're ready to go.
00:30:07.776 - 00:30:32.480, Speaker A: There's none of this. Okay, get some ETH, go bridge onto Ethereum mainnet or bridge onto the l two. You know, get. We'll get a wallet before you can. You can bridge because you need to set up a wallet in order to receive funds, right. But metamask or any other wallet or whatever it is, you know, put up with transaction fees, of course, and read all this weird crypto jargon that you're not used for, used to, like, what's a gas fee? Right? None of that. Like this is abstracting away all of that and just giving the user what they want.
00:30:32.480 - 00:30:56.534, Speaker A: And what they want is to play gods unchained. That's, that's the heart of it. They're, they're downloading the app because they're like, I want to play gods unchained. They're not. And, and they're not downloading it being like, oh yeah, I want to play this game, but hey, I want to jump to a million hoops before I do that. No, they're expecting a similar experience to what they get in the web two world, where today when you download an app on your phone, as I've said before, it's like a couple of clicks before you basically do anything. And that's like the standard now, it's a couple of clicks to do anything with these apps.
00:30:56.534 - 00:31:28.818, Speaker A: Signing up is a bridge. You can sign up with Apple, with Google, with a bunch of other things. Now when it comes to crypto, you just sign up with any existing ethereum wallet or they'll create one for you, like what immutable passport does here. So having that kind of full stack integration and that control over that stack as well, in order to, to maintain it and to upgrade it and to add features to it, is a really powerful primitive that the l two infrastructure gives you and the l two kind of like roadmap gives you and allows you to do so. Yeah, I just wanted to highlight this thread. I mean, you can read the rest of the thread. There's only a few more tweets here.
00:31:28.818 - 00:32:07.912, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But I do think that when it comes to getting on chain, gaming companies are still going to want to come on chain as well. I know that recently the gaming kind of ecosystem has gone through a bit of a rough patch. I don't know if you guys have seen there's been a lot of layoffs in the kind of gaming industry, I think because people over hired or companies over hired during the COVID years, like a lot of tech did, and they're laying off a lot of people, but they don't seem to have abandoned their NFT metaverse kind of like crypto ambitions, even in the face of a lot of the hate that they're getting. I don't know if you guys see this, but the people that are not in crypto, they really like. I mean, these are the vocal people, but they really, really don't like NFTs. They really don't like crypto games.
00:32:07.912 - 00:32:38.256, Speaker A: And I think that's born out of a misunderstanding and it's also born out of a, hey, we haven't really made anything like too spectacular yet, or haven't really had like a breakout crypto game that's reached the mainstream audience and that's brought them in. But we will. We will. We definitely will. And I think that attitudes will change over change over time. But yeah, it's great to say that the gaming industry hasn't completely abandoned crypto and that is still kind of doing stuff within that ecosystem. All right, so I just wanted to shout out here, I think it's the last l two thing to talk about.
00:32:38.256 - 00:33:06.122, Speaker A: I have spoken about fluent a bunch of times before. It's a new l two building a zk wasm l two environment on Ethereum. Just a disclosure, I'm an advisor to fluent. But Narof here had a really great thread today explaining what fluent is. And like, why does it matter? Why do we want it? Why do we care about it? So if you guys been wondering about fluent and you haven't been satisfied by my explanation of it, you can go check out this thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. It's a really, really great explanation of what it is.
00:33:06.122 - 00:33:32.868, Speaker A: So kudos to Narof for putting this out there. All right, finally here, Rabbi Wallet is finally officially available on the iOS App Store. I did mention a few weeks ago, or maybe a couple of weeks ago, that there was a fake rabbi wallet on the iOS App Store. Not anymore. That's gone. And now the real one is there. Now please, please do not download this app from anywhere except or do not go follow any links to this app from anywhere except the official Rabi website, which is at rabi IO.
00:33:32.868 - 00:34:07.478, Speaker A: It's Rabby Dot IO. You can find the link in the YouTube description below. Go there, click the App Store link that's here, or scan the QR code, and then you can download it onto your phone and just make sure that you have the right one. Because if you're doing things something like importing your seed phrase, if it's, if it's a fake one, then yeah, your funds are gonna get drained. Right? You just have to be careful about these things. Whenever you're messing around with your seed phrase, you be really careful with it. Normally, what I do, if I'm kind of trying, if I'm shifting wallets, honestly, I'll just abandon my old wallets and just start again and I'll just move assets into that wallet once I've set it up.
00:34:07.478 - 00:34:29.358, Speaker A: I don't like messing around with seed phrases at all. Like it's, it's not great. I mean, I don't want my seed phrases touching a computer at all. But there, there is kind of like a necessity here, I think, as well because of the fact that people don't want to have to do that. It's very cumbersome and you just kind of like need that experience. But anyway, regardless of that, yeah, it is available now on iOS App Store. It has been available on Google Play.
00:34:29.358 - 00:34:51.251, Speaker A: It's available on desktop, on Windows and Mac and as an extension. So, yeah, I mean, I still consider Rabbi to probably be the best wallet in the game right now. That's just such a great wallet has so many really great features. So yeah, if you haven't checked it out yet, now's your chance to do so there. But I think that's going to be it for today's longer than usual episode. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:34:51.251 - 00:34:56.883, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone. Bye.
