00:00:14.970 - 00:00:35.240, Speaker A: We are finally ready. Sorry for the short delay. There was a couple of technical problems. Yeah. My name is Gustav Arentoft. I'm the co founder and CEO at Stable Lab. And today I'll talk a little bit about the evolution of governance, specifically for DFI Dows that we have seen in the recent years.
00:00:35.240 - 00:01:05.060, Speaker A: I'm the co founder of Stable Lab. We are a professional governance organization. We specialize in governance participation. Right now we work with over 20 protocols. The places where we are present are some of them at least, are what you can see here on the screen. We are delegates and active participants in most of the major D Five projects. We also work with some of the bigger L two S.
00:01:05.060 - 00:01:36.650, Speaker A: We also sit on various councils and committees. We're also governance facilitators, for example, in Euler. So we have a pretty broad access to the current high level DFI Dow ecosystem as well as some of the L two S. But kind of like being present in these protocols. We have a couple of first hand takeaways and experiences I'll be diving a little bit more into today. So really appreciate you all coming. And again, apologies for the delay.
00:01:36.650 - 00:02:24.446, Speaker A: So first off, where is governance really today? Since the start of the bear market, we've actually seen a pretty big increase in the focus of decentralized governance. I think one of the main things that kind of like, came over from the bull market was that a lot of the DAOs, they had taken on pretty big spending budgets. I think Maker is a pretty notorious example here. All of a sudden, you had to take hard decisions, right? You had to cut cost. You had to downsize what you were doing inside the Dow as many centralized companies were doing as well. The biggest difference, of course, with DAOs was all of this was happening in an open space. And this really kind of, like, heightened the focus on DAOs.
00:02:24.446 - 00:03:07.800, Speaker A: I think there's other reasons as well. We've seen kind of like an increased regulatory pressure as well, which some protocols are trying to speed up their decentralization a bit or at least have a bigger focus on it because of this as well. So today we see there's like, over 20 Dows with over 500 million in TVL that are progressively trying to decentralize. We have four Dows with over $1 billion in Treasuries. And this is current numbers. So we still see a lot of capital inside, kind of like what can be spent on not just governance, but as a Dow's budget in total. But of course, as a Dow has a big budget, they need to create frameworks and processes of how to actually be able to allocate this.
00:03:07.800 - 00:03:59.160, Speaker A: We see over 30 Dows today with $50 million plus in Treasuries and the spending just in the first half of 2023, we see like, the top three D Five protocols spending an average and $1.2 million on specifically governance. So we see like, even though a lot of the market is down, we actually see a pretty big increase in growth in the specific governance vertical of the space. I think another thing we've also seen is that a lot of the L two S that are coming in contrast to the L1s, are actually deciding to opt in for kind of like early stage protocol governance as they launch. So the current landscape right now is that the most activity is happening within DFI. We see some activity within the NFT and the gaming space. I personally believe that this is a vertical we will see grow a lot.
00:03:59.160 - 00:05:02.990, Speaker A: I've been involved in especially like the gaming community since the early days of Web three gaming. And it kind of feels like they're like a couple of years behind DFI. If you look at kind of like where the growth trajectories took off, it was around two years after DFI really kicked off. So like, NFTs and gaming is something I definitely believe we'll see a lot more in right now. I would say there's only like a couple, like Illuvium and also Apecoin that has a pretty big focus there. L1s, we still see very low kind of governance maturity within the blockchain or like the L1 space. Whereas we actually have seen the L two S taking a much more aggressive approach with both teams such as Optimism, Arbitrum and also StarkNet really pushing kind of like governance frameworks almost from the get go, right? They want to establish processes, they want to build out these especially like grants programs where they're trying to allocate their resources.
00:05:02.990 - 00:06:11.570, Speaker A: But still, yeah, the majority of the governance activity is happening within the DeFi vertical of the space. One of the main problems is voter apathy. I think the most successful model we've seen is kind of like the rise of the delegates. If you guys just go like a couple of years back, the only protocol that really had any measurable success around delegates participating was probably maker. But today we see almost every single project that actually has, I wouldn't say a thriving governance ecosystem, but at least like a more well oiled or more ambitious governance ecosystem has delegates. We see really big impact if we look at the beginning of the governance of these projects and then until they actually have a well functioned delegate system. I think to give two examples, we have, for example, Mark Seller, who previously worked under the Ave Foundation, moved out and started the Average China Initiative.
00:06:11.570 - 00:07:20.594, Speaker A: Since he started, the amount of proposals has increased around tenfold for Ave. You can then argue whether it's good to just have more and more proposals coming in. You of course, want to make sure it's the right proposals, but it is like the increased level of activity and also the ability to actually execute on that activity is definitely like a quite positive metric. We've also seen one inch, for example, where when we started there, where there was really no delegate activity, they've had around like two proposals, kind of like the month, the quarter prior to us joining and now a place like Avis, it's around 15 to 20 proposals per quarter. So getting delegates and especially kind of like what the delegate entails is to get actually a committed governance participant. If you're just relying on community participation, it's really difficult to get kind of like committed people. Then there's also another thing which is I've mentioned this before in previous talks, but there's really no correlation between people who holds the token and people who want to do governance.
00:07:20.594 - 00:08:05.480, Speaker A: So really kind of like whenever we look at governance systems, you kind of have to make the assumption that people who hold your token, they do not want to participate. That's pretty clearly proven. Now, this is also one of the reasons why we see less than 10% of the circulating supply actually voting. Of that 10% that actually votes, it's typically majority is coming from delegates and sometimes team members especially. Also if we talk with some of the earlier projects starting out this journey and they also had this perception that oh, our investors like our VCs will participate. They will not, none of the VCs really participates. On very rare occasions they do.
00:08:05.480 - 00:09:32.670, Speaker A: But you really want to have committed governance participation then you should look like elsewhere. Another thing which also this has kind of rise in the delegate part of the space has created is the establishment of professional delegate organizations which we also are ourselves. We also see some of the others like GFX, Flipside, Llama, where you basically have teams where rather than just being like an individual, you bring together a team who has a different skill set, who can really contribute on a much broader angle of the Dow and kind of tries to create at least a business around it. And this is all kind of result in a pretty big activity increase across the board. So the rise of governance participation prior to the bear market kicking off and the rise of these especially professional delegate organizations in contrast to today has also increased many fold. Another thing that we have experienced a lot inside the DAOs is kind of like another one of these yeah, you can call them trilemmas where basically we see there's a really big difference between what the contributors of the Dao wants. So this is often like the delegates, the governance participants, people often who are appointed by the foundation to run or at least try to grow the governance operations.
00:09:32.670 - 00:11:09.410, Speaker A: Then there's what the foundation wants and then that's what the community wants. So especially between the foundation and the Dao contributors, we often see a lot of friction that's kind of like where the foundations want to take the project and then there's where the Dao actually thinks it should be taken also about what the Dow contributors thinks that the scope for what they should be paying for, for example. So we sometimes see kind of like proposals coming from the foundation or from teams that are very aligned with the foundation coming in and the Dow contributors being like what is this really and should we really be paying for this? There was also the pretty, I would say famous example that happened with Arbitrum Foundation where they kind of had already taken a really big budget where the Dao was like when it came like hey, is this really what we should be paying for? So kind of like the assumption from the foundation is often that the Dao treasury is something that they quite easily can access and distribute to what they want. But especially once you start having a little bit more activity and the Dao creating its own culture and understanding of what they should be doing, this friction can kind of arise. Then you have the community. The community often displays itself as like someone just coming in and making a single forum post or a single sharp comment about something that is being proposed in there. So it's like a little bit more sporadic, it's not like a constant friction but it happens like a little bit more sporadic where again there's kind of often like a lack of alignment between what the community might want to have from the Dao compared to what the Dao itself thinks that it should be pushing.
00:11:09.410 - 00:11:43.662, Speaker A: We are doing right now quite a lot of work around Dow constitutions and scoping. I think this is one of the key elements that we have been lacking before and also what I believe kind of in the end ended up triggering the Maker endgame plan. The Maker endgame plan was basically this kind of very big change to Maker. I'll go a little bit more into it later as well. But basically Maker didn't have a scope before, right? Maker just said we are Dao and everything is possible. You can basically do everything you want. This resulted in too much stuff happening.
00:11:43.662 - 00:12:47.554, Speaker A: This created a lot of operational friction. Even if you onboard something which seamlessly is kind of like some low effort activity for the Dow, it's still new stuff, you need to vote on it's new stuff, you need to pay attention to it's focus that is taking away from the core contributors. So right now we're really making a bigger push for trying to create more structured and clear understandings of what the actual scope for the Dows are. So we can kind of make sure that you have an understanding that this is what we will be paying for, this is what we are responsible for. So anything that kind of falls outside of that scope we actually don't want to be governing that. You can say a little bit the same with politics. It's not like the government should be governing everything, right if you make a comparison to maker, you could also say that us governing things such as throwing parties or creating swags for conferences is maybe something that should fall outside of the scope of what the Dao should actually be paying for.
00:12:47.554 - 00:13:37.774, Speaker A: Right. And also governing. Another thing we've seen a lot is that there's some of these more formal standards that are starting to materialize within the protocols, kind of like through this gradual decentralization journey. A lot of people are taking a more structured, centralized approach in the beginning where you use a lot of councils, committees and working groups to execute certain actions. I think also with the council and committee model, it kind of goes back to what I mentioned before, is that you're basically creating this not just in some cases has a small compensation, but you're creating this kind of social responsibility for the people joining a council. Right. Compared to if you just hold a token, you don't feel a lot of responsibility necessarily for participating in things or voting.
00:13:37.774 - 00:14:40.994, Speaker A: Even if you're just like a normal delegate, I would say not a recognized delegate, you still don't have this kind of like social contract of you actually taking on the responsibility. But if you join a council, if you join a committee, then all of a sudden you yourself have accepted the responsibility of what it is that you're supposed to do. So we've seen the counseling committee structures be something that the Dows are trying to implement to really be able to facilitate this kind of stronger commitment to actually executing and doing the work for the DAOs. Then the next point is kind of like this step above just normal delegates, which is recognized delegates. Again, here we see a pretty big difference between people who are just a delegate and the people who are recognized delegate. It might seem like a very small change, almost just like a small formality that you have to make an application and you have to get voted in. But again, it creates this kind of like strong social contract that you have actually accepted the full responsibility of what it means to be a delegate.
00:14:40.994 - 00:15:51.498, Speaker A: So compared to, I think we saw some of the L two S, they kind of used this claim your adrop, you have to do a forced delegation. It was very popular for a lot of people to say oh, I'm a delegate now, but afterwards you kind of got stuck in this situation that a lot of these people maybe in the moment thought, oh, well, it's pretty cool to kind of get a lot of people to delegate the adrop to me. But then when it actually came to executing the work, I wouldn't say everyone, there's definitely some who stepped up, but there's definitely a pretty big lag between what you want people to actually achieve with being a delegate and then to what we saw some of these individuals actually be doing. We're also seeing a pretty big increase in governance compensation. I think for a long time the DAOs were very happy to spend a lot of money on getting the best talent within all the fields of the DAOs. You're one of the best tech people, you're one of the best BD people, marketing, you wanted to do big campaigns, you want to give grants to smart teams. But then when it came to governance, which is arguably one of the cornerstones of actually being able to facilitate any of this compensation was lacking for a long time.
00:15:51.498 - 00:16:52.446, Speaker A: This is something that's changing now. And I think also over time we will see that the top protocols that really wants the best talent within governance as well, they will be able to attract the best delegates, the best people who sits in various committees, councils, the specialists from the ones who arguably is lacking a little bit on the compensation. So similar to how we have kind of like this market for general talent within the web, three space where companies and Dows approaching the best talent from each other, we'll be seeing the same on the governance side. Then there's also this kind of whole problem about what if we do a lot of things that doesn't work. This is something we haven't really seen it that much yet. I think something I'm really excited about, I'm also mentioning this in a later slide about the things I'm looking forward to is basically we're seeing now maker going through this endgame plan, basically saying, okay, all this stuff we did before didn't work. So let's try something completely new.
00:16:52.446 - 00:17:40.910, Speaker A: So it will be like the first time where we see a major protocol. You can argue whether Megadao is a mature Dao or governance system or not, but let's just for the sake of this conversation say that they are one of the more mature. They're kind of like revamping the entire governance system from scratch. So this is something that I also speculate that we will see more in the future. Basically like DAOs ending up in a situation where they kind of have trapped themselves in Dow operational model that simply doesn't work and therefore have to do things completely over some of the main problems we have. I talked a little bit about the triangle before. So there's like the alignment between the different stakeholders inside the Dow.
00:17:40.910 - 00:18:19.690, Speaker A: There's the participation aspect, the voter apathy, again, how to actually get dedicated people to participate. And of course, in some of the systems we are, we are maybe like five or six dedicated participants. Clearly not enough. So again, you also want to kind of like over time at least make sure that you have more than just like a handful of people participating. Then there's the resource allocation for the Dao. I think this is right now one of the main things that we're dealing with. We see a lot of the DAOs kind of building the entire governance model around grants allocation and treasury management.
00:18:19.690 - 00:19:00.906, Speaker A: So how to actually make sure you get the right resources inside the Dow, you could say to execute what it is you want. Then there's like the clarity. What is it that you actually should be doing? The direction, where is it you want to be going towards is another thing. We want to try to work with this in what also mentioned with the constitutional work. But like most of the Dows today, they maybe start out thinking, oh, we want to go towards decentralization, right? But what does that even look like? I don't really believe that. A lot of us know this right now. And of course, this is also tied to kind of like my last point, which is success.
00:19:00.906 - 00:20:03.914, Speaker A: Right. Have you really seen any protocol governance being wildly successful? For me, personally, I think one of the places where I see maybe the kind of most well functioning governance, at least with the scope of it, is a place like Curve where you have just pure economic mechanisms driving the governance. There's no real need for discussions. There's no real need for a lot of topics to be debated or people to be executing things. You're basically just like having people using their curve voting power or in other cases selling it to other people to basically move the emissions around. So I guess in a place like Curve, we're kind of removing the human element from it, which might be why it works a little bit better then we've seen a lot of teams kind of trying to solve governance as a technical problem. There's so much Dow tooling being built, so many different things out there that can give you insights or help you vote or you can set up a Dow in two transactions.
00:20:03.914 - 00:20:41.654, Speaker A: And all of this stuff, what most of them are lacking is just that governance is not a technical problem. It's an organizational problem, it's an operational problem. So to really solve kind of like governance today, we need a much bigger focus on the operations. We cannot continue to think we can just throw more technology at it and then it will kind of solve itself over time. This will just not happen. So, okay, some of the things for the younger protocols, there's kind of like this idea, build it and they will come. This will just not happen.
00:20:41.654 - 00:21:06.706, Speaker A: You really need to be very proactive in getting governance participants. You need to talk with your community. You need to talk with people you want to have coming in. You need to create this kind of relationship with them where they actually will be dedicated. Right? So this is a lot about being proactive. Not saying that you should steer the entire process, but you should really try to kind of get the right people coming in. You also need to be very realistic about where you are.
00:21:06.706 - 00:21:47.134, Speaker A: I think a lot of projects and dows, they kind of overshoot a little bit their capabilities or what they're able to do, so be very realistic about it. And then the participants, they really matter a lot. And then the Dow you want and the Dow you'll get is often very two different things. So it's also not something that you can just kind of initiate. You need to constantly work on actually setting it up. Yeah, I have very little time left, so I'm just quickly going to go through the last two slides. Some of the things I'm excited about the Maker endgame plan.
00:21:47.134 - 00:22:23.946, Speaker A: I'm also really excited about some of these newer projects that are taking a more governance agnostic approach. Like Anya is a novel DeFi setup. Borrowing a lending market, no governance, no oracles. So there you can create governance mechanisms around other things, but you can kind of have a protocol that works with a governance minimalization. And then we also just see a lot of growth around DAOs moving towards decentralization. So in the coming years, we'll really see so many advancements and so many good things happening within the Dao space. Yeah, so if you want to get in touch with us, our website is here.
00:22:23.946 - 00:22:54.000, Speaker A: My email is here. Twitter. We are actually right now looking for new delegates to join our delegate team. So if you want to come in and join the market leader within the active governor's participation, feel free to reach out to us. And yeah, thank you so much for joining today's. Sorry because of the small delay, we have no time questions. Yeah, thank you for coming.
00:22:54.000 - 00:23:03.290, Speaker A: That's.
