00:00:00.520 - 00:00:33.596, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today is the 2 February 2021. Alright, everyone, let's jump into the news from today. So I think the last 24 hours really on crypto Twitter has been dominated by this thing called hash masks. Now, for those who don't know, hash masks is a new kind of digital art, kind of NFT collectible that was launched, I think, a few days ago, and you could buy them for a few days in tranches. So the first tranche started at 0.18 per hash mask.
00:00:33.596 - 00:01:02.476, Speaker A: And there was like a limited number you can buy at that. Then it increased and increased and increased until it got to the end. And I think the last few were, I think there was three available for 100 ETH at the, at the last tranche. And when you bought them, you didn't know which kind of one you got. You didn't know how rare it was or anything like that. You wouldn't know until they were all bought. So yesterday, they all ended up being bought and, and kind of the, the sale completed and everyone's hash masks got revealed and their rarity and everything got revealed as well.
00:01:02.476 - 00:01:38.708, Speaker A: So the way it works is that you get, you know, these unique hash masks and they have unique traits very similar to crypto punks. And obviously, there's rarer traits or more common traits. And, you know, people bought like, one, two, three, you know, maybe a hundred of these hash masks. And, you know, the rarer ones you got, the more that it's theoretically kind of valued at. And I, and I made this meme here that, I mean, I bought some, I got one good one that's kind of semi rare, but not really like one of the rarest or anything like that. And the rest of them were kind of, kind of garbage. But I put out this meme here, as you can see on the screen, that it just reminded me of the Simpsons when home is trying to build a barbecue.
00:01:38.708 - 00:02:12.050, Speaker A: And he, you know, he looks at the box and he says, yeah, that's one fine looking barbecue pit. And then, you know, he puts the box down and you can see that it's, it's kind of a, it's kind of a trash heap. But basically what I really liked about the hash masks was that the art is really cool. So if, you know, if I actually bring up their Twitter account here, you can see the art here. They're like, posting a bunch of pictures of the different hash masks and, you know, the different rare ones and stuff like that. And, you know, originally, I actually thought hash masks was just like an opportunistic ripoff of crypto punks because it kind of came out of nowhere and obviously followed the crypto punks hype. But it's.
00:02:12.050 - 00:02:30.906, Speaker A: It's. It's quite unique. I really like it. You can actually name your. Your hash masks as well, and every one of them can have a unique name, too. So if you manage to snap up a name that was kind of, like, still available, then that adds even more rarity to your hash masks. And the way that you change the name is with the name change token.
00:02:30.906 - 00:03:01.240, Speaker A: So it's an ERC 20 token that is tradable. And, you know, your hash marks, hash masks accrue this token, you know, every day at a certain rate. So there's that aspect to it as well. But, yeah, I mean, I'm just scrolling through here. You can see there's like, you know, a bunch of different designs here. Each one has, like, a different hat, like a different mask, a different item that's holding skin color, I think, type as well. And, like, I think the rarest out there is called a mystical kind of hash mask.
00:03:01.240 - 00:03:19.256, Speaker A: And. And that's like 0.1% chance to get it, so it's extremely rare. But, yeah, what I really liked about this was that the art, not just the art being really cool, but. But, you know, I think the reason, I mean, the arts cool, but I think what the. What the art of being cool does is it brings in newer people into the ecosystem. Right.
00:03:19.256 - 00:03:53.806, Speaker A: You know, crypto punks wasn't everyone's cup of tea. You know, it didn't really have any. I mean, they look cool, but it's more about, I think, the nostalgia factor with crypto punks, in that people that have been around for a while have been following the NFT space for a while. You know, that's the first NFT, so obviously you want to buy it, and it kind of appeals to a different crowd, whereas the hash masks, you know, there's very different designs and they're very different to crypto punks. And I think there's 16,000 of them, or a bit over 16,000 of them. And you can see here there's, like, robots that, I mean, I guess this, this, this person says, it looks like c three po. You know, and I thought the robots were really cool.
00:03:53.806 - 00:04:13.348, Speaker A: And I think, I remember DC investor. Actually, if I go to DC investors profile here, he actually got a really cool one. You can see it here. This is actually, I looked at this. I'm like, that's awesome. He's got, like a little shadow monkey on his shoulder here, which is, I think, incredibly rare as well. So, yeah, it was just really cool to see the community showing off that what they had.
00:04:13.348 - 00:04:46.648, Speaker A: Right? What they, what they got. It's like when, I guess you used to buy trading card packs, right, as a kid, and then you'd open them, and then you'd be at school or something, and then you'd show off the cards that you got to your friends that you, you open the, you know, from opening the pack. And I think that's kind of the same experience that, that happened with hash masks here. So I'm really excited to see this expanded and this, this kind of, like, taken further than what it has. I think this can actually be expanded and extended to so many different use cases like you can create. I mean, not every one of them is going to succeed. Just like every, not like, like every trading card succeeded or trading card game succeeded.
00:04:46.648 - 00:05:14.042, Speaker A: But I think this can be extended to a bunch of different things where you can do different implementations of it. I mean, the design space here is insane, and we've literally just scratched the surface. It's not even, I guess, for me, it's not even just about, like, the value tied to it or anything like that, that just supercharges it. I think it's also about, you know, the community aspect. Right. Collecting these things as part of a community and getting back that feeling that you had when you were a kind of a kid collecting these kind of things together. Right.
00:05:14.042 - 00:05:50.654, Speaker A: That's something that hasn't been around, like when you're an adult because, you know, it's usually regarded as a toy or it's just not something that you, it's worth spending your time on. But now that, you know, this is happening within the ethereum ecosystem and there's a bunch of different things happening, you know, the potential is there to make money as well. And, you know, there's no kind of like, you know, bias against or anything like that. Like, some people don't understand the value of nfts, but even they said that the art was cool, right? They actually really thought it was, it was cool, the art and, and also how it was done with the reveals and things like that. So, yeah, I'm, I think we're going to see a lot more of this. I don't think this is it. I think the NFT space is going to get wild.
00:05:50.654 - 00:06:42.748, Speaker A: There's going to be so many experiments happening here. And what I really like about it as well is it's less prone to, quote unquote, rug pools then I think, like Defi yield farms are right where, you know, you get, you know, you know, you know, you're getting something tangible for the money you put in, right. Even if you're using it as an investment vehicle, I think it's less, you know, kind of, I guess, speculative than just buying a bunch of tokens and using them as investment vehicles. Because even if you buy an NFT and maybe, you know, you like the way it looks and you think it looks cool and you want to own it and you want to kind of display it on, you know, in, you know, decentraland or something like that, it still has value. Whereas if you buy a token that turns out to be a scam or something, you know, that token goes to zero. So if an NFT project turns out to be, you know, maybe a scam or a rug pool, I guess you still have the NFT at the end of the day. So, I mean, that's trying to put a positive spin on something that's, that's very negative.
00:06:42.748 - 00:07:03.394, Speaker A: But I think still, from that point of view, even if the project fails, right. Even if it's just like a, not even a scam, but just something that people just weren't interested in. You still have your NFt on chain. No one can take that away from you, I guess, if it's set up in the, in the correct order. So, yeah, I'm really excited to see that play out over, I guess, the next few months and years. Right. We're just getting started here.
00:07:03.394 - 00:07:26.296, Speaker A: There's a, I mean, personally, I haven't paid as much attention to the NFT space as I would have liked to because there's just too much happening in defi. But I think, you know, it's worth spending your time kind of paying attention to it, learning about it. There's tons of resources out there now that you can find. Just going on Twitter. There's a bunch of people you can follow. I don't know all of them off the top of my head, but you can find them. They're not hard to find.
00:07:26.296 - 00:08:23.536, Speaker A: So, I mean, I'm sure if you just Google NFT newsletter, there'll be a bunch of things that pop up as well. So I think that, you know, giving that kind of, some of your time is worthwhile at this point. So L2 is a big topic right now within Ethereum. And actually on that note, I think NFTs are being priced out, unfortunately, of the Ethereum main chain because they're, it's very costly to do anything on Ethereum right now. It makes sense for Defi, but for nfTs, you know, it doesn't make sense to trade a $1 item for $10 in gas fees, and it's probably much more than that in gas fees considering how high the fees are. So I'm curious to see what kind of, I guess, L2 ecosystem the develops in the NFT space, which I'm actually going to talk about in a sec. Axie infinity is working on this, but what I wanted to focus on first was this trading bot that I follow, or this bot that I follow on Twitter that basically tweets out every 24 hours the L2 decentralized exchange trading volume.
00:08:23.536 - 00:09:00.656, Speaker A: Now, you look at this, right? You look at number one, it's loop ring with $10 million of trading volume over the last 24 hours, which I actually think is an all time high for loopring trading volume. Maybe not, but it's definitely one of the higher days here. But this caught my attention because when I look at this, I get flashbacks to another bot which used to track the, or still does track the layer one trading volume on Ethereum. Right? Like uniswap and things like that. Now, I went back and checked, and I've written about this in the daily Grain newsletter today. But I went back and checked, and in May of 2020, right, nine months ago, Uniswap was only doing $10 million of volume every 24 hours. Yep.
00:09:00.656 - 00:09:42.280, Speaker A: Yep. That's right. Only $10 million of 24 hours trading volume nine months ago. And for any of you kind of keeping track of this, today, Uniswap is doing $1 billion on average of 24 hours trading volume, which is a 100 times increase in nine months. Now, do maybe you see what I'm trying to draw here and the kind of like the dots I'm trying to connect here? What I'm saying is that I think loopering and other L2 kind of dexs here, even though their trading volumes may seem low relative to their layer one counterparts, I think we're going to see a very, very quick growth here over the next few months because it only took nine months for Uniswap to grow to a billion dollars in trading volume. So I think it's actually going to be faster because we know how uniswap grew. Right.
00:09:42.280 - 00:10:03.672, Speaker A: We know kind of like, you know, a lot of Uniswap's growth can be attributed to defi summer, of course. But what happened in Defi summer to drive that growth? Liquidity mining. Right. Yield farming, all these Defi products entering the mainstream consciousness. We have more people using Defi now. We don't have to kind of like, bootstrap that community base anymore. We have it, and we know how to bootstrap liquidity.
00:10:03.672 - 00:10:23.272, Speaker A: Loopring is doing liquidity mining on their L2 exchange. They know what they're doing. We have users who are already used to using metamask, which you can use metamask with loop ring. You don't have to download a new wallet. You don't have to do anything else. You don't have to change your RPC connection on metamask. You can just use it and migrate to it and kind of deposit and withdraw out of it very simply.
00:10:23.272 - 00:10:52.680, Speaker A: Right. They have, like, a whole process for this. So. And I was actually super surprised by the fact that Uniswap was only doing 10,000,009 months ago that, I mean, obviously, crypto time, it feels like forever ago, right? Nine months is literally decades in traditional finance if we're comparing the two. But still, I think that people, you know, so I get some people messaging me sometimes, like, you know, L2 growth seems slow. You know, what's happening here? The fees are killing us. Like, and I'm like, to them, I basically say, like, it's.
00:10:52.680 - 00:11:34.798, Speaker A: It's pretty quick for what it is, right? We're already at $10 million of 24 hours trading volume over the last, I think, month. Loop ring is really growing to this on their L2 exchange, and there's a bunch of others here. It's not just loop ring, but they're obviously a lot smaller. But, you know, then I had to go back and look for the piece that I wrote today, and I was just shocked that in May of 2020, I actually went back and looked in 2019, and the trading volumes were obviously a lot less back then. But towards the end of 2019, I think it was like three or 4 million for Uniswap, which I expected, because 2019 was a completely different time. But I did not expect to see only $10 million on Uniswap in May of 2020, just nine months ago. And a 100 x increase in a year or, sorry, in nine months is incredible growth.
00:11:34.798 - 00:12:11.634, Speaker A: So for all the reasons I just outlined, I think that L2 is going to grow as fast, if not faster, which makes me incredibly bullish. I mean, how can you not be bullish on L2 when you. When you kind of look back and see that I mean, it's not guaranteed that it's going to grow like this, but, I mean, I don't see a reason why it won't. The gas fees are persistently high. I don't see them ever coming down to a reasonable level to where, you know, retail traders or traders who just want to do a couple hundred dollars a swaps. You know, it costs $50 to do that on Uniswap, or I guess like 30, 40, $50, whatever it is. Right now, L2, it costs like, I think, two cent or something on loop rings exchange.
00:12:11.634 - 00:12:40.978, Speaker A: And it's obviously, like, much faster and instant. And you get the same security guarantees as Ethereum's main net or at least similar security guarantees. That right there is why L2 is going to win. Right? So, yeah, very, very excited to see that, but I'm still, like, in shock. I only discovered this, like, a couple of hours ago. That uniswap volume was that low just nine months ago. I, you know, I obviously spent a lot of time in Defi and monitor all the growth, but if you spend every single day in the ecosystem, it feels longer than nine months.
00:12:40.978 - 00:13:27.234, Speaker A: Like, it actually feels like it's been ten years, if I'm being honest, especially given how crazy of a year 2020 was. And, you know, obviously, I feel like I've aged ten years, but basically, yeah, I think that keeping an eye on this and following this account is going to be really great. I think we're going to see much more growth in the coming months, not just for loop ring, but other L2 exchanges. And, you know, Uniswap's going to L2 as well. So it's just, I mean, just Uniswap going to L2 alone is going to blow out these volumes to hundreds of millions of dollars over 24 hours, pretty much like, maybe within, like, a week or two of Uniswap launching on L2. I just, I don't see a world in, in which L2 doesn't get to billions of dollars of trading volume over 24 hours this year. Like, I think it's actually going to surpass layer one by the end of this year.
00:13:27.234 - 00:13:51.878, Speaker A: I guess. Like, I wouldn't say it's like 100% chance, but, you know, maybe like a 50% to 70% chance if I have to put a number on it, just because, you know, layer one's going to grow as well. Right. So, you know, maybe I should say that the L2 volume is going to surpass layer one volume today. Right? So we'll see how that plays out. But yeah, just something to, to keep in mind. And I wrote a little bit more about this in the Daily Gray newsletter, but I guess I just gave you guys like a summary there.
00:13:51.878 - 00:14:29.122, Speaker A: So, yeah, I guess like, yeah, L2, paying attention to it is going to be the best use of your time for over the next few months. And I mean, on that topic as well. You can see here that another L2 app called Zksync, which a lot of you may be familiar with from Gitcoin. So Zksync is integrated into gitcoin. It's like a payments L2 app, and you can donate to different git coin grants on there during the matching rounds. And it's much cheaper. I think it's like 90% cheaper than Mainnet, which is crazy because I think it costs over $100 if you donate to a bunch of projects on layer one.
00:14:29.122 - 00:14:59.162, Speaker A: Whereas obviously that's bad because a lot of the donations are small, right? They're like 1510 die donations. So you obviously need L2 for that. And that's what ZK sync is. And they just crossed 1 million ZK sync transactions, which I thought was awesome. Right. And I think we're gonna get more, much more than that because, you know, the next git coin grants round, I expect to be massive, which is happening in a few weeks. I expect that to be the biggest round ever because of the fact that, I guess the ecosystem has made a lot of money lately and there's a lot of money to give away and to donate.
00:14:59.162 - 00:15:42.094, Speaker A: And we've got a lot, a lot more people in the ecosystem now. So I expect that to be quite large. So yeah, that's just gonna grow as well. I'd spoke before about nfts being unfortunately priced out of layer one, or at least not all of them, but, but, but most of them. And, you know, axie Infinity, I think, is one where Axie Infinity is this Pokemon like game where you can battle with your little axies and collect them and kind of earn rewards and stuff like that. So what they've been working on over the last few months is a scalability solution for the Axie Infinity game called Ronin. Now, Ronin is a sidechain to Ethereum, but their plan is to basically make it so that the sidechain checkpoints to Ethereum for its security.
00:15:42.094 - 00:16:34.276, Speaker A: Now, I'll do a little bit of a job explaining what I mean by checkpointing here because I've talked about L2 before and how I. Sorry, scalability solutions on Ethereum before and how there's a very key difference between L2 and side chains. So L2 is inherently secured by the Ethereum main net, right? That's, that's the definition of L2. Whereas side chains are secured by their own validator set. Now, what this means is that the Ethereum miners, for example, do not secure the sidechain. The side chain is secured by their own miners, which are usually proof of stake kind of validators, because no one uses proof of work mining for these new networks anymore. But what these side chains can do is they can actually checkpoint to the Ethereum main chain so they can save their state, essentially the state of their side chain to the ethereum main chain, and then that becomes secured by the Ethereum network.
00:16:34.276 - 00:17:46.122, Speaker A: So that if there's a malicious thing that happens on the side chain, you know, say the validators take it over or something really bad happens, you can always go back to that checkpoint and kind of reboot from that. Now, the frequency of the checkpointing, I think, would depend on the gas fees, because I'm assuming here that checkpointing isn't going to be cheap to the Ethereum main chain. So you obviously don't want, you obviously can't be doing it like every second or whatever, even every minute, maybe not even every hour, depending how expensive it is. But maybe you're doing it once a day, maybe you're doing it once a week, right? And obviously, you know, that that becomes an attack vector, I guess, where you checkpoint on a Monday, and then someone says, I'm going to wait till Sunday to attack this, you know, Ronin sidechain and mess everything up so that they have to checkpoint back to Monday and lose all that progress. So I think there might be some ways to randomize that as well, where you can do a, you know, a randomized shuffle of checkpointing so that no one actually knows when the checkpoint is going to be taken. There's probably some zero knowledge magic you can work into this so that no one actually knows when the checkpoint's taken at all, right? You know that it happened, but you don't know when it happened. And that's actually possible with zero knowledge technology from, from what I understand.
00:17:46.122 - 00:18:27.038, Speaker A: So that's another really cool thing there. And bringing it back to Ronan, I think that's what their long term plan is, and I think that's what other side chain solutions like Matic and Xstar network want to do as well. So I think we're just going to have this very, very nice ecosystem of side chains and L2 solutions that are going to scale Ethereum to billions of users. And, you know, maybe the other blockchains play into that as well. You know, I consider other layer one blockchains when they bridge into Ethereum just to be side chains to Ethereum. But at the end of the day, Ethereum, in my view, is always going to be the most secure settlement layer on the planet, right? It's going to be where everyone goes for their assets. All the assets are going to live there.
00:18:27.038 - 00:19:06.012, Speaker A: Any assets that aren't on the Ethereum main chain are going to be wrapped and put on the Ethereum main chain. Everything's going to settle there. Even I can imagine a world where even, like, other blockchains might try and settle their state to, to ETH one, or, sorry, to the Ethereum main chain. That might be way too expensive and might not even be possible. But if it is, you know, maybe they decide to do that, I guess, depending on how expensive it is. So, yeah, I am just like super pumped to see this happening because I, you know, I mean, typically, actually in the past, before I dug more into side chains, I kind of thought they were a mess solution. I thought that L2s would be better, but there are trade offs to each, each kind of thing here.
00:19:06.012 - 00:20:00.032, Speaker A: You know, L2s are awesome, but you don't need that extreme security for everything. Now, sidechains fill niches in that regard where, say, you want to do like a decentralized Twitter, for example, a L2, unfortunately, even in ETH two with sharding is probably not going to get you to the scale of a decentralized Twitter at this point in time. It's probably going to take a while before we get there. But a sidechain might, right? You know, a sidechain that has only a handful of validators, which probably centralizes it a bit. But, you know, it's still better than just like a fully centralized kind of party that can, you know, host a decentralized Twitter and then you can checkpoint to the Ethereum main chain and checkpoint user balances, checkpoint user, you know, points and stuff like that and use a state that is the future that I see happening. And I'm looking forward to, you know, seeing which projects kind of win here. I think the leaders right now are xdai Matic Ronin's very new.
00:20:00.032 - 00:20:33.266, Speaker A: So I don't know if they're, I wouldn't say they're a leader yet, but Axie Infinity is definitely a leader in the NFT space. So yeah, I'm really looking forward to seeing how that all plays out over the coming months. So Alpha Homura V two has officially launched. So I think I've spoken about this before, and just full disclosure here, I own Alpha tokens. But basically what Alpha Homora is, is it's a yield farming app that lets you do leverage yield farming. And it's one of the. I guess for me, I mean, the reason I hold Alpha is because it's actually one of the best products in Defi right now.
00:20:33.266 - 00:21:12.106, Speaker A: It came out of nowhere, right, but it came in and it's like a top ten defi project now. And with the launch of V two, they're basically, I guess, upgrading their entire system, adding a bunch of new features. But the most exciting feature that they're doing is that they added a bunch of these new for leveraged pools from curve finance, from balancer, sushi swap and Uniswap. And in particular the curve finance one is the three pool. So the USDT USDC die pool. And that's very safe for yield farm because it's stable coins only. And you can see here, Andrea put out a tweet today that the three pool was actually doing by.
00:21:12.106 - 00:21:52.254, Speaker A: By using leveraged yield farming, which was paying 346% on your stable coins. And the last time I checked, I think it was more than that. When I checked a few hours ago, it was 500% on your stable coins. Obviously this is going to come down, but the reason that they can do this is because of leverage yield farming, right? Basically levering up and getting a bonus here. You can see here that on the picture, on the image for the curve three pool, they've crossed out 18.45%, which is the normal yield you would get just farming with curve. And they put like 346% there, which is the kind of apy that you get for kind of doing this leveraged yield farming with this three pool.
00:21:52.254 - 00:22:31.158, Speaker A: That's just awesome. And this is actually enabled by the Iron bank. So I've spoken about the Iron bank from cream before, where there are protocols that can become whitelisted to basically do under collateralized lending from the different platforms. Because you know that they're going to pay back the collateral, right. You can trust that they're going to pay back the, the borrow that they've done. And because of this, you can see this tweet here from Sam, Sam Priestley. He says that, you know, alpha Homora V two launched and immediately ate up all of the available stable coin liquidity in the Iron bank, which is obviously huge for alpha and cream and also Wi Fi or yearn because yearn has different vaults as well for this sort of stuff.
00:22:31.158 - 00:23:35.760, Speaker A: So this is a huge kind of narrative that I'm, that I'm kind of all use case that I'm paying attention to is this idea of protocol to protocol, I guess not just like under collateralized or zero collateral lending, but protocols working with each other and trusting each other because it scales a lot better. Like trying to trust like users isn't inherently scalable because you have to trust like potentially millions of users, right. And it's very, very hard to trust them to, you know, not run away with the money if you do zero collateral lending. But this can be extended, right, because what they're doing now is we're trusting protocols. But what you can actually do is extend this where the protocol can trust the user with a borrow or an underclotalized or a zero card or borrow because they can put limits on what the user can do with those funds. So if you say, go to the app and you say, okay, I'm going to use these funds to yield farm, and if at any time I need that, these funds need to be kind of paid back to pay back my kind of loan or to recolorize the system, you can take them, right. The protocol has the permission to take those funds.
00:23:35.760 - 00:24:08.636, Speaker A: Now, obviously, the security kind of implications here, and it needs to be done in a certain way to preserve that and preserve user kind of security. But that is really, really awesome as well, I think. So guaranteeing on chain that the protocol can access this liquidity when it needs to, to pay back loans or to recolateralize itself so that it doesn't just become a kind of thing where the funds are lost sort of thing. So I think that's really cool as well. And that's a different kind of way and scalable way to do it from. From like protocol to user. But we're going to start with this protocol to protocol stuff that happens.
00:24:08.636 - 00:24:42.854, Speaker A: And then once we kind of do that, right, and we get comfortable with that, it can be extended to users, which I'm really looking forward to. And on that note, another project that I wanted to talk about that published their blog post today about why they're building Maple is, is Maple Finance. So, full disclosure, I'm an investor in Maple Finance. I actually met the guys, the founders of this in Melbourne, where I live a couple years ago or maybe a year and a half ago or something like that. Early 2019 or I think it was early 2019, yeah. Back when I wasn't even working in crypto, I was working at my old job. So it's been a while, but they've been building this for quite a while.
00:24:42.854 - 00:25:31.950, Speaker A: And so what they're building is a, I guess a DeFi lending protocol for kind of more of the corporate and institutional side of things to bring credit to them. So if you kind of see, I guess, like lending platforms and money markets today on Ethereum, they don't have a concept of credit. You know, I was just talking about zero collateral loans to different protocols. But right now, users can't take out zero collateral loans on Ethereum or on these money markets. They need to over collateralize, you know, on pretty much all the money markets now. You know, you might draw a corollary here and say, okay, well, why don't we have to over collateralize in real life? Why can we do zero collateral kind of loans in real life with a bank or whatever? And I mean, technically you're not doing zero collateral. The collateral that you're using in real life is your identity, right? Is the fact that, you know, if you don't pay back this loan, the bank could pursue you for this.
00:25:31.950 - 00:26:30.146, Speaker A: They could get kind of, you know, the law enforcement on you, they can get regulators on you, they can get debt collectors on you, right, because they know where you are and, you know, the legal system kicks in then, right? Even if you like, I guess, try to flee the country, you know, if it gets to that point, right, you're probably like gonna be put on a no fly list or something or, or like, track down. I mean, it just becomes a mess, right? So your collateral is your identity is the fact that they know who you are and the legal system is there to protect the lenders in real life, right? So from that point of view, the money markets on Ethereum don't have credit. They just have like, over collateralized lending and borrowing. So what Maple is trying to do is they're trying to bring this concept of credit to Ethereum, um, through various different ways. I won't explain, you know, now, how it all works, but I suggest going to check out this project, if that's something you're interested in. But this blog post is really interesting as well. They just basically give a kind of TRDR as to why they're building this, you know, kind of talks to what I just spoke about as well.
00:26:30.146 - 00:27:08.570, Speaker A: But I think, you know, the reason I invested in this company is because I believe this is going to be, you know, a huge kind of market, a huge tool for a lot of, I guess, the traditional folk to get into this sort of stuff. They don't want to over collateralize loans like that. That doesn't map to the reality of what they're, what they're currently doing. And it's just such a waste of capital, right. The capital efficiency is just out the window when you do over collateralized loans because you can think about, for example, think about like, I mean, all the ETH sitting in Makerdao right now. All that ETH is backing up Dai, for example. Um, but it's, it's just a waste, right? There's so much capital there that it's just wasted.
00:27:08.570 - 00:27:49.816, Speaker A: It's just sitting there doing nothing. So the capital efficiency is just really bad. And I guess that's what Alpha Finance and the Iron bank and kind of all those things are trying to do with the protocol, to protocol zero collateral lending is make sure that it's not just wasted. Right? Is that the capital that doesn't just sit there and do nothing, it's actually used in a safe and scalable way within defi. So, you know, that's what Maple's trying to bring, I guess, to the traditional finance system, to corporates, to institutions who obviously have, you know, the hunger to get involved with this stuff. But they're not going to over collateralize things then they're probably not going to use a lot of the money markets that alive today, at least in their current iterations. They're probably going to want, you know, a human to kind of interface with.
00:27:49.816 - 00:28:21.316, Speaker A: So that's what kind of maple is building here. So, yeah, I won't show it too much. I suggest going to check it out because it's a really awesome project. They're not live yet, they're currently building, but they should be alive sometime soon. But yeah, I'm very, I'm looking forward to seeing how this kind of plays and, and kind of like what the reaction is within the community to it if we see, you know, this expanded out to the community and see how the, the regular community interacts with it, you know, rather than just the traditional finance folk, which I think is actually going to be quite cool to see. But yeah, go check it out if you haven't yet. And I guess that's it for me today.
00:28:21.316 - 00:28:34.720, Speaker A: So. Yes, thank you everyone again, for watching and listening. Subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel and subscribe to, to the EtHub. EtHub, the Daily Grey newsletter. I also do an EtHub newsletter for those who don't know.
00:28:34.720 - 00:28:40.304, Speaker A: You can check that out too. If you want, but yeah, subscribe to the Daily Grey newsletter and I will catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
