00:00:01.560 - 00:00:31.625, Speaker A: Okay, welcome back, everyone. So in the, in the last video, we're going through the proof of this positive result for the dynamically available setting. And so far what we've done is to define an appropriate protocol in this video. What we want to do is to prove that the protocol actually works. Okay, so let's do that now. So recall here that we're not considering Byzantine action. We're supposing that faulty players can only deviate from honest behavior by crashing or delaying message dissemination.
00:00:31.625 - 00:01:30.489, Speaker A: So what does that mean in particular for this protocol that we defined? Well, it means these three things in particular, these are the things that are going to be useful as we go through the proof. First, it means that a faulty player cannot disseminate messages that reference coins that are not assigned to its identifiers because the protocol instructions don't tell it to do that. And secondly, it means a faulty player cannot send around our activity messages for rounds R which is not active. Again, the protocol instructions don't inform it to do that, don't tell it to do that. Thirdly, it means a faulty player cannot produce a length one attestation to a value other than its protocol input. So hopefully it's clear that these three things are true and, and these three things will be useful as we go through the rest of the proof. Okay, so now let's verify the protocol behaves as it's supposed to.
00:01:30.489 - 00:01:57.229, Speaker A: So, first of all, let's think about termination. Right? We need all players or non faulty players terminate and give an output if they're active at a sufficiently late time slot. Actually, though, termination is completely obvious just from the definition of the protocol. Okay, so we look at the definition of the protocol here. These are the instructions for outputting. Okay, These instructions will always tell you to output some value. Okay, we define when whether or not P is convinced of B by M from each B and 01.
00:01:57.229 - 00:02:21.915, Speaker A: Okay? If it's convinced of exactly one value, it outputs that value. Otherwise it outputs some default value. It's clear that players always terminate. Okay, so termination is pretty clear. Okay, so next, then let's move on to validity. Okay, so now we want to show that if all players get the same input, then any player that outputs gives that common input as their output. Okay, so let's see that.
00:02:21.915 - 00:03:10.513, Speaker A: Okay, so suppose that every player P then is given the same protocol input some value B. Consider some honest player P, and the message is M. It's received when it chooses to output. Okay, and then by that, the third point made before in terms of the faulty pay rate that's possible just to remind ourselves what that was. The third point is that a faulty player cannot produce a length when attestation to a value other than its particle input, okay? So because of that, okay, this means that VR1 minus BM must be empty for all R. Okay? Nobody's attesting to 1 minus B, okay? Thus M cannot convince P of 1B. Okay, so so far so good.
00:03:10.513 - 00:04:18.161, Speaker A: We know that P won't be convinced of one minus B. We just need to be sure we can convince the B. Okay, but again, because we don't have Byzantine action here, because these first two points that we highlighted in terms of the faulty behavior, that's possible, but because the faulty player cannot disseminate messages that reference coins that are not assigned to his identifiers, because the faulty player cannot send round R activity messages for rounds R which they're not active, okay? And because the adversary is row bound for row less than half, that means the strict majority of the coins in A1M are assigned to honest players identifiers. Okay? So a strict majority of the coins in A1M are assigned to honest players identifiers. Then the protocol instructions for honest players active in round one, that tells them to disseminate a length one attestation to their input value. Right? So those messages ensure that all of these coins appear also in V1BM. Okay? And this is precisely the conditions we require for P to be convinced of B.
00:04:18.161 - 00:04:45.585, Speaker A: Okay? So thus P will be convinced of B and only B by M and P will output B. Okay? So that gives us validity. So finally then let's move on to agreement. And for agreement, the basic approach is similar to that in the original dolo. Strong proof. Basically, it suffices to show that every honest player is convinced of the same set of values by its time of output. Okay? If they're all convinced of the same set of values, then they're all output the same way.
00:04:45.585 - 00:05:39.607, Speaker A: Okay? So suppose some honest player is convinced of B on account of receiving a set of messages M by its time of output, in which for some round R, more than half the coins in arm are also in vrbm. Okay, that's just. Those are precisely the conditions which will convince P of B. Okay? So suppose that true. And we want to show that other honest players will also be convinced of B. Well, again, though similar, how to be observed before, because we don't have Byzantine action here, and because the adversary is row bounded for row less than a half, that means a strict majority of coins in arm are assigned to honest players identifiers. And because a strict majority of the coins in ARM are also in vrbm.
00:05:39.607 - 00:06:35.085, Speaker A: Okay, because we're given that's true, the bullet point above, because we're given that a strict majority of the coins in ARM are also in vrbm, that means there's a coin in the intersection ARM intercept vrbm, which must then be assigned to an identifier that belongs to an honest player. Okay, so this is a coin in vrbm. Factors in VRBM means that P must have disseminated the length L attestation to B for some L less than or equal to R, because that's just the definition of vrbm. Because P is honest, that dissemination must have occurred around L. Okay, so now let's see what we can do with that. It's now we consider two cases, and again, the two cases essentially analogs of the similar cases in the original dirlif. Strong proof.
00:06:35.085 - 00:07:27.535, Speaker A: Okay, so first we consider the case that L is strictly less than N. In that case, honest players active at round L1, they're going to receive this length L attestation. It's not too late at this point for them to send on a length L plus one attestation, they haven't already sent a shorter one to that value. So honest players active at round L1, having then received Ps attestation, would disseminate their own length L1 attestations to B. Let's say they've always done so in some previous round with shorter attestations of the same value. Okay, and that means for any set M prime of messages that might be received by a player by the time slot which they output. Right? If we consider VL1B of M that must contain every coin assigned to an identifier of an honest player active at round l plus one.
00:07:27.535 - 00:08:19.795, Speaker A: Okay, so again then, because we're not considering Byzantine action, and because of the rho bounded assumption, the atmosphere is row bounded for rho less than half, these coins constitute a strict majority of the coins in a L +1N. Okay, so that means every honest player will be convinced of B by the messages M prime has received by its time of output. So in that case, we're done. Okay, so next we just have to consider the final case. So finally, suppose that L equals N, meaning the honest player P disseminated a length N star attestation to B around N. There are no further rounds in which we're going to be sending these attestations. Well, then, by the row bounded assumption with row less than half, and our choice of N star, we chose N star.
00:08:19.795 - 00:09:04.395, Speaker A: So it's larger than n over 2 plus 1. So more than number of faulty coins. So by the choice of n, at least one of the other n minus 1 coins associated with this association must be assigned to an identified of an honest player P prime. Okay, that player P prime must then have disseminated for some previous round for some previous L less than N attestation to B in round L. Okay, so that just means this case reduces to the previous one, right? With P prime and L playing the roles of P and L respectively. Okay, so again, every honest player will be convinced of B by its time of output. Okay, so that suffices then to prove agreement.
00:09:04.395 - 00:09:14.775, Speaker A: Okay, so that completes the proof. What we'll do in the next video is to sketch our first impossibility result for the dynamically available settings. I'll see you there.
