00:00:00.440 - 00:00:48.981, Speaker A: It's finally happening. Blast Point multipliers are live. For those of you who don't know multipliers increase your Blast points balance and earning rate, you can actually earn the multipliers by using certain highlighted dapps on blast. And here's the deal, you don't actually have to risk any capital to earn these multipliers. As long as you submit a transaction that interacts with the highlighted dapp, you qualify. So this was actually supposed to go live on blast on March 12, but the blast team ended up delaying the release so they could add in wallet delegation, which actually allows for us to use burner wallets and still get rewarded with the multiplier on our main wallet. And the timing of this works out incredibly well considering the smart contract exploits we've seen on Blast in the last two weeks.
00:00:48.981 - 00:01:43.019, Speaker A: So these multipliers are going to be released over time, and you'll be able to find them your Blast airdrop page under the Multiplier tab. There's going to be a total of 12 multipliers before the points redemption in May, so make sure you hit them all, because it literally costs you nothing. Each multiplier provides you a 2x boost, and the first two multipliers come from interacting with Spot Dexes and Perp Dexes. As you're going through and you're doing this, if you've never interacted with any of the platforms that they have listed that qualify for the multiplier, and you're planning on doing zero research, at least set up a Linked Wallet first. That is the wallet delegation feature that Blast has built. So setting up a Linked Wallet is actually super simple. Basically, when you open up your Blast Dashboard, you're going to want to select multipliers, and then over here you're going to see Linked Wallet.
00:01:43.019 - 00:02:36.273, Speaker A: You can actually click on this, and then to link a wallet, you click here, and then you just switch whichever wallet you're using in MetaMask and then you connect that. So check this out. And now my wallet is linked, and once you link that wallet, you can actually use that wallet to activate the multiplier boost. So you don't technically need to use your main wallet that you're leveraging for farming to interact with these apps. But for me, since the first few categories are Perp Dexs and Spot Dexes, I've already interacted with quite a few of those platforms. So I'm just going to go ahead and activate my next multiplier once I switch back to my primary hot wallet. So now you can see I have two linked wallets.
00:02:36.273 - 00:03:42.703, Speaker A: Either one I can use to activate the multipliers and as you can see here, I've already gotten my 2x multiplier from perp Dexes through interacting with Wasabi. But now let's go ahead and activate my Spot Dex multiply. So you can see here on that hover the points that I'm going to get and how many points I'm going to earn an hour once I activate this. Basically, all of these dapps are eligible to give you the multiplier. So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and push a transaction on either Thruster or Mangrove since I already use both of those and that should give me my last multiplier. The sooner you do this the better as this does affect how many points you earn from now until Points Redemption in May One other thing I want to bring up, it's not related to the points multiplier, but it is related to the point boost that is these little gold chests that you're seeing on your dashboard. Some folks are seeing a message that based on their current balance, they won't be able to earn their point bonus in time for Points Redemption in May.
00:03:42.703 - 00:04:22.515, Speaker A: My understanding is as long as you have a similar amount of ETH or USDB as you had before mainnet launch, whether it is sitting in your wallet or you have it deployed in dapps, you'll earn your entire point bonus before the redemption period. Just keep in mind that these estimates are only based on the ETH in the native wallet that you have and not what you've deployed on dapps. And also keep in mind that a lot of dapps have yet to distribute all their blast points users. So that's it for this one. With that said guys, have fun. Make sure to get all your point multipliers and point bonuses until the next one. Bearish or bullish, Keep building, Keep farming.
