00:00:13.360 - 00:01:00.440, Speaker A: So, good afternoon, everybody. I hope you had a great lunch. So today I'm going to talk about developer funding the Solana ecosystem and how that worked in the past half year, and also what kind of developer funding mechanisms we can invent and what's coming in the future. So, I'm Eric from Dora Hacks and Hacker link. So what we're doing is basically we're creating a permanent global hacker movement, and we're doing that through two key components. So the first component is Hackinglink IO. So its mission is to fund and grow the web.
00:01:00.440 - 00:01:54.380, Speaker A: Three, open source ecosystem in a multi chain world, and were building a set of crypto native developer funding toolkits for funding the multi chain ecosystem. And of course, Solana is one of the most important infrastructures in the multi chain era. And secondly, we have Dorahex. And Dorahex actually, we found it very early in 2014 as one of the very first hex organizers in China, and later became a global hex organizer in 2018. And what Dorahex is doing is decentralized community of Hexan organizers, hackers and developers. So it's a community behind the movements. So a little more about Hacker Link.
00:01:54.380 - 00:02:38.874, Speaker A: So, currently there are four major functionalities on Hacker Link. So, first of all, as a developer, you can submit your project, mostly open source projects, to hacker link as a builder. So there are two things you can present to the community. One is you can fill in the static information, your product, your vision, your description, et cetera, on your team. And secondly, there are a lot of milestone updates that you can fill in on hacker link. And secondly, there is most important functionality called grants. And what I mean here is specifically for quadratic funding grants.
00:02:38.874 - 00:03:34.294, Speaker A: So Hacker link is hosting quadratic funding grants for more than 20 ecosystem right now. And over the half year, the Solana ecosystem has run two major APAC quadratic funding grants with hackers on hacker Link. So in total, we have distributed Kaiser router funding to more than 1600 developer projects, which we call buildle. So if you submit anything on hacker links, cloud builder, and there are a lot of community contribution and a lot of ecosystem contribution. And now we have more than 30,000 active builders on Hacker Link. And other than that, now we have more and more virtual hackathons. So Hacker link is also supporting virtual hackathons.
00:03:34.294 - 00:04:39.532, Speaker A: And there is another function called bounty. So any project, whether big or small, if you have any problem, you can throw the pricing to a smart contract, and the developer can take the challenge and solve the problem and take the price. So today, I'm going to mainly talk about what happened in the previous two quadratic funding rounds. And before that I will talk a little bit more about quadratic funding. So who of you have heard about or understand quadratic funding? Can you let me know? Okay, who haven't? Okay, I think I need some introduction here. So basically, quadratic funding is a way to engage the community as well as the ecosystem to fund projects. And the idea is coming from quadratic voting, a very important thing from mechanism, from the radical markets.
00:04:39.532 - 00:05:24.814, Speaker A: And what quadratic voting is doing is balancing the pros and cons of the traditional voting mechanisms. So traditionally we have two major voting mechanisms called one person, one vote and $1.01 vote. So on one side you have one person, one vote, which is widely accepted in the real world by most of the democracies. And it's working pretty well. But the problem of one person, one vote is that if somebody cares more about something, you cannot cast more votes into that thing. So whether that's a proposal or a project or something politically.
00:05:24.814 - 00:05:46.452, Speaker A: So we're living in a very dynamic society and obviously one person, one vote has its own limitations. And on the other hand, we have $1.01 vote. $1.01 vote is actually widely used in the blockchain space already. So on the infrastructure level, proof of stake is kind of $1.01 vote.
00:05:46.452 - 00:06:50.294, Speaker A: And in Dow governance, for example, coin voting, just like simple coin voting, is a kind of $1.01 vote. So in the $1 renvote system, basically you can throw money into whatever you are super interested in. But obviously the problem is there are other systems and there are super rich individuals who can dominate the system very easily. So the idea of quadratic voting is that so everybody has a set of voting costs and you can use the cost to vote for the projects or proposals that you are interested in or you care about. But when you vote for any particular project, the cost of the vote increase every step. So if you are interested in, for example, one project, the first vote costs one and second vote costs two and so on and so forth.
00:06:50.294 - 00:07:47.186, Speaker A: So the total cost of voting is increasing in a quadratic way. So this is the idea of how you can limit the power of super rich individuals. So think about an example. If somebody has more than 5000 tokens in a system versus a small individual who has only one token, the person who has 5000 tokens probably only got 100 votes, versus in a normal coin voting system, he got 5000 votes. So how quadratic funding works is basically you have a set of community contributors and you have a list of projects in the ecosystem. So we consider all the community members. For example, Solana community members are the community contributors.
00:07:47.186 - 00:08:58.014, Speaker A: So the community contributors in a certain period of time can contribute to the projects whichever they like, by donating tokens. So on the other hand, there is a price pool. Normally it consists of donations from the treasury of the ecosystem and some of the sponsors from the ecosystem. And the price pool is there, and the price flow will be eventually distributed based on the quadratic voting results. And as for the developers or the projects, the total funding any developer project can get is some of the community contribution and the ecosystem price pool. So it's a double win for any of the projects. So how does quadratic funding actually work on hyperlink? So we're basically dividing the whole process into three steps.
00:08:58.014 - 00:09:55.456, Speaker A: So of course, before you start run, you have to inject price pool and you have to do all of the logistics. But first step is submission, and in the first, the phase. So normally we will host a complimentary hackathon, so the hackers and developers can team up to build something new, or they can improve something that is existing. So builder is submitted and hexagon is hosted and everybody is teaming up. So in the second phase, the community jumps in and it's a voting phase. So this is where quadratic voting and quadratic funding happens. And at the end of the second phase, very importantly, we enter the surface.
00:09:55.456 - 00:11:17.924, Speaker A: It's a post round analysis, because the quadratic funding mechanism itself is vulnerable to multiple kinds of attacks. And most importantly, so there are civil attacks, there might be fraudulent projects and there might be collusion, and there might be projects that are not fitting to the requirements of the grant, et cetera. So there is a whole mechanism that we can use both technology and some kind of judging criteria to complete the postground analysis and make the round fair. And after all these three phases, basically the prize pool is released and the developers can withdraw the funding and they can use the fund to support their developments. So next I will introduce a little bit about how we are building the Solana native quadratic funding on hacker Link. So there are several parts of the work. So the first part is front end integration.
00:11:17.924 - 00:12:29.524, Speaker A: So this is done by hacker Link team. And there are a lot of infrastructures hacker link has to provide for quadratic funding. And most importantly, we have the voting front end where people can submit their builder, and as a community member, everyone can check out every project in a round and their details, their milestones, their updates, etcetera. And there is a vote button so just by clicking the vote button, the front end is interacting with Solana quadratic funding smart contract, and the voting will be done on chain. So it's currently supporting both Solana token and also SPL token voting. And secondly, we have several gamified things on the platform. One of them is leaderboard, and during a round you can see the ranking of these projects, their community contributions, their subset matching amount, etcetera.
00:12:29.524 - 00:13:38.114, Speaker A: So normally there are a lot of fun during this voting period because everybody is in a competition. So in the first round we supported solid, and in the second round right now we are supporting three wallets, phantom, solid and the slope. So basically we're aiming to support most of the major wallet in the system and very importantly, the Solana Quadratic funding smart contract. If you're interested, it's open source, you can access it on GitHub. So super special thanks to Yihao from Portal and also Justin from the Solana team who contributed to the smart contract and worked with the hacker link team for the integration back to April. So the voting is unchanged. So all of the voting goes through the smart contract.
00:13:38.114 - 00:14:42.874, Speaker A: If you are interested in the code, check it out. And secondly, we have the postground analysis tour. It's also contributed by another anonymous community member called no job. So I think he's from some project in the Solana ecosystem, but we don't know who he is. But he provided very first script for anti CBO detection, and we're still building our system based on his original script right now. So these four components, the contract, the front end integration, wallet integration, and postground analysis analytic tours consist like they all together make the Solana quadratic funding grants happen. So here is some results from the Solana aPac QF round.
00:14:42.874 - 00:15:44.478, Speaker A: So the first round happened between April and end of June, and it was happening in parallel with the Solana seasonal hackathon or season hackathon. And except this one is only in Asia. So this is a QF one, supported by serum and iridium, and also supported by a bunch of blockchain communities in Asia. And the second round actually just ended last week. And so this is quadratic founding round two at East Asia, and this one was supported by Solana Ventures, serum radium and slope. And the results from the two rounds were pretty impressive. So in total, we got more than 130 projects accepted.
00:15:44.478 - 00:16:55.148, Speaker A: And in the first round there were around $283,000 distributed to 93 projects, and there were more than 100,000 community votes. And in the second round there were $240,000 contribution distributed to 41 projects. So there were a lot of very exciting projects coming from the grants, and here is a subset of that. And actually there are 100 plus more. And so when these projects attended the hackathon and the quadratic funding grants, they were super early stage. And many of these projects have been pretty successful in terms of private and public funding or in terms of launching their product right now. And they have, they have become important components of the Solana ecosystem.
00:16:55.148 - 00:18:02.032, Speaker A: And in the first round we got a lot of Defi projects, and in the second round we're seeing many other kind of projects ranging from NFT styles, gamefights and wallets and tour kits, etcetera. So this is what we are super proud of and we are super excited about. So these are about two quadratic funding rounds. And next I will talk about. So, other than quadratic funding, what are the other ways to fund open source projects that are existing on hacker link? So I will talk about four mechanisms. The first thing is an extension of quadratic funding. So we are building a grant factory, and this is allowing any DAO or project to create grants and fund its own developer ecosystem, because in the future we're seeing daos and many ecosystem projects growing.
00:18:02.032 - 00:19:11.678, Speaker A: And the ecosystem projects also need to fund their own developer community. And so this is where grant factory comes in, and every project can create their own grant with minimum permission from us. And secondly, we are allowing every project to create a builder NFT. So a builder NFT is basically an NFT that is treated based on a habit tax like rule, which means the NFT is forced to sell. But whenever the NFT is sold, part of the premium goes to the open source developer as a way of funding. And we are launching a new feature called Lootbox. And what Lootbox is doing is that you can attach an arbitrary smart contract to your NFT, and whenever the NFT is treated, the smart contract is triggered, and you can program any programmable incentives into the smart contract, which is super exciting.
00:19:11.678 - 00:20:06.724, Speaker A: And we are launching a loot box hackathon this weekend and hope you can participate. And certainly there are a lot of nonprofit projects, because in its nature, many of the open source projects are nonprofit. They are not necessarily making money. So traditionally, these projects find themselves very hard to resign funding. But we are having a new mechanism called continuous funding, which is allowing these organizations to exist on funding curves, and they can do price discovery and, and get support from the community as well. And lastly, we have kudos, kudos. Another way of funding.
00:20:06.724 - 00:20:46.514, Speaker A: And it's very simple. I don't need any explanation here. So lastly, how to contribute. So there are three things we care about right now and if you are a developer, we super welcome you to join the community and work with us. The first thing is build postground analytic tours for Solana grants. So this is very important because we have the auction voting. So we always want to guarantee the fairness of every quadratic funding round in the future.
00:20:46.514 - 00:21:44.600, Speaker A: So we are keeping developing the algorithms and toolkits for anti CBO attacks, anti collusion and solving other problems. So we are lack of the capacity of building such tools in our own team. So we want to work with the community developers on this side. Secondly, migrating existing hacker link protocols to Solana contracts. So we have a set of EVM based protocols and it's going to be super great if somebody is up to migrate these contracts from EVM to Solana. And lastly, building crypto native funding mechanisms and integrates with hiking link. So if you have any idea, because I do think there is an infinite space of innovation here.
00:21:44.600 - 00:22:37.404, Speaker A: So if you have any idea for interesting developer funding scheme or mechanism, you can drive them into smart contract and we will support with Dorahex community. Yeah. So if you want to contribute or if you want to follow us the information and if you are a developer, check out GitHub or send me an email. All right, so this is today. This is for today and hoping you enjoy, we're expecting more quite periodic funding runs in the future and let's hack something interesting on Solana and let's build something interesting together. Thank you.
