00:00:00.490 - 00:00:57.482, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Roger Brogan, director of solutions architecture at Chainlink Labs, and today we're going to talk about Chainlink price feeds. Chainlink price feeds help secure tens of billions of dollars and are fundamental building blocks to the Defi ecosystem. But what are Chainlink price feeds? How do they work and why do we need them? That's what we'll discuss in this video. Before we can talk about Chainlink price feeds, it's important to understand the problem we are solving. The oracle problem accurate price data is critical to defi, but blockchains have no ability to connect to external systems to pull in data. This is known as the oracle problem. Chainlink price feeds solve this problem by acting as the secure middleware layer to deliver the price of assets from the real world and write it on chain.
00:00:57.482 - 00:01:46.286, Speaker A: But just bringing data from the real world to defi protocols isn't enough. It must be done in a secure, resilient, and a reliable way. APIs and centralized oracles are vulnerable to hacks. What is required is battle tested security, multiple layers of decentralization and resilience like Chainlink price feeds. Chainlink price feeds reside on chain as reference contracts. They are updated by decentralized oracle networks consisting of chainlink nodes. Six properties that allow them to secure DeFi are layers of decentralization and high quality data, hyper reliable oracle node operators, cost efficient and decentralized data delivery, multi layered defense, in depth blockchain, agnostic architecture, and a sustainable shared cost model.
00:01:46.286 - 00:02:22.970, Speaker A: There are three layers of decentralization and data aggregation. This mitigates the risk from a single point of failure. The three layers of aggregation are at the data source, the node operator level and the Oracle network. First, raw market data is pulled from centralized and decentralized exchanges, and then it is aggregated by professional data providers. The second aggregation happens at the node operator level. Each node pulls from at least three different premium data providers and takes the median value. Third, the Chainlink Oracle network nodes come to consensus and write the median on chain.
00:02:22.970 - 00:03:32.122, Speaker A: The result is accurate prices from across the broad market, and it is resistant to API downtime and manipulation. Each decentralized oracle network, or gone for short, is operated by node operators that are geographically distributed, KYC'd, and security reviewed. These are run by world class professional teams, including DevOps, telecommunications and infrastructure providers. This provides strong assurances that the data will consistently be delivered accurately, securely, and in a timely fashion. The dons leverage off chain computation and peer to peer networking to reduce operating costs. This is based on our off chain reporting protocol or OCR for short, instead of each node delivering responses on chain, the responses are aggregated off chain into a single oracle report and it's delivered on chain as one transaction. The many benefits are lower operating costs, greater decentralization, faster updates, and more resilience to adverse conditions like volatility and network congestion.
00:03:32.122 - 00:04:03.254, Speaker A: Chainlink data feeds have additional layers of security and monitoring as well. On chain transparency allows you to view the historical performance and accuracy. Active monitoring allows us to proactively detect any issues. Failover and high availability are provided by node operators that run multiple instances in case the primary has an issue. Some price feeds have backup dots. These have never been needed, but are there in case of a black swan event. Chainlink is blockchain agnostic we do native integrations on every chain.
00:04:03.254 - 00:04:40.578, Speaker A: Our native integrations support the full speed of each native chain, and if one chain goes down, there's no impact to any other chains. Chainlink price feeds operate on a shared cost model. They are supported by an array of different users who share in the cost. The fees go to support the node operators for providing the infrastructure and the security. This creates a virtuous cycle of scalability and security. In conclusion, Chainlink price feeds are fundamental to the security of DeFi. They solve the oracle problem with a hyper focus on security and reliability, and they're designed to scale along with DeFi.
00:04:40.578 - 00:05:07.740, Speaker A: But price feeds are just the tip of the iceberg. We already support a wide range of feeds for generalized data with similar security standards for proof of reserve, weather data, sports data, blockchain metadata, and more. If you're a DeFi developer and want to learn more about Chainlink price feed, check out our documentation, ask a question in discord, or set up a call with an expert. Thanks for watching.
