00:00:00.280 - 00:00:07.454, Speaker A: An associate professor, Forest University.
00:00:07.534 - 00:00:12.646, Speaker B: His research focuses on economic questions associated with blockchain.
00:00:12.750 - 00:00:13.942, Speaker A: I hope people can hear me because.
00:00:13.958 - 00:00:55.284, Speaker B: I'm getting a message that my Internet connection is unstable. His research focuses on economic questions associated with blockchain and has been published in leading academic journals such as management science, the Review of Financial Studies, and the Journal of Financial Economics. His work on proof of stake protocols has been particularly influential and includes the most highly cited economics article which examines proof of state. Fahad holds engineering degrees from both Cornell University and Columbia University, and also a PhD in finance from NYU's Stern School of Business. And today he will be speaking to us about equilibrium staking levels in a proof of stake blockchain.
00:00:58.554 - 00:01:49.634, Speaker A: Thank you. So can everybody see my screen? Yes. Okay, great. So first, I want to thank the organizers for giving me the opportunity to present on this conference program. I've enjoyed attending a lot of these talks and I'm hoping that the audience will just the same, enjoy it. This presentation of mine, the paper that I'm presenting here today, is joint with Coast John, who's at NYU Stern, and Thomas Rivera, who's at McGill University, and also, I think, in this virtual room. So let me also say, by the way, that I'm happy to take questions at the end, but also during the presentation, so please feel free to interrupt at any point in time if anybody has any questions.
00:01:49.634 - 00:02:51.124, Speaker A: Okay, so this paper examines a particular protocol for blockchain, which is known as proof of stake. Now, what is proof of stake? Well, proof of stake is basically the leading alternative protocol to what's called proof of work, where proof of work is most well known as the energy intensive protocol that is used by bitcoin. So for some broader context here, proof of stake is already deployed in over 100 blockchains. It's been used by essentially all of the relevant blockchains launched in the last few years. Perhaps most famously, it is the blockchain. Sorry, it is the protocol that the Ethereum blockchain intends to transition to in the future. So that's just some background, sort of institutional context on proof of stake.
00:02:51.124 - 00:04:38.284, Speaker A: But I think now it's become fairly clear that there is value in studying proof of stake, in part because it seems that proof of work is not actually something that a lot of platforms want to use, and proof of stake is the leading alternative by far. So this paper hopes to contribute to the small but growing literature on proof of stake and where it specifically intends to contribute. Is that focused on thinking about the security of proof of stake protocols? Now, what do I mean by security? Well, when you conduct a transaction on a blockchain, there is some risk that, for example, your transaction is reversed, or there is some risk that when you send a transaction into the network that it's not even able to get onto the ledger. And so all of that is encompassed into this concept of security. And so it turns out to be actually, of course, quite foundational to the viability of any particular blockchain, because if the blockchain is not secure, then you're not going to be able to, you know, use it in any functional way. So specifically, on this point about security, I think the main insight that I want to impart today, which is one of the findings of this paper, is that proof of stake security is not monotonically increasing in rewards. And so here when I refer to rewards, I'm referring to what's sometimes referred to as block rewards or staking rewards, but more generally the rewards that are conferred to those securing the proof of stake blockchain.
00:04:38.284 - 00:05:40.594, Speaker A: And so why is this an important point? Well, again, security is foundational to the functioning of any blockchain. And so it's important to figure out how to make sure that your blockchain can be secure. And the most natural approach for that is to think that, well, okay, so if you want the system to be more secure, what we should do is we should incentivize people to secure it. And what that means in this context is what's typically interpreted to mean in this context is that means we should have more rewards for those securing the blockchain. But the key point here is that it turns out that providing more rewards for those securing the blockchain does not necessarily actually increase security. So the important takeaway is that you want to be careful about the reward level that you set. You don't want it to be too high because it turns out that if you set it too high, that actually security itself will become compromised.
00:05:40.594 - 00:06:29.514, Speaker A: And of course, that is a little bit counterintuitive because normally you think that when you sort of increase the rewards associated with a particular activity that you would then increase the amount of activity that you get. But that's not the case here. And that is the most important point in this particular work. So why is that? The case is, of course, I think the first question to think about, and at a high level, the important points here are that rewards are not value added. They're actually, from an economic perspective, welfare transfers. So they don't unambiguously increase welfare. They actually redistribute welfare.
00:06:29.514 - 00:07:30.672, Speaker A: And it turns out that while, yes, they go to some of the people who would be securing the blockchain, that transfer is actually coming out of some of the other people who could secure the blockchain. And so another way of saying it then is that rewards have a distributional effect that can undermine security. They benefit some people who will give you more security, but they also undermine the situation of some people and that can actually compromise your security. And so you have to weigh those things. But so let me clarify both of these points on the slide here in a little bit further detail. So on the first point about rewards being transfers and not on ambiguous welfare increases, the key institutional detail here is that rewards are just increases in the supply of the crypto asset. People are generally familiar with bitcoin and its block reward schedule where every block there are a bunch of new coins that are minted and given to the so called miners.
00:07:30.672 - 00:08:21.816, Speaker A: Well, by the same token here in a proof of stake setting, when we talk about rewards, there are going to be new coins created on each block that are then given to these individuals that are securing the blockchain. And so that does not represent any new production, that does not represent any new value. What that represents is an inflationary transfer. And if you have an inflationary transfer, that means that somebody is bearing an inflation tax and somebody is getting the revenue from an inflation tax. But the important point is the fact that you are levying an inflation tax means that you could actually have people participate less because they're being taxed more. Right. And so this gets into the second point about rewards, increases in rewards, leading some securing the blockchain to abandon it.
00:08:21.816 - 00:09:23.654, Speaker A: What do I mean by that? Well, what I mean is that when you increase rewards, what you're doing is you're increasing the inflation tax rate on some of these individuals that are participating on the blockchain. And of course, if you increase attacks on somebody, they're going to do less of it. And in this context, what that means is that they're not going to participate on the blockchain, they're going to participate elsewhere, and that can then undermine overall security. So in order to understand this in a little bit more depth, I want to provide a little bit more context on what security actually means. And so here I'm going to draw on some prior work in the economics literature which clarifies what security actually means in a proof of stake context. And in particular, it clarifies that security depends on what's called the staking level. And I'm going to try to avoid jargon as much as possible.
00:09:23.654 - 00:10:37.444, Speaker A: So I'm going to minimize the references to things like staking and staking levels. But so for now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to offer a more, let's say finance context of what staking level is, which is it turns out that the staking level is just the market value of locked investments in the proof of stake crypto asset. So what I mean by that is essentially that if, for example, Ethereum were to use proof of stake. So Ethereum is the blockchain and it has a base asset which is called ether. If Ethereum uses proof of stake, then it turns out that its security is going to depend on the amount on the market value of locked investment in ether, which is its native crypto asset. With that context, though, we can turn back to what Im saying is the main point of this paper, but dig in a little bit and provide it in a bit more depth, incorporating the fact that now we have this point that security for proof of stake means. So a more secure proof of stake blockchain means that there is more locked investment in the main asset of that blockchain.
00:10:37.444 - 00:11:44.170, Speaker A: And so earlier, when we're talking about security, security being reduced due to higher rewards, what we're talking about is the market value of that locked investment actually declining. So you can imagine higher rewards leading to, let's say the market value of ether falling if ethereum, for example, were to use proof of stake. So what are the paper's main results in more depth? Well, the first point I want to highlight here when we talk about that transfer that I was referencing earlier, the distributional effect. Who are the particular entities that are incurring gains or losses from that distributional effect? Well, they're investors and they're investors of different kinds, which is to say that rewards turn out to be a transfer of wealth from short horizon investors to long horizon investors. So it's sort of like a transfer in welfare from the day traders to the value investors. And so rewards are then a tax on the short horizon investors. They're an inflationary tax on the short horizon investors.
00:11:44.170 - 00:12:27.392, Speaker A: And its not surprising that if you tax somebody more that theyre going to do less of the thing that youre taxing them on. And so what this means is that for short horizon investors, its fairly straightforward. You increase rewards, theyre getting taxed more, theyre actually going to invest less, theyre going to take their capital and put it in any, theyre going to put it in other assets. Right. Thats not too surprising but the more important point then is, well, okay, so youre taxing short horizon investors, but there are people who are gaining from this, which is the long horizon investors. So the fact that short horizon investment is falling is not necessarily a problem. So long as long horizon investment is going to offset, I should say the gains in long horizon investment are going to offset the short horizon investment.
00:12:27.392 - 00:13:03.836, Speaker A: That would be the hope. Right. And the whole point here is that that generically doesn't turn out to be the case. It is true at first. So if you go from zero block rewards to a little bit of block rewards, you will increase long horizon investment. But actually, it turns out that if you increase rewards too far, you will actually reduce long horizon investment. And of course, if short horizon investment is always falling and long horizon investment is falling when rewards are above a particular point, then of course, above that particular point, overall investment is going to fall.
00:13:03.836 - 00:14:10.752, Speaker A: Because if both short and long horizontal investments are falling, there are no other investors and therefore total investment would fall. I think actually the point to emphasize is really the latter part about the long rising investors, and the point to understand is really the latter part about the long horizon investors. So I want to actually spend some time clarifying how it is that increasing rewards could actually reduce investment from the beneficiaries of those rewards. Because, again, the rewards are an inflation tax on short horizon investors, where the revenues are basically accrued by the long rise investors. So they are the beneficiaries of these rewards. So how is it that the beneficiaries of these rewards might actually be worse off and reduce their investment as a consequence? Well, the important thing to recognize here is that higher rewards correspond to an increase in the transfer rate. It's not necessarily an increase in the aggregate amount that's being transferred, the economic value of the amount being transferred.
00:14:10.752 - 00:14:55.320, Speaker A: It's an increase in the rate of the transfer. And rate on what base? Well, the base turns out to be essentially the level of short horizon investment. The short horizon investors are the ones who are being taxed at some rate, and the total amount of that tax revenue is being transferred to long horizon investors. So the fact that you raise the tax rate doesn't imply that you're going to increase the tax revenue. It just implies that you're going to increase the tax rate. And you have to think about actually what is the increase in the tax rate going to do to the supposed tax base. Now, we've already sort of touched upon the point that, of course, if you increase the tax rate, you're going to reduce the amount of short horizon investment.
00:14:55.320 - 00:15:57.354, Speaker A: And so in this context, what that means is you're going to reduce the base that you're taxing. And so the question now is that when you increase the tax rate, are you going, is it, is the increase in the tax rate going to dominate, and so you're going to actually get more revenues, or is the reduction in the base going to dominate and you get less revenues? And so the point that we're making actually is that for sufficiently high reward levels, essentially for sufficiently high tax rates, the effect to the tax base is dominant. And so essentially what's happening is you're getting a larger portion of a smaller pie, and that collectively turns out to be smaller than a smaller portion of a larger pie. This effect that we are finding here actually is a familiar effect in a different context. So I want to offer an analogy from a different context, which is the Laffer curve. And of course, the laffer curve is more properly about taxes. Right.
00:15:57.354 - 00:16:53.444, Speaker A: The idea behind the Laffer curve, of course, is that increasing the tax rate just for, let's say, general taxes, that the government income taxes that the government levies on its populace, increasing the tax rate doesn't necessarily increase tax revenues. Why is that? Well, because increases in the tax rate actually disincentivizes working. And so when you increase the tax rate, you reduce the sort of aggregate amount that you're taxing. And so you have to weigh the increase in the rate against the reduction in the base. Initially, what happens is the reduction in the base is not sufficient to dominate the increase in the rate. And so when you increase taxes at lower rates, you do actually get higher tax revenue. But if you increase taxes at high rates, you actually get lower revenue because you so disincentivize working that the base contracts to such a point that your increase in the tax rate doesn't produce higher revenue.
00:16:53.444 - 00:17:44.224, Speaker A: So stated another way, again, you're getting a larger portion of a smaller pie. And if the tax rates are sufficiently high, you shrunk the pie so far that the larger portion of the small pie or the smaller pie is actually less than the smaller proportion of the larger pie. Okay? So I think that's an important point to get across. So please feel free to step in with questions if this is not clear. But with that, let me also point out that we are certainly not saying that increases in rewards decrease overall investment. Increases in rewards will decrease short horizon investment. And it doesn't matter at what point you're increasing rewards.
00:17:44.224 - 00:18:46.784, Speaker A: It'll always decrease short horizon investment. What I was saying earlier is that it will sometimes decrease long rise in investment and sometimes increase long horizon investment. But then if you want to think about the total amount of investment, because that's actually what is relevant for security, we do find that it's non monotonic. And in particular, what happens is if you have zero block rewards and you increase the rewards from there, you're going to actually increase overall investment. And if you go too far, then you're going to start to reduce overall investment. So it's obvious, of course, if longer as an investment is decreasing eventually and shorter as an investment is decreasing always that past that point, you will have a decrease in overall investment. But it is worth clarifying then, why you would nonetheless have increases in investment aggregately, when you initially take block rewards from zero to something above zero, that's what I want to spend a little bit of time on up here on this slide.
00:18:46.784 - 00:19:41.498, Speaker A: Of course, when you increase rewards, as we were saying, you'll push out short horizon investment. Initially, you will increase long horizon payoffs and so you will increase long horizon investment. And so you have to weigh those two things against each other. And what we find actually is that when block rewards are really small, you're actually basically substituting almost one to one short horizon investors for long horizon investors. So they exactly offset. But what's important to realize is that long horizon investors in some sense are more valuable than short horizon investors because security is dependent on the market value, that is the market value of investment in that proof of stake coin. And if you have an investor that's, let's say, putting up, I don't know, $1,000 for a year versus an investor who's only putting up $1,000 per day, the investor who's putting up $1,000 for a year is actually having a more positive impact on the market value.
00:19:41.498 - 00:20:44.944, Speaker A: So in other words, if you have a lot of value investors with the same amount of capital, that's going to induce a higher market value than if you have day traders with the same level of capital. And so this one to one substitution of long rising investors for shorter rising investors actually does push up overall investment. It does push up market values. And so that means that initially when you increase rewards from zero, that you actually do get higher overall investment and therefore higher overall security. On the proof of stake blockchain now, again, I do want to emphasize, though, in my view, what the main insight in the paper is, though, which is that overall investment does eventually decline. So here I wanted to clarify that we also find that it necessarily does increase when block rewards are very small. But importantly enough, the main takeaway, I would say, of this paper is that you don't want to push that block reward level too high because eventually it's going to decline overall investment.
00:20:44.944 - 00:21:54.404, Speaker A: Okay, so let me provide a little bit more context on proof of stake security. It doesn't really enter directly into the analysis because we're sort of taking as given what's already been established about proof of stake security. But I think it's useful context to have to understand why, for example, proof of stake security turns on the market value of the locked investments. And so, in a prior paper with the same co authors, we offer this analogy in addition to some formal analysis that formalizes this. But we offer the following analogy, which I think clarifies why the level of investment is so important in a proof of stake setting, which is a proof stake blockchain is akin to an all equity firm. And so when you think about proof stake blockchain, to think about the coins, the native asset of the proofsake blockchain, as a kin to voting shares in that all equity firm. So again, if Ethereum, for example, is using proof of stake, what I'm saying then is that you should think about ether as equivalent to voting shares in the enterprise of Ethereum.
00:21:54.404 - 00:23:04.394, Speaker A: And the reason why I'm saying this is the analogy you should be thinking about, meaning, thinking about the coins as a kid to voting shares in the firm is it turns out proof of stake basically selects who gets to affect what's going on in the blockchain based on their holdings of that native coin. So Ethereum is using a proof of stake protocol. If it were to transition to proof of stake, then who gets to decide what goes on the ledger, who gets to attach a block is going to depend upon the coin holdings. And your chance of attaching the next block is actually going to be proportional to your coin holding, or at least amongst the so called stake coins. So why is this important in thinking about security? Well, to attack a blockchain, you must gain control of it. All of the bad behavior you can think of as a prerequisite requires a malicious actor gaining the right to determine what goes next on the ledge. Because if the malicious actor cannot gain control of deciding what gets written on the blockchain, then what that actor does is completely irrelevant.
00:23:04.394 - 00:23:58.650, Speaker A: So the question is, when it comes to security, how does a malicious actor gain the ability to affect what's going on in the ledger? Well, the protocol has to select that particular actor. And how does the protocol. How does the proof of stake protocol select who gets to write on the ledger? Well, it's on the basis of essentially the proportional ownership of the native crypto asset. So one way to put it is that the malicious actor would need to gain a majority interest. So this makes it sound a lot like a takeover of a publicly traded firm. And of course, to take over a publicly traded firm, you got to acquire sufficient, sufficient interest in the firm. And importantly enough that means the difficulty of doing this is going to depend on the market value.
00:23:58.650 - 00:24:48.432, Speaker A: So, for example, Apple is harder to take over than Twitter because Apple has a higher market value. So getting to any threshold, let's say 50%, is much, much more expensive for Apple than it is for Twitter. And by the same token, attacking a proof of stake blockchain is then going to depend on sort of the total market value of what's called the staked coins. And so the higher that is, the higher the market value of that is, the harder it is to attack. And the lower it is, the easier it is to attack. Which comes back to this point then, that it's really important to get that market value high because you want the system to be secure so that people will actually use it. And that goes back to this question about how do we incentivize the market value to be high, and goes back to the main point of this paper.
00:24:48.432 - 00:25:47.194, Speaker A: So I'm about to transition into the formal analysis, which is really just going to deepen what I've been discussing so far. But before that, I want to spend one slide, sort of summarizing a bit what I've been saying and giving the broad overview in that regard before we go into the details. And so, by the way, this is, I think, also a great opportunity for questions to clarify anything that I've said thus far. Because after this, I'm basically just explaining the formal arguments that are going to get you to these conclusions. But then with that stated. So again, this paper is about proof of stake security, which is to say, we're thinking about the incentives associated with securing a proof of stake blockchain. Which means, again, due to what prior work has highlighted, what that means is that you want the level of locked investment in the coin for the proof of stake blockchain to be really, really high.
00:25:47.194 - 00:26:51.212, Speaker A: If Ethereum uses proof of stake, you want the market value of so called stake ether to be high. The sort of, let's say, lay intuition associated with that is essentially, well, okay, why don't we just reward people? Why don't we reward investors? More so that they will put up their capital and invest it in ether. And that should give us a high market value and that should give us security. And the whole point, or I think the main point of this paper, the main insight that I want to convey is that that's actually not generically true. Just because you increase the rewards for staking, that doesn't mean that you're going to increase the invested capital in ether and therefore it doesn't mean that you're going to increase the security. And now why is that? And these are, again, the results that I'm actually going to show you within the context of the formal analysis. The first point is that rewards are not value added.
00:26:51.212 - 00:27:30.594, Speaker A: They are transfers. They're increases in the stock of outstanding crypto asset. And so that is inflationary, it's not production. And so yes, somebody is getting the value, but that means somebody is losing the value. And it turns out both the set of individuals that are losing the value and the set of individuals that are gaining the value can contribute to security. And so, yes, you are sort of adding value to the long horizon investors, but you're undermining value to the short horizon investors. And so as a first order matter, what's happening is you're driving out short horizon investors and you're therefore driving out short horizon investment, which would contribute to security of the blockchain.
00:27:30.594 - 00:28:16.698, Speaker A: Right. But then, importantly enough, this driving out effect of short horizon investors can actually make it so that the value to the long horizon investors is also declining. It can cause long horizon investors to also reduce their investment. Why is that? Well, its because youre increasing this inflation tax on these short horizon investors. So theyre reducing their investment and their investment is basically the base on which the tax is being levied. And so eventually what youre doing is youre getting a higher rate on a smaller base and the reduction in the base is dominating the increase in the rate. So long resident investors arent actually gaining from the increases in rewards on Netflix and therefore their payoffs are going down and they're also going to reduce their level of investment.
00:28:16.698 - 00:29:20.454, Speaker A: And so if long and short horizon investment investors are reducing their level of investment, now you have overall investment reducing as rewards increase, which means that you are unambiguously undermining security of this blockchain. So the high level of practical messages, you want to be very careful about how you set that reward level. And you don't want to delude yourself into thinking that if you just set it higher and higher, you're going to improve the security of the system. That is not true. So let me then transition to some of the formal analysis in the work. So we're going to sort of set this up in the way a proof of state protocol is set up, which is proof stick protocols basically divide time into these discrete units that they refer to as epochs. And so just some notation here, we're going to denote the epoch by t, which is going to take on a value in the natural numbers.
00:29:20.454 - 00:29:50.534, Speaker A: So again, it's discrete because that's the way it's set up. We're going to allow that there's a new set of investors that can enter at the beginning of every epoch and can thereafter trade on the blockchain. So we're indexing these investors. We want to be able to identify them uniquely. So we have to index them in two dimensions. One dimension is just when they show up. So that's the t, which again of course has to be a natural number.
00:29:50.534 - 00:31:11.414, Speaker A: We also have sort of a unique identifier within the set of investors that arrive in the epoch which is going to be this I. So this ordered pair, it is going to pin down uniquely which investor we're talking about. And so what happens when an investor has some capital that he could put to investment in a crypto asset? Well, there are alternatives too, right? And so the main decision is you have a bunch of capital. Do you want to invest it in the base asset of the proof of stake blockchain, or do you want to invest it in something else? Anything else? It doesn't matter what else that is, what else that thing is, because we're interested only in the secure proof state blockchain. So we're only interested in whether you're going to be willing to invest it in the base asset or whether you're going to invest in something else, because anything else you invest in is of course not going to be good for security of the proof of stake blockchain, whereas if you invest in this base asset, it will be good the proof of stake blockchain. And so we're going to model the return on the alternative asset according to an exogenous distribution without loss of generality. Crucially enough, the return that you get from investing in the base crypto asset of the proof of stake blockchain is endogenous.
00:31:11.414 - 00:32:08.376, Speaker A: And so we're going to spend some time figuring out what that is and that's going to be an important piece of the analysis. But of course we're assuming investors are rational, so they're ultimately going to be saying look, we'll invest in this base crypto asset if and only if it's optimal. If the return that I'm going to get from investing in the base crypto asset is higher than my alternative investment opportunities, then I'm going to invest in the base crypto asset. Otherwise I'm going to invest in the alternative investment opportunities. And again, from the perspective of security, you want people to be making the decision to invest in this base crypto asset because that is what is going to secure the blockchain. If everybody is deciding to pursue their alternative investment opportunities then this blockchain is going to be highly insecure. Okay, so how do we model investors? Well first we allow that investors have stochastic trading horizons.
00:32:08.376 - 00:33:09.564, Speaker A: Okay, so what do I mean by that more formally? Well, each investor is going to face a liquidity shock each epoch after the investor sort of initially has her capital with some probability theta, and then it's indexed by the unique identifier for the investor. Which is it and what do I mean by a liquidity shock? Well essentially when an investor is hit with a liquidity shock, that investor is going to need to sell her holdings and liquidate her position. So what are the dynamics of this data? It, where does the data it come from? Well, we're going to assume, or rather we're going to allow for heterogeneous trading horizons. So the data, it is not identical across all of the investors. It can take in this case one of two values, which are they're both probabilities. So of course they're both between zero and one. But theta S is without loss of generality larger than theta l.
00:33:09.564 - 00:34:00.702, Speaker A: And there's a set probability that theta it realizes as theta l and the complementary probability that it realizes theta s. So one of the implications of this is that the trading horizon is necessarily then going to be geometric with a parameter equal to this theta. We're going to denote the trading horizon by Tau. And note of course there is. So when I talk about heterogeneity and trading horizons, what Im actually talking about is the expected trading horizon. So in particular the expected trading horizon is going to turn out to be the reciprocal of the beta. And so what that means then is by virtue of theta l being smaller than theta s, those investors who have theta, it equals theta l.
00:34:00.702 - 00:34:59.974, Speaker A: Theyre longer horizon trading investors. Theyre effectively value investors, whereas the investors with theta s, theyre trading in and out and they are, lets say for example day traders. So we have short horizon investors and long horizon investors and stochastic trading horizons. Okay, so as I was saying, one of the most important pieces in the analysis is figuring out what the returns are for investors from investing in the native crypto asset of the proof of stake blockchain. So at a high level, that's not complicated to think about, right? You come in and you invest in the particular asset, and over time your holdings might vary and the prices might fluctuate. And ultimately, when you are going to sell your position, what you're going to get is the price times the revenue, but you don't know what the price is going to be in the future. And even your holdings can change over time, as I'll discuss.
00:34:59.974 - 00:35:52.854, Speaker A: So you're going to take a conditional expectation when you are first making your investment decision, and that is of course what you're going to compare to your alternative investment opportunities. So p here just denotes the price of the crypto asset, and two denotes the holding for the particular investor. They both have time subscripts because of course, they can change over time. And crucially enough, what you're interested in is the price when you're going to sell. So if you arrive at time t and you have a horizon of tau, which is a random horizon, then you're interested in the price at t plus Tau. Similarly, if you arrive at t and you're going to leave it at T plus Tau, then you're going to be interested in your quantity at T plus Tau. And that's all this is saying is the market value of your position when you are going to sell, you're going to take the conditional expectation of that.
00:35:52.854 - 00:36:42.404, Speaker A: Now, this is at such a high level that you might wonder, well, where does the proof of stake blockchain show up? The idea that you would take a conditional expectation over your payoff is not specific to proof of stake blockchains. And the fact that your payoff is going to be the price times the quantity is also not specific to proof of stake blockchains. So crucially enough, where proof of stake plays a role is in the evolution of that quantity. Proof of stake is going to affect how your holding is going to evolve over time. Let's clarify that for a moment. So, as I said earlier, proof of stake specifies these essentially partitions time into discrete units, which are called epochs. But those units of time epochs are further partitioned into what are called slots.
00:36:42.404 - 00:37:58.314, Speaker A: And what's a slot? Well, a slot basically corresponds to where a new block is going to be added to the blockchain. So you can think of it as, okay, we have an epoch here where we're going to have, let's say 64 blocks added to the blockchain in sequence. And so every single slot corresponds to a new block in sequence being added to the blockchain. And so then the natural question becomes, well, who actually is getting to add these blocks to the blockchain? It's one thing to say, okay, we're going to have 64 blocks in this epoch and they're going to be added in sequence over time, but who's actually going to, who has the right to add these blocks to the blockchain? That's actually where the blockchain protocol in general is relevant. It's going to determine really how we decide who gets to add a block to the blockchain. And specifically what proof of stake is going to have to say about this is it's going to select an investor for each slot by drawing randomly from state crypto assets. Now what do I mean by staked crypto assets? What is a state crypto asset? Well, any crypto asset that is owned can be staked by the owner, but it comes with a trade off.
00:37:58.314 - 00:38:30.164, Speaker A: Now what's the trade off? Well, if you stake your crypto asset, you can't trade it. So you basically impose a level of illiquidity upon yourself. But there's an advantage. If you stake your crypto asset, then maybe you'll get selected to add a block to the blockchain. And if you get selected to add a block to the blockchain, you're going to get a block reward. That is this thing I was referencing earlier, these inflationary transfers where the supply of the asset is increased and given to somebody. This is what I'm talking about.
00:38:30.164 - 00:39:19.968, Speaker A: If you are the one who adds a block to the blockchain, they're going to essentially create some new units of the asset and give it to you. You have to weigh that trade off. But you can see already that that trade off is going to favor value investors. It's going to favor long horizon investors, because short horizon investors, they want to trade in and out a lot. And so if they stake, they're not able to trade in and out. And so this is actually why rewards end up being a transfer from short to long horizon investors. It's because the structure of a proof of stake protocol, which rewards people who lock up their capital, favors those people who have longer horizons and it therefore taxes those people who have shorter rises.
00:39:19.968 - 00:40:13.368, Speaker A: And I'll show you that more formally when we get to the results, but hopefully at a high level that comes through here. So let's formalize rewards a little bit more. Again, proof of stake rewards are paid as units of new crypto asset. So in particular, if I'm going to denote the amount of crypto asset supply at the beginning of an epoch, t by mt, what that means is the total rewards being paid out in that epoch is just the difference between the rewards at the start of the next epoch and the rewards at the start of this epoch, because all of the new crypto assets are just being given to these people who are creating blocks. And that, by the way, is something that is more generic than proof of stake. This is true even in, for example, bitcoin, which uses proof of work. The new assets enter circulation by being given to those who add blocks in a proof of stake setting.
00:40:13.368 - 00:41:14.494, Speaker A: Those are the investors themselves, specifically the investors who are willing to lock up their capital, the so called stakers. And so again, formalizing a bit further, the reward level is therefore going to be governed by the growth rate of the crypto asset. So in particular, you can define the growth rate essentially, let's say, as the log of the ratio of the total supply across epochs. And that's going to directly then imply that the rewards have this form that you see on the bottom of the slide. And so most importantly here, that means if we're talking about increasing rewards, we're talking about increasing the supply, the supply growth rate of the native crypto asset. If you want to increase the rewards in a proof of stake blockchain, let's say, Algorand, you're going to have to increase the rate at which you issue algos. And that's going to correspond to increases in Roe.
00:41:14.494 - 00:42:21.440, Speaker A: When we get to the formal analysis, you're going to see we're going to be looking at essentially derivatives with respect to ROA and thinking about how they affect things like the level of investment. Okay, so with that, let me transition into, let me transition into results. So first, I need a preliminary, let's call it technical result here, which is that, as I was saying earlier, what's really important to understand is these endogenous payoffs that investors are getting, because investors are going to decide, do I prefer this endogenous payoff from investing in the base crypto asset of the proof state blockchain, or do I prefer my alternative investment opportunities? And so that means we have to get right this endogenous payoff investors get. And so it turns out that you can write the endogenous payoff based on just a few things. So one is it's going to differ depending on whether you're a long or a short horizon investor. So we derive two distinct functions that correspond to the payoffs of one versus the other. But both functions actually depend upon the same stuff.
00:42:21.440 - 00:43:12.822, Speaker A: Theyre different functions, but they depend on the same stuff. The two things that they depend upon are, on the one hand, the crypto asset growth rate, Roe, which is where the block reward enters, or the reward more generally. Again, when I talk about change and grow, you want to be thinking, how does Roe affect these functions? Because these functions are the payoffs for the investors. And if you increase the payoff for the investors, its going to bring more capital in from them to reduce the payoff, its going to take more capital out for them because their alternative investment is not changing. So one thing, of course, we're very interested in this paper thinking about when Roe changes, how do other things change, like, for example, this endogenous payoff. But the other thing to really focus on is these payoffs also depend on this thing we're calling PI s, which is the share of crypto asset investment from short horizon investors. So this gets back to what I was saying about the tax base being relevant.
00:43:12.822 - 00:44:07.368, Speaker A: So rho, again, is like the tax rate, but this PI s is sort of proxying for the tax base. And so you need to be careful about thinking essentially from a technical perspective about the difference between a partial derivative where if I change rho, how does this payoff change versus a total derivative? Because the thing is, rho can change PI s, which is itself an endogenous object, and it can affect payoffs. Okay, so we have these functions which tell us which are the derived payoffs, and they depend upon these two things. So now let's get to the results more precisely. So I've been harping on this point that rewards transfer welfare from short horizon to long horizon investors. What does that mean formally? Well, I just showed you these bivariate functions, PI s and PI l, and so we can take the partial of them with respect to roe. That is saying like holding equal the short horizon investment, holding equality tax base.
00:44:07.368 - 00:44:36.498, Speaker A: What happens when I increase the tax rate, the reward rate? Well, you get monotonic effects. The short horizon investors lose and the long Horizon investors gain. That is, it's a transfer from the short horizon investors to the long horizon investors. Now why is this happening? Well, again, remember, staking precludes trading. Short horizon investors like to trade. They like to go in and out, in and out. And they can't do that if they stake.
00:44:36.498 - 00:45:13.634, Speaker A: So what that means is that they're going to be accruing a lower share of rewards than these long horizon investors who are in it for a long haul. And just staking much more frequently than the short horizon investors. And we formalize this in a result that I've screenshotted here. It touches on some notation that I haven't described. So my apologies for that. But what this result is formalizing is exactly this point that the share of coins held by the short horizon investors actually decreases. And the share of coins held by the long rise investors actually increases.
00:45:13.634 - 00:46:19.148, Speaker A: And because rewards don't affect the production side, so to speak, of course, if you start shifting the proportion of market value held by one group down and shifting the other one up, what's actually happening is that you're transferring value from one group to the other. And this sort of says this in a more formal way. But so with that, then let me move to sort of the second part of that, the part that follows, which is that, okay, so we know now that rewards are a transfer from short to long horizon investors, right? But we are interested in overall investment. So, okay, taxing shorter rise investors, it'll reduce their investment. But our hope would be something like, well, we hope that long horizon investment will increase such that it'll offset the decrease in short horizon investment. And the whole point that I want to emphasize is that that turns out not to be generically true. In fact, for sufficiently large reward rates, long horizon investment not only doesn't offset decreases in short rise in investment, long horizon investment itself decreases.
00:46:19.148 - 00:46:58.432, Speaker A: Right. And so what's the formal way of saying that? Well, take a look at that PI l function I was showing you earlier. The thing is, it has two arguments, rho reward rate and PI s, which is the share of short horizon investment. But the share of short horizon investment itself is an endogenous object. So it turns out that it itself has to be derived on the basis of what the parameters are. So for example, most important one here is the reward rate. I can define this function, PI l, that is essentially the equilibrium payoff for long horizon investors given a reward rate of growth.
00:46:58.432 - 00:47:28.294, Speaker A: So the key point is that you can't plug in arbitrary shares of short horizon investors into that bivariate function I showed you earlier. And consider that to be an actual return that investors are going to get. Because that may not correspond to an equilibrium. You want to think about different equilibria. As I change the reward rate. You have to endogenously derive the share of investment from shortrized investors and plug that in with the associated reward rate. And so you get a univariate function just as a function of row.
00:47:28.294 - 00:48:18.016, Speaker A: And so what's the result here? Well, the result is that the total derivative, either you think of it as the derivative of this univariate function, or sort of the total derivative of that previous function, is actually decreasing in row for sufficiently large row. Right. And now why is that happening? Well, you can just kind of look at it through the lens of calculus here, right? There's the total effect, but the total effect can be decomposed into two parts. There is the direct effect, which holds constant the share of short, rising investment, effectively holding constant the tax base. And that's the place where I think the natural intuition comes in and says, okay, well, you're giving them more rewards they should gain. So that direct effect is positive. But the problem is, there's an indirect effect.
00:48:18.016 - 00:48:59.534, Speaker A: The indirect effect is when you increase the reward, you're going to affect the share of shortrized investment. By other words, when you increase the tax rate, you're going to affect the tax base. And when you reduce the tax base too much, you actually reduce the payoff too much. Right. So the direct effect reflects on this slide, reflects an increase in the inflation tax rate, but the indirect effect reflects a reduction in this transfer base, which is, again, the short horizon investment. The direct effect is always positive, but the indirect effect not only can be negative, it can dominate the direct effect. And that's how long horizon investment is also going to get hurt, because long horizon investment payoffs are eventually going to decline.
00:48:59.534 - 00:49:42.632, Speaker A: And then that's going to lead to reductions in, uh, long horizon investment. And so, as a consequence, of course, and this is sort of the second point in this proposition 4.6, which is screenshotted from the paper, if short and long horizon investment is declining, which is the case when you sort of get too high on your. In terms of the block reward, then of course, overall investment is going to decline. But as I was saying earlier, I do want to. I do want to note that we also establish that for small increases in block rewards, the opposite is true. So when you first increase rewards, you actually do increase overall investment.
00:49:42.632 - 00:50:32.948, Speaker A: The long horizon investment does compensate for the short horizon investment. But eventually both sets of investors are drawing down their capital and long end, and therefore total investment is declining. Okay, so let me sort of start to wrap up here. So the overall point that I want to. If there's one point that I want to convey through this presentation, it's the first line on this conclusion slide, which is increases in rewards can reduce proof of stake security. The naive intuition that if I increase rewards, I'm going to get more of the thing that I'm rewarding, which in this case is investment does not turn out to hold generically here. Increases in rewards can reduce proof of stake security.
00:50:32.948 - 00:51:03.544, Speaker A: And so as a practical matter, you want to be careful about setting that reward level too high, even if you're just concerned about security separate from other concerns that you may have. Now, why is that? Well, this is the substance of the paper and so broken down. The first point is that rewards are a transfer of wealth from short to long price investors. It's an inflationary transfer. You're just creating new coins and giving it to some people. That's not new production, that is a transfer of wealth. And you have to then think about who you're hurting in that transfer.
00:51:03.544 - 00:52:06.826, Speaker A: And who you're hurting is that you're increasing this inflation tax upon these short horizon investors. And so you're going to reduce short horizon investment. And you may think that would compensate for, you may think that long horizon investment could compensate for that because they're the ones receiving this, let's call it inflation tax revenue. And while that does happen initially, the problem is eventually the tax base deteriorates to such an extent that even long horizon payoffs fall and therefore long horizon investment falls. And once long and short horizon investment are falling, of course overall investment is going to fall. And if overall investment is going to fall, that means that the security of the proof of stake blockchain is undermined precisely because that means it's actually relatively cheap then for an attacker to acquire a majority interest and to then be selected by the proof of stake protocol and to do damage to the blockchain. So I'm going to leave it here for now.
00:52:06.826 - 00:52:08.314, Speaker A: Are there any questions?
