00:00:10.490 - 00:00:35.442, Speaker A: Hello and welcome to the Wednesday livestream of the defiant. This is our first look unboxing series and today we're taking a look at OHM and in particular the olympus pro product. Now over the course of the latest bearish phase one project has demonstrated remarkable resistance and that project is Olympus. Let's get it big. And there it is. We scroll down to the chart here. Oh my goodness.
00:00:35.442 - 00:00:57.486, Speaker A: Oh my goodness. And as one person on Twitter told me today, ohm. Dgaf. Dgaf. Ohm. Now what is ohm? Well, it's the token of Olympus Dow, a decentralized reserve currency protocol based on the Ohm token. And it's ironic that Ohm is electrical resistance and this token has resisted all the downward pressure in the market.
00:00:57.486 - 00:01:49.034, Speaker A: Pretty amazing. Now each Ohm token is backed by a basket of assets like dai or fracs held in the Olympus treasury which in theory creates an intrinsic value that it cannot fall below. I say in theory because there's a lot of game theory at stake here. Now Olympus is built on quite a lot of game theory mechanics and if you see three comma, three or one comma, one comma, one that is referencing a table of game theory mechanics which they have put out, which we'll cover in a little bit. But basically I've been wanting to cover this for some time now and I got the nudge when I saw them release Olympus Pro which is basically it's a service of protocols looking to utilize bonds in their emissions programs with low overhead as they say, and maximum impact. What they'll do is they'll provide partners with infrastructure, expertise and exposure. And if you are a project you need only bring a token and an objective.
00:01:49.034 - 00:02:06.450, Speaker A: So for instance, you say we want to hit a TVL of x by y date. Then that's what you do. And it all hinges on a really old school financial instrument, the bond. But we'll go deep, deep, deep, deep into all of that right after this message from our sponsor, Alp. Hit it.
00:02:06.600 - 00:02:31.706, Speaker B: Don't let high gas costs keep you out of Ethereum. A balance of the gas optimized vault architecture makes trading cheaper than anywhere else. Liquidity providers can optimize their fee earnings using the dynamic fee system that automatically adjusts to market conditions. You can also use asset managers to lend out idle assets dramatically increasing your capital efficiency. Because balancer is an open platform for flexible automated markets you can choose from stable pools or weighted pools and in the future more designs will be created.
00:02:31.738 - 00:02:33.166, Speaker A: That we don't even know about yet.
00:02:33.268 - 00:02:35.950, Speaker B: Check it out. At balancer Phi.
00:02:37.170 - 00:03:06.322, Speaker A: So this is ohm. They call it the decentralized reserve currency. And it's important to just bear in mind here that this is not a stable coin. So what is the point of Olympus? Well, their goal is to build a policy controlled currency system in which the behavior of the OhM token is controlled at a high level by the Dow. Like I said, ohm is not a stablecoin. It is backed by one dai, but not pegged to it. And that's because the treasury backs every OHm with at least one die.
00:03:06.322 - 00:03:50.318, Speaker A: Now, the protocol can buy back and burn ohm when it trades below one die, which has the effect of pushing ohm back up to one die. But there is no theoretical ceiling on how much ohm can be worth, because there is no upper limit imposed by the protocol. So it is not a stablecoin, but it's designed to act as if backed by one die. And so there is a theoretical floor, but no theoretical ceiling, which is kind of fun. So what's behind the game theory mechanics here is this table, and there are three parts to the Olympus ecosystem. There's what they call stake, bond and sell. And the two, first of these are positive, I.
00:03:50.318 - 00:04:12.782, Speaker A: E. Stake and bonding. And the last one is detrimental. So the staking and bonding mechanisms are designed to add value to the system. And the selling mechanism, in theory, removes value from the system. And of course, the game is to incentivize people properly to invest in the stake and the bond, but not in the sell. And in the table here, you'll see under.
00:04:12.782 - 00:04:39.654, Speaker A: It's basically what they're saying is if there are two players in the game, the best outcome is this one here, stake stake, and which is three three. But there's also a great deal of value in bond. Bond, which is one one. But the worst outcome is minus three. Minus three, which is sell sell. I'm not going to go into too much detail about all of that because that's not really the purpose of the video. But essentially, here's how it works.
00:04:39.654 - 00:05:30.018, Speaker A: Stakers stake their Ohm tokens in return for more ohm tokens, while bonders provide LP or Dai tokens or other stable coins like fracs, in exchange for discounted ohm tokens which mature after a fixed vesting period. So staking takes Ohm off the market, resulting in a price increase. Theoretically, bonding provides liquidity to Olympus and die for the treasury, whereas selling diminishes the effort of all of those who are staking and bonding and reduces the value in the entire protocol. Now you can go and have a look at the dashboard and see how effective these game theory mechanics have been because look at that, look at that. A billion dollars in total value locked. And this thing hasn't been around that long. But it's not crazy steep.
00:05:30.018 - 00:06:14.914, Speaker A: I mean it is steep, but it's not the way sometimes you'll see in a yield farm when it launches. You don't just see wow followed by the inevitable drop. And of course, as we know, the market macro has been bearish thanks to the Evergrande thing. What that means is Olympus and its game theory mechanics are performing very, very well. Does that mean they are validated? Well, we can only really judge that over a longer period of time, but it does mean that whatever Olympus is doing, it works. And so there's clearly a lot of data that can be gleaned from this and it's that data that they are leaning on to provide the olympus pro product. Now if you want to learn more about staking, their document site is actually pretty good.
00:06:14.914 - 00:06:53.770, Speaker A: You can understand what the staking is doing and in particular we want to look at what the bonding part is doing. So bonds in the Olympus ecosystem are a cross between a fixed income product, a futures product and an option. Now in traditional finance, bonds are essentially a unit of corporate debt. And these are issued by companies and then they're securitized as tradable assets and they basically function like an IOU. I lend you money and you pay me a fixed rate of interest, which is known as the coupon. And that bond matures at a certain date upon which the full amount must be paid back in full. And of course we can look at things like treasury bonds.
00:06:53.770 - 00:07:14.166, Speaker A: I don't know if you can see that, it's not that great. But here's where you can buy treasury bonds. And these pay a fixed rate of interest every six months and they are issued in terms of 20 years or 30 years. Just try and wrap your head around that. A 20 or 30 year bond. And in traditional investing, these have been considered extremely safe. And there's a reason for that.
00:07:14.166 - 00:07:52.078, Speaker A: It's because you're betting on the US government not defaulting on a loan, not defaulting on its debt. If you're going to lend somebody money, you lend it to the government because inevitably they will pay it off. And the reason the government needs money is because they have to build schools and they have to build other stuff that they need money for and they have to raise it through means other than taxes. Sometimes this is how they do it. So that brings us back to the Olympus dao. And here you can see on the bond page the different ways in which you can mint a bond on Olympus. So you could put in ohm Dai, which is an LP token, you can put in wrapped ETH, you can put a dai, you can put an ohm frax lP token, or you can put in a frax token.
00:07:52.078 - 00:09:00.166, Speaker A: I would imagine that this list of assets will increase over time, but they're kind of important because why would you have LP tokens in there? Well, we'll get to that. So this brings us back to the Olympus pro announcement and they big this thing up. They said this is a paradigm shift in the way protocols utilize emissions to accrue value. And there's a few problems that they've highlighted here. They start by talking about the way bitcoin allows people to use proof of work to earn tokens. And so you have this emissions problem which is over time more and more tokens are emitted which can be managed and mitigated, but for a lot of protocols it becomes a problem, and in particular for liquidity mining it becomes a massive problem. So what happened last year was compound created, this whole concept of liquidity mining, and everybody copied it and everybody jumped on because it was essentially a way of bootstrapping liquidity in your protocol, because you need liquidity in order for these protocols to function.
00:09:00.166 - 00:09:43.266, Speaker A: And so the way they did it was they said, well you can put money into the protocol and we'll just pay you in a bunch of tokens. That's liquidity mining in its very kind of simplest form. And as they say, this is a perpetual expense with no lasting benefit. I'm just going to quote them full on here, because what they say in the article is that this is how they started, this is how Olympusdao bootstrapped itself. But now they're proposing using bonds instead of liquidity mining. As they say, LP incentives allowed us to build up a large liquidity pool quickly, but it was never a long term strategy. Bonds are, bonds are a mechanism by which the protocol itself can trade its native token in exchange for assets.
00:09:43.266 - 00:10:24.782, Speaker A: Instead of renting liquidity from third parties, it purchases them outright. Once the bond is created, the protocol owns those assets and light liquidity mining has distributed new supply. So here's what you do. You issue bonds at a discount to the market price and the protocol itself gets revenue earning LP tokens. So if you go back to here, these Ohm die LP tokens earn revenue. So how would it normally work? A protocol would invite people to supply liquidity and then it would just reward them in the native protocol token and it has to pump out a bunch of like we see five figure, six figure sometimes apys on these things. That's insane and it's not sustainable.
00:10:24.782 - 00:11:29.670, Speaker A: So what Olympus is saying is don't do that because you're basically creating a problem that you will never be able to fix. So by issuing a bond, you're getting liquidity that you actually own rather than renting it. And that is a big thing to wrap your head around because we've just become so accustomed to liquidity mining being the way that you do it. But what they also say is that if you are a protocol and you approach Olympus with a plan for what you want to do, the assets that you will receive will be either a stablecoin like Dai, or a yield generating LP token like Ohm Dai. And of course you can also put your dai to work in a farm or stake it. There's lots of different ways of earning interest on that dai, but essentially the DAi is a stablecoin. And as we know, the tokens that are issued broadly in the market are insanely volatile and it's very difficult to do good treasury management when you're talking about that.
00:11:29.670 - 00:12:31.222, Speaker A: So the bonds obviously will need to be paid back at some point, but the point is the assets that you own, well, they're yours and you're not renting them out to other people. So what happens is Olympus will effectively, there's three parts to the offer here, so there's an infrastructure part. And what they're calling this is liquidity as a service providing a custom treasury and bond optimized to individual needs. And what they're saying is we've done this for the last however many months and we've gotten really good at it and we know that it works, we have the data to back up what we're saying. If we looked at those charts before, it seems that they kind of do. They're also offering Olympus Pro X, which is a bond marketplace, providing an integrated front end solution for users to quickly and easily create and manage their bond positions, and a familiar unified user interface. So you can imagine that they'll have a suite of bonds and I guess they will vet projects before they come on board to make sure that they have the goods to pay back the bonds.
00:12:31.222 - 00:13:21.466, Speaker A: Because obviously if it's bad debt, then you're not really solving a problem, you're creating a new one. And they will also be providing marketing services and all sorts of other things. And in return for that they will apply a 3.3% fee, which doesn't seem that much, to be honest with you. And I guess one of the things that they want to do, and they do say that here, they say an end goal of an impostor pro services is to promote OHM as a treasury asset and liquidity pair token for other protocols. We will leverage our partnerships to accelerate that process by one, offering rebates to protocols accumulating OHm or OHM XSLP, and two, offering co bonding opportunities to protocols using OHm as payment, especially with OHm pairs. So I've been watching closely PFP projects which are issuing their own tokens like Kongs, like Subduck's Coolcats is doing it as well.
00:13:21.466 - 00:14:17.038, Speaker A: And you kind of have the same problem here, which is you have these tokens, and ideally what these tokens are going to do is allow these projects to grow and create liquidity. But I'm just wondering if there's an alternative model for these projects to subsist using bonds in the long run. Because one of the things that I've been most preoccupied of late is how these projects manage their treasuries. Because as we know, big sale up front and it's worth bearing in mind here, that board apes raised a little over $2 million. Now how far is that $2 million going to go over the course of the next three to four years, particularly if we enter into a long bear market. Now if you're issuing a token and these assets are producing tokens, those tokens are going to be subject to the same market forces as everything else. But if you can think about treasury management in terms of stablecoins or bonds, then you're much better protected from the market going down.
00:14:17.038 - 00:15:07.470, Speaker A: And there is a way of bootstrapping liquidity that is just way more wholesome. So I'm wondering if the bond model, or looking at bonds for PFPs or even some form of slash lp model. I don't know where I'm going with this, but you can kind of see it might be the way to go because for all my excitement about where we've been going and the bullishness of it, I do know what a bear market and a protracted one looks like and I know it's not pretty and I know that stablecoins provide a safe haven for people to keep building. And I would love to see more projects take that on and get stuck in. But this was great. Olympus Pro is doing something right, clearly, or at least the market thinks they're doing something right. And I would highly recommend going and look at the game theory mechanics because it's so easy to understand.
00:15:07.470 - 00:15:28.158, Speaker A: It's a very, very simple mechanism. It's a very simple model. And I guess this is probably the first big test of it seems to work. There you go. So that was the look at the Olympus Pro product. If there's anything you'd like us to cover on first look, do drop a note in the comments. And of course, don't forget to subscribe.
00:15:28.158 - 00:15:38.310, Speaker A: Like, do all that stuff. I mean, I don't even know how to do this. I'm the worst YouTuber in the world because I. Hey, guys, buy the merch. Alp. What merch do we have? Alp. Alp.
00:15:38.310 - 00:15:50.954, Speaker A: We don't have any merch yet. We have no merch for you to buy. I can't do the YouTube sign off. Drop us a like, drop us a sky. I'm just going to say goodbye now. Thank you for joining us on the live stream. Tomorrow is a very exciting one.
00:15:50.954 - 00:16:08.426, Speaker A: We're going to have an NFT show spectacular with the team from treasury, from treasure, sorry. And Joseph Rakich, who is one of the buffest human beings I have ever seen. Apart from Al, of course, in the world. It's going to be a big one. Of course. Simon Wong will be joining me there. Friday is our big metaverse film.
00:16:08.426 - 00:16:20.610, Speaker A: I still have to write it, but so much to talk about. If you're interested in the metaverse, if you're curious about what it is, if you have any clue, do whatsoever, how big this thing is going to be, then join us for that one. I will see you pace.
