00:00:00.280 - 00:00:43.084, Speaker A: Let's start with a warm up regarding this concept of rigidity with few locations. So you take a graph which you know, that is generically de rigid, and now you want to find a rigid realization that uses only few locations for the vertices. So let's try to see. For some graphs we can do it with chromatic number of locations where the chromatic number here in those examples is exactly d plus one. So look first on this peacock on the left. So this peacock is actually a tree. So that means minimally one rigid graph.
00:00:43.084 - 00:01:18.286, Speaker A: And so this means that removing any edge from it makes it non rigid. That's the minimality. And now being a tree is also bipartite. So you can put all of the red, all of the black vertices in one location and all of the white vertices in another location. And this way you will get a rigid realization of this graph on the line. So here it worked, we did it just with two locations. Now let's move one dimension higher.
00:01:18.286 - 00:02:10.004, Speaker A: So look on this example on the right. So this is a laman graph. So it's a minimally two rigid graph. And as you see, its chromatic number is three, you see a coloring, and we try to rigidify it with just using three locations. So first, let's look on these four vertices at the bottom. And so let's notice that if you have an edge in the graph, then its two endpoints must be in two different locations if you want to rigid realizations, because by the minimality, if you remove that edge, you get a non trivial infinitesimal motion. And now if you put this edge back, then this motion remains, because every vector is orthogonal to the zero vector, which is the direction of this degenerate edge.
00:02:10.004 - 00:02:53.284, Speaker A: So this means that for the four vertices on the bottom, we must put them in locations as indicated by the colors. Now the question is, what about the top vertex? So again, it can be either, it cannot be gray, but it can be either black or white. And or by symmetry. Let's consider the black case. But as you see the two edges emanating from it in the realization, they become just a single edge. So then again you have it. So now you have a non trivial infinitesimal motion because you can put zero velocities on all of the bottom four vertices and then some velocity orthogonal to the direction of the edge for the top one.
00:02:53.284 - 00:03:47.854, Speaker A: So this shows you that in this case we failed and we cannot rigidify it with just using three locations. So what we learned here is that the chromatic number is a lower bound for the size of a needed here, but generally it's a poor lower bound. Namely, if you take minimally d rigid graphs, always their chromatic number is bounded by a function of g. It's just two g minus one. But then sometimes for the graphs, the number of locations you need grows with the size of the graph with the number of vertices. Okay, so let's get more formal about our main objective. So let g denote a finite graph and a subset of r to the d.
00:03:47.854 - 00:04:51.484, Speaker A: We say that the graph is a rigid if there is a map of its vertices into a such that the resulted framework is infinitesimally rigid. And for a family f of graphs which are generically d rigid, let's also consider a filtration of the family according to the so let's denote by f the sub family of all graphs in f with at most n vertices. So now we say the that the family f is de rigid with c locations if there exists a subset a of r to the d of size c such that all of the graphs in f are a rigid. And the main invariant that we consider in this talk is Cd of f, which is the minimal such c. So we will be interested in families with interesting families with bounded cd of f. So of course, if the family is finite, then it's bounded. That's not interesting.
00:04:51.484 - 00:05:46.376, Speaker A: We're interested in infinite families. And in the case where it is not bounded, we are interested in the growth of growth of cd of f of n as n tends to infinity. Okay, so, so let's consider first the family of all d rigid graphs. So when I say here de rigid, I always mean generically or infinitesimally rigid, I mean de rigid just means generically de rigid in r to the d. But when I specify also the a, I mean always, I talk about infinitesimal rigidity in this talk. So, so f of d is the family of all d rigid graphs. And now Fekete and Jordan observed that c one of f one equals two.
00:05:46.376 - 00:06:42.806, Speaker A: That's what we discussed about the peacock in the first slide. And further, they show that the c two of f two of n is at least of order root n, and their argument actually generalizes easily to every d at least two, showing that cd of fdn is at least of order dth root of n. And here is their argument. So let h be a minimally d rigid graph on k vertices. Think of k as a large number. And now we construct a new graph from h by connecting a new vertex to each subset of d vertices of h. So in the resulted graph, we have the old k vertices plus k choose d vertices.
00:06:42.806 - 00:07:19.670, Speaker A: So for k this is order k to the d. Now know that in every de rigid realization of g, all of the vertices of h must be in different locations. This is the argument we showed also in the first slide, but for the picture. Maybe I'll show it again. So here was the case. You see this top vertex? Now it has only, it has those two neighbors, and those two neighbors need to occupy different locations if you want a rigid realization. Otherwise we have this infinitesimal motion with this vertex.
00:07:19.670 - 00:08:20.424, Speaker A: And this also generalized in higher dimensions, if the d neighbors occupy less than d locations. Okay, in a recent beautiful paper of Kirali, he showed that the correct order of magnitude of c two of f two n is actually order of root n. And we'll get say more how he showed it later. Now let's consider the family of planar graphs. So chiaralli, answering a question by Walter Whiteley, showed that c two of that family of planar laman graphs. I mean always, we can restrict to the sub family of minimally, I mean, instead of, I mean, the answer for planar two rigid graphs is the same answer as planar lamandras. You can always take the in your family, just the minimally rigid ones.
00:08:20.424 - 00:09:22.364, Speaker A: So c, two of that family is bounded by a constant, and the constant you found is 26, but it's probably not tight. And in a paper with Carima de placeito, we show that c three of maximal planar graphs is at most 76. So maximal planar graphs are exactly those graphs that correspond to the graphs of triangulations of s two. They are indeed generally rigid, but actually 76 points are enough to rigidify them all. So actually first came this paper with Karim, and, you know, we sent the draft to several people, and Walter asked us about the plainer Leman. We couldn't do it, but then Kerali managed to do it. And the main algebraic statement that allows inductive proofs for both of those results is the following.
00:09:22.364 - 00:10:38.700, Speaker A: So assume you have a framework which is infinitesimally rigid in r to the d, and a vertex of that graph, you have a vertex v of that graph of degree c. Then if you take a generic subset of points in r to the d, which is large enough, and by large enough we need here of size at least d plus c, choose d. Then you can find a point in a so that you can relocate the vertex v in this point a in a, such as the result that the new framework is again infinitesimally rigid let me mention the key point in improving this. So at first you don't know where to locate this vertex v. So let's put its locations as variables x one up to x to the d. Let's consider the rigidity matrix. So we know that some maximal, because we have this infinitesimal, I mean, this framework GP, which is infinitesimally rigid.
00:10:38.700 - 00:11:38.786, Speaker A: We know that in the rigidity matrix with these variables, some determinant of a maximal square submatrix is a non zero polynomial. So this is a polynomial in the variables x one to x up to xd. It lives in the space of all polynomials in in the variables of degree at most c, because v had a degree c. So in this rigidity matrix only c columns, only in c columns corresponding to the edges with v, you see those variables. The dimension of this space is exactly this, d plus c. Choose two, let's choose d. So if this is a non zero polynomial, then you know, if you evaluate on at least so many points or more and you get zero, then it would be the zero polygon and you will get a contradiction.
00:11:38.786 - 00:12:57.644, Speaker A: So that's how the proof works. Now let's move on to graphs on surfaces. So let Mg denotes the surface of genus g, orientable genus or non orientable, and let say f of Mg be the family of graphs of triangulations of mg. So the main result, the result of the PhD of Vogelsanger says that all the triangulations of surfaces are three rigid, namely generically rigid in three space, or in our notation, this means that c three of fmg is at most aleph zero, because you can take just different points. With aleph zero points, you realize each graph is just different locations, as usual, as you usually do. But now you want to save locations. And in the paper with Karim, we showed that actually finally many locations suffice, and the constant that we found depended on g and tends to infinity as g tends to infinity as the genus grows.
00:12:57.644 - 00:13:51.624, Speaker A: Now let's consider another family, the family of Laman graphs that can be embedded in Mg. So now you want to rigidify these graphs in r to the two using few locations. And Kerali showed you can really do it with a constant that is of order root g. It is still open whether there is a uniform bound that fits all the genus together, namely either a constant c three such that c three of fmg is at most c three. And similarly, is there a constant c two such that c two of Lmg is at most c two. So we consider this problem and couldn't solve it. So here's an intermediate problem.
00:13:51.624 - 00:14:54.814, Speaker A: Does every graph of a triangulation of a surface Mg contains a vertex spanning planar laman subgraph? So notice that if yes, then this will show that using Kirali's result, that c two of fmg is at most 26. Okay, so initially we want to solve the problem with c three of Fmg. We cannot do it, but maybe it's easier to rigidify them in the plane rather than in space. And there maybe we can show a uniform bound. So this is the strategy, how to do it, and the theorem, together with my former master's student Simeon Tarabinkin, who just graduated this year, is that the answer is yes, if the Euler characteristic is at most zero. So we already knew it for the sphere and now we know it also for rp two, the torus and the Klein bottle. And the actual result we obtained there is a stronger.
00:14:54.814 - 00:15:29.192, Speaker A: So every triangulation of the projected plane contains a spanning disk. So you can find a. A sub complex of the triangulation. That's what it means. Similarly, every triangulation of the toes contains a spanning cylinder. I think you're reading in and out. Pardon, Bob, I couldn't hear your question.
00:15:29.192 - 00:15:42.114, Speaker A: There seems to be. The audio disappeared for a second. Sorry. Can you hear me now? Yeah, now it's okay. But it comes in and out. I see. Let me know if this continues.
00:15:42.114 - 00:16:27.768, Speaker A: I'll also try to indicate with this hand where I am on the slide. So even if you don't hear me, maybe you can. If you read my lips, you see that it kind of corresponds to what's written. And now every triangulation of the torque contains a spanning cylinder and every triangulation of the Klein bottle contains a vertex spanning planner strongly connected to complex. Actually, we understand its topology. So the only few possibilities, let me tell you what they are. It's either a cylinder or a pinched disc, namely a disk where you identify two boundary points, or the connected sum of two triangulated disks along a triangle.
00:16:27.768 - 00:17:17.624, Speaker A: So you have two disks, you pick a triangle in each, you take the union along that triangle and now you remove the interior of that triangle. Anyway, in all of those cases, these weltex spanning sub complexes are indeed too rigid because of the strong connectivity that they all share. And hence they contain a spanning planar laman subgraph. And we can apply Kirali's result and rigidify themselves. 26 locations. And our proof is inductive. And for the base of induction, we first consider irreducible triangulations.
00:17:17.624 - 00:18:06.944, Speaker A: So a triangulation delta of mg is irreducible if each contraction of an edge of delta changes the topology. So you identify two vertices and now the. So now the edge between them degenerates to a vertex. Say the two triangles that this edge supported degenerate to an edge and the rest keeps their dimension. And, okay, so irreducible means that any child contraction will change the topology. Equivalently, it's a combinatorial condition. It means that each edge belongs to an empty triangle of delta, namely that the three edges of the triangle are part of delta, but the triangle itself is not.
00:18:06.944 - 00:18:48.968, Speaker A: And Barnett and Edelson show that for any genus g, mg has finitely many minimal triangulations, in fact, where the Euler characteristic is non negative. So just for those for the sphere, for rp two, t and k, all of the minimal triangulations are known. So there are two of them. For rp two, this is a result of Barnett. You can see the two of them in the picture here. Below, the gray shaded area is a spanning disk. In each of them here you see that the spanning disks are actually vertex stars.
00:18:48.968 - 00:19:45.144, Speaker A: And in fact, in those triangulations any vertex star will do. There are 21 irreducible triangulations of the torus due to Lavronchenko and 29 irreducible triangulations of the Klein Botel due to Lavrenchenko and Negami. They found 25 of them and then it was completed by Sulanke later on. Actually, all of the pictures that you see now, except for the one in the first slide, so all of the nicer pictures are by Signon Tauravikin. So on the top here you see ten of the irreducible triangulations of the torus. We take this model where you identify, you identify in these square opposite sides, and then you get a torus. And in the gray area you see a spanning cylinder in each of them.
00:19:45.144 - 00:20:25.366, Speaker A: At the bottom you see two of the more complicated, complicated for us, irreducible triangulations of the clay in bottle. And it's more complicated in the sense that there is no spanning planar subsurface there. And the best you. Okay, what you see here is a spanning pinched disc. It is pinched at c. It's indeed a disk because this ab is identified with this ab. Okay, and now our strategy is to do vertex splits.
00:20:25.366 - 00:21:04.744, Speaker A: So I already mentioned the edge contractions and you see it here illustrated in the figure on the top. So the edge xy is contracted. And if you reverse the arrow, that's what's called a vertex split. So now every triangulation of a surface is obtained from an irreducible one by a sequence of vertex splits. So on the irreducible one we find this spanning subsurface. And now when we do the splits, we want to extend this surface spanning subsurface. We already had to one of the bigger triangulation.
00:21:04.744 - 00:21:45.254, Speaker A: Sometimes the vertex plates on the entire triangulation induce a vertex split of the surface will do, but sometimes not. And then we have to do another operation. And this is what you see in the picture below here. So here is part of the spanning surface. The line here with the axis is part of its boundary. And the other operation we can do is to cone over an interval on the boundary of the spanning surface. And you see here that indeed this interval is not part of any vertex star, so we cannot realize it as a the vertex split.
00:21:45.254 - 00:22:51.294, Speaker A: So that's another operation. So again, what we want is that the vertex split from delta to delta prime will allow an extension s prime in delta prime of our spanning disc or cylinder etcetera s in delta. Now I want to explain how to extend, and so first what exactly extension means and then what we can do with it. So first with the definition. So a spanning surface s is extendable if for every vertex split of delta to delta prime, there exists an s prime sub complex of delta prime that is either obtained from s by a split at the same vertex as the split that mapped from delta to delta prime. Or s prime is obtained from s by coning over an interval on the boundary of s. In both cases you can see that the resulted s prime is again spanning an homomorphic to the original s.
00:22:51.294 - 00:23:54.714, Speaker A: And what we showed with Simjon turabikin is that if you have a delta triangulation of some surface mg and s weld expanding subsurface. So here this will, okay, so this theorem will not apply to the pinched disc. We really want a subsurface with boundary. Of course, then if you have such s, then s is extendable if and only if the following simple condition is met, which is that this s includes at least one edge from every triangle of the and further, in the case it is extendable, then we can find an extendable extension of it. And that's what drives the induction. So now I want to show you how to extend, maybe first the easy direction. When you cannot extend that really you need the condition that every, in every triangle there is at least one edge in the subsurface.
00:23:54.714 - 00:25:04.278, Speaker A: So here you see part of your surface, and on it in the shaded area is the spanning subsurface. And here is a triangle xyz where no edge belongs to the gray subsurface. And now if you do a vertex split at x that is seen here that corresponds to a stellar subdivision of this triangle, then it's not extendable. Okay, so that's the easy part. The more complicated part is when the condition is made how to extend to an extendable subsurface. And but you see that if the program is successful, then we are almost done because all s that we chose in irreducible triangulations for the two for the projective plane, the 21 for the toes, 29 for the Klein. So all of them were indeed extendable subsurfaces except for the four more complicated, what's called cross kept triangulations of the Klein bottle.
00:25:04.278 - 00:25:32.048, Speaker A: You saw two of them before there we could find only pinch discs and we need to change a bit, our strategy. So let me show you how you extend. So the ruling is quite simple. Maybe I'll start maybe with the next slide. So you look on the star of your vertex v that you split. You split v. Now to define the split you need to indicate two vertices, x one and x k, where you perform the split.
00:25:32.048 - 00:26:26.248, Speaker A: You see here the split. And so if now what's the intersection of the spanning surface with the star of v? It's just, you know, kind of some consecutive triangles, maybe all of them, maybe the entire star of V or just part of it, but they're all consecutive because it's a subsurface. So if this subsurface contains one half of the vertex star and by halves I mean according to x one and x k, so look, x one and x k. So this is one half and here is the other half. So in that example we contain at least one half. Then you just do an induced vertex split. If not, that's what you see here.
00:26:26.248 - 00:27:07.234, Speaker A: Here it's not, it doesn't contain a full half. Then you do a coning over a boundary interval. But you need to say which interval and you have two options here. So here it depends whether the gray area of the subsurface contains one of those two tiles can have both of them, the ones that contains v, x one or xk. And if there were two of them, then you would contain one half. And we are in the vertex split case. But if not, then you do another.
00:27:07.234 - 00:27:52.938, Speaker A: The interval that you take is an interval for the coning, an interval that contains the vertex v. And here figures that shows it. So here is the I. Now follow with this, with this hand, I show you the interval on the boundary of the original surface. Okay? So anyhow, it's kind of straightforward how to extend an extendable surface. So we are almost done. What's left are the case, of course, kept regulations of the clay bottle.
00:27:52.938 - 00:28:58.474, Speaker A: And here are the four of them there we cannot find an extendable surface on them, which is a spanning planner. That's the ones we are after. You see that in all four of them you have this three cycle ABC. It's a non contactable cycle in all of them, and it actually separates. So you can obtain those Klein bottles is a connected sum of two copies of RP two, where you glue them along the connected sum along ABC, you see, here is one rp two. Here's the second rp two, okay? And in those rp two s, if consider each of those rp two s, we can take the triangle ABC to be part of the spanning disk in that RP two. Now to see how to find our spanning planar or stonely connected subcomplex.
00:28:58.474 - 00:29:40.544, Speaker A: It matters whether this cycle ABC survived all of the vertex plates or not. So these are the two options, right? So if it survives, this means that all along the way, after each vertex split, we still have that the Klein bottle is just a connected sum of two rp two s. In each of them we can have a spanning disks that will contain the triangle ABC. And now we take just a connected sum of those two disks. And this is. And what we get is a planar strongly connected to complex that is spanning. Okay? So that's what we do in this case.
00:29:40.544 - 00:30:50.028, Speaker A: If the ABC cycle survives, the other option is that it will not survive. And what does it mean? It means that in some vertex split induced also a vertex split of this cycle, elongating it into a four cycle and maybe further splits elongated it even further. So what came to our rescue here is this commutativity claim that we can rearrange the vertex splits so that the first vertex split actually is splits ABC. So now it depends where the vertex split happens. If at vertex a or at b or at c, let's say at c. So if it happens at c, then as our starting spanning sub complex, we will take a pinched disc, pinched at c. If the split was at a, we would take a pinched disc at a, etcetera.
00:30:50.028 - 00:31:55.922, Speaker A: Okay, so here you see the case. The cases were for these four irreducible triangulations, the spanning pinch discs at c. Now we do the vertex split at c. And the point is that by this split we can now resolve the singularity and gain and get an honest cylinder. And here is how you see in this illustration how you get, how you resolve the singularity, you see? So the resulted surface here would be now a cylinder. And by the extension theorem I showed you before, once we have an extendable, and that was, I mean, it's a, it's a spanning cylinder and it's also extendable, namely every triangle of the triangulation contains at least one edge from it. So we can now extend it further by the other, I mean, so further vertex free will preserve having this property of having a spanning cylinder.
00:31:55.922 - 00:33:00.726, Speaker A: And that completes the proof. So let me finish with some open problems. So first let's iterate. A problem that I already mentioned in the beginning is c three of FMG uniformly bounded. Namely, is this a constant that is independent of G, so that namely, can you rigidify all the triangulations of all surfaces in three reals using only a finite set of locations? Similarly, in two reals for the laman graphs that are, that can be embedded in MG. Now if for the first question, the answer is no, you could still try to do what we did here with the proof I showed you and rigidify it in, rather than in three reals and hope that there you could do it with just finitely many locations. And the question is whether the strategy we tried here works in general.
00:33:00.726 - 00:33:47.624, Speaker A: Namely, does any triangulated surface contain a weld expanding planar Laman graph? But you see here, I don't insist on the too complex that is part of my triangulation. I have more freedom. And we just didn't know how to use this freedom. But maybe it can be used. So you can use also the missing triangles, empty triangles. You can also use, okay, you can ask similar questions for triangulations of higher dimensional manifolds and even just for spheres, it's not known. Can you rigidify with a constant number of locations? And maybe most fundamental problem in this direction is consider all d rigid graphs.
00:33:47.624 - 00:34:15.794, Speaker A: But now assume that d is more than two. And is it true that, is it the case that Cd of FDn is little o of n? Okay, so you have a lower bound of this root of n, you have the trivial upper bound of n, just different locations for the different vertices. And the question is it, I mean, what is the growth? And in particular is little o of n?
