00:00:04.410 - 00:00:52.106, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First Headline u. S. Regulators file criminal charges against BitMEX owners On Thursday, the department of justice charged BitMEX, one of the biggest crypto derivatives exchanges, with two bank secrecy act violations, each of which can carry a maximum penalty of five years in prison. The commodity futures trading commission also filed charges against BitMEX for allegedly illegally operating a cryptocurrency derivatives exchange and violating anti money laundering regulations. Co founder and CTO Samuel Reed was arrested in Massachusetts, while the other two co founders, CEO Arthur Hayes and former chief strategy officer Benjamin Delo, as well as former head of business development Gregory Dwyer, are all at large.
00:00:52.106 - 00:01:57.810, Speaker A: The DOJ indictment said Hayes, quote, bragged in or about July 2019 that the Seychelles was a more friendly jurisdiction for BitMEX because it costs less to bribe seychelle law authorities just quote, a coconut than it would cost to bribe regulators in the United States and elsewhere. The indictment claims that Bitmegs did not monitor its transactions for money laundering or sanctions violations and did not file any suspicious activity reports to the government from its launch in November 2014 until September 2020. It also alleges that until August 2020, customers could register to trade anonymously, providing only a verified email address, and that the exchange encouraged or allowed US. Customers to access the site and trade on it. It also claims that BitMEX allowed customers located in Iran to trade on the platform in violation of US. Sanctions. The indictment also says that in May 2018, Hayes was notified that BitMEX was being used to launder coins obtained via a cryptocurrency hack, but that Hayes and BitMEX did not implement an antimoney laundering policy.
00:01:57.810 - 00:02:59.282, Speaker A: In response, HDR Global, the parent company of BitMEX and one of the defendants in the CFT's lawsuit, released a statement saying, quote we strongly disagree with the US. Government's heavy handed decision to bring these charges and intend to defend the allegations vigorously. From our early days as a startup, we have always sought to comply with applicable US. Laws as those laws were understood at the time and based on available guidance. Next Headline Third largest exchange hack $280,000,000 stolen from cucoin in the third largest exchange hack in crypto history, $280,000,000 worth of crypto assets were stolen from the hot wallets of Singapore based exchange Cucoin. The assets stolen include Bitcoin, Bitcoin, Satoshi, Vision, Ether, Litecoin, Ripple, Stellar, Lumens, Tron, Tether, Chainlink, Ocean and others. The exchange maintains that its insurance fund will cover all losses, and so far, $130,000,000 of the hacker's loot has been frozen by various crypto projects.
00:02:59.282 - 00:03:58.220, Speaker A: Many of the stolen coins were ERC 20 tokens and project admins have paused contracts, deployed new ones, or blocked the hacker's address to help recover coins such as Velo, Tether, Orion, Cardiachain, Ampleforth and others. However, these actions have raised questions about decentralization. Meanwhile, the Qcoin hack has highlighted the use of DEXs for money laundering with the hacker liquidating tokens such as Ocean SNX. Complink and Dia on uniswap and Kyber to convert them to ETH in CoinDesk. CypherTrace CEO Dave Jevins said, quote These platforms can be used as effectively the next generation of money laundering mixing services. If I can put my stuff into a DeFi contract, it gets mixed up with other people's money when it comes back out because there's no tracing and there's no KYC. It effectively is operating as an old school crypto money laundering service.
00:03:58.220 - 00:05:17.854, Speaker A: Disclosure CipherTrace has been a sponsor of my shows. Next Headline $15 million emptied from YFI creator's latest experiment On Monday, ambiguous retweets by Urine creator Andre Cronya of the Eminence Finance Twitter account caused investors to pour $15 million into Eminence, which was a card gaming protocol to farm the EMN token, never mind that there was little information on it. The entire $15 million in Eminence was soon drained by a hacker who, according to Cronia, used, quote, a very simple method, which was to, quote, mine a lot of EMN at the tight curve burn the EMN for one of the other currencies, then sell the currency for EMN. However, the hacker then returned the $8 million. The incident appears to be, quote, the first significant crypto economic hack, which was posted on Twitter by Claro CTO Clement La Sage, who explained, quote, Contrary to most of the hacks, the smart contracts were not broken. They worked exactly as intended, but the economics were. Cronya was criticized for teasing an unfinished protocol, but he defended himself, saying that he intends to continue deploying test contracts.
00:05:17.854 - 00:06:34.074, Speaker A: He warned potential investors not to use random contracts he has deployed unless he's made an official announcement via his Medium account. He said, quote, the contracts I deployed yesterday were purely for myself to engage with. Next Headline Inside the entitled Lawless world of Tron's Justin Sun A Meticulously reported Verge article on events at BitTorrent after Tron's $140,000,000 purchase of the PeerToPeer software gives us a close look at the controversial crypto figure Justin Sun. Soon after the acquisition, It reports, the company's business strategy became, quote, copy ethereum and, quote, get the pump on the coin, which meant to make Tron look good and get people to purchase the token. And that was just the beginning. Sun often acted like a spoiled Brad, for instance, demanding to know who hired a driver who accidentally locked him in a car with a child safety lock on, or castigating the executive assistant, who scheduled a doctor's appointment with him at the doctor's office rather than having the doctor come to him at a company Q A. When an employee submitted a question asking what would happen if TRX the Tron token went to zero, sun said, quote Whoever asked this question, we're going to track them down.
00:06:34.074 - 00:07:08.978, Speaker A: And then he threatened to, quote, kill their entire family. Additionally, an employee witnessed an altercation in which it appeared that sun hit another staff member. On top of all that, sun did little to control the App Store on the Tron network, leaving it open to all manner of scammers. And he was similarly laid back about pirated movies on a BitTorrent product, as well as about harassment on the company's live streaming platform. This article is a riveting read. I urge you all to check it out. Next headline is DeFi corrupt.
00:07:08.978 - 00:08:16.502, Speaker A: A look at the Few Token Scandal Last Thursday, pseudonymous writer Crypto Angel posted a lengthy screen detailing the events of the Few Token, a yield farming coin that was accused of being an insider's pump and dump scheme to highlight what Crypto Angel viewed as the quote unspoken agreement between DFI insiders and the bad actors they protect. The Few Token began with a gathering of 50 crypto influencers who then hyped the project so that within minutes of the token launching, hundreds of people had already flooded its telegram group asking for an AirDrop. Crypto angel says, quote this was obviously a pump and dump campaign. The post includes screenshots of people commenting that the project quote, should really build a product, not just buy a domain and mint a token. The article is a damning examination of a space in which Crypto Angel says, quote, the way to win these token games was to make friends with the right people. Next up is an SEC roundup. The SEC has continued to enforce securities regulations with the same interpretations of the Howie test that it's been following, and it's also getting judges to back its stance.
00:08:16.502 - 00:09:06.006, Speaker A: The first of these stories is judge rules kick's Kin Token violated securities law. A judge for the Southern District of New York agreed that Kick's offering of Kin was an unregistered securities offering. Kick has said it may appeal. Next Salt Lending Ordered to refund $47 Million in ICO Funds The SEC and Salt lending, which held an ICO in 2017, have settled, and Salt will have 14 days to announce its intention to refund investors. It will also register the Salt token as a security and pay a $250,000 penalty. Next SEC Issues no action Letter for compliance focused digital security exchanges The SEC said it will not take action against exchanges that trade tokenized securities. Finally, it's time for fun bits.
00:09:06.006 - 00:10:09.450, Speaker A: In a first ethereum Fees Eclipse Block Rewards Larry Cermak of the Block tweeted that for the first time in Ethereum's history, transaction fees have surpassed the amount that miners make from block rewards. The second graph that he tweeted in particular shows an astounding trajectory for transaction fees over the past five months in a trend that Cermac posits is far from sustainable. Thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Frank and Coinbase's new policy, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. If you're a fan of Unconfirmed and want to help get the word out about the show, please rate and review us on Apple, Spotify, YouTube, or wherever you listen. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuss, bossy Baker and the team at CLK transcription thanks for listening. It's.
