00:00:05.760 - 00:01:10.630, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I am Andy, I am the lead for the developers team here at TFH. So all things SDKs, if you're building on World, probably something that we made, but today we're going to focus specifically on MiniApps, which of course is our exciting new launch and kind of first give you a little bit of some motivations behind it and then talk through kind of each of the commands that we made and why we made, the decisions that we made. And so first and foremost, if you guys are familiar with the ecosystem, you know World has a lot of products within it. So of course we have World app which for a lot of our users is their first and only touch point into Web three. So it's a self custodial wallet, it's gnosis safe and then additionally also is the way to self custody your private keys for your identity. We have World Chain which I kind of used to encompass all the crypto aspects, which obviously includes grants, the token, the chain itself that we recently launched, and of course World id which covers our unique civil resistance proof of humanity. And of course that is done in a privacy preserving way.
00:01:10.630 - 00:02:11.678, Speaker A: And so if anyone has built on the ecosystem previously, the only way you could really interact with it was via world ID. So we had an IDKit SDK and you can build applications that essentially allowed you to do proof of uniqueness. Now it was super cool and we had a lot of developers build interesting things, a lot of kind of cool little demos and MVP trials out in the wild. And so some categorical things that you see here are what we saw. But one piece of feedback that we kept getting time and time again from developers was that World obviously has a lot of very powerful products, but how can you actually leverage the rest of these? And so each of these pieces independently is incredibly powerful. But the cool thing about mini apps is that for the first time ever, you can combine all three aspects of the World ecosystem and create something incredibly powerful. So what this means is for World id, there's a lot better experience in terms of using it.
00:02:11.678 - 00:02:45.900, Speaker A: There's additionally more credentials that we're adding and ways to kind of empower your app as a developer. It's a lot easier to develop as well, and so you can get these things up and running much faster. You can also leverage World Chain now so for the first time ever, you know, write to smart contracts which is going to be very exciting to all you web3 devs. Additionally, you know, accessing Wallet balances the tokens inside there, including of course, you know, the money given by grants. And last but not least, World App. And so World App is the distribution engine for our entire ecosystem. We have, you know, tons of users onboarding every single week and show you to the chart.
00:02:45.900 - 00:03:20.514, Speaker A: We have a bunch of users who are using crypto for their very first time. In fact, most of these people probably have no idea that they're actually using crypto. They see this app and there's some money in it. It just seems like a normal wallet. And so combining all these three things together, we kind of get some very interesting use cases and I think a lot of power for developers. And just to kind of harp on that point a little more, obviously you saw this in Leighton's presentation, but the distribution is massive. So, I mean, if you're a developer, a consumer developer yourself, right? Like, one of the biggest pain points you have is trying to find ways to get people to use your app, right? Like, I mean, it sucks.
00:03:20.514 - 00:03:50.866, Speaker A: Like, you spend a bunch of time thinking about what you're trying to build, and then you have to spend a bunch of time, you know, shilling on Twitter and, like, doing all these, like, weird things that otherwise distract you from building your product. And that. That sucks. Honestly, I've. I've gone through that before as well myself. And so World basically abstracts that away for you, right? I mean, we're onboarding new users every single day. Fundamentally, your customer acquisition cost is being subsidized by us, right? We're spending all the effort marketing, getting people to join, and these users come back at a very high frequency because of the grants, right? We have high 90% retention rates.
00:03:50.866 - 00:04:27.550, Speaker A: And so they literally come into the app and are looking for things to do. And so discovery of your mini apps is actually kind of a very embedded and native flow. And so to dive a little bit deeper into what mini apps actually are, I mean, very, very simply, they're web experiences built natively of World app. And so one thing that, you know, is very, very important is that your mini apps are actually very prominently featured. And so discovery is something that we actually actively try to promote here. So what that means is that, you know, your efforts are actually the same thing that we're prioritizing. You know, you build an app like, this is the screen that people see when they first come in the app.
00:04:27.550 - 00:05:15.272, Speaker A: And so we care a lot about, you know, obviously sharing our distribution with you. And on top of that, building a mini app is incredibly easy. So essentially, they're webviews, and so they're web pages, you know, natively baked inside a world app and so you, you know, build a website as, as you normally would. Mobile optimized, of course. And the minikit SDK actually then supercharges your application and gives it a lot of functionality that we have in the wallet to essentially turn your app from, you know, just a regular web app to a world mini app. And so in terms of functionality, there's a lot of interesting commands. So of course we have, you know, World ID verifications, we have payments for the first time, we have the ability to send transactions, but on top of that we also have the ability to kind of share a lot of like critical consumer social functions with you.
00:05:15.272 - 00:06:01.672, Speaker A: And so what that means is that, you know, we will have the ability to share contacts so users can share, you know, their phone, their, their like phone network with you essentially. Obviously in a privacy preserving way. We'll use usernames as well as the ability to send notifications. And so you can get users to come back to your applications on a frequent basis and you know, all of the toolkits or essentially all the tools you need to build a successful app. So today I actually want to go through what I think are the three most important commands in themselves and these are kind of the pieces I think you should use to begin fueling your brainstorm and thinking about what you want to build. And so the first one is obviously a differentiated verification flow with World id. And so World ID very simply is a civil, resistant, anonymous authentication flow for your applications.
00:06:01.672 - 00:06:37.294, Speaker A: And so you see cool things like ORO, where they can protect and airdrop and allow users to only claim it once a day. Now the reason this is super cool in mini apps is that the flow is a lot better. So if you guys have tried a world ID application previously with IDKit, the flow is a little bit clunky at times. Where you scan a QR code, you go to your phone, your phone confirms it, you go back to the application and obviously users don't want to do that. People get lost in the flow and it gets confusing. But in many apps everything is much cleaner. So the actual proof process simply just looks like an Apple Pay modal.
00:06:37.294 - 00:07:05.368, Speaker A: Something pops up, you confirm it, it generates a proof, sends it back to your application and you verify it and you're done. So that process has become a lot cleaner. And if you want to see it in action, almost all of the or both clipchoose and aura that you saw today use that command. The other aspect is seamless payments. And so I think it's no secret there's a lot of Money. In World App users are getting money every single month. They're getting grants and there's nothing really to do with the money yet.
00:07:05.368 - 00:07:52.730, Speaker A: And so, you know, users want to spend and developers have been asking, you know, how can I actually access this? Because of course, you know, monetizing your application is a big thing, right? Like we give you distribution, but you know, at the end of the day you need to monetize your product too. And so we have users who have the ability to pay and for the first time ever, you can do, you know, simple ERC20 transfers. And to users it looks once again just like a very simple modal to use. And so to kind of show you the magnitude of what World App has, of course, you know, we have $150 million of assets stored, you know, in the app at any given time. And you know, you pick a week, we'll have between 15 to 50 million dollars of total spend. And so for a lot of you developers, you have distribution, we're subsidizing your customer acquisition costs. These users are willing to pay.
00:07:52.730 - 00:08:39.862, Speaker A: It's almost a no brainer to actually go build on the ecosystem. But it gets even better because of course we have Web3 transactions. And so I want to kind of talk through how we thought about Web3 transactions and why it's a little bit different. And so John earlier mentioned that we had kind of a UX upgrade to how we're doing these transactions. And the reason for that is that almost all of our users have probably never touched crypto in their lives. Like these people, you know, onboarded to our platform, you know, they have their World id, they have the app and probably don't even know that they have a wallet. And so to them, like all of the kind of UX patterns that we originally ossified would not make any sense, right? Like, you know, you approve something, you then send money, you're like connecting your wallet.
00:08:39.862 - 00:09:11.606, Speaker A: Like they, they have no idea what that means. And so we really thought that this was an opportunity for us to kind of make some, you know, bold assumptions and claims in, in terms of improving crypto ux. And so the first big one that we do is permit to. And the reason we do that is because we want to use a push model instead of a pull model. If you think about the traditional approve flow, it doesn't make any sense, right? Like think about you're just a user who's never used crypto before. Some modal pops up that says you approve for $20 and you're like, okay, $20. And then you click okay, and then another modal pops up saying $20 again.
00:09:11.606 - 00:09:33.190, Speaker A: And now you're sending $20. And that doesn't make any sense to you as a user. Right now you're clicking two modals and you know, sometimes you're doing infinite approves for these things. And like, you know, you, you have some simulation that says like, you know, $9 trillion or something is like on there and these people have no idea what is going on. And so, so we got rid of that. Additionally, it doesn't make any sense that if you approve money, you know, randomly, money just like leaves your wallet an hour later. Right.
00:09:33.190 - 00:10:07.086, Speaker A: Like, there's just, there's no similar flow for these people. And so that would also not make any sense. And so with Permit two, we can have a really nice UX where you're essentially just generating the signature, you're requesting exactly how much you need, and then you're sending that. And so all users see is just a simple modal and there's one that they confirm. And it looks very, very synonymous to what you'd expect in Web2. The other aspect is moving away from kind of the connect wallet terminology that we use. So once again, a lot of these users don't know what that is, and connecting your wallet is just not something they've seen.
00:10:07.086 - 00:10:28.776, Speaker A: So we move to sign in, which is a lot more familiar. And the last one is, of course, gas fees are covered. So, you know, no one wants to be calculating gas fees. No one wants to be thinking about why am I paying X dollars for a transaction. Of course, I mean, we've kind of hammered on this point a lot. With World id we can make a lot of kind of cool little features to improve this whole flow. And so gas fees are entirely covered.
00:10:28.776 - 00:11:05.828, Speaker A: And so I encourage you to kind of not just take what we've kind of made assumptions about, but also think about ways in which you think Crypto UX could be changed and make those kind of improvements in your apps as well. Right. I mean, we all know within the community, we spend a lot of time talking about how, you know, things are difficult to use, it's hard to onboard the masses. And so I think at this point, you know, you have a, a distribution segment that has never touched crypto before. Probably there's no other way to access this group. And so a lot of kind of, you know, big changes to Crypto UX can happen inside of World app mini apps. Cool.
00:11:05.828 - 00:11:32.178, Speaker A: So that's a quick overview of, you know, what that looks like. Obviously, we're going to have hacking afterwards for a couple hours. Yes, I will answer your questions, but very quickly. The docs are here, so if you want to get started, just go to docs.world.org There's a mini app section you can follow that you can install your SDK, you know, explains the entire process. Additionally, if you have issues with like transaction simulations, we are quite responsive to you in like telegram, etc. So, you know, we'll get that fixed for you.
00:11:32.178 - 00:11:37.930, Speaker A: And then last but not least, of course, join our telegram. Cool. That's it. Thank you.
