00:00:00.240 - 00:00:20.710, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is the 26 January 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies for missing yesterday's episode. I just wasn't really feeling myself yesterday and I figured, you know, instead of doing an episode where maybe I sounded low energy or not as bullish as I usually do, I would just skip the episode. You know, just one of those days.
00:00:20.710 - 00:00:53.934, Speaker A: I'm sure you've all experienced that before, but there is a lot to get through today, actually. I mean, there was a lot to get through yesterday and now there was a lot that happened today that I need to get through. So it looks like today's episode will be longer than 30 minutes. We'll see how long we go for, and we'll see if I can do it all in one take like I usually do. Sometimes there'll be edits, but, you know, we'll see if I can do it all in one take. But anyway, let's kick things off with a news about the spot ETH ETF's. So of course you've probably seen this by now, but a couple of days ago, the SEC delayed Blackrock's spot ETH ETF filing.
00:00:53.934 - 00:01:23.842, Speaker A: Now, of course, this is totally normal. We expect these delays to keep happening until the final deadlines, the first of which are in May, as you know, and then Blackrocks, I believe is in August. But really the odds are like what I think 70%, as I've explained about them getting kind of approved in May there. But yeah, I just wanted to clarify for people here that these delays are completely expected. There is nothing kind of surprising about this. There's nothing to worry about. It is definitely just the SEC doing what they did with the BTC ETF's, obviously for the ETH ones here.
00:01:23.842 - 00:02:06.340, Speaker A: But there is that final deadline period, which, as James Saifar mentions here, is May 23, and that's the next date that matters. So anything between now and May 23 doesn't matter in terms of if the SEC delays these things or not. But what does matter is seeing the same thing play out for the ETH ETF's that we did for BT, for the BTC ETF's, where we see our back and forth with the SEC and these filers, you know, updated filings like the, the different file, the forms that they have to file, stuff like that. I mean, as I said to you guys, we get to do this all again very soon. You know, we did it all with beat the BTC ETF. We get to do it with the ETH eTF. And, you know, really most of the, I think, like, action around the BTC time ETF happened in, I guess you could say late October, November and December.
00:02:06.340 - 00:02:38.244, Speaker A: So around what, like two and a half months or something into January 10, obviously, when they were approved. So if the same thing was to play out, you have two or three months worth of. Worth of speculation around this and worth of action around this. You would basically say that it's February, April, sorry, February, March, April, which is three months right into May, 4 months. So you could expect this to start maybe late Feb, early March, we start seeing the circus play out again, as I like to call, because it was a circus for BTC. But I'll keep you guys updated on all of that, of course. But, yeah, just to reiterate, the next important date is May 23.
00:02:38.244 - 00:03:06.964, Speaker A: Anything between then and now doesn't matter. If you see any delays or anything, it doesn't matter because they aren't denials, they're delays. And we've all been through this before, so there's no need for me to explain that any further. Anyway, moving on from that, so there was another all core devs call today, I believe, or yesterday, and Christine Kim has a nice summary on this call. So apparently the core devs agreed to prioritize a couple of EIP. So ERP 61 ten and EIP 7002. So 7002, you'll know, is the execution layer.
00:03:06.964 - 00:03:44.304, Speaker A: Triggerable exits for, for stakers, for validators, and ERP 7549. So two of these Eips, I guess, like a more technical than 7002 and not as user facing as 7002, but you can read about those. I mean, you can just google the EIP numbers and read about those. And they've also agreed to remove two eips from consideration for the upgrade. One of them is EIP 6914, which is reusing validator indices, which is, I guess like a tech debt thing. It's not like critically important or anything like that. It basically means that if a validator exits and they have like an index assigned to them that right now can't be reused.
00:03:44.304 - 00:04:51.794, Speaker A: So the indexes just kind of go n plus one, whereas if you were to reuse them, you could actually reuse the, the old ones. And, you know, a fun thing about that is that that means that the early indices can, can be auctioned off, essentially in a roundabout way, where essentially, imagine you're like one of the first 1000 validators on the beacon chain because you go in at Genesis, you could say, okay, well, I'm auctioning off this, this index here once this EIP actually goes in, which maybe it happens next year or something like that, but you could say, hey, I'm actually auctioning off this index here, you know, what are you going to pay me for? And then someone else could exit with that index as a validator there. But that's been removed from consideration for Petra and ERP 7547, which is inclusion lists, has also been removed, which is kind of sad to see because I was really looking forward to seeing inclusion lists included in this upgrade. But obviously there needs to be more work and research done on that before it can be considered for inclusion. And devs of course, are still debating whether to prioritize 7251, which is the max effective balance increase, AIP 7594, which is peer Das and SSD related ips for, for Petra here. And regarding Deng kun, of course, I mean, I'll give an update on Denkun in a sec. There's a separate kind of tweet that I want to talk to here.
00:04:51.794 - 00:05:16.680, Speaker A: I think that. And then Proto is here. One of the core devs basically replied saying, I think it's an overstatement to say that we agreed to remove from consideration any IP in particular. For anyone listening to the recording, there will be one or two remarks from Danny Ryan. This is not a death sentence. The fork is in flux. So yeah, even though they kind of maybe were more erring on the side of, hey, you know, these probably should be removed from consideration for the, for the upgrade.
00:05:16.680 - 00:05:51.666, Speaker A: Maybe they get added later for one reason or another. So yeah, things are definitely still in flux and it's too early to tell, but yeah, I guess like just early signs of what the core devs are kind of prioritizing here with regards to that. And of course, as I said, 72 51 and 75 94, my two favorite ERP as part of this upgrade. But you guys know all about that now of course with regards to Den kun, there were some updates as well. I mean, nothing new. You guys know that Denkun is going to activate on Sepolia on January 30 and Holski on Feb 7th. And if so, if you're running a node on either network, now is the time to update it.
00:05:51.666 - 00:06:13.626, Speaker A: There is a blog post here which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And then of course, assuming both of these go smoothly, as Tim Bico says here, mainnet is next. And I'm still sticking with my, like, mid to late March mainnet date there. You know, it could. I've seen some people say early March. I don't think it would happen in early March because as I've said, you need like, at least a month lead time here and after Holski goes live. So I'm more thinking mid to late March.
00:06:13.626 - 00:06:43.924, Speaker A: If I had to put money on it, which I technically do by buying ETH. But, you know, if I had to, like, make a bet on it, like an actual kind of bet with, with a counterparty here, then I'd probably say it's more midish than Latish March. But. But that is based on these things going smoothly. You know, if these things don't go smoothly, then it definitely won't probably happen at those timelines because there might be a delay in order to make sure to fix what went wrong there. But it just depends, you know, it depends how big the bug is, depends how hard it is to fix if there is a bug, things like that. So.
00:06:43.924 - 00:07:14.896, Speaker A: Yeah, but that's the timeline are currently on those things there. All right, so there's a new post here all about the KZG ceremony. So, you guys know, I spoke about this a lot while it was ongoing, and I'm sure a lot of you participated in this. So this was started nearly two years ago now. Man, time flies. But Trent shared a kind of blog post here today, basically saying, titled wrapping up the KZG ceremony, going over the, you know, everything that happened with it. So if you are interested in learning more about the KZG ceremony and everything around it, you should definitely go check this out.
00:07:14.896 - 00:07:42.780, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so there. But yeah, I mean, I hope at the time you were able to contribute to this because I remember I did mention the ceremony a lot of times on the refuel. And you can see here it actually ran for 208 days from January to August 2023. So you had plenty of time to contribute. And in total, there were 141,000 contributions, which was really, really cool to see. And I remember saying to Trent at the time, I'm like, hey, I bet you there'll be 100,000 contributions. And this was like when it was zero.
00:07:42.780 - 00:08:13.766, Speaker A: And I think that was like a moonshot bet at the time. And Trenton was like, yeah, I don't know, like, that seems pretty moonshot. And I'm like, yeah, it is moonshot, but hey, let's aim for the moon. And we went way over that. We went to 141,000, which is really great to see there. And of course, as I mentioned before, you know, a lot of this was probably people, for some reason or another, airdrop farming. You know, it's kind of funny because I said at the time that even though there's no token associated with this at all, people would probably just take the chance of, hey, maybe another project, airdrops, a token to KGZ KZG ceremony participants at some point.
00:08:13.766 - 00:08:55.808, Speaker A: And essentially what we did was, is we harnessed that speculative Djen energy and we used it to make the KZG ceremony absolutely massive, which is the largest setup of its kind, as is noted here in the blog post. But yeah, anyway, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so proposal builder separation has been discussed for quite a while in the ethereum ecosystem now, I mean, for years at this point, and is definitely something that a lot of people are interested seeing go into the network. Now, the reason I'm bringing it up today is because there is a new research paper out from, from a few people here. One of them from a 16 z or two of them, sorry, from a 16 z research. Well, actually all three from a 16 z research.
00:08:55.808 - 00:09:23.450, Speaker A: I forget. So you guys will remember Tim Roughgarden. He has been in been doing research papers on crypto for a little while. He famously did one on ERP 15 nine. He actually ended up joining a 16 z as their head of research. So yeah, it's all three people that are doing research at a 16 z here published this paper talking about PBS, and their conclusion is that PPS BBS is basically good. You can see here TLDR our results formalized the forces towards centralization in block building and the pushback provided by PBS.
00:09:23.450 - 00:10:10.672, Speaker A: We hope that other researchers develop their own models and results to help the community better understand PBS and its pros and cons versus alternative designs. And then it says, our main result in this model of PBS is a positive one. Under a common distributional assumption, PBS ensures that no validator earns much more than another from a given block production opportunity. So, yeah, I mean, it seems like PBS is the way to go to, and it seems like it addresses the concerns that it's being created to address. So really great to see that because, I mean, I really trust Tim, Tim Roughgarden's analysis on these things because he's been doing it for a while. He did one on ERP 1559, which for those of you who remember after his report came out, it actually got some of the core devs that were on the fence about 1559 onside because it was such a detailed report. And, and it actually showed that 1559 would work as advertised.
00:10:10.672 - 00:10:44.706, Speaker A: And here's another one from Tim and colleagues on PBS working as advertised, which is really, really great to see. So yeah, you can go check out the full report for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. So I've been talking about the, some researchers at the Ethereum foundation basically working on changing the issuance curves of Ethereum, so, which is basically a monetary policy change in order to basically strengthen it. Now there was a really long post a while ago about this that I highlighted on the refuel. And there's another really long post for you guys to check out.
00:10:44.706 - 00:11:16.256, Speaker A: I'll link it in the, in the, in the YouTube description for you to do so. But yeah, this is all about basically making it so that we never end up in a position where it's not economically rational to be a staker on Ethereum anymore. And I mean, as I said, this is a really long post. So it's very hard for me to summarize this, but you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link in the YouTube description below. But what I want to do is basically set the tone and set the baseline. Now about this is that there is likely to be some monetary policy change based on this research, research at some point in the future.
00:11:16.256 - 00:12:31.784, Speaker A: Because if we are trying to harden the protocol to the point where we can eventually ossify it, you need this to happen in terms of, in terms of making sure the issuance curve isn't able to be gamed, isn't an issuance curve that doesn't serve the best, the best, I guess, like the best, what's the word I'm looking for here? The best interest of the network, such as security and reliability, and making sure that, I mean, we're sticking to our mantra of minimum viable issuance, which basically means that we issue out the minimum viable amount of ETH that we need to in order to achieve some set of goals, as I just outlined there. And in order to do this, we need rigid and very detailed research into a change like this because it is a monetary policy change, which is one of the biggest changes you can make to Ethereum here. And actually, if you scroll down on this post, Vitalik has actually attempted to summarize it for you in a reply here. So you can check that out and then discussions that are ongoing here. But this will probably take a while before it makes it into the network. I would say that it's probably going to be something that maybe happens in 2026, if it happens, from my reading here, because of the fact that it needs a lot of research to go into it to make sure that we're dotting all the I's, crossing all the t's, and it touches on pretty much everything in Ethereum. Right.
00:12:31.784 - 00:13:02.630, Speaker A: And monetary policy changes should be this difficult to make because technically the last one we had was the merge. Right. In 2022, September 2022. So if this takes until, you know, sometime 2026, that'll be a four year journey. And as it should there, you know, it should be extremely hard to change the monetary policy, and it should only be done when absolutely necessary. So we'll see how this all shakes out. But, yeah, I do think that eventually something will, will be changed here, because all the research that I'm reading on this basically points to the fact that it definitely needs to be altered in order to achieve certain goals.
00:13:02.630 - 00:13:33.152, Speaker A: But, yeah, you don't need to listen to me ramble on about this. You can go read the post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Ethy has started its vampire attack on other LST's or other staking protocols. So they're not just vampire attacking Lido, they're also doing it on CbEth, which is coinbases LST, and. And wrapped binance eight, which is binance's LST. So it seems like they're going after all of the, I guess, like centralized lsts or ones that they consider to be centralized.
00:13:33.152 - 00:14:02.326, Speaker A: I know there's debate around whether Ste centralized or not. I'm not going to get into that debate here because I'm just going to turn into a holy war. But the TLDR of this vampire attack is that if you have eigen layer deposits of steth, Cbeth or wrapped Beth, you can instantly turn them into liquid ETH with points without the seven day withdrawal period. And then basically they describe in this thread the goals of doing this and why they're doing this and who can participate and how. Devamp is capped at only 1000 ETH to start. So very low cap. But that will also.
00:14:02.326 - 00:14:40.884, Speaker A: That will, of course, grow over time here. So, yeah, if that's something that you're interested in doing, if you have Eigen layer deposits of these things, you can withdraw without this seven day withdrawal kind of period here. So this might be of interest to you. I know that ETFI has been on a real big tear lately, along with some other protocols out there, like swelling with basically taking in ETH and restaking it as solo validators with Eigen layer. So it's uncapped rest taking there. And then you're able to farm points because both Etherfy and Swell have announced that they're going to do tokens, obviously. And I think Ethy even said they're going to do their token in like, April or something, their TGE, I think swell, I don't know if Swell's announced their date yet, but it will be relatively soon.
00:14:40.884 - 00:14:59.924, Speaker A: And I should disclose here that I'm an advisor to. To both Ethify and swell here. Um, you know, it's kind of funny because, like, there's so many projects that I'm helping out now, uh, either as an advisor or an investor. Um, and it's, it's, it's. Sometimes I forget to mention that, but, yeah, I mean, I am for these guys. Yeah. But everything that I'm telling you is public information.
00:14:59.924 - 00:15:27.478, Speaker A: I'm. I'm not sharing any private information or anything like that. I don't actually get much of that information because I don't ask for it. And I purposely do not participate in any of these things, uh, in order to farm any kind of token because of conflicts of interest. I mean, you have to trust my word on that. Obviously think I'm a pretty trustworthy guy at this point, but, yeah, I mean, me being an advisor to these teams and an investor in them basically just means that I'm trying to help them with whatever they're trying to do here. It doesn't mean that I'm using it as inside information to do anything here.
00:15:27.478 - 00:15:58.274, Speaker A: And I definitely am not. I'm not participating in any of these things. I mean, also, you guys know that I just solo stake my 8th or stake it with Rockapool. I'm not staking my 8th with anything else, just as a thing that I do here. But at the, at the same time, like, I feel like these protocols are exactly what I wanted to see happen with regards to chipping away at Leidos dominance, because I did say a while ago now that I said that lighter's dominance would only come down with competition. I think I've been saying this for one year. Plus, at this point at least, saying that Lido's dominance would only come down with competition.
00:15:58.274 - 00:16:46.380, Speaker A: And all this competition, as so far, basically stagnated Lido's dominance in terms of relative market share. I think it's almost been two years since Lighto's been stuck at 32%. And then over time, the hope is, is that they chip away enough and they grow enough themselves and they offer enough of a compelling product in order to reduce that dominance over time there. So that's why I'm excited about these, these projects and I'm excited about the fact that we have a lot more competition in the LST space and the LRT space, which LRT stands for liquid restaking token, you know, obviously because of Eigen layer entering the game now. But as I've said before, I think I've been saying this for, for just as long. Doing anything like this is doing anything with, with staking is a slow moving ship, right? Getting people to move over and stuff like that. It's a very slow moving ship.
00:16:46.380 - 00:16:59.660, Speaker A: It's like turning a cruise liner around. It's going to take forever. It's not like turning a rowboat around. But that's just the very nature of kind of what we're doing here. That's the very nature of how you kind of chip away at the dominance. It happens slowly over time. Yeah.
00:16:59.660 - 00:17:32.464, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out either Phi's d vamp attack, I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And just now I just wanted to share this as well. Puffer Finance, another liquid restaking protocol is as a shared on Twitter that the wait is over. Next week you can earn double rewards with them so you can earn puffer points and eigen layer points so you get your ETH St ETH USD t USDC ready now and stay tuned. And I should again disclose that I'm an advisor to puffer. This actually happened recently with Eat the fire and puffer. I signed on as advisors.
00:17:32.464 - 00:18:07.516, Speaker A: I don't think it's been announced by the teams yet, but I don't want to keep talking about them without disclosing that to you guys. But, but yeah, they're obviously announcing here that they're going to be doing something very similar to what Etherfire and so has been doing. So this might be of interest to you. So keep an eye on puffers Twitter account there. All right, so continuing on the theme of Staking Hill, Dobby has updated his dashboard or he's staking dashboard and he's just tagged 2.5% more staked ETH yarn. As you can see, there are new entities entering the the game and you can see here mantle or meath or mantle staked.
00:18:07.516 - 00:18:38.796, Speaker A: Ethya has entered the game with a lot of ETH. So 330,000 ETH. That's a huge amount, which basically means that they have 1.1% market share right now. But then you can see there's a, there's a long list of other staking providers that Hill W was able to tag. And you can see on the, on the column here it says newly tagged share and even like big stakers like Binance and Coinbase were newly tagged here. So it's good to see that Hill Dobby continues to find all of these stakers lurking on chain and basically tagging them for us all to, to kind of look at.
00:18:38.796 - 00:19:17.804, Speaker A: And this ETH two staking dashboard on Doon analytics that Hill Dobby put together a long time ago now is still the best staking dashboard out there that I found in terms of monitoring things and keeping, keeping track of things. So you should definitely go check this out. If you haven't yet, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I remember covering this a while ago when rated.net work put out a blog post basically discussing a research that they did into homestakers and being able to tag how many kind of, I guess, solo home stakers there were. And I think they came up with a number of 7%, including Rocketpool mini node operators. And there's been a bit of debate around terminology around this.
00:19:17.804 - 00:20:02.064, Speaker A: And I think that it, I think that from now on I probably going to start using the term home stakers rather than solo stakers. And the reason being is that technically, when you stake with rocker pool, you're not solo staking, right? It is not technically, like by strict definition solo staking, because it's part of, and it's not strictly part of a pool either. As a node operator, it's a bit of a funny kind of distinction there, but I think the term home stakers covers people better because you could make the same argument for something like DVT tech, right? If you're running a squad staking setup where there's ten of you as part, as part of it, and you're all running the, the software and you're putting 3.2 ETH up each, you're technically not solo staking. Right? You're squad staking. So to call them solo stakers would not be, would not be accurate. To call them home stakers would.
00:20:02.064 - 00:20:33.872, Speaker A: So I think the term home stake is just cast a much wider net and captures all of these people who are actually meaningfully adding to the decentralization of the Ethereum network. But, but just defining them in, you know, in a better sense here. So from now on I'm going to be calling them home stakers. But the reason why I'm talking about this today is because rated.net work open sourced, the Ethereum solo staker mappings that they've been in, that they've been curating internally. Now this is only up to indices one to 500,000. So this is only around half of the network that they've been able to tag so far.
00:20:33.872 - 00:20:53.918, Speaker A: And you can go check this out. It's on GitHub here. I'm really curious to see them tag the whole network and then essentially open source that and also open source the methodology that they're using because I don't think that's open sourced yet. And the methodology that they're using is basically how they're, they're tagging. Cause it's easy to tag rocker pool node operators. Cause it's all on chain. You can see that.
00:20:53.918 - 00:21:12.510, Speaker A: But how do you tag like actual kind of solo stakers for example. Right. As part of the home, home staker umbrella? That is difficult. It can be done, but you know, it's difficult. It's not easy. And I think people want them to share how they're doing this, but at the same time they're probably hesitant to share it. Maybe because it's a, it's a kind of like competitive advantage for them.
00:21:12.510 - 00:21:31.764, Speaker A: Right. It's something that they've put a lot of time and effort into. And if they open source it, then their competitors can just copy that. So I, but I'm not sure, I'm just, I'm just speculating there. I'm not sure exactly what the reasoning is here, but I'm looking forward to seeing more of that information come out and more of that stuff go live here. But yeah, we'll see how that kind of shakes out. But you can go check out the GitHub.
00:21:31.764 - 00:21:52.484, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we have another couple of entities that announced how, that they're getting off Geth. So obviously client diversity is still the talk of the town and still something that is top of mind for a people. So you can see here that p. Two, P.org had said that they've transitioned from Geth to base. Ooh.
00:21:52.484 - 00:22:22.972, Speaker A: So I think they've transitioned all of their validators to, to base you from Geth, which I think is like one point something percent of the network, which is great to see. And then also all nodes has announced that they've got that they're completely gone away from Geth onto Bae sue as well. And I'm glad that these operators are going to be sue instead of Nethermind. Nethermines great, but like, Bae sue is also great. So that and basically has like less market share than Nevermind. Tr but I think that all nodes accounts for maybe 2.5 or 3% of total validators on the network.
00:22:22.972 - 00:23:07.136, Speaker A: So these are like, obviously they're small numbers, but when you add them together, they get really big. And I mean, as I've said before, like, it only takes a few of these like relatively larger entities to move the needle here and especially when you add them up. So I actually put out a tweet today and I didn't highlight it. I don't have it here to highlight, but I put out a tweet today saying that ethereum is kind of winning this war with client diversity, where essentially in a couple of months geth will be below 66%. If both Coinbase and Lido follow through with their commitments, and Kraken as well follows through with their commitments to get off Geth, then we're just going to see that that issue evaporate completely. And then of course, the battle remains of keeping these operators accountable and making sure that they don't go back to Geth. But honestly, like, I don't see a reason why they necessarily would go back to Geth.
00:23:07.136 - 00:23:43.524, Speaker A: I don't see a reason to switch off. If you're getting the same performance or potentially even better performance from other clients, then there's no real incentive to go back there. And then there are other solutions in the works for client diversity. I remember highlighting one that Peter from Geth shared, where essentially you could run all these clients as a big operation and then just like have I think it was signing witnesses, and then if one of them had a bug, then it would basically, it would basically not sign it in some way. I can't remember exactly what it was, but it would basically eliminate this issue altogether. And I think that also there is something called vouch that attestant uses that basically eliminates this issue as well. But I don't know how that works.
00:23:43.524 - 00:24:02.850, Speaker A: I don't have a very good understanding of that. But I have seen some people share it with me and wanted me to highlight it. So I'm highlighting it there. So vouch as in v o u c h. So if you just type vouch attestant in Google, it should come up with what it is. Maybe you can learn more about it. But, yeah, there isn't just like one thing happening with client diversity guys, where we're basically getting people to, to stop running Geth.
00:24:02.850 - 00:24:35.392, Speaker A: There are multiple things happening with it, and there are probably going to be more in the future. So. So, yeah, I mean, but the easiest short term solution is just to encourage all these operators to get off geth and to, you know, to make sure that no client reaches super majority so that we don't have that worst case scenario. Because, yeah, that worst case scenario is, is, is really bad. As I've described before, it is not something we want to, we want to see happen. And I'm glad to see that there's been a lot of positive changes happening around this. All right, so Eigen layer has updated, has put out a major update, as they're saying.
00:24:35.392 - 00:24:57.464, Speaker A: And they said here as we near the main net launch, we're shifting gears. Our next cap raise is delayed by a week, ushering in a new phase for LST. So, yeah, I remember telling you guys that the original, you know, removal of the cap was going to be, I believe, on like Jan. 29th. Now it's going to be on Feb. Fifth and, and it's going to go from the Feb. Fifth to the 9th instead of January 29 here.
00:24:57.464 - 00:25:48.430, Speaker A: So just a week delay. And then also the reason why they did this is because I think that they wanted to align their launch with the new, the arrival of the new LST of frax ETH, me and ls ETH. And they're saying here that they're lifting the deposit cap per LST, offering you more rest taking choices. Previously, we had a 200k ETH cap, but now we're embracing an uncapped approach from February 5 to February 9. So it's going to be quite insane to see, like, just how quickly this feels, fills up. Because I mentioned, I think a little while ago, that I thought that it would feel it would fill up, but it would be slower than, than previously because of the fact that when you think about the available ETH that there is or the available kind of like staked ETH or. No, not even just staked ETH, but just the available ETH that he's willing to risk going into Eigen layer, the pool just gets smaller and smaller each time they uncap it.
00:25:48.430 - 00:26:25.620, Speaker A: But at the same time, I'm curious to see, like, once they actually launch something and once the protocol is actually live, it de, risks it a bit, and then it will see how much more ETH goes in. Right. How much more eat gets, restaked especially with puffer finance going live soon, either fight continuing to do their vampire attacks while continuing to do their stuff there. I'm just very, very curious to see how that all happens. And also, as I mentioned, meath or mental ETH or meth. I mean, I'm going to avoid saying meth because it's just hilarious, but that has actually grown a lot recently and that isn't part of Eigen layer yet. And I mentioned just before, there's 300,000 of me ETH tokens.
00:26:25.620 - 00:26:55.554, Speaker A: So how much of that is going to go into Eigen layer? Right. So I think that a substantial portion might go into it. So then we're going to see that just balloon there. So yeah, I mean, it's going to be crazy. I'm going to keep a close eye on it. But I just wanted to high to you guys that yeah, the uncapping will be delayed by a week, so February 5 is the new date to look out for. All right, so I should have mentioned this earlier because it's got to do with core dev stuff, but you guys know that the core dev teams have been putting out their long form thoughts on what they want to get included into the Petra upgrade.
00:26:55.554 - 00:28:03.752, Speaker A: So they're bringing out their long term, long term thought, long form thoughts on each of the eips that are considered for inclusion as part of the Petra upgrade. So the latest one to do this is off Chan labs, who as you guys know, acquired Prilabs quite a while ago, which develops the prism consensus layer client. So this is basically pry labs talking. You can go check this little thread out and a blog post, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But not only did off off chain labs publish something, so did Sigma prime, which you can also read about, and I'll link those both in the YouTube description below. But I'm liking this new trend of core devs being not so much more active but more like, I guess, like and open, but more methodical in their approach to these things, where essentially they're saying here's what we want to prioritize, here's what we're going to bat for, and here's what we would like to see in the upgrade and explaining their logic around this, because there are ten plus teams, I think at this point across both the execution layer and the consensus layer. And the thing is that they're all, they all have an equal sale, at least all should have an equal say in these things because they're developing the clients and they want to prioritize certain things over another based on their own opinions.
00:28:03.752 - 00:28:35.894, Speaker A: And essentially what we can do is we can, we can collate all this stuff, all these different opinions, and we can arrive on a set of eips that the core devs are all aligned on getting included in Petra. And then, of course, it would go to the community to basically veto any of them that they think are damaging to the network or shouldn't be included in the network. So it's great to see that there's a lot more kind of openness going on here. Not that it hasn't really been open before. It's just we're like kind of formalizing the openness here, which is honestly great to see. So you can go check both of these out for yourself. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:28:35.894 - 00:29:20.276, Speaker A: All right, so of course, you guys are well aware of one of the, I guess, like, popular narratives that that kind of has poisoned crypto I Twitter over the last few months especially. And a narrative that I really hate. And that's the narrative of that l two s fragment liquidity. Right? Now, the reason why I hate this narrative is because while it's kind of relatively true on the surface, and you make, and you can make like strict arguments that, yeah, okay, it's true on the surface. It misses a lot of nuance because I remember in 2021, everyone was going on about like the multi chain thesis. And the multi chain thesis back then was all about multi l ones, like having like solana, terra, avalanche, phantom, all these other l one s. And back then, no one was talking about liquidity, fragmentation.
00:29:20.276 - 00:30:06.096, Speaker A: And suddenly now that's an issue because instead of multi chains being multi l one, it's more like multi l two on top of ethereum. So it's just like some kind of fud that people have come up with in order to fight Ethereum. Now, on top of that, to do unified liquidity, or to do aggregated liquidity on l one s across l one s is basically impossible because the l one s all have their own consensus mechanisms, all have their own kind of security mechanisms, and they don't have enshrined bridges like you have, where the bridge actually with l two s. The bridge exists on ethereum l one. They all exist there, right? Whereas the, the l one s, there's a bridge on Ethereum to the l one, but it's an IOU, essentially, and it's not secured by Ethereum. Once your assets are on, the bridge is secured by Ethereum, mind you. But once your assets are on the other chain.
00:30:06.096 - 00:30:57.196, Speaker A: That chain now has control over that as part of its consensus, right? So you can't, I mean, I'm not gonna say you can't do it, but it's very complex to do it in a trustless and permissionless way. Do like, and do it by do it, I mean like cross chain liquidity and unified liquidity and atomic composability and stuff like that. Whereas when it comes to l two s, much easier to do. There's multiple solutions in the works right now, such as shared sequencing. And the reason why I'm talking about this today is because Polygon actually announced a new thing that they're developing, which is basically called aggregation or aggregated liquidity, and they're going to be going live on Mainnet in Feb with this. You can see here what this looks like on this little picture here. Basically you have Ethereum layer one, then you have a unified bridge contract that has all of the assets in them, and then you have this aggregation layer, and then you have every polygon CDK chain on top of that.
00:30:57.196 - 00:31:36.836, Speaker A: And they can all talk to each other and all share liquidity with each other and all communicate with each other through the aggregation layer, which obviously is very beneficial. And it's not just Polygon CDK chains, it's also l two chains that can communicate through here. And now they explain how this works in this blog post and in this tweet, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But the cool thing about this as well is that other l two s can actually optimize into this. It doesn't have to necessarily be built on polygon CdK or be built as a polygon. L two other l two s can opt into this, but it depends if they want to or not. Because from my understanding, they would have to basically run the run as a ZkVM or I guess like run with ZK proofs.
00:31:36.836 - 00:32:09.804, Speaker A: So a ZK roll up and they would have to run the same ZK architecture that Polygon runs as part of this aggregation layer in order to make that communication possible. But this is something that again, is another solution to that. I say issue in air quotes because I actually don't think fragmented liquidity is that big of an issue, especially because I believe these things play out in power law effects. And we've already seen that. I mean, only a handful of l two s have most of the activity, right? And one of them is far above all the others. And that's arbitrum right now. Like arbitrary arbitram one, I should say is very.
00:32:09.804 - 00:32:38.182, Speaker A: I mean, if it doesn't matter what metric you look at, I think arbitrary one is pretty much killing it right now and it's far above, but the other ones are still succeeding too. But the point is, is that it really is a power law effect here. And honestly, I haven't really seen anyone complain like any actual users complain about this. It's more so people just trying to fight Ethereum. Now in saying all of that. I'm not saying that we shouldn't aim to solve this. I'm not saying that we shouldn't aim to make sure that we can unify the liquidity again, because that's obviously a net benefit to everyone.
00:32:38.182 - 00:33:19.454, Speaker A: I'm just saying that I think that the fragmented liquidity narrative is overplayed. And he's fud because, I mean, the number one reason for me is the fact that I, and the reason why I know it's fud from a lot of people is because these same people were not talking about this in the context of a multi chain world with multi l one s. They're only doing it for l two s because they're trying to fud Ethereum. So that's why I say it's fud. I'm not saying it's fud just because I, you know, I'm biased towards Ethereum. It's just extremely hypocritical for them to say, and it is the same people I know these people, I mean, I, you know, they've been around for as long, not maybe, maybe some of them for as long as I have. But I've seen them on Twitter and everything and they flip flop just based on the fact that they don't want to admit that ethereum continues to win.
00:33:19.454 - 00:33:40.934, Speaker A: Ethereum l two s have more activity than the l one s. And ethereum l two s continue to grow at a much bigger, much faster pace, and they are the long term sustainable solution to scalability. They just don't want to admit that. So it's their loss, I guess. But yeah, that's why you see these bad narratives kind of propagate there. But anyway, you can go check out this thing from Polygon. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:33:40.934 - 00:34:04.370, Speaker A: All right, so last up here, just a couple of updates. So Starknet is ready for blobs. So you can see here, Abdel shared that this is our first stocknet state diff blob sent on girlie EIP 4844. We are ready. So yeah, it seems that Starknet is ready for ERP 4844 and you can actually see the transaction on the blobscan.com website yourself if you wanted to. I'll link that in the YouTube description below.
00:34:04.370 - 00:34:54.890, Speaker A: But great to see that one of the top l two s on Ethereum is already ready for blobs. I remember I did say to you guys that we weren't really sure about the timelines around blobs in terms of, sorry, around which l two s would be ready to use blobs at specific times. But now it's becoming clearer and clearer because you've got stockinette saying this and also you have op lab saying it as well. So you can say here that, see here that op labs successfully activated the ecotone hard fork on the girly devnets and today enabled posting of batches of EIP 4844 blobs. So they're all doing the test nets and devnets and then they are going to be doing main net deployments obviously once, once it gets to mainnet, once vault 48 44 gets the main net. And this means that all op stack chains will be able to use blobs as, you know, as they see fit, as they choose. And that includes op main nets.
00:34:54.890 - 00:35:22.876, Speaker A: It includes obviously base and a bunch of other chains out there. So just really, really great to see that these l two s are ready. I believe arbitrary is also going to be ready in time as well. So, I mean, yeah, it's, it's just going to be a pretty seamless switch over, I think, once it's live on Mainnet. I think, you know, it might not be an instant switch over for these l two s, but they're going to switch over pretty quickly and then the fees will or should drop. And obviously it's still hard to tell exactly how much the fees are going to drop by. It's going to be different for all the l two s.
00:35:22.876 - 00:35:54.674, Speaker A: It's going to be, it's going to be a little while before we actually see the long term effects. Because as I've explained before, people might try and spam blobs with inscriptions or something just because they want to speculate on it or something like that. But yeah, generally most of the L two s should be ready for blobs on Mainnet, which I guess, as I said before, should come mid to late March there. But yeah, that's it for today. I think everyone and I made it the whole way through without editing the episode today. So kudos to me for that. I mean, 35 minutes episode did well there.
00:35:54.674 - 00:36:06.854, Speaker A: But I think, yeah, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
