00:00:01.290 - 00:00:40.610, Speaker A: Hello and happy New Year. As we all know, security is absolutely crucial when it comes to storing your digital assets. And although a seed phrase is a good place to start, hackers can unfortunately still access this data through phishing attacks. And while hardware wallets do offer strong security, they are complex devices that can be inconvenient at times. To avoid both a security risk and inconvenience, Bravos introduced most multifactor authentication by implementing its opt in hardware signer. First off, what is Braavos? Bravos is a Starknet native smart wallet that allows you to store your crypto in an intuitive and safe way. It's like the ebanking platform that your bank provides.
00:00:40.610 - 00:01:25.730, Speaker A: Now, if you're interested in learning more about how to bridge from L One to Starknet, I recommend you go check out my tutorial where you can follow along step by step. Now let's talk about the hardware signer. Think of it as a high security safe that protects your private keys inside your smartphone. It consists of two parts, the secure subsystem in users mobile devices and the account smart contract, which can run arbitrary logic, aka account abstraction. You can imagine the secure subsystem as a super secure, virtually unbreakable lockbox like iPhone's Secure Enclave or Android phone's Titan HSM. And account abstraction is like having a highly intelligent, customizable security protocol for your box. It can be programmed with smart contract logic to decide under what conditions your digital funds can be accessed or moved.
00:01:25.730 - 00:02:02.546, Speaker A: Now, for the castle enthusiasts among us, you can picture the security of Bravo's hardware signer as the Beaumari Castle, designed by James of St. George. The entire castle represents your smartphone. The outer walls and other defenses represent the general security features of the smartphone, like its operating system and password protections. The innermost keep, the most secure and fortified part of the castle, symbolizes the secure subsystem in your phone. The information within this keep can only be accessed by providing face, ID, retina, or a fingerprint, in other words, biometric protection. In my opinion, the best form of two fa because only you are you.
00:02:02.546 - 00:02:28.422, Speaker A: This is where the most sensitive operations, like generating and storing private keys for cryptocurrencies, are handled. So bottom line is, it ensures that even if the outer defenses are breached, I. E. If someone hacks your phone, the most critical and sensitive operations remain secure. Now let's quickly look at how to get started using the hardware signer. Brief Disclaimer this is not financial advice. Once you've opened the app on your phone, set up your Bravos account and added funds to it.
00:02:28.422 - 00:02:41.690, Speaker A: This message should automatically pop up. Click on it, add hardware signer and sign. And that's all there is to it. So from now on, whenever you send tokens, you can do so by using the hardware signer. Thank you very much for listening, and I'll see you soon. Bye.
