00:00:00.400 - 00:00:23.686, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 16 August 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So a lot to get through today. So just wanted to start with a tweet that I put out over the weekend where I said it's been about 18 months since. 18 months since COVID started. And the global mental health toll that has followed has been extreme.
00:00:23.686 - 00:01:00.066, Speaker A: Though I'm really happy that crypto has been so exciting over the last 18 months because it's helped a lot of people stay positive during a really shitty time now. I mean, the reason I say been about 18 months is because I really think COVID kind of, like, started entering the mainstream consciousness, at least, like, really early on into the mainstream was about February of 2020. I remember I was. I was actually at Denver in ETH, Denver in February 2020, and no one was really taking it seriously back then. It was kind of like this thing that you heard about that was, like, in China and, like, it seems so far away. And then I got back to Melbourne and then into March. Like, that's when it really started picking up, right? Like, we had all the.
00:01:00.066 - 00:01:20.274, Speaker A: The. The news kind of like articles coming out, the media going into a frenzy over it, governments going crazy. Like, you know, we saw videos of. Of what was happening in China and things like that, and things just went. Went insane. And, you know, and during that time, different governments and different countries have had different kind of, like, responses to it. There's been lockdowns in masks, you know, restrictions here and there.
00:01:20.274 - 00:01:37.890, Speaker A: Obviously, borders were closed and all that sort of stuff. But, you know, it's been a while now since we've been dealing with this. And unfortunately, down here in Melbourne, we're still dealing with. With lockdowns. Now, just today, they extended our lockdown again by two weeks and have put, like a curfew in place. Uh, you know, can't go out after 09:00 p.m. Sort of thing.
00:01:37.890 - 00:02:18.650, Speaker A: Uh, and to give you some context here, we only have 20 cases a day. So we've taken a very heavy handed approach to this sort of stuff because our, our vaccine rates are actually quite low. I think it's 25% of 16 plus year olds are vaccinated right now, and it's ramping up over time. You know, I think by Christmas we'll have a decent chunk vaccinated. But, you know, it's just been such a. It's a hard thing to deal with for, I think everyone, right. The mental health toll, like, especially for, for people who, uh, you know, extroverts or kind of like, enjoy going out to, whether that be like to parties or to restaurants to, you know, just traveling and all that sort of stuff, which I think is a lot of people, you know, and just socializing in general, not being able to do that has taken a really big toll, though.
00:02:18.650 - 00:02:45.274, Speaker A: I think for us in crypto, we've been, like, really lucky. I mean, honestly, the bull market, I think, started in earnest, like early, kind of like 2020, right, where we had the COVID dump, but that didn't really stop the, the train that was, that was still going with crypto. And then we had defy summer through, like, pretty much the peak of the pandemic where, like, everywhere, everyone was locked down in their house, whatever. All the borders were closed. You couldn't really do anything. And we had Defi Summer. And I think, you know, that played a big part into why we actually had a Defi summer.
00:02:45.274 - 00:03:27.380, Speaker A: And then coming into the end of the year, you know, I think that at least here where I was, we didn't have any lockdowns anymore. Things were quite normal throughout, like December, you know, had a normal Christmas and stuff like that. And obviously, like, crypto, sorry, Ethan. BTC were hitting all time highs through, in, through to January. And, you know, crypto just generally throughout 2021 as well has been just really hot and really distracting. I guess you had the nft stuff, the L2 stuff and everything like that. So I'm just really, really glad that all of us, like, all that have been able to experience this and kind of like, I guess this is kind of like therapy, right? I mean, maybe that's not the right term for it, but the way it is for me is definitely kind of like therapy.
00:03:27.380 - 00:03:44.828, Speaker A: Being able to log on, kind of like, feel like I'm still kind of interacting, interacting with the world and still have stuff to do. I'm not bored or anything like that. There's plenty of people out there who, you know, sitting at home. They might, maybe they work from home, but other than that, they might be bored. They can't go out. They can't do, like, all their normal hobbies and things like that. Maybe they go to the gym and stuff.
00:03:44.828 - 00:04:25.376, Speaker A: So, yeah, it's, it's taken a really big toll. And I know much of the world is, like, opening up now. Cause they have, like, good vaccine rollouts, but there's still restrictions and stuff like that. And, you know, I guess for them it's been great. But like, you know, for me in Melbourne, for the, you know, most of Australia right now, it's kind of like, has restrictions around it and we still can't travel overseas or anything like that, or even interstate right now, which is kind of shitty. But I think without crypto for a lot of us, right, it would have been a lot worse. And I like to think I played a part through the Daily Gwei and of course through my work at ethub and my twitter shitposting and keeping you all entertained and getting through such a difficult time because I launched the Daily Gwei newsletter in July of last year and then I launched this YouTube channel towards the end of last year.
00:04:25.376 - 00:05:08.844, Speaker A: So kind of like, not, probably not being the YouTube channel, probably hasn't been through the peak of it. But I think, like, a lot of us still, I know a lot of Aussies watch the, watch the show. I think, you know, uh, hopefully I've helped you all with, with kind of dealing with this sorts of stuff because it's definitely been a massive mental health kind of toll for most of the world. I mean, me personally, I've stayed quite distracted with ethereum and everything like that, but it's still gotten to me on some days it's really shitty. And people around me I know as well, like, you know, my fiance kind of like lost work and things like that. And I have lots of friends who have lost work and just really not having a great time with it. So, yeah, I hopefully I just wanted to kind of like, give, I guess, like a bit of commentary there because I think, you know, it's, it's just good to reflect on kind of like, what's happened over the last 18 months, how the kind of world's evolved, but how also, like, crypto has evolved alongside it.
00:05:08.844 - 00:05:53.972, Speaker A: And the fact that I actually think, you know, the, as shitty as it is, like, the pandemic was actually quite bullish for crypto. I think the reason why crypto went so crazy and went and, you know, the prices have gone so high is due in large part to a lot of the, the money printing that's been going on. And that only happened because of, of COVID So, you know, I'm sure all of you have seen like, the pictures of the US balance sheet where, you know, they've just printed like a crap ton of cash and obviously that's led to inflation and then assets go up during times like that and all that sort of stuff. So I think in crypto, we've just been very, very lucky from both, I guess, the entertainment side. But also, if you've been invested for, for a little while now, especially over the last 18 months, you would have done very, very well, you know, if you had held on. So, you know, even if just investing in ETH, you didn't even have to touch anything else. You know, 18 months ago, ETH was like $100.
00:05:53.972 - 00:06:34.060, Speaker A: Uh, but, yeah, I just kind of like, wanted to give some commentary there. So, yeah, I hope wherever you are in the world, that you're doing okay, that, you know, mentally, obviously, mentally and physically as well. And I hope to keep entertaining you on the daily. And on that note, I'm going to move on to the actual crypto news now. So 50,000 ETH has now been burned. It's been ten days, around ten days since 1559 went live, and we've already burned 50,000 ETH, which at current prices, I think is $170 million, something like that, which is a crazy amount of money. Now, I was actually talking to a friend today, and he was discussing with me kind of like what I think the real effect of kind of this burn is.
00:06:34.060 - 00:07:19.706, Speaker A: And I think, like, I can't remember the exact conversation, but what I said was that essentially there's a lot of ETH that gets bought off the market to be used for gas fees. Because if you want to do anything on Ethereum, you have to pay gas fees. Right. So if you're onboarding via NFTs and you're a new user, well, you're going to quickly discover, okay, well, I need ETH to buy the NfT, but I also need ETH to pay the gas fees. So in doing that, what's, what ends up happening is that fresh ETH gets taken off the market like, uh, and, and basically doesn't ever go back to the market, or at least most of it doesn't, because most of it gets burned, which I think is like the most bullish aspect of this is the fact that, I mean, I said, I said it the other day, I think a couple of weeks ago where I said 1559 was launching into like perfect launch conditions. Right. Obviously, the gas fees spiked again because we had like an NFT mania going on.
00:07:19.706 - 00:07:53.212, Speaker A: But also not just the gas fees being high, but the fact that we had all those new users coming in that were buying ETH, using it on the network, you know, getting, getting used to things and kind of like onboarding to Ethereum was really bullish as well. But also we have, like, the layers who's going live to, you know, progressing through. I mean, I'm going to talk about L2s in a bit, but like, they've been progressing through and stuff like that. So, yeah, I mean, it's just insane to see how much Eva's been burned already. And it's just really cool to see. I guess, like, this is coming from probably a lot of, I guess, like, ETH that's getting freshly bought up. It's not just ETH, you know, being kind of, I guess, like, used.
00:07:53.212 - 00:08:21.064, Speaker A: I mean, it is, but like, it's not just only ETH from people who have been investing in ETH for a while. It's also fresh ETH being taken off the market and being burned, which I thought was really cool, taken serum. Put out a great little chart today showing kind of like the variance in or the volatility in gas prices pre London or pre 1559. And post 1559 you can see here pretty. It was a lot more volatile, a lot more spread out. And then post it was kind of like a lot more flat. Right.
00:08:21.064 - 00:08:54.178, Speaker A: It's definitely a lot more controlled. It's not as, not as volatile, not exactly what we want it to be just yet. We want more 1559 transactions to be adopted and things like that. But still a very interesting little chart here. And token terminal also put out a little chart here again showing the ETH revenue versus the supply side revenue versus protocol revenue. What this does, it basically splits out the total fees paid to miners and the total fees burned, which is protocol revenue. And then they said, you know, the state of Ethereum and ETH fundamentals, sky high recognition, very, very low.
00:08:54.178 - 00:09:32.046, Speaker A: And I mean, it's funny because today, I don't know if a lot of you have been watching the markets, a lot of these other layer one blockchain networks are pumping. So it's kind of like layer one season right now, which is bizarre to me because I guess, like, you know, Ethereum's fundamentals are so strong. Ethereum's usage is so strong. We have nfts, you know, L2 defi still out there growing and everything like that. But its recognition is so low. And I mean, I could go on for a while about this, but I'm not going to because it will take me a while to go on about it. But really I just think that maybe I'm, maybe I'm just saying this because I'm so involved with Ethereum, but I really do think Ethereum is like in the middle of kind of like the entire ecosystem.
00:09:32.046 - 00:10:25.474, Speaker A: It's like sandwiched between you know, bitcoin and all the Ethereum killers. And it really has like such, you know, has these strong fundamentals but doesn't get the recognition for it because on one hand you have the bitcoiners or the bitcoin maximus who don't really care about anything but bitcoin and they're obviously just going to focus on bitcoin, they're going to talk about it, blah, blah. Then you have all the Ethereum killers where there's a lot of people that buy into these Ethereum killers are buying into a story or a narrative or kind of like a fantasy, and a lot of them are buying into it because they feel like they missed the ETH boat and they see that these things are a much lower market cap and they're like, oh, well, I can buy into this and you know, I can outperform ETH or whatever, which is fine. Like I have no issue with people doing that. But then you have like ETH sitting in the middle where the bitcoin maximalists are always shitting on ETH and calling it a scam because, you know, that's just what they believe. And then you have the Ethereum killers also doing the same thing. They're not calling it a scam, but they're they're like, you know, attacking Ethereum for its weak point, saying, you know, high gas speed, blah blah, all these sorts of stuff.
00:10:25.474 - 00:10:54.786, Speaker A: So I think that's why you have like such little recognition for Ethereum at times. But over the longer term, Ethereum has shown like amazing resiliency against this sort of stuff and it just grows and becomes stronger for it. So I'm not too worried there. But just I thought token Turner put this a great way by showing kind of like these bars here with like fundamentals, skyrocketing recognition, very little. But I don't expect that to last very long at all. I actually think that the market is not pricing in the fact that we've burned 50,000 ETH in ten days. That is, as I said, at $170 million.
00:10:54.786 - 00:11:33.294, Speaker A: That is a lot of ETH. And I think the market in the short term is just playing the speculation game, you know, doing, you know, playing in these l ones and things like that. And that's fine, traders doing this, whatever, but eventually that money kind of like comes back to roost, right? Comes back to ETH. I think, you know, we've seen this play out plenty of times before, so, you know, obviously I'm still long ETH and everything like that. Not, that's not changing, but it's just funny to see the market chase these kind of short term things, you know? So, so, I mean, so predictably, because it's just like you have like this kind of like one layer, one that started pumping. I think it was Solana that started pumping. And then like, I looked a few hours later on Coingecko and all of them were all of a sudden pumping.
00:11:33.294 - 00:12:05.894, Speaker A: So it's like these traders, they just see these kind of narratives start playing out and they're like, okay, well, it's l one season now and it's the same true, it's true for everything, right? It's like defi season, NFT season, or NFT summer, whatever you want to call it. Like, it's always like these little mini cycles that play out, but eventually the money flows back to what people actually want to hold. And I've said before that I think that people truly want to hold things like ETH. They don't want to hold long term. A lot of these Ethereum killers because a lot of them, frankly, are worthless, right? Like I saw things like Eos still pumping. Eos is completely worthless. There's nothing happening on that network.
00:12:05.894 - 00:12:44.520, Speaker A: It's been around for how long now? Like three, four years. And it's got no traction. There are other ones out there that have some traction and whatever, but, you know, a lot of them pumping, they're just pumping for the sake of it. So a lot of that money actually ends up flowing back to things people want to hold, whether that be cash or like ETH or BT or even BTC or things like that. So I think that's, that's kind of like the way it plays out over, over the longer term. So Hayden Adams from Unisop put out a fun fact in this tweet over the weekend. He said in spring of 2018, six months before Uniswap V one launched, amisse Go expressed interest in hiring me, me being Hayden, and, and having Uniswap V one launch under their brand.
00:12:44.520 - 00:13:09.782, Speaker A: Hayden asked for $2 million of OMG tokens and they ghosted, which means they basically disappeared and ignored him. This was funny because for those of you who have been around since, especially 2017, Amisogo was this thing in 2017. It was the scaling project. It was the thing that was going to save Ethereum, that was going to scale. Ethereum, they had like plasma stuff going on. I think they had some state channel stuff going on. They had partnerships or whatever.
00:13:09.782 - 00:13:44.292, Speaker A: And it was like this huge thing. And if you go back and look at the price chart of the OMG token. It performs really well. Back then there was like this massive airdrop as well where they airdropped OMG tokens like every address on Ethereum, which in hindsight was a very naive airdrop as well because you ended up sending these tokens to like dead addresses or to people that just like didn't care about them and not people didn't really get many, much of these tokens. So this was like the old style airdrops. But it's just funny that kind of like, Hayden was rejected, you know, by a me say go, I didn't know about this. And, you know, he asked for $2 million of OMG tokens.
00:13:44.292 - 00:14:20.114, Speaker A: And I think, you know, you can see down here, I think he answered a question as to why, I guess, like he asked for so much, or kind of like, you know, it's not a surprise that you were ghosted because you asked for so much. I can't remember what his reply was. I think he said something like he was comparing it to another protocol at the time and thinking that $2 million was actually not that much. And it actually wasn't. I mean, if, if Amisogo had on boarded Hayden, he would launch Uniswap under that umbrella. I mean, they would have done very well for themselves, but just funny to see how these kind of things turn out. And of course, you know, Hayden went on to get the Ethereum foundation grant of $100,000 and then he used that grant to develop Uniswap V one.
00:14:20.114 - 00:14:52.504, Speaker A: And then he went on to raise money as part of like Uniswap labs from paradigm. And then the rest is history, of course. Right? You know, the uni airdrop and stuff like that. So, yeah, just a fun little story there. And I put out like a little bit of a smart ass comment here where I said, it's okay. They seem to have ghosted the entire Ethereum community at this point. And I mean, I kind of really feel like that because I haven't really heard anything about Amisegra in such a long time and actually responded to my tweet here where they said, is this an invite to join on your podcast? And obviously, I don't do guest spots on the Daily Gwei, but I was happy to talk to them about any updates they had.
00:14:52.504 - 00:15:06.824, Speaker A: And I've been a big fan. I was actually a big fan of them back in the day, but I just haven't heard anything from them. They've been too quiet. And they said, you know, we learned it's best to make noise after shipping. And this is good timing. We'll dm you. They haven't dm me yet, so, you know, maybe, hopefully they do.
00:15:06.824 - 00:15:32.564, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, I don't know. Like, it's funny because the L2 space is much hotter than it was back then. In 2017, there wasn't really many teams working on stuff. I mean, I think, you know, maybe there was plasma group or maybe they weren't even noticed plasma group back then, but there was a kind of like a bunch of stuff happening around plasma. There was raiden or raiden, however you say it. There's misei go, and there's a couple of other things going on. You know, there wasn't roll ups or anything like that.
00:15:32.564 - 00:15:59.914, Speaker A: Or at least it wasn't like a public thing that people were talking about. But now, kind of, like, in this day and age, you have, like, how many? I've lost track of, like, there's probably like 20 different l two teams right now. So I don't know what Amisego has. I don't know what, you know, what they're going to ship or whatever, what kind of like, traction they have there. I just haven't heard much from them lately. But it's just funny to see, like, how things can go from, you know, being the biggest thing in the ecosystem and to basically not being really heard of in just a few short years. But, yeah.
00:15:59.914 - 00:16:43.784, Speaker A: Anyway, interesting story from Hayden there. Immutable has provided an update on their IMX token rewards. So this is another unfortunate us rug here where they've said, due to the ongoing regulatory uncertainty in the US, the immutable team had to adjust the reward terms. And what this means is basically the IMX token cannot be distributed to us residents or citizens, but to make up for this as part of the airdrop, but to make up for this, they're going to be airdropping an equivalent amount of ETH based on a $10 per per IMX, kind of like token price here. Now, I did hear that there was some frustration from users about this where they said $10 is, you know, is too low. Like, that gives, I think, immutable. It gives immutable $20 million fully diluted market cap.
00:16:43.784 - 00:17:28.368, Speaker A: But people were doing like, relative valuations where they said, well, axie Infinity has like a, what, you know, 15, $15 billion cap, and then you have the flow blockchain, which has like a massive 20, $30 billion thing. And people were saying, well, you know, immutables got to at least be worth a billion dollars, which is like $50 per token. So they were kind of annoyed about that, which I get. But at the same time, I think you can use a VPN when using the immutable, kind of like roll up with your address and, you know, make sure your VPN is not, he's not using a US based server, it using kind of one out of another jurisdiction and still be able to get the airdrop. So maybe that's a little bit of an alcohol alpha leak there. But again, this is just stupid, draconian kind of regulations out of the US. Of course, that make no sense to me.
00:17:28.368 - 00:17:54.116, Speaker A: It's kind of like punishing users once again, and it's just really, really shitty to see that. But still, I mean, this isn't immutable fault, I don't think. You know, obviously, I'm still very bullish on immutable and immutable x and everything like that, but it's just really, really sad to see that they've had to make this decision here. And I'm sure they didn't make it lightly. But still, good to see that they're kind of like, at least making up for it by saying they would airdrop in ETH instead of IMX. But maybe they adjust that price from $10 per IMX up to. Up to more than that.
00:17:54.116 - 00:18:22.042, Speaker A: Or maybe, you know, people can just use a VPN to get the IMX tokens. Anyway, speaking of Immutable X, they have built a website called built on Immutable X.com, which shows all the projects that are either on immutable right now or that are coming to immutable. So you can see here the marketplaces, Opensea, token, Trove King Gwen. People will know of that. Collectibles. They've got a few big brands here, like RTfkt, epics, GG.
00:18:22.042 - 00:18:42.454, Speaker A: I think that's pretty big. Yeah, I'm pretty. I'm pretty sure I've heard of them before. Games such as Animaka brands, you know, gods Unchained, alluvium, all these sorts of things. And then they've got a defi thing here as well called Superfi. Never really heard of that, but it's there. So this is kind of like what Arbitrum did, I guess, with their kind of arbitrum one thing, which I thought was really cool, where they showed off all the apps that are coming to Arbitrum.
00:18:42.454 - 00:19:04.152, Speaker A: So this is the same for immutable here. So, yeah, really, really cool to see that from, from the team. All right, so this tweet from the poap kind of like Twitter account here, or at least a little bit of a tweet thread I thought was very interesting. They basically started the thread by saying not all popes are created equal. So today we present the pope taxonomy. So popes can be put into, like, three broad categories. Collectible.
00:19:04.152 - 00:19:24.820, Speaker A: The holders enjoy them on their intimacy. Private usage, reward. The holders get benefits for owning them. Private public usage and recognitions. The recognition, sorry. The holders flex them at public usage, and they go on to say, you know, collectible, pope is pope, or poap is enjoyed despite how many of them exist, because for the collector, it's just an item to remember a past event. Scarcity is not a concern.
00:19:24.820 - 00:19:47.412, Speaker A: I have a few of these popes. Definitely, like the things like Devcon, you know, going to Defcon, getting a pope. Like, that's definitely just a collectible for me. It's not something to kind of, like, necessarily flex about or it's not, you know, something that I'm concerned about the scarcity or anything like that. So that definitely makes sense. Next would be like a reward pop may or may not need to be scarce, depending on how the incentive has been laid out by the issuer. So you may get, like, this part as a reward for doing something on a.
00:19:47.412 - 00:20:25.394, Speaker A: On an app or kind of like doing something, you know, early on in kind of like, I guess, a project or whatever, and then you have, like, a recognition pop, which fundamentally necessitates scarcity because it's bragging rights, strength, and the more exclusive it is. So, for example, there was a pipe for being a genesis validator on the ETH two network. Now, there's only kind of like a handful of those people, because there was only a handful of genesis validators, or there was a fair few genesis validators. But you can never go back and be a genesis validator again. Right? You can never retroactively get that, and that's extremely scarce. So you definitely want to kind of, like, separate these different kind of power ups here. And that's one that I would flex, right.
00:20:25.394 - 00:20:47.220, Speaker A: My genesis validator pop, which I thought was. Was really cool. And I guess, like, in ten years time, when ethereum takes over the world, people are going to look at that and be like, wow, you were there at the genesis, and you can prove that you were there because you have this pop, which I think is really, really cool. And then, you know, this can be used for. For kind of, like, governance. Oh, I guess someone. Yeah, yeah.
00:20:47.220 - 00:21:13.726, Speaker A: Someone did this here pre Genesis depositor pop as well. Yeah. And you know, people have spoken about this before. How you can basically use pops is like some sort of on chain identity. And you can basically, I guess, assign kind of weights to different people. So if people have, like, all these rare poaps, then their weight or their governance weight in a protocol should be higher than someone who maybe doesn't have any powerups. Because you can prove that they've been around for a while, that they've been part of the ecosystem for a while.
00:21:13.726 - 00:21:38.282, Speaker A: And they actually kind of, like, are in it for the tech sort of thing or kind of like, have more fundamental understanding of things. So, yeah, I think that's really, really cool to see this. This thread put out by pop, kind of explaining the different categories here. So Polygon and Hermes network merged. This was the, I guess, biggest news. And this came out, I think, an hour after I recorded Friday's refuel. So, obviously, a lot of people have been able to kind of, like, digest this over the weekend.
00:21:38.282 - 00:22:15.008, Speaker A: But essentially, Hermes, I've spoken about before on the refuel, there are ZK roll up L2. Polygon has acquired them. So Polygon acquired them for $250. And basically what ends up happening is the Hez token is going to be able to be transferred or transacted or I guess, like, whatever you want to call it, like, changed over for the Matic token, which I thought was a really good way of doing it. But not only did, I guess, like, Polygon announced this merger with. With Hermes here and kind of, like, acquiring them, they also announced that they're putting a billion dollars towards zero knowledge based scaling solutions. So, obviously, a lot of you will know.
00:22:15.008 - 00:22:34.402, Speaker A: ZK rollups and optimistic roll ups are the two leading roll up technologies. And ZK rollups are commonly thought of as the long term winning kind of roll up. Because there's going to be. It's going to be better than optimistic roll ups for a number of reasons. But one of those being that there's no withdrawal delay or anything like that. Or at least it's not a seven day withdrawal delay. And people argue that it's more secure and stuff like that.
00:22:34.402 - 00:22:54.386, Speaker A: But I'm not going to get into that for now. What I did want to talk about was my thread here, which I put together. And I said, you know, it's really exciting to see two powerhouse teams kind of working together here. The Hermes team. You know, I spoke to some of the guys at Polygon. They said they were extremely impressed by the Hermes team. They're kind of like their team, I think, is 26 people working on zero knowledge, kind of like scaling tech for Ethereum.
00:22:54.386 - 00:23:22.734, Speaker A: And they already had something that was live, by the way, like Hermes was live. And there was a lot of stuff going on there. There was activity on there. Think they were doing airdrops and stuff like that. So it wasn't just something that was like, theoretical. And this basically adds, I guess, ZK roll ups to polygons, kind of like, I guess, suite now of scaling solutions that they, that they have. Obviously, they have the PoS chain, they have the plasma chain, they have avail, which is their availability blockchain, and now they have like Hermes.
00:23:22.734 - 00:24:09.500, Speaker A: And I'm sure there's going to be more in the future, of course. But actually, I should pause here and say I'm an advisor to Polygon, just for those who don't know. But, you know, the reason I'm kind of like, talking about this is because I'm super excited about this was a long time, long time coming in terms of, like, polygon supporting true L2 technologies and things like that. So I'm super excited about that. But, you know, I went on to say in my thread that I think polygons Pos chain has been and will continue to be an important piece of infrastructure to keep users within the Ethereum ecosystem while the L2 rollout continues. Because I have a lot of people asking me, they're like, okay, what's the point of the polygon PoS chain? We're in a L2 world because the POS chain is a side chain, and L2 is obviously, obviously better because they inherit security, blah, blah. I don't think that that's like viewing the whole picture here.
00:24:09.500 - 00:24:51.544, Speaker A: I think that the POS chain has, has been like a great way of getting users to basically experience a theorem with low fees. Yes, there's trade offs there. It's nowhere near as decentralized as Ethereum. It kind of like, has those various trade offs, but it basically prevented users from going to like, these parasitic chains, like BSc and stuff like that, and kept them within the Ethereum family. And, you know, what's to say the POS chain doesn't get turned into a roll up eventually? There's no, you know, there's no, there's kind of like nothing stopping that from happening, which I think is really bullish. But at the same time, you know, you could imagine the POs chain becoming even like a testing ground for a lot of different apps. It could be a live test network for Ethereum at the end of the day, because we have testnets in Ethereum but they don't see much activity.
00:24:51.544 - 00:25:28.582, Speaker A: It's very hard to test on there, especially for Defi apps, because the composability is not, there is not liquidity, all that sorts of stuff. Whereas you could use the pos chain as kind of like this testnet for Ethereum, and you can get real users using it and things like that. Maybe that's the long term kind of thing for the POS chain. But at the same time, as I said, I think that the polygon team would want to turn this into a roll up when they can. But in the meantime, they will continue to roll out kind of like other L2 solutions. And, you know, as I said, I think with this merger, Polygon is perfectly positioned to now be a major force in the l two space, because Hermes is already live. Like it's already out there.
00:25:28.582 - 00:25:48.332, Speaker A: It's not like it's. We're going to have to wait, you know, 612 months for this all to come to fruition. And with, with, you know, this billion dollars being put towards all this research and development, we're going to see stuff come out of Polygon. And I mean, if, if polygons, you know, good at anything, it's shipping, that's for sure. I mean, they ship like crazy. And then I said, you know, my next tweet here. On that note, the battle for Ethereum scaling is really heating up.
00:25:48.332 - 00:26:15.740, Speaker A: With many solutions already live and more coming soon, though, I don't think it's going to be a winner take all scenario. There will be many different l two solutions and a world of bridges linking them all together. And I've said this many, many times in the refuel, the al two space is not a winner take all market. There is not just going to be an optimism that takes all the market share. There's not just going to be an arbitrary moral starkware or whatever. They're all going to live together harmoniously with bridges all, you know, connecting them. I've talked about bridges tons lately.
00:26:15.740 - 00:26:38.744, Speaker A: And that's how we're going to scale Ethereum. And that is the way, like, that is. I mean, I think that is the only way to scale a kind of like Ethereum at the end of the day. And obviously we're going to have sharding at layer one, but sharding just works to enhance L2. So I think, you know, that's kind of like how I'm viewing it. And the last tweet here, I said, in the end, those who will benefit most from these solutions will be the end users. And that can only be a very positive thing.
00:26:38.744 - 00:27:13.124, Speaker A: I mean, yeah, I mean, we're all going to benefit from this, this ruthless competition between the different teams, even though I think they're all going to succeed, or at least most of them will succeed and get usage and things like that. I don't think that, you know, they're not going to compete with each other. Of course they're going to compete with each other, but that's going to be good for end users at the end of the day, so. And, you know, polygons just entered the arena now of the roll up space, and I think, you know, it's going to be a very, very interesting fight over the next coming years. Like, this is a marathon, not a sprint. Scaling Ethereum is a big undertaking. It's going to take pretty much everyone in the ecosystem to do it.
00:27:13.124 - 00:27:40.506, Speaker A: And I'm just really glad that we have so much money being put towards these efforts. It's really great to see the funding really picking up here and teams taking this much more seriously. So, yeah, I guess congrats to Polygon and Hermes on this merger. I'm really bullish about it. I'm really excited about it. But in other layer, two news. Uri from Starkware put out this tweet where he said, this past week being, I guess, like, from April 8 to April 15, Stockx settled 617,000 transactions over Ethereum.
00:27:40.506 - 00:27:51.938, Speaker A: That is 7.2% of Ethereum's l one capacity. L two isn't coming. It's here. And this is because there's a lot of apps right now using Starkx. You can go to l two beat.com, and you can see them.
00:27:51.938 - 00:28:17.790, Speaker A: There is Dydx, which is probably accounting for most of this stuff, but diversify. And then there's like, things like immutable x. And, I mean, these sorts of things are all live and working today. And that's why Uri is saying, it's not Altru isn't coming, it's here now. I think when people say, like, l two is coming, they're talking about these generalized things like arbitrary and optimism and. Right, like, the generalized kind of roll ups aren't here yet. They're coming, like, imminently.
00:28:17.790 - 00:29:14.840, Speaker A: Like, arbitrary is launching this month to the public. Optimism, I'm probably going to guess, is not far behind. ZK sync has been teasing themselves like they're due any day now for kind of like some news or some kind of release, obviously, like, you know, polygons in the game and things like that. So, yeah, I think when people say l two is coming, it's really about the generalized l two s, but still good to see these kind of like app specific l two s just, you know, gain so much traction already and begin to use Ethereum's block space. Because this is what, this is how it kind of plays out over the next few years, is that the l one block space is going to be reserved for whales and L2 proofs, and then all of the end users will just sit at L2. So the end users will get to benefit from the cheap fees and the fast transactions and all that good stuff, whereas layer one will get to benefit from the fact that, I mean, the fees are going to be high, which means the ETH is going to be burned, you know, as part of that. And all these L2s are going to be kind of like secured by that as well.
00:29:14.840 - 00:30:22.830, Speaker A: So it's kind of like a symbiotic relationship going on there. All right, so chop chop. Put out chop shop from, I guess, like the core contributor NFtx here put out a really interesting tweet that I wrote a newsletter about today where they said, well, basically they were replying to a Rick Ling from Discord, who basically he says he's leading online communities at Discord. He must be the community guy there where he said, how can discord better support daos? And Chop Chop replied with a bunch of different things. Here he said, you can integrate metamask and wallet connect, integrate snapshot voting, and be able to vote from Discord Connect Web three identities, like ensuring, I'm not going to read these all out, but you can kind of see them on the screen or the link will be in the YouTube description, you know, show real time dow balance sheets, ability to reward community with nfts based on their discord activity, et cetera, et cetera. Now, last week's newsletter, I think on Friday I wrote about how, and I actually talked about this on Friday's refuel, how I think that we need to rebuild social media from the ground up for it to be truly decentralized and truly like, you know, web3 crypto. But in the meantime, I think that we can enhance the existing web two experience with these web3 crypto features.
00:30:22.830 - 00:31:01.734, Speaker A: For example, just integrating a snapshot vote directly into Discord chats would be incredibly powerful. Could you imagine the discord kind of like announcement channel saying, hey guys, we have a new vote RPR. You can vote directly using your wallet in Discord. You don't have to go to a new link or anything like that it's just seamless for users, you know. And on Twitter right now, if you install something called Mask Book or Mask network, you can google that. It actually injects things to your Twitter, kind of like news feed where my cursor is. There's kind of like something where you can go exchange or swap, and it'll actually bring up like a uniswap window and you can actually do a decentralized exchange, swap directly on Twitter.
00:31:01.734 - 00:31:27.388, Speaker A: And there's other kind of like uses there. But that's the kind of stuff like where you have like web3 features or crypto features, enhancing the web to experience. And I think we can do that until, you know, it's probably going to take five to ten years before we get any kind of like mass scale decentralized social media out there. So until that comes along, we can definitely enhance the existing web. Two tools with our new fancy crypto, crypto features. So, yeah, I mean, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description. You can go check it out and just realize the time.
00:31:27.388 - 00:31:53.520, Speaker A: So I'm going to, I'm going to get through the rest of this stuff here. Ben Edgington put out his latest what's new in ETH two edition. For those who don't know, you can go to ETH two news. And this is the best kind of like resource for keeping up with what's happening in ETH two hands down. I mean, there's no other better resource out there in this issue. He talked about all the usual things like the beacon chain, the coming out here upgrade, the merge, staking, decentralized staking research, all that good stuff. So you can go check this out.
00:31:53.520 - 00:32:24.704, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description. Yeah, chain link. God, I could have put out an interesting tweet here over the weekend where he said, congrats, your smart contract blockchain will finally have smart contracts after five years. This is obviously taking a shot at Cardano. And he says, you know, to catch up with Ethereum now, you just need. And then he lists all these sorts of things, you know, smart contract deb, smart contract frameworks, UA frameworks, block explorers, keeper networks, stable coins, NFT marketplaces, margin train yield aggregators, like all these sorts of stuff. And if you look at all these sorts of stuff, this is exactly what Ethereum has.
00:32:24.704 - 00:32:53.200, Speaker A: And this is Ethereum's network effect. When you kind of look, this is why Ethereum is so powerful, because it has all of these things. This is everything that you need, no matter, you know, if you're Cardano. If you're Solana or Polkadot, whatever other chain, you need all of these things. Now, that's not to say that you can't build them out, but you're starting from like a much further position away from where Ethereum is. And Ethereum isn't like stopping, isn't like pausing, hasn't stopped innovating it, you know, it hasn't stopped shipping. It's shipping faster than ever.
00:32:53.200 - 00:33:24.260, Speaker A: So you're basically competing with something that's still running. It's not like Ethereum stopped in place and also fired, like bitcoin. Ethereum is still well and truly in the lead. And the lead, I really do feel like the lead is just kind of like widening there because of these network effects. But yeah, I thought this was just an interesting tweet from Chainlink God to point out, you can go read all of this, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. Xerox Mons announced his NFT lottery kind of like tool here that's now live on the Ethereum mainnet. It's powered by chain links VRF for randomness.
00:33:24.260 - 00:34:01.530, Speaker A: And now anyone can create a fair on chain RNG drop for any NFT of their choice. So basically what this allows you to do, as Zero Xmon says here, is you can pick an NFT that you have, get to link tokens and head over to the create page and you can essentially create your own lottery where people can buy tickets into this lottery and it's provably fair via chain links VRF randomness. And you can kind of like have this lottery and draw the winner and then send this NFT to the winner. So I think it's just like a really cool way of distributing nfts. As I've mentioned last week, wanted to see much more innovation within the NFT space. And this is exactly what I'm talking about. You know, the profile picture stuff.
00:34:01.530 - 00:34:15.746, Speaker A: I'm so over it at this point. I think most people are over it at this point. I want to see this innovation. So I'm really, really happy to see this from zero X months. And it's live. Like, it's not like it's a theory or a white paper, it's live. So if you want to play around with this, it'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to do.
00:34:15.746 - 00:34:55.672, Speaker A: So Dame ETH from the Rainbow team here basically put out that they've launched rainbow me learn, which is basically a, a learning portal for basically, you know, basic ethereum things here you can see here, you know what are Ethereum gas transaction fees. You can click through and you've got like, a really great explanation of kind of like how that all works. You know, beginner's guide to L2 networks. How to protect your Ethereum wallet. I mean, the reason I'm pointing this out is because I always like to point out educational resources that are available for new users. So if you're, you know, you're still confused about things and you want, like, just a dead simple explanation of things, you can definitely go check this all out and check out the rainbow wallet as well. I mean, the rainbow has become my favorite mobile wallet, like, by far.
00:34:55.672 - 00:35:29.802, Speaker A: I mean, I, I love it. I mean, I don't use mobile wallets too often, obviously, because I'm stuck at home because of these bloody lockdowns. But generally, like, I'm a power user, so I'm just sitting on, you know, on, um, I guess I got my pc with my hardware wallet and all that sort of stuff. But if I was to use a mobile wallet, like, while I'm on the go, if I'm traveling, whatever rainbow would be it like. I mean, it's got so many amazing features, you know, especially within the NfT kind of like space where you can go see all your nfts, browse all of them, and you can actually import your metamask wallet into rainbow by using kind of like your secret phrase. And they have a guide here of how to do that. So I'm really happy to see this learn section, you know, that dame has put out here.
00:35:29.802 - 00:36:14.500, Speaker A: So great work, dame there. And then finally, this interesting kind of announcement from Slingshot where they said that you can down trade fractional pudgy penguins on slick in on slingshot, and you can unlock a special penguin profile picture with 100 peng 458 4815 tokens, which is like the fractionalized tokens. And there's like an airdrop if you have other ones here. Now, you know, I just said that I'm sick of, like, the profile picture nfts. And I think it kind of, like, topped out with the penguin stuff, even though I love my little penguin that, that, um, that, uh, that crypto wife who made for me. Uh, I just like, you know, I still think it's cool to see some of this stuff going on because this actually still falls into the innovation stuff. Just because it's a profile picture NFT doesn't mean that I don't think you can do stuff with it.
00:36:14.500 - 00:36:34.396, Speaker A: And what I mean by doing stuff with it is basically getting these penguins fractionalized and then trading on things like slingshot, which I think is really, really cool. So, yeah, anyway, check that out if you haven't yet. But I think I'm going to finish it there for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:36:34.396 - 00:36:34.884, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
