00:00:13.880 - 00:00:40.010, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, the show where we explore next generation blockchains. I'm your host, Sol, alongside my co host here, Dave. And today we have a special episode where we are bringing in an Ethereum insider, Emmanuel Awaseka. He is a technical writer and researcher in Ethereum R and D. You can find a substack at ethereum 2077 dot substack.com. and you've probably seen some of his tweets. If you pay any attention to the ethereum ecosystem.
00:00:40.010 - 00:00:45.654, Speaker A: He writes a lot about the latest advancements on that front. Emmanuel, thank you so much for joining us today.
00:00:46.274 - 00:00:47.854, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you for having me.
00:00:48.474 - 00:01:12.754, Speaker A: I guess let's start with a very, very simple question. What is the problem with Ethereum? Why is there so much negativity around the Ethereum ecosystem? Theres more fud around here than Ive ever seen before. And its funny compared to a year ago. The exact inverse is true. Theres a lot of FUD around Solana, and people are pro eth now. It seems like in a lot of ways that is flipped. How would you describe the current issues with eth?
00:01:13.494 - 00:01:51.678, Speaker B: I think you could say its the universal maybe subsidy too much. For example, you have like the rule of century roll ups is like finally taking off. So you have like Bayes and arbitrage and optimism. And that's what we wanted, wanted like these relapse to become big and all that. But we also did not, like, prepare for like, certain problems. So we thought, like, we did not like, think about incentives. How do these relapse into operates? Or how do we make sure they don't, like, collapse into, like, monocultures? How do we make sure, like, even as roll ups become big, you don't have like, this economic incentives that retain the fact that roll ups are supposed to be like, extensions of Ethereum.
00:01:51.678 - 00:02:35.926, Speaker B: So and then there's a lot of, like, planning fallacy around it. So things like rule of decentralization, how long would it take? Things like rule of skill, how long would it take? Things like health, fragmentation, how long will it take? And those things were, like, grossly underestimated. And now we're, like, having to, like, we never planned for that because we're humans, but at the same time, we're not really responding quickly enough to these problems. So now these things are like compounding and for like, complaining. And so in a way, it feels like we chose roll ups, but like, they just left them and said, hey, guys, like, figure out whatever you want to do. And the problem with that is like, roll ups are not like, not really connected. There's a bunch of like private solutions working on this.
00:02:35.926 - 00:03:35.022, Speaker B: But at the same time, you know, that meme of all, like, um, this person wants a standard, that person wants to stand out and I have like multiple competitive standards. That's like something we have like the rule of century system and then also like rule of centralization as well. Um, I think everyone assumed it was going to happen. I know, like there's a long way off, but like, I think everyone expected was going to happen off rule of accord and all that, but that's not necessarily happening. You still have like people, I mean, we're getting like commissioners for proofs soon, but no one's really talking about like, how do we sort of like constraint scarce councils? How do we end up in this future where you don't actually have, you don't need more to say? And we sort of like underestimate the economic incentives for roll up teams to actually keep on their off good keys. And now it's, it's instead weird situation like we want to talk about. Because now the idea is we can never do without mod six, which is not necessarily true.
00:03:35.022 - 00:04:11.440, Speaker B: It's just like an engineering problem that no one wants to take on right now because there is no incentive. So it's a lot of incentive problems. And the problem with if itself is also like this. So long ossification of the culture. So it's this post fact sort of, sort of like this post faction that we do. For example, like, the idea was not just ossify l one prematurely, it was like we did not need to push upgrades so frequently. So if Olufse already taken off the pressure from like, l one, R and D, it means those things had more time to execute.
00:04:11.440 - 00:04:43.070, Speaker B: But it did not mean like, the things should not execute at all. But then what you have right now is that like people saying, oh, l one is like dead and we need to like sell it to Tranfi and all that stuff. You have this messaging that's not really appealing to people, it's just appealing to like, Larry Fink and Wall street. Like, actual builders feel turned off by it. And I keep like talking about, it's like, it's, it's, it's supposed to be that platform. Not as much as, um, Wall street coming on. Chain is good, but we should not like, forget the actual thing.
00:04:43.070 - 00:05:22.524, Speaker B: So most of you trying to sell these things so they're not on Twitter. And that's why you saw if I'm a builder and I see that all the chain is getting optimized for Wall streets, I feel turned off. And that's why like, that's some like followers, I think. And also like, I mean, I talked about like Ethernet marketing problem. Sometimes you have like the wrong people marketing like the wrong things about Ethereum and the actual people who are like building protocol, they're not necessarily engaging on city for good reasons, but it also means that like what those people do gets painted in this negative light because of the efforts of like few people. So yeah, these are some of the early things I can say right now.
00:05:23.184 - 00:06:14.636, Speaker A: I see. But I think the thing is, a lot of people predicted this stuff would happen. I don't think this is surprising to, you know, we literally had podcasts like a year ago where we were talking to, you know, investors and they were saying how when you have a bunch of roll ups, everyone has their own incentive. Now that might be parasitic to eth l one. And what you're seeing to your point is now developers are just choosing between things like Solana and other high throughput chains or some l two. But in a world where 4567 l two s all have major applications, there's been zero thought put into how to actually make any of these interoperate. And so now you have proposals and ideas and even VC backed companies that could maybe solve some of these issues with fragmented liquidity and l two s things like chain abstraction.
00:06:14.636 - 00:06:35.824, Speaker A: But to me, this feels like we have now just created the same set of circumstances where it's a problem that'll be solved in three years, not something that's solvable today. So why would people build an entire company on this tech stack, on this evm tech stack, versus a more simple, elegant tech stack like a Solana. What's your initial response to that?
00:06:37.184 - 00:07:31.530, Speaker B: Yeah, I feel like those problems, the ones you mentioned like chain absorption, will be solved much earlier. So the good thing about like, about the, I've like said in contrast between like, so on the theorem is sometimes it's good when you have like, you. So like leading into that free market philosophy, and then you just allow people to just complete sold problems. So something like chain abstraction will actually come much earlier than most people expect. The problem, I just feel with that, with like outsourcing everything is, it's critical infrastructure. So if you outsource like every piece of critical infrastructure without trying to like get. So imagine like I'm building like one chain abstraction protocol, the other person is building another chain abstraction protocol, and no one says, how do we have, like, how can you guys interoperate jiggy.
00:07:31.530 - 00:08:12.640, Speaker B: Like, how do we avoid vendor locking? It's a problem because now, like, you have this physical infrastructure that, like, it's fragmented. So even though, like, we try to, like, solve fragmentation, are also causing more fragmentation, so even if these problems are solved, they're still going to be unsolved. Problems that come from, like, the old one not really taking its place in the development of the roll up ecosystem. But you're also right that some of these issues are not going to resolve any time soon. For example, like, base pre conformations, which is a, which is considered the gold standard for roll ups, is not going to come anytime soon. That's like three, four years in future. And I feel like that's another problem we've had maybe recently, or maybe this has been, like, long time.
00:08:12.640 - 00:08:53.658, Speaker B: This sense of, like, the roadmap is, like, long term oriented and things, like, proceed slowly. And I'm like, as much as that's good, and that's, like, healthy as a result, we also need to realize that, like, the situation is changing around us. So even if we are supposed to divide room and be, like, 20 years and something changes, we should also be able to adapt that. Like, one of my recent tweets was, there's this idea of having, like, base roll ups as zkvms, and you're trying them, and then all of them are verifying proofs along with the l one. And this is what's happening with, like, Sci-Fi for the most part. But you have, like, polygon. Polygon has started.
00:08:53.658 - 00:09:20.008, Speaker B: Polygon can generate blocks, like, snark proof for L1. Blocks in, like, 2024, school is building a similar proof. And I was like, we should be able to alter the roadmap to actually reflect the fact that ZK technology is really accelerating. Everyone is like, no. So that's, like, another problem we have in this sense of not being able to. I feel like this is something we don't really do anymore, being able to like, okay, this thing has changed. How do we also.
00:09:20.008 - 00:09:24.392, Speaker B: I'm just like, neural stuff also, isn't.
00:09:24.488 - 00:10:05.454, Speaker C: There, like, an intrinsic issue with trying to decentralize these l two s? Because if you're going to decentralize it, that means you're going to decentralize the sequencer set, and ultimately that means you have to give up the sequencer fees. It's either going to be to a shared sequencer, so completely separate from the l two, or it's going to be like, various other sequences alongside maybe the original founders of the l two, but. But ultimately, you're losing the sequence of feeds. And isn't the whole point of these l two s that how profitable they are, how easily these companies can come in and make money because it's so cheap for the security? So what's the incentive? Why are these teams going to decentralize the sequencer set?
00:10:06.434 - 00:10:45.684, Speaker B: I think that's another tough problem. That's another tough question to answer, I think, for the most part. So starting companies, I think like especially like Espresso was like doing like shared sequencer, they started to sort of like alter the messaging, which is good. And so like author designs to show that like rollouts are not exactly giving up their revenue. I don't know, like the exact detail. But what you said, like the more important point is like decentralization needs to become incentive compatible. I think even if you have a digitalized sequence of sets, you can still make money the same way, like any l one, with its own validation that makes money.
00:10:45.684 - 00:11:32.536, Speaker B: So in the case of, say, something like super chain, you have one person or the super chain, it means it's possible all of these fees eventually accrue to this public goods fund, that everyone has rights. I think that's one reason why you're seeing more ecosystems pop up. You have like hyper chains, you have Polygon aglaya, you have super chain. There are few others. I think it's also because they want to be able to decentralize and also keep some of that value. So I think it's a problem you manage to solve. The more the incentive problem I feel I see with digitalization sequester is in terms of products development perspective.
00:11:32.536 - 00:12:07.834, Speaker B: So a digitalized sequencer set means more latency. So it's not possible, for example, for you to offer fast path confirmations that roll ups usually have. Today, the only reason you can offer that is because there's a specialized sequencer that has priority access to the chain. But once you have external sequences set, it's difficult for me to give you soft confirmation. So roll ups also have to deal with that. So if you have to deal with that, it means you have to maybe not reasonable scalability and can, you can't expect just one person to give you self confirmation. So that's like the actual issue, I think.
00:12:07.834 - 00:12:24.646, Speaker B: And also things like you like translate sensory transactions like rent hard, that's not going to be possible. So that's where the essence problem comes from, in my opinion. It's not really matter of piece, just product development. How do you make this product competitive and all that?
00:12:24.670 - 00:12:56.824, Speaker C: So, yeah, and I actually wonder if it, if it could be legislation which pushes, pushes the direction. Because we've seen recently with one of the pieces that's going through the house, I think that they're trying to introduce a decentralization bill. And therefore, if you're not meeting that, which I don't think these l two s, you know, with centralized sequences certainly aren't, then they would have to be classified as security. So I wonder if that's sort of the shining light, if you like, that's actually going to start pushing these l two s to become decentralized.
00:12:57.384 - 00:13:59.658, Speaker B: Yes, that's something most people have mentioned, I think scarcity also, there's like, there's a particular part of the bill that sort of like there's an algorithm for you to decide if something is scary. And also if they do care about like not being classified as scaritis, then yes, they will feel like that way. But my, the corner case is someone decides they don't care anymore and just like, hey, they're just gonna schoolize and we're going to be securities. I mean, there are many chains right now that are securities and haven't died yet. So like that's the, again, it's incentive issue. So like, is it, do you get more profits by being class as a security or than by being class has been like disciplined? So in my opinion, like we cannot necessarily rely on law itself, although that's like a very good incentive. But you can imagine a world where someone says it's much better to be classed as security than to give up on like growth, development and Ux benefits.
00:13:59.658 - 00:14:00.394, Speaker B: Do you understand?
00:14:00.514 - 00:14:01.374, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah.
00:14:01.834 - 00:14:12.214, Speaker A: Did you, I guess. What was your view? Did you watch the debate between Tolle and Justin Drake on bankless? And if so, what was your kind of reaction to that?
00:14:13.394 - 00:14:38.644, Speaker B: I haven't watched the year. The only part I watched was the shots in the world. Those idea of like ethernet one and all of that. And I think that was the, because I've been like also talking about like main memes, about like ethereum exceptionalism. That's like my, my take on like bitcoin maximalism. And I don't think it's healthy. And this is like my personal opinion.
00:14:38.644 - 00:15:18.946, Speaker B: I don't think it, I mean, Scooby had like this head start and stuff, but like I'm, I'm usually like very of the view that even if you want everything, it doesn't matter if you've been one more. So instead of trying to like sit on your laurels and say, hey, like roll ups, I mean, yeah, roll ups are good and all that, but, like, they haven't skewed up yet. Um, something I usually say is we actually haven't had crypto go mainstream. Like, we haven't actually touched the world in a sense. So no one has really won. Like, imagine, say you have, like, it's possible to say Ethereum has won. The EVM has won crypto itself.
00:15:18.946 - 00:16:10.820, Speaker B: But, like, crypto is like this circular economy where, like, it's the same people moving between ecosystems. So imagine when, like, one chain mix up that actually breaks into the real world. So it's, crypto is like 5% war right now, but the actual bigger pie is 95% of the world. So if a chain is able to, like, capture 95% of the world, then, like, whatever lead we have right now simply doesn't make sense. And that's why I'm like, if we think long term, it's not just about, like, Wall street coming on chain and all that, like, we are thinking of. I think one of the reasons I usually have, like, big disputes with people saying, okay, like, tokenization is the end game is big tech platforms are, like, they run most of the world today. Like, most of some of the most profitable companies in the world today are, like, big tech platforms, and they're, like, also mass, mass consumer platforms.
00:16:10.820 - 00:16:35.524, Speaker B: So I feel like the best, like, ecosystems that end up winning are the ones that, like, appeal to as many people as possible. So if you, if you like, optimizing for very small sets of aspander like that, like, that, like, puts in this not very composition. The way, like, the thesis works out is if crypto doesn't go mainstream. And we all want crypto to go mainstream.
00:16:35.904 - 00:17:12.224, Speaker C: Yeah, because you say 5%, I think that's sort of 10 million max monthly active users, and crypto could easily scale to a billion. So, I mean, I think it's like 1% and similar numbers that MySpace had, I think, when Facebook launched. So it really is right at the start. And I couldn't quite believe that Justin was really hammering home this idea that the lead is sort of unassailable when, frankly, there still isn't, like, a major application, you know, in the whole EVM that has reached a massive heel. So, yeah, I found it a bit shocking.
00:17:13.204 - 00:18:07.004, Speaker B: I mean, I think the good thing about Ethereum is, I mean, the same way I tend to, like, have views that, like, people disagree with is, like, everyone can just come and have their views, and we have this sort of robust system of, like, checks and balances that ensures that one person doesn't that's why, like, credit neutrality is not in Maine, because you have like many people participating in governance process. So the governance process doesn't reflect the opinions of one person. Like, just as I was talking, like yesterday, I mean, I mentioned like a blog post, like, people were using like blog posts. And then like, you're like other clients saying things like, we need to be able to keep the EVM ecosystem relevant. So like, EOF is, is the biggest and obviously EVM, like a long time. And like I said for the show, it's been seven years in the making. And the only reason we are doing EUF is because we want to keep the EUF competitive.
00:18:07.004 - 00:18:46.526, Speaker B: We want to remove tech debt and stuff. So if you thought like the EVM was perfect and the lead was unassailable, we would not be doing it. So it's good you have like diffuse opinions where people are able to say, okay, this is my opinion, that's my opinion. Like, everyone can just choose in this digitalized rational vessels, one person saying, hey, like, this is how the network should be. So I think, like, even if Justin said it like, again, it's his personal view, and Justin's also like optimizing for that. So you have like, Justin's like doing really great stuff, like base vlogs, and those are like very important. Justin is also doing things around like, um, universal synchronous compulsivities.
00:18:46.526 - 00:19:10.534, Speaker B: So in the sense of, instead of having this full of fragmented, all of them are like tightly integrated into the l one. That's something I do. So it's good in a way that we can have like this diffuse opinions and everyone can just reach this. That's why we call it rough consensus. It's actually rough because it's really sometimes very opposing viewpoints that get coalesced into this single thing that we want to do.
00:19:16.274 - 00:19:45.314, Speaker A: What's your view on stablecoins? I know you write a decent amount about them, but I guess one of the points we made earlier is who uses crypto in emerging markets? I would make the argument that no one touches anything with eth. Thats the reason why Tron is such a dominant stablecoin ecosystem in emerging markets. For the lower fees, tether has just such high issuance there. Can you give us a breakdown of how you see the world of stablecoins today?
00:19:46.994 - 00:20:23.662, Speaker B: I think stable coins are the one crypto application that makes sense, at least to most people. I come from a developing country, so I know what's like to have your local currency like wrecked by inflation like Runway inflation and see things increase almost every time. So I can definitely see the appeal of stable coins. Yes, I think there's definitely in stablecos play like a large role in crypto adoption. You already have like the acumen from fund is like dominance. USC dominance. USC gets a lot of stuff.
00:20:23.662 - 00:21:23.624, Speaker B: I think one good thing about dollar central is people can just, that's one good thing in the sense of like Coinbase could like spin up baze and there's this Bayes and USDC partnership or integration that's really going to offer an alternative to Tron's and USF's dominance. So I think going forward, like stepping are going to be really critical. I don't have like a lot of views about it because I barely ever talk about economic aspect of crypto. But if like cruise is going to go merge, then we obviously need things that normal can use. And that's, and that's something like I keep saying in general, like tokenization is great, tokenized bonds are great, but you actually need things people can use. Like this is how you list my tech. And I feel one of the reasons why no one ever defends crypto is because they will ask you, what, what can you do with this? I mean, if it's.
00:21:23.624 - 00:22:02.950, Speaker B: And even with stable coins, we need to actually have this value prop. Someone can say something like, um, you can send money to revolut. What's the difference between revolut and, and USDC, for example? So you need to actually call it answers and say, hey, this is actually why this thing matters. I think another thing about like stable coins is, I think based on my limited knowledge, is you're entering this sort of like regulated, um, post regulation world where crypto is entering mainstream. We now have like deal with the hairy parts of like regulatory regulation. I think I saw this announcement for maker. So they have two stable designs.
00:22:02.950 - 00:22:22.644, Speaker B: There's a digitalized version, then there's a sort of centralized regulatory compliance version. And I think you see more things going like that. I talked to someone who is doing a stable coin, that is regulatory compliance according to microSD in Europe. So I think that's a thing you see going forward as well.
00:22:22.814 - 00:23:25.496, Speaker C: Yeah, I think USDT can't just be the global stablecoin and USDC sort of represents this regulated western currency. And I don't think USDC is going to grow to domination on TroN. So I think there is this huge opportunity for maybe of more of like a west focused regulated stable coin to enter the four. Obviously, I think that Solana also stands a good shot of being one of the major chains to facilitate that. But for sure the link that the base has obviously being invested in circle I think is also highly plausible that that could become a sort of mainstay of stablecoin activity. You mentioned previously about the tokenization and that seems to be one of the big memes at the moment about Ethereum. But what happens to these assets theyre launching on Ethel one as I understand, but I wouldnt imagine that trading is going to happen on ether one.
00:23:25.496 - 00:23:49.324, Speaker C: Do you think that the next stage is going to be L2s raised by the JP Morgans of the world and thats where the actual trading for these assets will occur? Im just trying to understand because its all well and good that theyre on the l one, but I cant believe that everyone's imagining that we're suddenly going to trade on the l one, especially given Justin Drake's view that everyone should get off the l one immediately.
00:23:49.984 - 00:24:46.910, Speaker B: I think the idea, part of the idea is when it's like migrate. Also honestly, I think one thing with technology, I think one part is that I haven't dug into it enough, but because it has so much wall street vibes and beast albums so but you could imagine a world where you have like these things going on l one. And if anything, except to your point, if anything happens there that needs to involve trading like actual throughput and store, then it's going to make sense for something like doing l two. But if it's more. So I think there's this idea of like having them like set to this transaction. So if it's not a lot of transactions happening on like um around this like tokenized securities and all that, yes they can like use one. And in fact like that's, that's, that's like something with the tokenization meme is like these wouldn't care about store transactions, they don't care about high fees.
00:24:46.910 - 00:25:14.554, Speaker B: So Ethereum is perfect. I'm like, just because we found one use case where people don't care about high fees or slow transactions doesn't mean this should be the end game. So even if you end up in a world where skills can be traded on chain, they can be settled on chain. It should still not be the ultimate end game for Ethereum. And that's implied unless we're not worried about here.
00:25:15.374 - 00:25:25.714, Speaker A: So you spent a lot of time looking at different eips and thinking about the future of Ethereum. What are some that you're really excited about that you think could really change the game.
00:25:27.134 - 00:25:53.622, Speaker B: Yeah, so like EIP 7702, like I mentioned, it's been like originally it was going to be p 374. And so this very long term conversation felt like it came out before. It was around before ERC 4337. But then there were lots of issues. It was going to result in fork. You need forks to get done. There were security concerns around it.
00:25:53.622 - 00:26:37.692, Speaker B: So we had this solution that doesn't require a consensus. Figure out ERC for 337. And that's the whole meme of structure and account tracking is really powerful. Like if you're trying to build things that normal people can use, just build apps with security models that people can understand, then account like one of like Ethereum's best features for me and for like AIP three, EIP 7702, which is builds off of like 374. You have like gas sponsorship, so sometimes you have told ETH and that's like a pinpoint for most people. You have to buy ETH or some like some CeX before you can it up and all that. But gas sponsorship, you can come in and maybe like some airdrops, tokens or anything like that.
00:26:37.692 - 00:27:12.224, Speaker B: You don't have to like actually hold it to use your app. So on ramping becomes easier. You can also have like transaction batching. So you trust interact with this contract and all that and you realize you need to sell like maybe five transactions. And that's like, I mean, I mean, it gets really expensive and for you to do five separate transactions, that's like problematic. So with transaction batch, you can just join everything so long as like they are related and stuff. Also now you can now see more nintendo, like more flexible.
00:27:12.224 - 00:28:00.234, Speaker B: And I mean, we get some things from like more flexible authentication mechanisms. So instead of having to use your, your private to sign everything, you can have you see your privacy sign things, but I believe someone should be able to sign on your behalf. You can have like multiparty authentication where requires like two, three people. So if there's my account and I don't see is just my, my private key, I don't have like Dave and Sal sign like they need to sign a transaction. So in a way, if my account is compromised, then Dave and Sal can like protect my accounts and all that. And there's a bunch of like ton of use cases. So in terms of this brings more programmability to eternally own accounts and it makes, it makes crypto safer.
00:28:00.234 - 00:28:32.922, Speaker B: It makes crypto more enjoyable in a sense. It gives people this sense of like, this is the security models are reduced to. So social recovery schemes for example where if I lose my priority or it's compromised, I don't have to feel, oh my goodness, I'm drained or like you, anything like that. Dave and Sal could block access to the account or they could revoke the original private key. If I need a new private key and I say, hey, Dave, what's out? I lost my private key. I'm the owner of this account, I'm your friend and all that. I'm like dating you.
00:28:32.922 - 00:29:18.624, Speaker B: So there's a lot of like UX improvements that come with EIP 7702. And you also have is one area where I'm like dogging. So, but it's significant enough because like this something I've seen like a couple of days, a couple of days on call for, it's a big series of vip's, I think like five or so aips it's been in works for seven years. That's like how much hammer Joker is coming to it. And like how you going is I think there's, we need more education around this, but still I'm all good, but definitely like a lot of energy for it. Um, the developer experience also we, we often talk about. So I feel like this also bring like lots of benefits to the EVM ecosystem itself.
00:29:18.624 - 00:30:27.504, Speaker B: And then there's something about so EiP seven to five one that um, max effective balance. So on ethereum today, if you feel if you stake you have to stick to eth, that's, we know it's taking balance, but also maximum sticking balance. So there's a lot of, I don't want to get like there's a lot of design trace around that, but the constraints it puts you in is each time your balance rises above the two eth, anything else is withdrawn immediately. So if you have like 34, if the two eth on top of that is not any reward and will be withdrawal to like your execution layer address and but you have like these LSA protocols, even normal staking pools, they want to like maximize yield. So what they do is they run like multiple validators and so they consolidated rewards from these validators. So imagine like I'm running maybe four or five validators and then all of them the rewards compile to tattoo eth. So I still be new tetsu eth validator.
00:30:27.504 - 00:31:29.324, Speaker B: So in a way you end up with something like 1% is running. So now we have like 1 million validators on main nets, but it's more like sometimes one person might be running 500,000 validators and all of them are like sticking exactly to eve and that's because like I said, they want to maximize views and all that. But like people usually like claim this is like imaging for digitalization, which is actually a problem because you haven't like redundant messages sent broadcast during consensus. So if Dave is running five validators on the same machine, and Dave is sending five different votes for a blog, that's like dumbass, because Dave is controlling David logically, one validator, not five validators, like net treats as like five validators. So and then there's a lot of load on network and there's an actual benchmark show light. If you move past 2 million validators deadline, the network becomes unstable. So some, the load becomes too much.
00:31:29.324 - 00:32:07.556, Speaker B: So having Max Eb, what Max Eb does is erases. So instead of having like 32 ETH as the maximum balance, you can stick, erase it to 2048 e. That's new maximum effects balance. So it means instead of you. So once you get the two, if you can keep compounding, so you can hit any reward. So now the only time you get an automatic, if you, if you switch, so there's something like withdrawal credential. Once switches out withdrawal credential and you sign up to raise your maximum effective balance of 20, the only time you get an automatic withdrawal is when you get 1248.
00:32:07.556 - 00:32:53.694, Speaker B: So you don't need to like spin up a new validator just because you want to maximize you. So like that's like very powerful because one, it makes taking more attractive in a sense for like institutional operators. You don't have to manage so many keys. You can like de risk certain security process because you don't have to run so many validators. And also it actually makes, in a way, I feel like it makes solo staking more competitive. So if you have just as a solo staker, imagine you have just one validator that earns half the two ethnic if you have like eight, if left over like that, if it is not, is not going to like be useful to you. So you have to wait until that Valeto earns at least 32 ETH for you to spin up another validator.
00:32:53.694 - 00:33:36.926, Speaker B: So anyway that makes the solo staking very compound and comprehensive. But now if you have tattoo eth and your bazooka hands earns eight eth, you can keep sticking your can keeps, you cannot stick 40 if instead of sticking just to e. So that's like another benefit though. And there's so many upgrades in like the roadmap that require a smaller validator set. Like we are talking like this. 4564, decreased Vitalyx proposal actually talks about sticking to, I think, 8192 validators. So you can imagine how, how much it is to shrink this for this things like single slot finality.
00:33:36.926 - 00:34:16.874, Speaker B: So having to wait two epochs or 15 minutes for your transactions, like be finalized is not good for Ux. Ideally you want transactions to be finalized in one slot. That's like in so, but we need to be able to get votes from at least a small majority of values for each finalized block. But you can't do that if it's like a million validation. And the reason you have, the reason you have like the two epoch requirements for finance is because it gives people more time to vote. But like once you have a smaller valid set, then you don't have to collect so many votes. And then single store finality becomes possible.
00:34:16.874 - 00:35:23.994, Speaker B: And then like, there are other upgrades that also links, I think, I think enshrine proposal builder separation, you can think of other things you can start doing, for example, like lite clients. Alios is a light client facing Rostan Wasam webassembly and it helps, it tracks the state of the beacon chain. We have so many validators, so it's difficult to efficiently compute the signatures of so many validators on the block. So when you have a smaller number of thousands, I'm not like million, then you can easily generate this proof that says, okay, like, super majority of my dresses are actually attested to this block anyway. It's going to like be similar to say, tiny dancers, at least actually verify stake on a block. Now you can do that, but it's going to be more difficult because now you need to be able to compute signatures of like all, at very least like maybe like one value song or like blog post. But with NSF, it becomes easier because smaller virtual set, smaller signatures.
00:35:23.994 - 00:36:09.054, Speaker B: There are also issues around like aggregation of signatures. I think they're like experiments on how much can you. So one reason we are able to support so many, but this is right now, is because we can get, we can use BLS. I don't get the idea we can use BLS aggregation, but like, there are pascal limits on how efficient BLS aggregation is. But once we're able to do Max EB, and then Valido said we don't have to now like push that limit. And Max EB is the gentle solution to the problem of Validus compared to, say something like valido caps or validator rotation and all that. So, yes, I feel like that's like some of some things that are coming.
00:36:10.314 - 00:37:11.124, Speaker C: Yeah, I think there's some great, great updates included within that, within that list and certainly being able to pay with any token. That just seems like no brainer. Im not sure why we dont see it across numerous other applications because as were talking about stablecoins, the one killer app in crypto, but if youve got stablecoins as you say, you have to have the base asset to be able to transact with it, whereas if you could just transact with the USDC its going to make everything a bit easier. Its certainly noticeable when you speak with guys from Ethereum on CT that theres a lot of talk about the infrastructure, theres a lot of talk about seamless interoperability between the L2s, etcetera. But what generally seems to be missing is the applications talk around applications, things theyre excited about. Maybe its outside of your wheelhouse, but do you have a gut feeling for what youre hoping to see in the future and what could help drive the industry forward? Certainly from an ETH perspective.
00:37:11.904 - 00:37:15.506, Speaker B: Okay. In terms of application development, yes exactly. Okay.
00:37:15.530 - 00:37:21.674, Speaker C: Just because everyone talks about infrastructure when it comes to ETH. So just be interested if you've got any takes on the application side of stuff.
00:37:21.794 - 00:38:52.534, Speaker B: I mean I also like, so I think that's also why sometimes I'm usually particular about incentive problems because if we don't like, so it's a bit layer like giving people more excuses to launch infrastructure and that's like an exception as well. But like apps, I think, I think in general, one thing I think is scalability matters to socks. A lot of apps that make sense need a lot of scale, like actual lots of, so not just lots of skill, but also in a sense I feel like they might need that, that shared state that um atomic composability you guys talk about so often. Because like if you have like this app chain and it's just, I mean I've done like some research on my app changes, but I feel like if you have this app chain, there's also the standalone chain, it's going to be difficult for you to do so many fun things and exciting or valuable things when like you need to have this synchronous code, some chain and just like pass through some bridge, maybe share sequencing and solve it. But still, like if you have like apps running on a smart contract on one layer, I feel like there's a lot of, one thing on a scalable layer, like we've seen like so much innovation on Ethereum because you have like all of these things, one on one layer, they can call each other, they can compose they can be money legos, like you like to say. So if your goals have. Have apps like that that are useful on L2, then like you have like very scalable layer tools.
00:38:52.534 - 00:39:20.864, Speaker B: I think in general, I think there's a lot of talk about gaming. I think, I mean, there's also like this idea, like Gimme is broken by no, like Starkness team. I think starkness is one of those role ups doesn't like doing a lot in terms of like gaming. I've been seeing some brief information about like introducing AI. So autonomous world. I won't figure it out yet, but like that seems like another exciting direction. Stake crypto social.
00:39:20.864 - 00:39:59.966, Speaker B: I think like focus is like great experiments. That's another thing. So for things like fucker style, you have this hybrid applications where like not everything's like Pokemon chain. I've seen also I think Zora does like things with like NFT memes. You can like Mint like podcast episodes, for example, Fintech. I don't know, like, I think that that's like one weird, like, experiment where people like, I don't know what happens there, but like social fight seems to give like a lot of energy. And I mean, that's like, that's like some of the things I think, like, would matter.
00:39:59.966 - 00:40:55.224, Speaker B: Things like normal people can use things like I can like, enjoyed using, but at the same time, it's sort of like sometimes usually based question that a lot of these use cases, do we need to like put them on chain? I feel like that's really. I think that's where crypto's problem comes into play. Like, in the sense of do we actually need to put this thing on chain? And is that why we are like avoiding the actual hard job of building applications and we're just like funding infrastructure because we realize, hey, crypto use cases are actually like limited and so it's just like defi and payments and all that. Like everything is not useful. Or is it that like need more skill? So I feel like I'm one reason I'm like very big on like bullet scaling is in the sense of, okay, you know what? Let's have that skill first and then let's figure out. People usually have this issue. It's not just about high block space.
00:40:55.224 - 00:41:17.222, Speaker B: It needs to be quality block space. I'm like, I feel like that's a fallacy in a way because the Internet is big. The Internet is this super scalable layer and you have like a ton of things that don't make sense on the Internet, but you also have a ton of things that make sense. So if you had that skill and did not have to, like, people do not have to work within that constraint. I feel like they would come up like a lot of things, actually. Very innovative. So.
00:41:17.222 - 00:41:17.834, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:41:23.534 - 00:41:46.644, Speaker A: I see. Let's flip the script a bit. And what's your view on chains like Solana? Is there anything that you think the Ethereum community could learn from these kind of high throughput blockchains or the applications being built on them? Have you noticed any change just amongst your circles and reaction to these emerging ecosystems?
00:41:48.464 - 00:42:12.084, Speaker B: Yes, I mean, I think back when some of us started, like, really? So was pumping, people started talking about like raising the gas limits on Ethereum. That's nothing. Very controversial issue. And. Yeah, like, more, I think it actually leads to an EIP. There's an actual EIP, I think EIP, remember, maybe seven to six, three. That's related to what raising the gas limit.
00:42:12.084 - 00:42:50.424, Speaker B: We've also, and I don't talk about like, vertical trees. So vertical trees allow validators not, they don't have to hold state to execute blocks. And it means that we can potentially. It's, it's, there's nothing set to stone here, but like potentially increase the gas limit because now state growth is still an issue. But for stateless nodes, they don't have to order state. So you don't have to worry about like overboarding like home stickers because builders are doing like producing all of these blocks and they don't have to allstate and stuff. So definitely I feel like there's been some reaction because now people are now demanding like more scale.
00:42:50.424 - 00:43:23.110, Speaker B: You have like a wave of projects. So there's mega eth, there's, I think there's echo, there is, there's eclipse. There is a bunch of projects. Even Startnet's also portraying parallel evms. There's Monad, the scroll, I think scroll, release the paper. So obviously people are now starting to say, hey, these guys are doing something parallelization. What can we do? And also, before EVM equivalence used to be the gold standard, it's still the gold standard.
00:43:23.110 - 00:44:08.670, Speaker B: You should be able to take your contract and just port to L2 should work without issues. But obviously, Solana is like Rust and isn't like EVM compatible at all. And it's still successful because people are able to work with, I mean, it allows people to do certain interesting things they will not be able to do in the EVM ecosystem. So now there's also this wave of EVM where people don't naturally feel like they need to follow the EVM spec down to the letter, and it's also allowing for, like, more innovation. So Arbitrum Stylus has this web assembly thing that allows you to compile from, I think, Roth. So, like, you can write. You can write contracts like Ros, c, twelve, and c, and has, like, memory optimization.
00:44:08.670 - 00:45:06.690, Speaker B: It has, like, a lot of goodies that just because he uses Wasam, but, like, WhatsApp is also, like, it's EVM compatible, but more than I feel, like, compatible in the sense of you can just put your stylus contract run in the actual, like, ethereum virtual machine. But the fact that we're now sort of, like, exploring EVM compatibility means that, like, we are now learning that, hey, we can also build EVM compatible systems that work, not just EVM equivalent systems. Also, I think in terms of. I think something that I do appreciate on all these things is being able to take, like, parity efficiency to this very extreme conclusion. There was this tweet I interacted with a long time ago where someone was like, film's actual problem is not this million things you're trying to solve. It's not shared sequences. Although, like, I disagree with this in a bit, but, like, he had a point.
00:45:06.690 - 00:45:26.130, Speaker B: Like, the point. The Ethernet problem is not shared sequences or intent or. Or base preconce or tin of fraction and all that. It's actually scaling. Like, once you scale, once you. It's like this hydra. Like, it's like, once you cut off the head, a lot of things become easier to solve.
00:45:26.130 - 00:45:52.474, Speaker B: And I've talked about this before. Like, if you have, like, a big few big roll off. Like, really big roll offs, you would not need, like, maybe, like, 20 billion l three s and stuff. And so, like, we're not really. So in a way like that. I mean, so we have, like, different paths was, like, skilling and all that. But, like, even though we are trying to, like, do digitalization as well, we should also have this focus sense, this.
00:45:52.474 - 00:46:32.928, Speaker B: This focus direction of, hey, guys, this is what we want to achieve. How do we move forward? Um, I talked about this, like, in one of my teachers. I was like, if it was like, this science lab, like, it's like, things are, like, blowing off and, like, they're making magic and all that, but it doesn't feel like you're moving in this straight direction, but, like, that's changing because I've seen, like, more. More rooted communication. So developers that say, hey, this is how we want the l one to evolve. This is how we want l to see. Well, actually, there was this poll from a code developer that was like, what's the biggest ux pinpoint to you? Is it l one confirmation time? Is it stealth fragmentation? So I feel like if you're able to have this focal sense of development.
00:46:32.928 - 00:46:59.656, Speaker B: Okay, we have, we've gone all in on rollouts. What should we care about like interconnectability. We should care about crochet standard. Even if they have like a nice try and be that somewhat. Even if going to implement IDC at the base layer, let's have some crossing standard and make it easier to navigate. It could be something like unifying address format. So your address wants on page should not be different from address formats.
00:46:59.656 - 00:47:26.822, Speaker B: On, on optimism. We should not like did not confuse over stuff. So um, we should be thinking about our globalization. How do we actually is not this important. It's an engineering problem. You mean like multiprovers? Um, you need permissionless multiproville, you need formal verification. It means like people's formula formally verified contract and ensure that the risk that they have bogs like very low.
00:47:26.822 - 00:48:14.556, Speaker B: Um, there are a lot of things that start doing right now that will push us very, very close versus this whole hand waving that we do like oh yeah, this will last Sunday without actually having mechanisms doing that. So that's something we can learn. Hey, also a sense of urgency like in the grown ups have this sense of urgency. That's why like for example in terms of, so in terms of when there were no production kvms around, like give you context, like the only ZKVM VR like application specific. So you are like ZK sync live. Yeah, like look where you have like major production ZK games. We already proving a warm block.
00:48:14.556 - 00:48:52.766, Speaker B: And this time because this team have like this sense of audience, this sense of, hey, this thing is get done immediately like you didn't like. So we don't initially have that. And it will be nice to have that. Not just because of, oh, like it's a $400 billion, let's know. Like, and I think it's something that I drew a lot on still. Like if we take every perspective to its exchange completion, like there's organization also we should have a sense of like there are limitations to this idea. Like bitcoin has, for example, hey, like it's too dangerous to do upgrades.
00:48:52.766 - 00:49:14.766, Speaker B: Like that's the logical question of it's too dangerous to do upgrades. We should not push anything. So you should also have this sense of like time. Time and energy are not like infinite. Like as much as we want to be long term oriented. We should also realize we have this responsibility to take you back to the market. That's also something I think it's a sort of like, gripe.
00:49:14.766 - 00:49:56.290, Speaker B: I have this sense of we don't like, listen to the market, we don't care about markets and all that. I'm like, we are building this theme and I feel like we should be building this thing with the mindset that we want to reach as many people as possible. Like, my ending vision is like, the world should be using Ethereum because Ethereum provides benefits over big tank. That should be like, in my opinion, that should be like the end game. Like, the metric should be how many by using ethereum. Not necessarily like, how many quote unquote oppressive by using Ethereum. Actually, I have to tell someone this, like, marketing Ethereum solely as, as tech for like, oppressed people.
00:49:56.290 - 00:50:50.734, Speaker B: Like, it's a noble endeavor. I know what it's like to be in this developing country where like, you're bad from like boats enough and all that. I'm sure you, like, need first and all that, which is good, but I'm like, it doesn't necessarily make sense. Like, just optimize for 10% because of maybe like noble and all that. I had this very critic tweet where I said there's this trick question people asked, like, would you rather pay $1 million for one person's surgery? Or would you use that $1 million to say something like, pay for like, education for, say, ten people or a thousand people? And sometimes you can say, oh, yes, I'm feeling good. I'll pay for like, one person surgery. But like, if you actually sit down and you're like, brutally honest and you actually wrong numbers and you optimize, realize, hey, there is more consequence.
00:50:50.734 - 00:51:19.694, Speaker B: Like, you could do more, you could achieve more by sponsoring that education for like, ten or 10,000 people. It's a trade off. Like, you actually have to make this trade off of like, I have this money, I have this power. What will I do with it? No one is going to willingly say I'm going to, like, let someone maybe pass away because of me. But as humans, we help out. You also have to make difficult decisions. And unlike us, like, make someone lose and focus as well.
00:51:19.694 - 00:51:50.144, Speaker B: It's just as useful that someone can use Ethereum for normal things. It's just as normal that ten 520 guys film for normal things as one person can, like, use it because I don't want us to fall into this trap or like cyberfront. We are going against nation states and all that. And try and over optimize Ethereum to the point where it's not really useful. I feel like that's something like can definitely change them over.
00:51:50.964 - 00:52:38.910, Speaker C: I think that's part of why Ethereum is maybe going through this identity crisis at the moment. Because it started in 2015, bitcoin was basically the only competition. Obviously, bitcoin is this sort of anarcho hyper edge case technology when it started out. And then Ethereum has lived in an almost vacuum of zero real competition for about 5678 years. So suddenly now I think they need to transition into being more, as you say, competitive, focused around. There is a market here and we can lose if we just rest on our laurels and keep treating this as like a research project. So I do feel like that's maybe part of why we're starting to see some dissenting voices, if you like, in the community, such as yourself, frankly.
00:52:38.910 - 00:53:10.044, Speaker C: And that's why we were keen to get you onto the podcast. I mean, I'd just love to nail you down in terms of timelines, when do you think we're going to be able to transact on ETH or an Ethel two and have similar throughput to Solana today? So let's say 2000 TPS and similar throughput to potentially Solana post fire dancer once everything's all gone through, which could be ten x that. So what are the timelines to actually be able to achieve this?
00:53:10.824 - 00:53:34.226, Speaker B: It's difficult to say. Very difficult to say. I would say four, four, five, not four. Because. It's difficult to say because I haven't seen that many love teams working on scaling. And this was actually something I also said, I don't know, like my big tweets. I'm like, right now you have this very massive incentive problem.
00:53:34.226 - 00:53:43.768, Speaker B: Like, no one is inspired to work on scaling. So I actually watched, I watched this hour long interview with Kevin Bowers.
00:53:43.946 - 00:53:46.308, Speaker C: Yeah, Kevin fucking Bowers.
00:53:46.476 - 00:54:37.466, Speaker B: Yeah. You know, like teams kill a bit and they're like, hey, we're not gonna scare anymore. Because like add more things to it. There's a way said, like in a sense of like, they don't want to skill one thing, they want to kill it a bit and just add more things in the new, like horizontal fidelity. That's, that's what we have, what we have right now. So teams that are doing say, um, 20 DP's or math case mask is a math case hundred PS instead of like focus on that. So engineering efforts and business development efforts as far to building introverted solutions, expand with my ecosystem and like, no one is really actually figuring out how to actually scale beyond like a few things like say mega eth or eclipse and all that.
00:54:37.466 - 00:55:20.948, Speaker B: So that's why I'm like saying maybe like four or five years because I don't know how fast that scaling technology will. Because most of the energy is going into interop at the moment. Most of that energy is going into proven at the moment are not enough into say like actual, actual scaling. Another thing you have to realize is for scaling on else's to actually have like meaningful impact, the biggest l two have to do it. So if you have like this super skilled old tool that doesn't really have users that like, it doesn't make sense because like people don't have access to go there. So it's so onto something like arbitrum or say optimism or biz, thankfully, like biz, like, you can actually not in terms of my skills. So I think Baze is like one example.
00:55:20.948 - 00:55:51.934, Speaker B: I can say like within the next two, three years. That's like a very optimistic perspective because Baze has been like progressively increasing the gas fam means. Uh, so, yeah, so I'll say like two, three years for people, for chains, like bail, for optimism, maybe like four or five depending on how there are many like, factors in place. Um, parallel evms could also like play very big role. So, etc. Is good, is something that is good here. I think there's something called echo network.
00:55:51.934 - 00:56:28.788, Speaker B: There's um, mega eth, that's another one that, like that, like coming up. So for if you, if you want to, like in terms of this, we can actually divide into like two sections or three new ones that are very focused on scaling. Those are like the ones taking this long like approach to like scaling and all that. So you have like mega eclipse and Echo Network and all that you can say next to three years because obviously like these things have like a sense to scale out and they are not doing anything else. They're not trying to like build up this elite federation. They're not trying to like build interrupt and all that. So, yes, um, simply baze as well.
00:56:28.788 - 00:56:46.184, Speaker B: So base doesn't need to build a new super chain already. So yes, we can say, hey, two, three years. Because I get like real throughput. Things are not actually taking our skill at the moment, or at least from the surface. It doesn't feel like. Yeah, we think they're more scale at moments. Let's imagine like three, four years.
00:56:46.184 - 00:57:20.034, Speaker B: Yeah, master. But for if everyone itself, it's a controversial subject because there's also this idea of like we use like gushavings, roll ups. I probably saw one of my twitter, like, hey, you have this valuable state people are still building on l one board, like uniswap is on l one. There's a lot of apps on l one. And then like people like affinity to like, see some real skill. I don't know how, like the last conversation we had around like France and that's the thing that's supposed to help us kill. At least that's one of those things.
00:57:20.034 - 00:58:08.480, Speaker B: Four, five years, that's like the, that's like the actual time I got from my code developed like no earlier than five days. And I hope, I hope it's much earlier because like it wouldn't make sense that we did not take advantage of like, like advances like ZK technology. There's a lot of stuff that needs to happen as well. So one reason we usually have issues with increasing the gas limit or block sizes because we're concerned about state growth. Because even if you are trying to just increase gas limit, like, state growth matters because at some point ethereum is big on verifiability. And if you have so much state growth that no one knows after, maybe invest in Adria constantly, we don't want that. So scaling also is confident on adjacent upgrades.
00:58:08.480 - 00:58:33.684, Speaker B: So there's something called EIP 444. It would allow people to like delete history from this doing store. It's that you like booting istra. There's something called the portal network as well. So portal network is something like Bittorrent, I think that's like the maintenance mode I can do for it. It's like bittering for crypto. You have, you can store pieces of states, pieces of history.
00:58:33.684 - 00:59:28.666, Speaker B: So stuff that should not be on the main chain you can put on like the portal network and like, no, and the nice thing about portal network is no one noticed to like hold everything so that data is like shutting into pieces. So once you have like portal network stories like ephemeral state and like HTML, you can start like increase like block size. Because now that data is like the only reason, like knows this whole data right now. You don't need like history to like validate. But the only reason like you're asking me most od right now is because there's no efficient digitalized skill like as a protocol solution. So if you have like the portal to go live and they have like AIP four, four history, ip expiry go out as well, then yes, you can like start thinking about scaling and then Adria like improvements in like adrive, like proven hardware as well. Then you can start thinking about like Ziki snarking the auto, you know, the l one as well.
00:59:28.666 - 00:59:50.854, Speaker B: So I'd say like four or five years, but that's if you're still actually thinking about. I feel like a lot of clients in the system like, would definitely get there. We already have like vertical trees coming, so the vehicle trees, snarks issue expiry. It's definitely like the very. I don't expect that forever would be stuck at like 30 million gas and all. So, yeah.
00:59:57.954 - 01:00:35.284, Speaker A: So we covered a lot of topics. I guess one final question for me is how would you prioritize what the eth ecosystem needs to focus on? There's a few vectors we discussed. One is scalability of the l one. One is should we just make these l two s that already exist more interoperable and easier for users to bridge between and use and abstract away the infra there? Or should we be focusing on decentralization, censorship, resistance? How would you rank order kind of these different initiatives that it seems like different factions of ETH are focused on these days?
01:00:36.464 - 01:01:19.814, Speaker B: I would say we should do scalability first. I think one thing most people miss when we discuss already balloons. There was one of my teacher was like, you still need like l one to have starting scaling proper. And this actually something even Vitalika said, like, you still need like this scalable base layout for you to have like various super scaled l two. For example, an example I gave is the idea of having, of using l two. If you have this asset on l two, it will take you back to l one two. So if the sequence is censoring you and you want to force clear the transaction, you need to send an l one transaction.
01:01:19.814 - 01:01:56.812, Speaker B: But imagine it costs say $40. Send that transaction, that's like a tax, that's like a penalty. So, and it's worse. So if it's a rule of, and I have like meaningful things to do on the roll up, then maybe I would do that. But imagine it's like a dimming chain, or like these newer plasma, plasma op chains where like data is like stored off chain and all that. These chains are like, they make more trust assumptions, but the idea is they can reduce cost for users and all that. So imagine there's this gaming chain where like assets are like $10 and then like 6% say, sorry, me, I'm not going to go to Mainnet, pay $40 to withdraw like $10.
01:01:56.812 - 01:02:42.314, Speaker B: That's like not going to happen. So you also need, at the very least you need like some level of scalability at the base layout just for like for, um, for escape. For escape arches to work. And I feel like you also need some scalability at basically, even for builders that are just there. Like, it doesn't make sense to say, um, ethanol is not like a sediment layer because after having disappeared and this is like something that, I mean, I'm not in build, I'm not developer, but I think it's just like common sense not expect that everyone is magically going to like, evaporate from like everyone. And the reason I usually supported the rule of central roadmap is because I feel it's this nice speed. We're starting applications that can pay for that security, that wants that security.
01:02:42.314 - 01:03:10.432, Speaker B: The 20% of applications can be on l one. They kind of should probably be on l one. Like, we should not like, pretend like, deploying an autos doesn't encode any, any, um, any traders whatsoever. Like, on l one. Let's imagine like, the pool of liquidity on l one is 1 billion. Like, you deploy one app and that app like, taps to 1 billion of like full liquidity. On l two, 1 billion is divided between five, six different chains.
01:03:10.432 - 01:03:35.202, Speaker B: Now you need to like, deploy on five, six different chains. You need to integrate like, five different interview solutions. Used to do a lot more bd work, so there's like benefits to also deploying stuff on the end on l one. So at the very least try to do stuff to also previously scale l one. I feel like we're already doing, like, great in terms of, like, improving l one ux. Like, the new Megafog that's coming up is like, very good. So that's something we can do.
01:03:35.202 - 01:04:02.266, Speaker B: And also still, you know, like, rule of, like, I don't know, we don't talk about skill much. Weird, because I'm like, we should be talking about skin. Like, you need to actually scale these things, not just build more things. Like, it's not just like horizontal scale. You sound like we're going to build bridges or we're going to. I mean, that's all good, but I feel like options should be the exception, not the norm. Like, it's crypto.
01:04:02.266 - 01:04:40.600, Speaker B: Like, one reason, like, crypto is good is because you don't have walled gardens and you have like, all of these apps. Like, this is something you don't get normal on like, web two platforms. You don't get like, this synchronous composite. Like, you can also compose different things on that same layer. Like, you should not be like throwing all of that away because we haven't like maybe admitted like scaling one thing is hard and we should actually focus on that. It's definitely like scaling like an theory that were like investing today. A lot of problems we are facing today would be primarily solved if you have like, I mean, you have like maybe like five, six different solvers on one.
01:04:40.600 - 01:05:21.394, Speaker B: On Ethereum, I imagine like a lot of like options will be easily smart contracts. And we not have to do like a lot of message will be number one, interrupt be number two. I think this is something that we solve. I mean, a lot of people are incentivized. So after we like building infrastructure and all that. But the more important thing I think this is something I'm like calling for is more standardization. Like, it's not enough for you to have like different private solutions, building interrupt solution and very ensure, like vendor locking doesn't happen.
01:05:21.394 - 01:05:56.204, Speaker B: An example of that. I don't know if you guys know there's token standard code arc seven to eight one. It's called so called XDR 20. So technically when you have like an stoking and let's imagine it's USDT. So you take USDT from Ethereum and you bridge it through optimism. You receive op USD and you take USD. The arbitrary and abuse are not fungible.
01:05:56.204 - 01:06:28.374, Speaker B: And that's just like between two ecosystem. Sometimes within the same ecosystem, you can bridge through hub, you receive HUSDC and you can bridge through across. You receive a USDC. You are not fungible. So as a dapp developer now you have to think about like fragmented liquidity. I just realized that our own USDT is not one to go with both years, then that's like a problem. So that's an example of like a problem with like fragmentation, like standards.
01:06:28.374 - 01:06:59.736, Speaker B: And the alternative is one bridge. Like, meet your karma token. So like more in any asset, for example, you can give them like, oh, you guys can rent my token across all like maybe five, six pensions. And now, like Alice comes up involved on any chain because like it's just one person meeting those tokens. But then if that bridge is hacked, you're like wreck. Like, it's just one bridge and then there's like no locking, it's difficult for it. Now migrate liquidity to another version of token.
01:06:59.736 - 01:07:33.060, Speaker B: So if this very bad situation, like you choose like fragmentation or you choose like fungibility and like UX and all that. So like with exercise, the idea is you can whitelist multiple canonical bridges. So instead of me. So Dave operates a bridge south operative bridge. I can whitelist Dave and South mint the same token because I deploy not Dave doesn't deploy his own version of my token. Saud doesn't deploy his virtual machine token. There's one token and I'm giving you both permission to minted.
01:07:33.060 - 01:08:14.234, Speaker B: So even if Dave is operating a bridge on optimism myself putting a bridge on staff on like let's imagine you're operating two bridge swaps for the obvious time. If I bridge. If Alice Bridges might seem few, your bridges is guaranteed. If Alice and Bob the bridge tokens show and Dave Bridge and South bridge. If they get to optimism they can swap the token because they are less from the same source. So that's an example of how you like, you encourage like fungibility another standards I'm talking about. We can also think of all of these solutions that are coming up this intent are in a trap from shared sequence.
01:08:14.234 - 01:08:36.014, Speaker B: Like shared one thing. I mean how do we get. Someone actually asked me, I like to like they usually have like the questions we're not really asking ourselves. They usually ask it and I like it. Someone was like how do you get like watching to talk to uh. To ugly. How do you get ugly? I talk to uh.
01:08:36.014 - 01:08:55.776, Speaker B: Moderate stockinettes version like sports. And that's an important question. Like you don't have like these federations. We are like the impossible. Like if I'm on spatial then I'm super chain. I can never talk to anybody from ugly. The only way to talk if I trust some, maybe like some more stick bridge that doesn't seem like necessary.
01:08:55.776 - 01:09:33.981, Speaker B: We have some sort of IDC. How do these things communicate? Like I should not be forced to rely on some fossil solution to get from like from super chains of ideas. I feel like interrupting is so. And then also like this conversation share sequence for the l one. And this way I feel like that sense of objection is to come into the bigger because like the bigger. Like roll ups grow the bigger and that's okay for it to grow. It becomes harder to visualize, give you no small plan to be enshrined into the business reality.
01:09:33.981 - 01:10:15.202, Speaker B: And because I mean I'm very like big pronouns. The ideal version is actual essentials of Ethereum. Like that's the only way you guarantee that develops and people will not book that. If people need to trust that some deal is like sharing their bridge or like the mortgage kind of bridge, it's half done. Like that's the only reason why we actually going to look because you have this idea of there's this meme of scale by Ethereum means like as Ethereum. Like if Ethereum is live and safe, the ruler should live and safe. It should not depend on like something else like you multi or do and all that once.
01:10:15.202 - 01:11:08.684, Speaker B: If it doesn't develop, like if there's no. If it doesn't develop immediately or as soon as possible or when the tech develops, it's not really economically mission. For example, we don't figure out the way for Roloffs to end part of those cancer fees. No one is going to adopt and no one adopts it. They're like we are just like hand up in this way. Like rulers aren't really as connected and as, and I think where do you do like anti organization that should be like Thord and I feel like we don't like if you want to like essential restart and all that. But I feel like this sometimes is just a cognitive mistake we make where we don't realize like there's a lot of moving parts, like only so many things you can code into the protocol.
01:11:08.684 - 01:11:52.400, Speaker B: So for example, there's a lot of energy, there's been a lot of talk about fact that you have like just I think fine, everyone. Builders building a lot of Ethereum book and a lot of Ethereum blocks that's like swap you down. Like they are literally ones building like maybe 890 percent of the imagine. Like maybe one of those builders started like censoring, which they did after like functioning. It's not like build accessories is a good thing, but like that, that example shows that examples. So after like censorship started happening, there was like analysis like beautiful conclusion. I mean there's like so many designs I think now like ten.
01:11:52.400 - 01:12:31.506, Speaker B: And we found it difficult to get inclusion list right because sensory reasons are actually hard and it's good we are doing this. It's actually like very good we're doing this. But at the same time I feel like we optimize it for edge cases always happen frequently. Like was an edge case. Yeah, we actually got a lot. I'm not saying we should wait once we get it, but like in a sense of what something controversial, I don't, I don't know, be controversial. That often said is big tech works like centralized infrastructure.
01:12:31.506 - 01:13:05.098, Speaker B: Like I mean we on this Internet problem, it works. It's not, it's like dystopia. Like a lot of sometimes in crypto we just like pretend like oh, Bitex is bad and evil and blah, blah, blah. Like Twitter works, your bank works, people making decisions, it already works. So if it wasn't working, people will be flocking script to like full time. But they are not floating scripted full time, which means like the total addressable markets or censorship resistance actually like very low. Like lower than I would like to think it is.
01:13:05.098 - 01:13:28.740, Speaker B: I mean, when you could guarantee it. There are lots of factors that are actually out of our control that we don't know. Like for example like this new stablecoin bill that's going to like exchanges will start delisting non regulatory compliance table coins. That's not something we can define. That's something we can do. We can do something about. I think there is Mike Hallo that says we start regulating front ends.
01:13:28.740 - 01:14:22.480, Speaker B: That's not something you can do anything about. So instead of having to like say we're going to do like we have this hammer and nail and we just like Sol Cr by fourth, we should also line be also pragmatic and realize, hey, we can spend this time figuring out something like scaling and making sure like crypto is useful for like, I mean if you look at this, if regulation rates come today, who's going to defend Ethereum? Because like, like they might say something like, oh, we use it, let's just regulate to hell. But like if Ethereum had like permeated reward and we're using it, then people can say, hey, yes, yes, ethereum is useful. Don't regulate all that kind of thing. So that's the trade that we should be thinking about. And I feel like that's why like CR should also like come like both on that list is also good. And I think that's why it's good.
01:14:22.480 - 01:14:48.742, Speaker B: We're getting like vertical trees because now like solo stickers can theoretically not have to like hold so much states. They can maybe like validate the chain with more. So they just like give you a general idea. So you have this big block that's coming and you don't. So everything you need to validate the block already comes with that block. So ideally when you get a block. Now let's imagine like you did something with your account.
01:14:48.742 - 01:15:14.360, Speaker B: I need to check that your account has that balance. I need to read from like the try and all that. But with vertical trees, there's something called a witness. So all the data in this budget, that block comes with that block itself. So I knew it's like, oh, so much state, so. And that directly encourages validation because now you have this idea of like solar stickers are doing upgrade the address so much because builders are already building it. The builders are like running beefing machines and all that.
01:15:14.360 - 01:15:44.252, Speaker B: And um, it's also why I'm like um, excited about like distributive valido technology. I think about like um, juggernaut utilization a lot. Um, we should not just be validating like the US or euro and all that. Like we should also like. Because like these things can have this coordinated nations attack on like Ethereum. So we should make Ethereum attribution further on. But in DBT what DVT helps you do is like this small group of data.
01:15:44.252 - 01:16:04.976, Speaker B: So me, I mean I have, I don't have that many ballots. I don't have like. But Dave, Dave doesn't have either sound. Doesn't have either. What do we do? We can like bump together. See like you pay, uh, naive, I'll be ten and all that. And then we can just can run the country.
01:16:04.976 - 01:16:55.128, Speaker B: Run one part little so it makes sense. So you cannot do that. So in more like developing countries, non western countries, you can like how can people like thinking like lower requirement which is good or for decentralization, but like when you start also living for resource. If you need to get to this place where we have like this looks like DPU, we will need but just be running Pvt. It doesn't make sense that one particular has like 4006 we want very long. But if we run back, this may be something like two 3416 people, however large that cool room can be. So that's another way we can actually like encourage Ferris.
01:16:55.128 - 01:17:24.364, Speaker B: I know like library is also like portion of this path. I know library like gets a lot of flak and all that, but they've actually been pushing digitalization this way. So like having this community staking module solo stickers can come into the operator set, they can bounce together and say, hey guys, they're going to contribute like four, maybe four, five. And then I think Rocket also has them around like minim pools. So yes, that's like areas I feel like I'm working because like shoeless and as well. Yeah.
01:17:27.564 - 01:17:31.984, Speaker A: Yeah, we quite the long list of things there.
01:17:33.324 - 01:17:35.584, Speaker B: So very ambitious.
01:17:37.444 - 01:18:32.760, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I think. But what you say makes sense and I think what's awesome is you've put all this on paper. And so I would encourage our listeners to definitely check out all of your tweets as well as your blog where you really do a great job of describing these in detail. And what I love about just reading some of your materials is it's pretty contrarian relative to the rest of Ethereum and the Ethereum mindshare. And a lot of refreshing takes on just how the roadmap should be advanced and what researchers should focus on. And so we appreciate you taking the time to kind of just help us understand this side of crypto, which is a world that I don't think either of us spend a ton of time in these days. And, you know, likewise, I think you've been a great conduit to sort of get inspiration from the Solana world, and I think both ecosystems can grow and prosper by having these types of conversations.
01:18:32.760 - 01:18:35.264, Speaker A: So super appreciate you taking the time.
