00:00:16.239 - 00:00:45.604, Speaker A: Now, what I am seeing here, especially within the Solana community, is nothing short of awesome. We're earmarking with the, the Solana Foundation $50 million to invest in the next wave of social built on Solana. We're going to increase it to $100 million. See that? We lured you in with a 50. Surprise you with the Hondo.
00:01:07.104 - 00:01:36.328, Speaker B: Good morning to everyone here today. Really, really packed. Happy to see you all. For fellow morning people today, actually, the astrology is kind of rough, so I don't blame anyone for not coming out first thing in the morning. But thank you all for coming out. We have a really cool, packed schedule for today that I'm really excited about. So for those of you that are here, you get a head start, basically, as we begin the day, we have a really cool recorded session coming up that we are going to be starting out our day with.
00:01:36.328 - 00:01:45.644, Speaker B: And I hope that you all enjoy before we do kick off the actual in person guests. So, yeah, for those of you here, you get to pick the best seat. So thank you.
00:01:52.424 - 00:03:08.704, Speaker A: Okay, so USDC on Solana kicked off in May. In August, there was a circulating supply that hit 1 billion, and then by early to mid September, it had more than doubled and it hit 2.5 billion, I think, September 13 or so. So what do you attribute that growth to, specifically on the Solana network? Yeah, it's been fascinating to watch. And maybe just to answer that question a little bit of context, I think we made a decision to bring USDC to Solana, like, last summer, and really raced to get it online and operational basically in time for the CRM launch, and really saw the promise of DeFi primitives on a blockchain like Solana, and work closely with the FTX team and Solana team to bring that online. And I think it's been interesting to watch because there's these building blocks that keep building up, and the whole theme of these composable money, Lego bricks is actually starting to happen. And so to get to the heart of your question, I think we sort of saw kind of like a steady kind of growth.
00:03:08.704 - 00:04:23.010, Speaker A: And then I think what you've really seen is, and this kind of correlates to these successive Solana events and the developer teams and other things that are building, is just more and more maturing protocols and projects coming online and driving demand driving issuance, projects that were launching on Solana that were using USDC as part of how they launched. And so all those things kind of have contributed. And we really saw acceleration, as you said, going into September and it was very correlated to the growth. If you look at the growth in TVL on Solana, USDC growth charts that a little bit as well. That's at a high level. Certainly what we've seen. I think one of the other things is recently we've seen much more rapid adoption of USDC on Solana, on major crypto exchanges.
00:04:23.010 - 00:05:23.676, Speaker A: And so from a centralized exchange perspective, I think that's driving growth, because when you're actively in these markets, capital efficiency is sort of the core of your business. And capital efficiency, there's a lot of ways that you achieve capital efficiency, but clearly reducing your actual cost and. And then increasing the speed with which you can actually move value increases capital efficiency in very measurable ways. And so I think the ability for people who are settling trades to lower cost, increase speed and do that now across binance, Huobi, OKX and FTX and others has been a real significant thing. And I think, you know, it's been all of those things, I think have been contributing and will continue to contribute to the growth. Well, you said something interesting there about when you had made the decision, because this isn't just something where you snap your fingers and bang your own Solana. Right.
00:05:23.676 - 00:06:38.836, Speaker A: So how much of it was serendipity, how much of it was really believing in Solana? Because you're also on, obviously, ethereum, but also Hedera, Tron, stellar, Algorand, was the general strategy to get on multiple blockchains and kind of see which ones ended up taking off, or was it more pinpointed than that? Yeah, so it's a great question. I mean, when we launched USDC, there were a number of things in the original kind of vision and white paper. And I think conceptually, we think of USDC as a protocol itself, as a protocol for sort of fiat representations on the Internet, dollars on the Internet. And we want it to be cross platform, we want it to be something that can be supported across what we think of as new Internet operating systems. And we think about third, in particular, mostly third generation blockchains, are this operating system layer that you can build on top of. And there's a lot of competition in that. But I think critically, our view is that we want to make sure that the protocol is supported broadly.
00:06:38.836 - 00:07:38.840, Speaker A: And in particular, we're very interested in solving some of the problems in scalability and cost. I think, again, going back to the vision of USDC, ultimately our goal is that we want the storage and movement of value, in particular, this hybrid fiat digital currency value that it represents today. We want to drive the cost of storing and transmitting value to zero. And we think that that's possible. We think that's part of the fundamental promise of public blockchain money. Really getting to that point has been really important. So starting in early 2020, we really began to think about, ok, what are blockchains that have significantly more cost effective and scalable transaction processing? And we looked at a number of projects.
00:07:38.840 - 00:08:24.882, Speaker A: We got excited about Solana. I think we saw that it was going to be an ecosystem that had real developer traction. There are a lot of things about Solana that were attractive. As a technologist myself, I'm excited about the ability to use modern programming languages on top of these infrastructure. I think we're still super, super early in terms of the number of actual engineers, software engineers that are building for blockchains. And so I was excited about a number of things about the architecture. But in particular, I think as we engage with the team and the early ecosystem that was building around it, we could see that this had a lot of really strong potential.
00:08:24.882 - 00:09:18.494, Speaker A: But in this ultimate vision of how do you make the storage and movement a valuable, the storage and movement of value kind of a free service on the Internet, projects like Solana bring us closer to that. And so those were key drivers for us. And yeah, it is a lot of work to bring USDC to a chain. It's not just here's this token or SPL library. There's a huge amount behind the scenes operationally, from a security compliance, operations, infrastructure, treasury management, all kinds of things that go on behind the scenes because we enable people to swap seamlessly across chains and things like that. So there's a lot to support it fully. And now developers can use circle APIs and natively integrate fiat rails and custody and other things right into their own apps.
00:09:18.494 - 00:10:53.134, Speaker A: That just settles natively in Solana. USDC, you talked a little bit about going between chains, and Solana's got a lot of, on its website talks a lot about a multi chain future, and I'm wondering a little bit about the importance of that. And I'm also wondering for those people who are on Ethereum or are on binance, smart chain or are on Solana, they've kind of got their many sort of bubbles, and folks that are newbies are like, wait, now what type of USDC do I need? Like, how do I do that? How are you guys, how are you guys addressing that for people that are maybe overwhelmed by all of the different blockchains that are out there? Well, so one of the things that we've built is in particular for, you know, projects, products, services that are involved in custody. So that could be an exchange, that could be a consumer wallet that has a custodial feature that could be an actual custodian. Fintechs building payment apps, other things. We basically provide an API that provides cross chain swaps as fast as you can actually create addresses and move value on those chains. That's something we do that makes it easier, say, for an exchange that wants to enable support for different transfer mechanisms of USDC to light that up without having to do a whole lot themselves.
00:10:53.134 - 00:12:04.404, Speaker A: Now, when we think about different use cases, obviously you start to run into things. So if the use cases is moving value between yield farming tactics across chains, you have more and more of these trusted or trustless bridges that are taking different strategies there. But I think as we think about consumer scale applications, like I want to open up my wallet and make a payment to an online merchant at the speed of the Internet and have that all work, I think consumers, they're not going to want to know anything about what's the underlying protocol that I'm using. Like, just like when I send an email with whatever webmail or mobile app, like, I'm not thinking about like is this SMTP or IMAP or pop or who knows what, right? We don't really think about that as users. And so I think, you know, I think one of the biggest opportunities, frankly, for developers is building the UX conventions that make this kind of disappear a little bit into the background. There's some missing pieces to really, truly have that work. And it is going to be a multi chain world.
00:12:04.404 - 00:12:37.024, Speaker A: I'm definitely not a single chain maximalist at all. I think it is going to be a multi chain world. And so you are going to need both trusted and trustless ways to move value across those that should be as invisible as possible to users. Right? So we started by talking a little bit about the big growth of USDC on Solana, hitting 2.5 billion in September. And I looked and as of the beginning of November, it's still at 2.5 billion.
00:12:37.024 - 00:13:14.148, Speaker A: And I'm wondering why the plateau. Is that just kind of normal market stuff, or do you feel as though there are specific use cases that Solana developers should be working on to really help, that would really help grow that number. Right now, I think USDC has double the amount that tether does. It's the most used stable coin on the net. But what does it need to really go from 2.5 billion to closer to what it does on, say, ethereum. Yeah, I mean, I don't think there's really any one thing meaning.
00:13:14.148 - 00:14:39.366, Speaker A: I think there are so many projects in gamefi, in nfts, in defi, in payments, in all these kind of categories, all of which benefit from having a high quality, liquid price, stable dollar digital currency like USDC. So I think really growth in the ecosystem as a whole will drive that. Clearly, there are a lot of new users coming into crypto right now. You've seen that in the growth numbers from exchanges and other things. And I think a really big thing is people, when they discover the usability of a high performance kind of infrastructure, that's really attractive. And so I think just continuing to focus on building quality experiences, building high performance experiences and doing things that aren't possible in other places, I mean, I think having central limit order books, for example, as a composable unit opens up all these other applications that people can build on top of. I mean, one of the apps that I'm really excited about seeing get built out and launched is like Star Atlas, which is a game, but it has a marketplace for in game items and it has a lot going on.
00:14:39.366 - 00:15:44.044, Speaker A: So there's a lot of different things in that project. But yeah, they're able to take the serum protocol and weave that into their game marketplace, and that's pretty powerful when you start to see these things kind of, you know, mixed together. So I don't think there's like a silver bullet here, I guess. And I think some of this also is going to come from just general growth in digital asset markets around the world. As digital asset markets grow, to my earlier point about capital efficiency, as trading funds and electronic markets, firms and others are kind of moving into this, they're going to go after using dollars in the most efficient way possible. And so I think things like that will continue to drive growth as well. And we were talking a little bit beforehand about use cases around digital identity, which I think has maybe fallen a little bit by the wayside as folks have been working on decentralized exchanges, lending protocols.
00:15:44.044 - 00:17:50.432, Speaker A: Where do you see digital identity projects falling into the Solana ecosystem? I mean, I think in general, one of the most critical missing pieces for mainstream scale use of decentralized financial market infrastructure and crypto financial infrastructure is some mechanism of decentralized identity that is connected to real world identity issuers, but where individuals can take their identity proofs, put them in their own self custody, interact with wallets, protocols, other things that are decentralized but still enable compliant interactions to happen now, on the one hand, I think the purist view would be the whole point of this is not to have any identity, to have it be completely anonymous and have it be completely decentralized. So you're not dependent at all on the real world, so to speak, or on dependencies, on centralized institutions. On the other hand, if you look at the infrastructure and say we're building the new infinite new economic infrastructure of the world, and we're building the new capital market infrastructure of the world, and we're building the new payments and settlement layers of the world, and we're doing that on chain, you do want to be able to have a way to connect identity. And I think this gets to kind of a little bit of the regulatory nexus, which is, there's an example which is, you know, the global standards organization for financial crimes related regulation, FATF, just this last week came out with their guidelines on expectations around, you know, basically dealing with identity issues. And these issues aren't going away. I think people can put their head in the sand and say, no, we're gonna resist this, and, you know, we're all gonna go somewhere where we can not deal with that. But like, if you wanna bring 2 billion, 3 billion, 4 billion people into the benefits of the infrastructure, we have to find ways to do that.
00:17:50.432 - 00:18:51.476, Speaker A: So my view is that this is a really critical piece of the puzzle. I think that standards need to emerge that make that possible for protocol developers, wallet developers and others to deal with decentralized identity. We saw a really interesting project recently between civic and a serum Dex. Apologies, I don't remember the, the project, but basically building permissioned, permissioned liquidity and things like that, I think you're going to see more and more of that, and I think that's what's going to make decentralized finance accessible and usable by much more mainstream, both people and institutions. So you mentioned the real world and then building something in the digital world. And recently everyone's been talking about Facebook because of its metaverse project, and that could breathe some life into its own. DM stablecoin, its Novi wallet projects.
00:18:51.476 - 00:19:38.874, Speaker A: And Circle has a connection to Novi. You brought on its chief compliance officer in May. Your partner in USDC Coinbase is a member of the Diem association. But then when the Novi wallet launched, it didnt choose the DM stablecoin because of regulatory issues. But Paxos, do you see any sort of opportunity for USDC to integrate with Facebook and the future and partner with them? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think when you step back away from Facebook for a moment and you think about large consumer fintechs, whether it's a square or PayPal or Robinhood or Coinbase or revolut or some of the things that we brands that we know that are already really, really well established fintechs. Facebook's not an established fintech.
00:19:38.874 - 00:20:18.452, Speaker A: They don't have a widely used digital wallet. They don't really participate in that space in a meaningful way. But if you look at the established fintechs, all of them are moving to support multiple crypto assets, bitcoin, ethereum, stablecoins. And I think it's going to be really common. I think it's going to be impossible to compete in the consumer fintech layer unless you're a multi asset digital currency wallet. And I think that clearly that's something that Facebook's going to need to do if they want to remain competitive at all. And so our expectation is we'll see USDC adopted in a lot of places and we hope to be one of the assets amongst other different crypto assets that they would support.
00:20:18.452 - 00:20:32.544, Speaker A: And I think you've seen public comments from David Marcus that allude to that vision for what they're trying to do. Okay, Jeremy Allaire, CEO of Circle, thanks for coming on. Thanks. Really enjoyed the conversation. Cheers.
00:20:44.344 - 00:21:19.214, Speaker B: Both traders and developers often use the same platforms, but with wildly different points of view. I like to say that as a trader, I can't really tell you what a blockchain is, but I can trade it. And so forming products and apps that cater both to the developer side and the trader side are important. And an important aspect of this itself is composability, which is a grand conductor of how developers and traders can align in the same infrastructure. So this will be spoken. This will be led by Amul Shah from quick node and moderated by June from amplified event strategy.
00:21:36.534 - 00:22:11.658, Speaker A: Hello. Hello, everyone. GM, thanks for joining us. You know, day three in the morning of a conference is not the easiest journey to make, let's say. Anyway, we're going to talk about composability. We have Amal from quick node, and we're going to talk about how composability is really the secret ingredient in blockchains that lets us unlock a huge amount of value and creativity. So, amal, I don't know if you want to start by telling us a little bit about quick node.
00:22:11.658 - 00:22:32.064, Speaker A: You guys just had a massive, well, a pretty hefty funding round led by Tiger Global. Yep. Yeah. So what quicknode does. So we are leaders in blockchain infrastructure. So imagine cloud computing means blockchain. Essentially what we do is we.
00:22:32.064 - 00:23:15.320, Speaker A: Our mission is to make blockchain development really easy across multiple different types of chains. Recently, we announced a funding round with Tiger. They're one of our backgrounds, along with Alexis Ohanian's 776 funds. He was on stage earlier. And we are multi chain from the start. So we really do believe that the future is going to be focused on composability, and it's ultimately going to be something where it's not just one chain that wins, it's going to be multiple chains. Each chain has its own set of advantages and disadvantages, and we think that that's going to enrich the overall ecosystem.
00:23:15.320 - 00:24:03.914, Speaker A: Well, I just wanted to sort of set the stage and zoom out a little bit before we dive into Solana specific stuff. But what does composability across chains sort of mean for a multi chain world? Yeah. So the easiest way of thinking about this is if you look at the evolution of the DeFi marketplace, right? So total value locked across all of DeFi is something like $300 billion. If you look back a year ago, almost 100% of it was focused on Ethereum. Today, Ethereum has about a 75% market share. So it's like a little over 200 billion in TVL. And now you have other chains where there's a lot of DeFi activity that's taking place.
00:24:03.914 - 00:24:37.478, Speaker A: Right. So finance smart chain is number two. Solana is number three, with about 15 billion total value locked. How all of. But there's advantages, right, when it comes to some of these changes, like Solana, right, which is really focused on low transaction costs and speed. And so the way that you can go from 15 billion to 300 billion is ultimately by making something that's interlockable. It's like legos for finance.
00:24:37.478 - 00:25:26.132, Speaker A: And so composability, which means that you can basically take an asset from one ecosystem, move it to another chain. That's really fundamental in terms of this multi chain future that we're going to see. And so you guys have a great view across, I think you support like ten different. Different chains. Right? So you have a great view across this multi chain landscape for Solana specifically, what does that look like for you all? Like, how much, for example, of your business is Solana specific? So, Solana is one of our fastest growing chains, and we just launched in August. We've seen almost a twelve x increase in terms of total number of developers. In fact, today, quicknode, I think we support almost 25% of all development across the Solana ecosystem.
00:25:26.132 - 00:26:00.236, Speaker A: So we're pretty significant. We work with the leading exchanges, wallet providers, all of that. And we're seeing just a ton of interest and activity in Solana. Right. And a lot of movement here across the board. So it's really an exciting time. Well, I mean, speaking of sort of the inbound interest, what sorts of customers or what sorts of businesses are you seeing coming through to you? We work with the leading wallet providers, exchanges, both centralized and decentralized analytic providers.
00:26:00.236 - 00:26:27.304, Speaker A: So our customer base really varies. Right. We work with multibillion hedge funds to bedroom developers. And at the end of the day, what everybody's most interested in is essentially a service that has low latency, that has access to multiple types of chains so that you can boot one chain and then you have access to multiple others. And that's been what we've been really focused on, that's been driving the growth. Gotcha. Gotcha.
00:26:27.304 - 00:27:19.268, Speaker A: I mean, I guess we can't really talk about enterprise or business interest in crypto these days without talking about nfts. Are you seeing, you know, interests from, let's say, you know, brands or companies that, you know, are not from finance, for example, that are interested in getting involved? Yeah, I mean, there's just been an explosion in terms of the number of DeFi projects. Sorry, of NFT projects on Solana, in fact, just last week. So there was the NFT con in New York, right. And there was just this, so much palpable energy from all of these different projects. And we work with a number of them, a lot of the sort of leading NFT developers projects exchanges. And so that's been, there's just been a tremendous amount of interest.
00:27:19.268 - 00:27:39.130, Speaker A: And Solana has a lot of interesting elements about it. Right. The low transaction costs, the ability to mint relatively cheaply. I think they're attracting a lot of different projects. So we see that continuing. Gotcha. I mean, just to go back to the multichain world theme again, you know, let's say a brand comes to you.
00:27:39.130 - 00:28:38.168, Speaker A: They say we want to mint our first NFT collection. You know, where should we do it? What change should we use? What are the advantages and disadvantages? Like, how do you, I guess, kind of guide them through that process? It's a good question. I think that it depends in terms of what a specific project is really looking to accomplish, right. So at the end of the day, our job, right, is to provide basically a fast, high quality infrastructure. Some projects are really interested in Ethereum because that's where there's historically been a lot of NFT projects created others are focused on Matic because of the low transaction costs, costs and the fact that you can still tie to Ethereum. Solana is seeing a lot of interest lately. And so it depends in terms of where you are in the ecosystem, whether there's a lot of historical development, whether you're interested in governance, whether you're interested in speed.
00:28:38.168 - 00:29:04.584, Speaker A: The trilemma still applies, and so it varies. It's the short way of answering it. What we are seeing is that there's just been a lot of interest in essentially minting projects, a lot of different types of projects. And what you're starting to see is different business models that are emerging too. Right. It's not just jpegs. It's also around music.
00:29:04.584 - 00:29:39.286, Speaker A: And the guys from Audius, they were up here earlier, they're building on Solana. I think that you can start to see a whole wave of consumer applications that are forming where it's not just jpegs, but you're going to start to see music, you're going to start to see social networks. So yesterday, right, Alexis Ohanian, he announced with the Solano foundation that they are investing 100 million in the next wave of social development. He's one of our backers. We believe that that's the future. And at this conference, right, there's a number of interesting projects. Chingari.
00:29:39.286 - 00:30:35.202, Speaker A: I think they want to be the TikTok of India and built on web3. And I think that's just an example of just many of the opportunity that's here. Well, you know, we were talking earlier and, you know, you worked at some of the biggest web two, let's say, platforms, right, including TikTok. And I'm just wondering, you know, when you look at, you know, application development developers coming to you today, they look out, it's a multi chain ecosystem. Developers now can pick and choose which chains they want to start off on or which ones they want to be on versus. It feels like a few years ago it was much more like, well, you pick the chain, the chain dictates what you can do as an application developer. Do you see that happening? Is there a bit of a shock shift more towards in favor of application developers now? I think that's the promise of web3.
00:30:35.202 - 00:31:16.714, Speaker A: You're right. I did come from the world of, I worked at Facebook, I worked at TikTok. And Chris Dixon put something where it was just talking about how at the beginning of a platform's evolution, right, it's very friendly towards creators, and over time that dynamic changes. And so as a result, right, you end up having more power accruing to the platform, and a lot of the creators really don't have a say. So the concept of portability, right, which is tied to composability, is something which is premised on web3. That's the power of what a lot of the people in this audience are creating. And you are seeing that.
00:31:16.714 - 00:31:40.784, Speaker A: Right. The platform no longer dictates that. And so being able to take your, your ip and to take your data and then to monetize it across different platforms, across different chains is, I think, the fundamental premise behind the potential here of web3. So I think it could be a game changer. Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, we're still getting a lot of those building blocks in place. Right.
00:31:40.784 - 00:32:17.504, Speaker A: Like identity, for example, is a key kind of composability piece that, that will really turbo charge. I think a lot of these use cases, especially social use cases, I guess. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just wondering about what you think of the current kind of Solana landscape in terms of any bridges or adapters that help Solana smart contracts or applications get used across other chains. For instance, I think that earlier this week, Sarah, I met with some of the people from neon Labs.
00:32:17.504 - 00:32:58.924, Speaker A: They did. Or neon. And they are, I think, really kind of at the bleeding edge in terms of making it easy for people to take something from Ethereum and then port it over to Solana and vice versa. Right. And it takes advantage of technologies like wormhole that are really kind of at the, the heart of what, of essentially making it easy to move from one platform to another. So I'm really kind of excited just about the emergence of that. And I think ultimately it will get to, it will help the foundation reach its goal of getting to, I think, a million developers, which today we're at about 2000.
00:32:58.924 - 00:33:10.404, Speaker A: So there's a lot of room to grow. Right. To catch up to Ethereum and some. And these other more established chains. Yeah. Plenty of Runway and maybe. Lastly, we only have a couple of minutes left.
00:33:10.404 - 00:34:30.334, Speaker A: What do you think are the pieces of the sort of money Lego or maybe social Lego kit? What are the pieces that are still missing? What do you think needs to be built? What do you think will really unlock some really interesting use cases from a developer standpoint? You have a lot of Solana, or, sorry, a lot of Ethereum that's built on solidity and Solana runs on rust. Neon Labs is trying to solve that because now you can take something that's written in solidity and apply it to Solana. That opens up the realm for a lot of developers to enter into the ecosystem. So things like that, that interoperability are going to be really important. The second thing is just around people being able to take that value from one ecosystem to another in a way that is with less friction. And so that's something which you started to see that some of the L2 solutions, if you have to wait a week to move back to, to a layer one, not ideal. Instead, if you can move your assets more freely and with lower transaction costs, that opens up the entire market.
00:34:30.334 - 00:35:06.616, Speaker A: That's something which is going to be really important. And so I think that's another key piece. And then just with a lot of the innovation that's happening in Defi as an example, right, where if you make it so that you have true interoperability between these different chains, that's going to improve transaction costs, that's going to improve liquidity. And so those are all important things as you're thinking about ultimately improving the user experience. Right. And that's important in terms of being able to move value and to have depth of markets. And those are going to be really kind of key criterion.
00:35:06.616 - 00:35:49.700, Speaker A: And we're seeing that happen. Yeah, 100%. I mean, I was talking earlier about identity, like we just saw, for example, the Ethereum name service, excuse me, which is a key, I guess, plank of the Ethereum ecosystem in terms of identity. They just did a successful token airdrop and so on. And it feels like those are the things that will turbocharge this whole identity piece. And once you have that in place, you can do really cool things with it, especially on the social side. You look at Twitter, for example, they're developing a PFP authentication feature with good identity, you'll be able to do that in a web3 native way.
00:35:49.700 - 00:36:20.142, Speaker A: And you can take it with you, maybe across chains, for example. So it seems like, yeah, that would be a really cool social lego to have to play with. I think you're going to see a lot more of the web two players trying to build web3 capabilities. We're having conversations with a number of those kinds of, along those lines. And you'll also see a lot more development happening on web3 natively as some of these tools come online. So 100%, I'm with you. Awesome.
00:36:20.142 - 00:36:26.594, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, Amal, it's been a pleasure and thanks to you all for listening. Thanks for having me.
00:36:42.474 - 00:37:15.164, Speaker B: Web three does not exist in a vacuum. So even though we're looking to change a lot of the traditional financial system, some of those infrastructure building things, some of the things that have already come before decentralized finance are important to actually build upon and use for the future. So this is how finance is fueling Defi. Hosted by Joshua Lim from Genesis Global Trading, Matt Martin from Solrise, Nathan McAuley from Anchorage Digital, Hani Rushwan from Amoon and 21 shares and moderated by Mark Zeller from Aave.
00:37:41.924 - 00:38:18.960, Speaker A: Well, hello everyone. And I want to recognize first the bravery of the people in the audience that are probably still recovering from the great events and parties last night. So we are proud of you guys and hello to everyone watching the live stream right now and also what will be recorded. It's my honor to host this panel today. I'm Mark Zither. I work with Aave, the liquidity protocol based on Ethereum on Polygon avalanche and since yesterday. You guys know, know that we are coming in the fast track to Solana as well.
00:38:18.960 - 00:38:49.320, Speaker A: We embrace this multi blockchain world and because it doesn't make sense in 2021 to have this limitation and maximalist vision that it's a winner take all situation. This is not a zero sum game. This is not defi against CFI. This is not the cypher punk against the institution. It's all about the synergies. And we have a great panel today and we will start with a round of introduction. You go first, Josh.
00:38:49.320 - 00:39:22.234, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. My name is Joshua Lim. I head the derivatives business at Genesis Global Trading. We are a sell side trading and lending desk. We work with a lot of institutional partners who are trying to get access to crypto, potentially for the first time, and kind of help guide them through that process. We're part of digital Currency group, which also owns other firms like Grayscale and Foundry and Luno and Coindesk. Hi, everyone, I'm Nathan McCauley.
00:39:22.234 - 00:40:05.032, Speaker A: Work with Anchorage Digital. Anchorage Digital is the first crypto assets bank. So we have a federal bank charter in America and we build platform and infrastructure for others to build crypto businesses. So custody services, trading services, lending services, all that is available in the platform and then available as APIs for traditional financial institutions who want to come in and dip their toe into the crypto ecosystem. We provide the infrastructure layer for them. I'm Matt from Solrise. I run the product side of things for Solrise.
00:40:05.032 - 00:40:38.264, Speaker A: We have a ton of products, like we ship a lot. So we built Solflare mobile, we built solflare itself. We most recently have been working heavily on Solrise Finance, which is a decentralized asset management protocol, the first of its kind on Solana. It allows for human managed investment funds that are completely trustless, transparent and on chain. We also have Solrise pulse, which is our ecosystem of permission protocols. So we've, by working alongside civic, we've got the first KYC Dex on Solana at the moment. So, yeah, a lot of different things.
00:40:38.264 - 00:41:26.370, Speaker A: Heineer Aswan. I'm one of the co founders of Amoon and 21 shares. Under the 21 shares brand, we're the world's largest issuer of crypto ETF's and etps, and we're working on bringing some of the same kinds of products in on token form under our moon brand. Perfect. I think we can start up the conversation by addressing the elephant in the room. DeFi grew to from like 18 months ago, a 600 million dollar market to 250 billion plus industry. And obviously, can you build that only on retails or because all these panels like CFAT DeFI or finance fuel DeFi, it's when institution will come.
00:41:26.370 - 00:42:19.596, Speaker A: That's 250 billion institution already here. And they are using like services and tools because you probably cannot expect and probably that's not going to be the best idea if you have like $50 million or even more than that under management to give just a ledger to an intern to manage that. So you have dedicated tool. Do you want to talk about that, Natan, and all you work with institutions and how you onboard them in the decentralized finance ecosystem? Yeah, yeah. I think that any kind of traditional institution's journey absolutely ends up starting with the custody question. How are they going to hold the assets? How are they going to manage the security of the assets? And that's really been kind of the bread and butter at Anchorage Digital. We have focused exclusively on that for many, many years.
00:42:19.596 - 00:43:39.344, Speaker A: How do you provide safe, reliable infrastructure that allows holding of the assets and then flexible usage of those assets deploying into DeFi, participating in staking, whatever the case may be there. On top of that, the other aspect of secure custody is being regulated custody. As traditional players want to come in, they want to know that they're interacting with regulated infrastructure, which is why we went after the federal bank charter within the US, to be able to give that custody clarity for many of those traditional players. What ends up being very interesting is once you have the custody layer established, that's really what kind of unlocks the ability to participate in all the other assets. So we're in conversations with dozens of Wall street banks at this point, looking at how do they start to develop crypto offerings. And what's very interesting is they're not just looking at kind of long spot positions, say like hold Solana, hold ethereum, hold, those kinds of things. But also looking at is how do you start to participate in, in the Defi ecosystem? How do you start to lend and borrow on decentralized finance? And how do you pick a custodian that will allow you to do all of that? And so we're seeing that as one of the mega trends that expect to be happening over the next several years.
00:43:39.344 - 00:45:04.932, Speaker A: And it's pretty exciting because it's going to be one of those things where as much as DeFi has grown in the last 18 months, if a large set of capital is able to, to come in, we could be looking at another kind of growth trajectory within the DeFi markets if more traditional capital is able to come into the space. And what we are observing in the ecosystem is that more and more deFi services are launching their compliant comfort zone products, are regulation friendly permission pools. So, for example, AavE Arc is upcoming coming a protocol some people knows called compound is launching treasury. I don't know very much about that one, but yeah. And do you think this kind of permissioned product is an evolution of defi? It's something that will exist with the permissionless defi, and I really want just your opinion on that, don't you think that institution that can play on both parts, we just arbitrage the opportunity on both parts, like the rates and things like that. What do you think the coexistence of this permissioned product and permissionless product will become in DeFi in the next few weeks and months? Yeah, it's a great question. I think Genesis is obviously one of the largest centralized lending desks globally.
00:45:04.932 - 00:46:42.098, Speaker A: And I think we work very closely, hand in hand with a lot of our trading partners to source assets that eventually end up in the DeFi world in some capacity, whether they're going into liquidity pools or lending protocols and things like that, we view it. The whole ecosystem is going to grow kind of in tandem, whether it's sort of banks that are able to source very cheap dollars because of the Fed, where interest rates are outside of crypto, and deploying that into juicier opportunities in the crypto world. And there still needs, there is a role for institutions like genesis, like Anchorage and others, to sort of intermediate some of those flows, because I think the biggest thing to kind of realize is, while DeFi has created a lot of new modes of interacting with financial services, a lot of that is sort of not very granular. Right. So, you know, executing on an amm, that is a constant product market is maybe not the right type of execution for a specific institutional trader that wants to follow some sort of benchmark, or look for some sort of algorithmic execution that's more efficient. Similarly with lending, it's maybe a specific sort of interest rate curve isn't the right, you know, isn't going to match someone's need for a specific funding cost. And then lastly, I'll say, you know, there's always going to be a role for institutions to sort of, and dealing desks like genesis to price credit risk.
00:46:42.098 - 00:48:10.240, Speaker A: And that really is not something you can put in a trustless format. It has to be some format where you know who your counterparty is, you've done some KYC, you understand their balance sheet and their cash flows. I think to me, the most interesting thing is that the opportunities of this kind of new project, like the perennial product, because DeFi should not exist in a vacuum. And I think the whole point we were talking about that, like before the panel, Matt, is that decentralized finance is about decentralization, but it's also about the synergy, the composable composable finance. The idea that you can find synergy between protocols, because, for example, Ave Arc is a liquidity protocol, where institution can deposit assets, take asset liquidity, and pay directly to the protocol interest rates. But if you borrow some USDC, because you deposit some bitcoin and you just have USDC, and you send that back to the future through conveyor pro or whatever, to me, it's not really that interesting. It sucks a bit, but if you start to be able to that USDC to swap it in a permissioned exchange to go and basically find some products that are compatible still in the compliance comfort zone, but that allows this synergy to happen directly on chain, this becomes interesting.
00:48:10.240 - 00:49:09.360, Speaker A: And I think you're working on that. Yeah. So working on the pulse side of things, because what we have is an on chain identity mechanism, as it were, it's possible to have one identity being shared across multiple composable integrated deFi services. And this is something that really, I think you're only seeing the very early stages of this at the moment on Solana or elsewhere. But the potential there when you have, and I mean, I think for the near future, custodians are going to have most of the market by far, but if they're on that kind of on chain identity, like our pulse built with civic civics, identity pass exists, institutions can then start directly interacting with composable defi protocols. And that it just adds another layer to the money legos, because they'll start to write their own protocols, they'll start to write their own bots, they'll start to write other services that integrate with things. I mean, protocols like AaVE or yer on Ethereum, if your average bank had free access to those, in terms of the yields they can generate and what they can do for their customers, it just makes sense.
00:49:09.360 - 00:50:00.772, Speaker A: That kind of composability, I mean, at its core, composability unlocks innovation, especially in finance, more innovation than we've seen at any point in the last 40 years. Even factoring in the trends and derivatives, when you make these things composable, when you give institutions direct access, what starts to happen is you unlock totally new types of products. I mean, if you take a flash loan, for example, a flash loan is something that I think if they fully understood them, a lot of institutions would get a lot of usage out of. It allows for arbitrage opportunities, it allows for various situations that simply can't be done in tradfi. It's essentially, it's an impossible product to build in a standard tradfi environment. Or on the other side, you have, say, no lost lotteries. I think that's one I find really interesting, because no lost lottery, if they were integrated and backed by government, could they be used to drive people to build up savings accounts while also playing the lottery? Like, the appeal of that would be incredibly strong.
00:50:00.772 - 00:50:56.296, Speaker A: So it's institutions, but it's also banks, other institutions that deal directly with retail. It's offering the completely advanced, new cutting edge things we can do with DeFi to institutions. There's several different angles, and I think it's barely been explored. I think the next five years, we're going to start to see the natural evolution of what we can do there. And I think that will possibly change the face of finance completely. And I want now to move the topic to not only what permission DeFi will be compared to what DeFi is, but how unique permission is DeFi project can be. What can we create that cannot maybe exist as efficiently on the current permission, less defi that will be a value proposition on its own.
00:50:56.296 - 00:51:31.158, Speaker A: Like for example, we are at the solar conference. Most of the cornerstone of the liquidity protocol. They come from the history of Ethereum. So the first protocol that were released, like mecadao compound and then Avi, they started in the market that was small, that was fairly liquid, like uniswap. Liquidity was not as efficient as now. We didn't have curve for swapping stable coins and all these things. So we end up with pretty conservative ltvs, pretty high liquidation bonus, because the blockchain, the Ethereum blockchain, has its own technical limitation.
00:51:31.158 - 00:52:45.868, Speaker A: So you really need over collateralization and to make sure that it's things go south, someone will pay debt on behalf of the borrowers, and it got an incentive to do that, and it's got time to do that. On Solana, you can have almost instant liquidation. You can have like, very efficient liquidity is that will lead to brand new projects that will have a value proposition on this zone, for example, overcollateral lending. It's important when you don't know who is the taker of liquidity, but if you know everybody, because you are in a permissioned environment, you can do offshore litigation. So his permission in DeFi will be the only grade. And the gateway to under collateral is known, for example. So asking specifically about under collateralized loans, if you add permission to that, will instead, institutions start to offer those to retail users outside of defi services, will they start to use it as a pool of liquidity they can use to offer to others, that kind of thing? Obviously, if you have some kind of KYC or identity mechanism in place, it changes the way you offered loans, perhaps over time, will get what to some DeFi people would be the worst nightmare, and people will essentially have an on chain credit score.
00:52:45.868 - 00:53:09.592, Speaker A: I hate that I've said that, but there's, I think, just several completely unexplored angles there, like the things we, we see when we start to look into it. I don't know. Because pulse is something that others can compose with and build with. I'm hoping that founders on the Solana ecosystem in particular will show up and just do something nobody's expected at all. I think there's going to be multiple products of that kind. It's totally blue sky, I guess. So.
00:53:09.592 - 00:54:56.704, Speaker A: It's going to be very interesting to see over 2022, what starts to happen in that space. Yeah, I think for us, our view is that it's inevitable that there will be DeFi wrappers for the types of under collateralized lending that we do. And we actually announced a pilot program with Maple finance just a couple days ago where we, there's a pool of sort of whitelisted counterparties that we've already KyC'd and they've KYC'd us, and we can face them through these on chain sort of settlement mechanisms. I think that'll be how things evolve over time, is we'll just wrap around these sort of DeFi permissionless protocol, some sort of mechanism for identifying our counterparty. And then the other sort of cool thing is there's other sort of primitives that it's very easy to overlay more complex structured products on top of. So another good example would be friction, which is a sort of structured product yield generation type of product on Solana that is using Psi options and other sort of derivative protocols as the primitive to generate some sort of yield. And I think that allowing us to identify who our counterparty is when we face them in the structured product pool, who is supplying the capital into these pools, will allow us to sort of create much more innovative products that don't exist today, that maybe do exist in traditional finance, because it's easy to document them in a certain way in a sort of using ISDA documentation or some sort of standard sort of template that doesn't really exist in smart contract language.
00:54:56.704 - 00:56:28.868, Speaker A: What's your take on this, Annie? I agree. One of the, one of the bigger concepts that we think about at the firm is the power of DeFi, not just from the consumer angle, because we're seeing a lot of very early infrastructural builds from all the protocols that we're seeing. And then we're now building the app layer, and we're thinking a lot about consumers, and we think internally at the firm that a lot of the big impacts from DeFi are going to be felt at the infrastructural level as well. And so it's going to be invisible in the background, interoperable infrastructure as maybe the biggest impact of that. And so regardless of what mechanism or what users it's going to end up looking like, we think that DeFi is probably going to have a much bigger impact as this invisible infrastructure layer than anything we're seeing on the consumer side today, even though we're quite excited about, obviously, the potential and growth of the consumer side application layer as well. I think it was Tani that said that like a few weeks, a few weeks ago, DeFi is the back end of c five, or c five is the front end of DeFi. And I think that's a good vision, because for liquidity protocols such as AAVE, the main user of AAVE today, are not actual people.
00:56:28.868 - 00:57:08.472, Speaker A: They are protocols already. When you deposit some liquidity to curve, there's a high probability that liquidity end up in too aave. If you use your vaults or convex or things like that part of that liquidity, there's a high chance it ends up in a and I think for the permission, need finance, that's going to be the same thing. Because we cannot expect, as we said at the beginning of this panel, we cannot expect an institution having 50 million plus Aom to just give a ledger nano s to an intern. And you cannot expect my grandmother to have a ledger nanos as well. And that's a gateway. It's all about the synergy.
00:57:08.472 - 00:58:01.288, Speaker A: And I think you touched on this, and that's an opportunity. We are obsessed with this concept at the firm of building bridges from traditional finance into the Defi world. I completely agree with your earlier points. C five. Defi and Tradfi are all here to stay in various forms for various kinds of users. And I think it would behoove all of us to build the applications in an incredible way, on every single format for whatever is right for the end user, and then think about how best to connect and stitch all of them. And so that could be infrastructural, where a lot of tradfi today is run on very inefficient systems, but has depths of liquidity and a large number of users that we don't see today.
00:58:01.288 - 00:59:11.038, Speaker A: There will be clear benefits, and the other way as well. So I think one of the key defi features is things like yield, which are on the tradfi, complete surprises, especially here in Europe, where there are negative interest rates, zero interest rates, et cetera. And so I think it is going to be the connections between the two that will be the most powerful thing. And you can broadly think about this at every level of the stack, infrastructural app layer, and then the connections and interoperability between all. And for us, we think this is quite natural, which is why we're a pretty big ETF tratfi centralized business, and we're building a DeFi decentralized component as well, if it. And over the next few months, you'll start to see, actually, from an infrastructural point of view, because we also, we're a full stack issue, and that we own all of our infrastructure, we'll start stitching the two worlds together in ways with immense benefits to the end user that will be felt almost immediately. And that's also one.
00:59:11.038 - 01:00:20.750, Speaker A: What I really like about your project is that this is the kind of product that you can use as collateral, that has a lot of value added on its own, that you cannot really have as it is on permissionless finance. It's one of the things that will make this other version of DeFi. You will have a lot of bridge, but each version will have their own opportunity, their own challenge as well, their own gateways as well. But it will be interesting on its own. We are going to make it, I guess. And one of the things that is important when you touch on that topic is that the regulation. So this is probably the most difficult part of the conversation on this panel, but what is your take on that? Anybody wants to take that, their vision, is it going to be more difficult? Do we gonna have like clarity that will allow the ecosystem to bloom? What's your take on that? We love regulations from our point of view.
01:00:20.750 - 01:01:29.964, Speaker A: I mean, our ETF business is regulated today, but probably at least half a dozen national regulators were working on becoming regulated by an additional dozen, maybe two dozen national regulators. We think that this is how the system scales up. But I go back to my earlier point, I think it will, different users need different things in different formats, and that applies as well on the regulatory front. And so you'll have slightly different formats, but as long as the infrastructure is running so that regardless of what your needs are, what your jurisdictional needs are, what your regulatory needs are, it should be able to be easily accessed by you. But we don't see regulations as a threat broadly. In fact, I mean, if you really think about, you know, the current infrastructure in DeFi, we're targeting millions of users, maybe tens of millions of users. Well, how do we bring hundreds of millions, a billion next users to the ecosystem? And it's going to involve a lot of connections to the tradfi world, a lot of connections to the c fly world, hopefully without giving up some of the benefits that we have in DeFi.
01:01:29.964 - 01:02:34.382, Speaker A: But a lot of that will also need to be built on more regulated bridges, on more regulated infrastructure for, again, those users or those use cases that will require that. And that's not a threat. That's an incredible opportunity to really scale up the user base. Yeah, I would say I think it's a large missed opportunity by regulators to not embrace DeFi as a way of expanding their oversight into to markets. So if you think about something like a DyDx or manga or any of these sort of per protocols that allow people to take leverage on chain, and the fact that you can sort of see, visualize the flows of funds, of collateral, of leverage, and you can monitor that in real time in a way that you maybe couldn't do in a more centralized system. The futures market in the US even is pretty fragmented. And there's many different users across many different platforms, many different clearing houses and things like that.
01:02:34.382 - 01:03:32.344, Speaker A: And if you could just imagine a regular that was more in tune with what was happening in DeFi and using that to their advantage to monitor markets. It's sort of a meme to say this, but a lot of CFTC regulators have noted if they had observed the, you know, the markets going into the 2008 and 2009 crisis and seeing how much leverage was embedded in the system, they might have been able to do something to stop it. And obviously that's something that DeFi would enable. Yeah, that is a very important point about the auditability of Defi. Like, everything can be seen, there's no, like mumble jumbo in the background anytime. But that's also true touch a subject of privacy. So the blockchain world is probably the only financial word where if I pay a coffee with bitcoin, the shop will know all my money, all my history and everything I bought on the blockchain forever.
01:03:32.344 - 01:04:35.634, Speaker A: And to me, it's hard to believe that institution will be 100 users from the, the mainstream audience will be comfortable with these kind of things. And I think one of the topic that is underrepresented, but sometimes clash with this permission need finance and things like that is privacy. Privacy is the right, privacy is very important in the ecosystem, but you have to be compliant as well. So what do you think those two topic? What will be their challenge and their hope opportunities as well. As Joshua said, in the long term, Defi, whatever you want to call it, can essentially be more compliant than existing tradfi because of that transparency. And I think this means over the next few years, as you say, the average business is going to be uncomfortable with the idea of every one of their transactions being on chain. We're going to see, probably at the same time as regulation starts to evolve, privacy mechanisms, new ways of potentially obscuring transactions on chain, new ways of creating wallets that you work with.
01:04:35.634 - 01:05:22.464, Speaker A: I really don't know what shape that's going to take, but I think we're going to see the evolution of both at once. So privacy expectations within blockchain should evolve at the same time as regulation. That would be my view. I agree. Yeah, I think in Tradfi we see kind of the notion of privacy as there's the privacy of the counterparties, individuals transacting in the ecosystem, and then there's kind of a shared notion of privacy that is held by their financial institutions. And so what you see is kind of a two part system where the individuals don't disclose what they're doing, but then the counterparties that they're interacting with do actually have full visibility into this. A lot of the KYC Basa AML provisions kind of fundamentally build on this.
01:05:22.464 - 01:06:24.956, Speaker A: And so getting us to the point where there's that level of privacy within the crypto ecosystem is going to end up being pretty interesting. Certainly custodians look at this. Custodians spend a lot of time looking at how do you make sure that there are enough wallets so that your clients don't get doxxed because of doing transactions while you're still able to look over their transactions and make sure they're kind of above board in everything that they're doing? It's a very big topic. There's a lot of pretty meaningful innovation going on in the privacy coin world. And I think one of the core things there is to not think of privacy coins as somehow inherently malicious, but like you're saying, kind of inherently looking to solve a fundamental right, which is the right to privacy, particularly around financial transactions. So certainly something that I expect to see a lot more innovation on in the coming years. I think we only have a minute left, unfortunately.
01:06:24.956 - 01:07:40.260, Speaker A: But I will end up with this like in three years, the typical defi user will probably talk to an institution, and that institution will be a customer of anchorage for a custody and these kind of things through a very user friendly application like revolut and this kind of neomance. Like the future of DeFi is this c five front end for the average user, like the mainstream. But what is really important for me is that at any given point, that user can do his own work, have a ledger, and regain full custody and full control on this thing. All about the choice, not about the fact that everybody should be a cypher bank. Do you think that short will remain in two years? I think it's imperative on all of us as builders in the ecosystem to make sure that happens. The goal here, the animating force, I think, behind the blockchain movement, is not to recreate the whole existing system and just use proof of work and proof of stake in order to facilitate the transactions. There is a real freedom element of what we're doing here.
01:07:40.260 - 01:08:41.326, Speaker A: And so I think it's incumbent on all of us to make sure that that entire ecosystem gets built up. That vision of the future that you're talking about, where people are able to hold in custodians and hold in financial institutions and have viable self custody options, will not happen by accident. It will only happen with people deciding to build that infrastructure and make sure that that infrastructure is available. To everyone. I think it will take a lot less, in some cases, than two years. I think internally at the firm, just in the next six to twelve months, we're working on things where holders of our ETF's will be directly integrated on DeFi from an infrastructure layer and may or may not realize that, but will get benefits from it. And then I think, looking a little bit further out, two years, three years, one of the things that will start building and will become more and more possible is you'll be able to enter through our, you know, enter and buy one of our ETF's, but then exchange it for a Solana program version of it or an ERC 20 version of it.
01:08:41.326 - 01:09:06.458, Speaker A: And again, I think it's going to happen a lot faster than maybe a lot of people realize. We're building this with the first kinds of releases where some of this will really matter just within the next six months. Thank you very much. That's all the time we have for today. Thank you for this conversation. And let's. I think it's our responsibility as builder to keep working on this.
01:09:06.458 - 01:09:24.364, Speaker A: I agree. It will be faster than everybody expect. Because if you ask people 18 months ago would defi be $250 billion, they would say, you're crazy. Exactly. The market was like 600 million with a few applications and, yeah, let's build together. Yep.
01:09:45.404 - 01:10:15.504, Speaker B: Crypto has moved on from stagnant pools of just hodling or holding in cold storage. And nowadays, a lot of people's concern is earning a yield and what it would be like to compare different places to do that and get a yield. So this talk, we're going to be talking about the barreling wave of collateral and the lending cycles in the crypto revolution with William from jet Senx from Soul Farm, Tristan from Zeta Ming from mercurial Finance, led by Lars Hoffman from the block research.
01:10:36.104 - 01:11:01.932, Speaker A: Well, thank you for the introduction, Marin, and thank you guys for having us today. As Marin said, we were talking about basically lending in Defi in general, obviously also focused on Solana ecosystem. My name is Lars, and I think we will just go one by one, quickly introducing ourselves, what we're doing, what the protocols we're working for are doing, and then we'll get into the discussion. Maybe, William, you can start. Hi, my name is Will Barnes. I work on Jet, co founder. We are a borrowing lending protocol bill in Solana.
01:11:01.932 - 01:11:27.910, Speaker A: Of course, I previously worked at Makerdao and Consensys. Yeah, I'm Senix. I work on Tulip. We're a yield farming protocol, and we also have lending that also allows us to do leverage yield farming. Hey everyone, I'm Tristan and I'm a core contributor to Zeta. We are an under collateralized derivatives trading platform and we offer future and options. Hi, I'm Ming, I'm from mercurial.
01:11:27.910 - 01:12:11.556, Speaker A: So we built a couple of things, including mercurial and Jupyter, which is so aggregator, and we are integrating landing into our next version of that. Great. Maybe we can, for a start, get into the differences of actually DeFi and traffic for the landing. The meme has for the longest time, productive assets in a sense. So maybe you can get into DeFi as the core use case of Defi and it's landing basically. Elaborate on savings on top of that. Right? Like why do users do it? Why is it so important? How is your protocol utilizing that? And how can users actually earn yield with that? Well, the use case that I think is most common is you have an asset like Sol or ETH and you don't want to give up exposure to it.
01:12:11.556 - 01:12:47.116, Speaker A: So you just deposit it into a lending pool and then borrow stables against it. And you can either use those stables to do whatever you want, or you can just leverage up or down or whatever. And that's been the big case. Like for people who do that early in a market cycle, it's a pretty good way to earn a little more money. But also people are just tacking on liquidity mining programs to just put a bunch of cash in these things. That's been the thing so far, I think. And I'd say, I don't know, is that sustainable? Probably not.
01:12:47.116 - 01:13:39.522, Speaker A: I think you wouldn't really find sustainable yields like that in traditional finance, but I'd say it's more like indicative of the market cycle we're in right now. If you get savings on top, maybe as an additional use case for lending, how do you see that developing right now in Solana in general? Maybe so. Actually for us, if you see the AMM game, for example, there might be 1 billion in Jupiter in curve, but any given moment you only need two or 3 million fossil swaps. So you literally have 98% of capital there doing nothing. So I think that is the thing that we are going to work on. I think the main thing there is how do we put all the capital that is sitting the amms into use? I think that probably for us, the best and the most sustainable way to put all the assets is in lending for us. As more and more lending protocols come up, there will be four or five.
01:13:39.522 - 01:15:04.120, Speaker A: I think the question is how do we kind of like distribute across the four to five markets in a way that will generate the best yield for our amm? So in many ways, I think the future of AMM will also depend a lot on lending around. How do we kind of like, leverage lending platforms to provide sustainable use for all the capital and amms? Yeah, for lending side, for our platform, we basically allow a lot of users to lend out their altcoins, which usually don't see a market. And that's because we also allow users to borrow under collateralized to do, like leverage yield farming. Otherwise, a lot of these assets will kind of just like sit idle and like, with leverage yield farming, we actually allow people to do under collarize because basically we control the lending markets and we basically lend it to ourselves and which we lend it to users and the assets don't leave the platform, which makes it safe to do it under collateralized. So basically, to move from where we are now in the sense of lending as a use case, what he's saying is we're basically taking what traffic already is doing and integrating into DeFi, in a sense, specifically Solana ecosystem. Maybe, Tristan, you can get a bit into how you see basically lending developing on top with maybe unclear lending or cross chain lending over, like, the next, say, 612 months, like, where we are now. What are you building on? Where do we want to get maybe, and what are the pitfalls we kind of have to, have to be aware of there.
01:15:04.120 - 01:15:35.434, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. We're really excited to integrate with some of the lending products out there. We're basically like a cash margined protocol for derivatives. And so a really nice use case for us is we integrate with the lending market and we can do cross collateral. So because you're using USDC for all these markets, you can essentially, because everyone who is a Solana bull will be holding a lot of Solana. It's really cool that they can come in there with their Solana. They can borrow USDC margin from that, from a lending market, and then they can actually use that to go long on an option, say, on our platform.
01:15:35.434 - 01:16:26.194, Speaker A: So we're really excited for that. You mentioned cross chain, right? So I think one of the most interesting thing is actually cross chain, right? Because right now, if you look at the different markets, they're still operating at silos, right. The risk on Ethereum are way lower than risk on Solana, I'm sure. And later on, when there are some new platforms coming up, I think the risk will differ a lot as well. So I think one of the things that we're really interesting is that wormhole V two is coming out. And it's actually fairly sophisticated because you can move from just doing token bridges to doing arbitrary message passing. So I think, I think it will be really interesting to see how a layer abstraction, layer on top of all these chains can be built such that we can seamlessly go from one chain to another chain with better transaction cost.
01:16:26.194 - 01:17:09.080, Speaker A: One of the biggest issue today in lending is that most of the capital is on Ethereum. Ethereum is amazing, obviously, but it's so expensive to move anything anywhere. Doing any kind of rebalancing on Ethereum is very expensive. Right. So I think as we move forward into where most of the capital are in like chains, like cheaper chains, especially Solana, I think we're gonna see a lot more cross chain rebalancing going on. Maybe San X going on like in general, like about, like the anarchist lending, right? Like about the cross chain. Like, like, what do you think? Like will be like the, like the user case going forward for that? I mean, there's specific issues that we still have to deal with.
01:17:09.080 - 01:17:40.220, Speaker A: Usually the way it worked in macadao as well and stuff. We over collateralize and then we borrow against it. Obviously, if I see Mars is called, then you have to secure it. If you go under collateralized, you have to have certain not just assumptions, like maybe Kyc lending, you can initially just have a pool of, let's say, whitelisted institutions without getting into certain names. But yeah. So in general, like, where do you see, like the pitfalls right now? Like what we still need to overcome to get there? Yeah, like for ourselves right now. Like we have it set up where it's whitelisted.
01:17:40.220 - 01:18:14.792, Speaker A: So one of the things we might consider in the future is just have our lending pools interact with other protocols as like a central, like kind of like a central lending, but to like protocols themselves, which means that, like, because they're also trusted parties, we don't actually have to have them use is over collateralized loans to take out loans against our assets. Basically. I think Tristan, you mentioned previously while we talked also the block time is very important for that. Basically, the use case you have right now, what you're building on, you actually can't do on other chains. Maybe you can elaborate on that a bit for the audience. I think that would be great. Yeah, absolutely.
01:18:14.792 - 01:18:44.562, Speaker A: Because we're an under collateralized trading platform. That's basically why we ended up having to build on Solana. On Ethereum, you have these really, really slow block times and it means you actually can't run efficient liquidators, whereas on Solana, you have a 400 millisecond block time. We can basically liquidate people in real time, which allows us to do under collateralized trading, which is super exciting. So people can lever up on our platform, basically go ten x leverage. They can put on these kind of positions, especially, this is especially prevalent when you're doing options trading. Say you're selling different options.
01:18:44.562 - 01:19:27.792, Speaker A: The margin requirements are typically very high. If you're an under collateralized platform, it's very hard for market participants, market makers, to actually trade on your platform because you're having to post, like, ridiculous amounts of collateral. However, what we do on our platform is we can do under collateralized trading, so people are only having to post up like 10% of what you'd normally need. And, yeah, because we're able to run this efficient liquidator network, that's how it all kind of functions under the hood. We also take a portfolio level view of all the different positions that you have on, and so we can basically make some kind of concessions. I guess if you're kind of, I guess, hedged out on some of the positions, people don't have to post on each individual leg. We look at everything they have in their portfolio like you'd be used to with FTX, and we can kind of margin based on that.
01:19:27.792 - 01:20:08.184, Speaker A: Do you see KYC landing? Actually, if you take it a step further, you can maybe lower that collateral further to, let's say, even as a 0%. Yeah, I definitely agree. We haven't got to that stage yet, but yeah, super excited for that. So they'll be like, what do you think is the time frame for us for come up both of your protocols, wealth and general, maybe more like half a year, one year. What are the steps we still need to basically take for that? Yeah, we're still trying to fully get to mainnet. We've got all the under collateralized stuff working, so you can demo that out and try it. We're trying to integrate with these lending platforms as well over the next couple of months, and I think it's just going to unlock a hell of a lot of really interesting under collateralized trading and capital efficiency there.
01:20:08.184 - 01:20:36.270, Speaker A: And here's for Will. How does, given especially your background on mecha Dow, how do you see, there's like two worlds, right? It's like one is over collateralized, one is like, basically what's going on here on Solana. How do you see that? How do you compare that? What do you think? Interesting. For both worlds. And what do you think will be happening in the next few months for, I mean, collateralizing loans is like standard. I think everyone's done that. But I also think there's a lot of demand for unsecured loans.
01:20:36.270 - 01:21:23.864, Speaker A: And there's like a difference between, between unsecured loans and like, under collateralized loans. Because under collateralized loans for lending specifically, I don't think it's really applicable to options because you have to liquidate. But, like, if you're lending someone money unsecured, like, I don't understand why you, why you would do, like an under collateralized loan, because then you just like, give them a little less money. But then also, I had this discussion, we had this discussion here with someone just yesterday was, you're not really lending unsecured. Like, you. It would be like an institution in the crypto space that would presumably be trusted, and they're basically collateralizing their reputation and their ability to borrow in the future. But you have a lot of institutional firms, crypto native, that do want to borrow unsecured because they just, they're like doing delta neutral trades or whatever.
01:21:23.864 - 01:21:58.432, Speaker A: And I mean, there's really good examples of that, like Maple and truefi on Ethereum. And, yeah, I see that as also, like, you know, they're starting to carve out like a more nuanced market for lending where you can do like 90 day loans. I think, you know, as time goes along, loans, people are going to want to borrow for longer. And. Yeah, but, you know, they do the same thing. It's like, you know, there's also, like, decentralized lenders. Like, I sort of see that moving on chain and being done more algorithmically.
01:21:58.432 - 01:22:41.244, Speaker A: But I don't think, like most folks, I think, still just want to point and click and borrow. But I'd say, like, solana being like a chain, that is, I'd say more defi focused, like, being able to do these more esoteric lending products will be a big benefit. And I think a lot of institutions would use them. So I think what's key, like you mentioned, like, basically, like, like institutions, right? Like versus retail, maybe. And in general, like, as we can see, like, different use cases, obviously, for like a different kind of like, audience. Right. Maybe you can get into, like, do you see it more like as a spectrum developing, like, within protocols? Or do you see like more like specialization of, like, protocols for, like, many institutions on chain traders or, like, really more like retail? Right.
01:22:41.244 - 01:23:16.830, Speaker A: So great question. Right. Because one of the things that we're working on is actually what we consider institutional award, where we allow institutions to borrow with a collateral. The reason that has been a bit slow to develop is because when all your capital is on collateralized, people know where the money is. You can easily refer on chain, the money is here, the collateral ratio is all this. And it's very simple to understand. But then when you move towards a system whereby you say, okay, I'm going to allow someone to land without, say, a collateral.
01:23:16.830 - 01:24:28.374, Speaker A: So it becomes a big identity issue. When we talk, there's actually a tremendous amount of interest from institutions to actually borrow the money on chain. But then the question becomes, are they two problems? Number one is that we have to tell the community where the money is going, and then are they comfortable with that? And second thing is that enforcement, okay, when things go wrong, how is enforcement done, right? Do we go to a legal system? Do we go to the courts? And it's a really big problem, right? And then thirdly, there's also the identity issue, right? It's like, do you guys know Vercoin, the irish thing? Right? And that's creepy as fuck, right? You know, but we need some kind of identity, right? It's like maybe say, okay, if you have, if you have iris scan, maybe you have like, you know, 2%, triple or something. I don't know. But I think, I think instead of making it binary, like institution versus magician, I think it becomes a spectrum of identity and credibility. So it's like, okay, for example, if I'm willing to, say, borrow, like $100, for example, say Alitali, he's willing to tweet that I'm borrowing $100. I'm sure people find it credible, but then.
01:24:28.374 - 01:25:04.198, Speaker A: You know what I mean? So I think the way we're going to move along this thing would not be so much the binary thing by spectrum of both the willingness of the borrowers to, sorry. Both the willingness of the lenders to trust the identity, as well as the willingness of the borrower to dox themselves, I think there's going to be, and then put some reputation beside that thing. So I think we're going to see a spectrum. Yeah. And worldcoin is probably the most interesting example. Yeah, I think for maybe, Tristan, that's actually very interesting. Your protocol should definitely be more on the institutional side of use cases.
01:25:04.198 - 01:25:18.446, Speaker A: Right. And you don't really have, like, the reputational issue per se. I mean, like, they're like, known in a sense, when they, when they borrow. Right. I think, like, the issue then becomes like, how do you still, like, enforce something if something goes wrong, in a sense. Right. So, like, how are you working on that? Where do you see that going? Basically, like, as sizes also scale up, obviously.
01:25:18.446 - 01:26:04.082, Speaker A: Right. Yeah, that makes sense. And we're obviously, like, Zeta is trying to be as permissionless as possible. So, you know, the way that we're doing it, you know, with liquidators, you basically are going to get liquidated anyway. We don't have to have, you know, these kind of permissioned or kind of whitelisted people, necessarily, but there are a lot of institutions on there, and that's the kind of market for options right now, is a lot of these institutional players which will come in there and kind of take on a bit of the risk. The way that we are trying to backstop it is obviously when huge liquidation events happen, there is going to be, what do you call it? Like a backstopping fund. So if people do go massively underwater, the platform isn't able to recover, we're able to bail out from that kind of fund.
01:26:04.082 - 01:26:35.518, Speaker A: But in terms of our strategy, we're building this on chain market maker as well. And so we try and delta hedge that as much as possible, like periodically take off risk. And so when the price does invariably dump, we should hopefully be fairly neutral and not have too much exposure there. So we're hoping that we never get into these kind of black swan events in the first place. It will. I really like that whole approach. It's because it's not ethereum, it's not 15 2nd block times.
01:26:35.518 - 01:27:03.130, Speaker A: You can liquidate faster, like Tristan said, and I mean, you see, like, really big exchanges doing this. Like, FTX has a backstop program. Industry is really good for making sure that the protocol or that the exchange doesn't lose money. And you can emulate these things on Solana as well. And we're getting there. Most developers are inching towards this, but we're not there yet. There's a lot of stuff that has to change.
01:27:03.130 - 01:27:52.964, Speaker A: Transaction size limit. I'd say right now most folks are just, like, working on their products and testing them and piloting them, but it's definitely, these things are being built and yeah, I'd say it's more or less just a time and development thing, maybe to wrap it up. Also Synx and general, I think maybe we can talk what will just mentioned, what is still missing from tech side, actually, to get where you want to get in the protocol, right. Like, to basically get to that vision. Sorry, what's the missing assessment from the tech side, as you mentioned, for example, the block limit and stuff maybe just go on a row. So anchor has been like, we use anchor a lot and Armani built that. It's just a great tool for piloting things.
01:27:52.964 - 01:28:44.120, Speaker A: And yeah, I believe they're doubling the transaction size and then soon, which will help. There's a lot of things. I think every developer here has experienced the transaction size limits and is trying to work around them. That's a stark difference from Ethereum, I'd say. Just the communication between devs and Solana and improving the things we can do would help a lot. And just like maybe good, like, development cycle of like six months to a year, I think you'll see a lot different, many different, many new protocols, and many, like, the tech will be a lot different, I think. I'm almost sure of that because people are starting to change things, they're putting things there, things that are more Solana native that aren't just like direct copies from Ethereum, which is great.
01:28:44.120 - 01:29:20.428, Speaker A: Like, that's what you want, maybe. So next? Yeah, I agree with the transaction thing. So Solana has like a proposal where there's upgrading the transaction to like a v two, basically. And that'll probably make for like a lot better ux, because for us, when we open, like a leverage position, you need to sign basically five transactions in like the same time. And if one of the transactions fail, you have to do all five over again. So, like, having like a bigger transaction will probably improve the UX, like, overall. Justin? Yeah, I don't want to parrot everyone, but yeah, also, it's like the fundamental kind of limitations there, transaction sizes.
01:29:20.428 - 01:29:39.396, Speaker A: It's like a 200k gas limit there. And for us, it's definitely challenging. We have to basically write this on chain pricing of our options. So it's writing a black scholes options pricing calculator. There's a lot of math functions in there, logs, square roots, which use up a ton of compute. We're having a price. Eleven options calls and puts.
01:29:39.396 - 01:30:13.152, Speaker A: So 22 plus a future 23 options price with a mathematical function in one transaction is kind of challenging. And we've worked around those constraints and found some nice approximations to get it to work, but that's been really hard. And then we're maintaining a volatility surface and doing all this other complicated stuff. Trying to fit it in one transaction is pretty challenging, and we're getting there. Otherwise, I guess it's account limits that you can pass into every transaction. We want to go to cross margining and that kind of stuff between all these different assets, it starts to get pretty challenging. Oh, yeah, I just want to say that everything is it.
01:30:13.152 - 01:30:34.834, Speaker A: But honestly, one last thing is, I love the limits. I mean, I hate it, obviously, pin the ass, but they really show that sonar takes a different set of trade offs. On EVM, you can do as much as you want, there's no limit. I think it's actually really nice to have these things to work with and be early involved, early in the process. I think for us, I think composability is huge. We want to do a lot more things, a lot more algorithms. And I think that.
01:30:34.834 - 01:30:44.742, Speaker A: I think you'll be soft. I think. Yeah, yeah. So thanks for having us, for having the script to talk, guys. It was very great. I think we could talk on for a long time. I think the takeaway is work in progress.
01:30:44.742 - 01:30:49.594, Speaker A: We're getting there and maybe we'll learn more on the next panel. Okay, thanks.
01:31:09.014 - 01:31:40.784, Speaker B: Options, futures and other derivatives are really what makes Solana and other kinds of Defi platforms a greater canvas than traditional finance allows for. So going beyond spot markets is really what differentiates what crypto can offer for more availability, to use funds in a greater yield. So in this talk beyond spark markets, we have Daffy from Mangodao, Kento from UXD Protocol, Tommy from psyoptions, and Cindy from drift, moderated by Austin from Coinfund.
01:32:04.664 - 01:32:32.384, Speaker A: Hey everyone. Really excited to chat with you today about expanding beyond spot markets and what the future holds for futures, options, perps and derivatives in general. We have a really cool group today. Daphne from Mango. Or let me go in this order. So, Cindy from Drift, Tommy from Psi options, Kento from UXD, and Daphi from Mango. So maybe let's just start off with you introducing yourselves and what you're working on.
01:32:32.384 - 01:33:06.244, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. Hi everyone, I'm Cindy from drift. We're building on chain perpetual swaps on Solano. Sorry, it's been a long couple nights. So we're using a dynamic virtual ammunition and we're really excited to combine novel defi primitives with building great liquidity for perpetual markets on Solana. And I'm Tommy. I've been an engineer for nine years, then started building PSi options when I got rejected from Tradfi to get API access to automated and options trading strategy.
01:33:06.244 - 01:33:57.954, Speaker A: And so we're the first options protocol live with an american style option contract on Mainnet, working on under collateralized Europeans and structured products beyond that. I'm Kento, founder of UXD Protocol. UXD is an algorithmic stablecoin built on Solana that integrates with derivative dexs we create a delta neutral position on the derivative DeX, and the stablecoin is backed 100% by that delta neutral position. Yeah. Hey, it's Daffy from the Mangodao. The first dao on Solana and Mango markets is currently a borrow lending platform, margin trading platform, perps platform, and a cross collateralization platform. Very cool.
01:33:57.954 - 01:35:09.646, Speaker A: So one of the things that I think is really interesting, and there's a lot of unique complexity involved, is what are the complexities surrounding building derivatives and options and other sorts of products like that on chain versus in a centralized exchange? And what are some of the factors that you need to account for when building your primitives and protocols? Yeah, I think one of the main things, for instance, is like liquidations. Instead of doing liquidations, just simply like from a database, sort of, you have to have keepers in a network to maintain a log of all the positions on the blockchain and have them secure the network in a decentralized manner. So I think that's one of the complexities about just building it on chain versus completely in a centralized manner. So I think there's a lot of dependencies that these smart contracts surround themselves with. And one of these things are bots that have to maintain the state of the network. So make sure that all of the accounts are fully collateralized at all times. There has to be like off chain triggers to make sure that the on chain accounts are always collateralized.
01:35:09.646 - 01:35:40.114, Speaker A: I think one of the hardest things is dealing with the run time constraints. I mean, you have these transaction size limits, especially Solana specifically. You have to pass in all these accounts that you're interacting with, or reading or writing to, and then you have compute limits. I mean, those are changing in 1.8 and 1.9 coming out. But really taking this idea of what an option is or what a perp is, and how we can build that, you really have to figure out how can we build an instruction set that's going to work on chain.
01:35:40.114 - 01:36:38.750, Speaker A: And in Defi, and I mean, people moving over, we have a lot of people from tradfi coming in and trying to build defi stuff, and this is the first thing that they run a too. Yeah, yeah, I mean, all of what they said sounds, I mean, I've struggled with as well. But one of the other things, you know, there's no Kyc and there's no, and, you know, there's no accounts, so you can't really ban anyone who, you know, you're like, you can't use that tool. You don't have that tool tool. And so any design that you think of has to go through, okay, like, what if somebody creates like 10 million accounts, or what if they wash trade? There's just a whole bunch of. When you're, when you're doing, when you're doing things decentralized, a whole bunch of extra, you know, precautions that you have to take. Everyone's an adversary.
01:36:38.750 - 01:37:30.860, Speaker A: Yeah, everyone's an adversary, which is, which is fun, honestly, initially, because building an exchange has been done, but building a decentralized exchange or decentralized derivatives platform, well, we're still in the early stages. And that's what's fun about it, is every line of code has to be thought through for hours and hours, and you still get exploited. That's how it happens. Kento. So I think people are probably very familiar with USDC and stablecoins that are backed with fiat deposits. But maybe you can spend a minute walking through how UXd works and what are some of the unique mechanisms there, right? Yeah. So there's this problem in stablecoins.
01:37:30.860 - 01:38:06.738, Speaker A: It's called the stablecoin trilemma, and there's currently no stablecoin that's decentralized, stable, and capital efficient. It's hard to achieve all three. You have USDC, USDT, which is stable and capital efficient, but they're not decentralized. And then you have stable coins like dai on Makerdao. I mean, they are relatively decentralized, they are relatively stable, but they're not capital efficient. It takes $1.5 of ETH to mint one die, and then now it's 50% backed by USDC.
01:38:06.738 - 01:38:45.154, Speaker A: So it's not even that decentralized. And then you have very algo stable coins, like ESD basis cash, which are decentralized and capital efficient, but not stable at all. So it's very hard to achieve all three. And UXC tries to achieve all three by backing the stablecoin 100% with a delta neutral position on a derivative, Dex. So it will be decentralized because the whole mint and redeem process is trustless. It will be stable because it's back 100%. And anyone can mint and redeem the UXD for an equivalent amount of Sol or USDC or USDT.
01:38:45.154 - 01:39:20.000, Speaker A: And it will be capital efficient because it's 100% capital efficient. So if you have $1, you can always mint $1 worth of UXD. So we try to achieve all three, and then it also has a native yield. So the delta intra position yields from the funding rate. The delta intra position gets interest and that interest can then be distributed to UXD holders. So there's a native interest on top of the liquidity mining rewards that we will do in the future. So that's like the brief pitch of UXD.
01:39:20.000 - 01:40:04.306, Speaker A: Very cool. So the yield comes from positive funding rates, is that right? Yeah. So what happens when there's negative funding rates in the market, for example? Right, so we don't want UXD holders to pay a negative rate. So we will have an insurance fund that pays out the negative rate and so we will have an IDO in like two days and that IDO will all go to the insurance fund. And then, so then that will fund the insurance fund. And also the insurance fund will be used as will be invested in LP's, LP tokens on stablecoin swaps like Saver and mercurial Finance. And then it will contribute to the liquidity of say like USDC UXD pool.
01:40:04.306 - 01:40:44.302, Speaker A: So then you have more liquidity of UXD and you also get the mining rewards from SBR and myrrh tokens. And then that will then be distributed to the insurance fund. And also like part of the interest from the Delta mutual position can be distributed to the insurance fund. It's like, there's like all these ways of funding the insurance fund so that the insurance fund never runs out. But if the insurance fund runs out for whatever reason, we will do an auction of the governance token and replenish the fund. Very cool. So I think as we move beyond spot markets, the title of this panel, there's a lot of primitives that have been established in spot markets.
01:40:44.302 - 01:41:52.956, Speaker A: So for example, just at a very basic level, the Amm, and that's been adapted to some extent to the virtual Amm that's used in perps. But what are some of the primitives that have been established in DeFi so far that are being leveraged in derivatives markets, whether it's perps, options or otherwise? Today? Yeah, I think one of our core innovations is, sorry, the dynamic EMm. So we build on top of a virtual EMM and we adapt it towards derivatives markets. So one way that that builds on top of an EMM is that your collateral is completely separated from, from the price curve. So that enables for shorting and for leverage. And the dynamic element ensures that your price always stays within a concentrated range by essentially repegging the curve back to where the oracle prices is. Relating back to the concept of oracles, derivatives always have to settle to a known price or trustless oracle.
01:41:52.956 - 01:42:27.936, Speaker A: So a lot of these primitives come from really spot market to derivatives and then to improve on the liquidity and the slippage for derivatives itself. So overall, I think, yeah, these are, I mean, the dynamic EMm is one of the, I think, first primitive that uses this adjustable and repeating mechanism to bring derivatives and trading in a tight range. Yeah. So the. So the. So I think the vam, the VMM is like one of the primitives. And, you know, Cindy's working on that.
01:42:27.936 - 01:43:22.844, Speaker A: The other one that's kind of new to Solana, or, sorry, new to defi, comes out of Solana. It comes out of serum, basically is central limit order book, which, okay, you know, everyone has had central limit order books. That's like the standard way to do things, but it was just cost prohibitive on Ethereum. And, you know, and because of Solana's low transaction fees, we're able to do it. We're able to actually have a central limit order book. And I think, like, well, we're not going to get in an argument about central limit order books or vams, but, you know, mango markets sort of like, one of the differences between mango and drift is that mango uses a central limit order book. And part of it is that I think it's more capital efficient.
01:43:22.844 - 01:44:00.380, Speaker A: And there is, it can lead to the best prices because you have a bunch of. Or the most accurate prices because you have a bunch of competing market makers. But, like, you know, one of the downsides, one of the problems that I'm trying to fix is the liquidity, which, which, you know, Cindy doesn't have that problem they had. They are. Well, you know, the protocol is the market maker in the vam scenario. So. Yeah, some of the primitives that we're establishing here.
01:44:00.380 - 01:44:25.426, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I mean, psyoptions is all traded on top of the CRM order book as well. The american options are all represented as SPL tokens. So it plugs into the original serum. But we also started building our under collateralized european options on the new serum core. And so it's kind of this asset agnostic. It doesn't force you to make everything as represented as SPL tokens.
01:44:25.426 - 01:45:10.376, Speaker A: So you can get a little bit more closer to like a portfolio and portfolio margining system. So that's really innovative. I think we're going to have some, an announcement coming out in the next day or so about the CRM core and what that means and what we're doing on top of it. When you. Cindy. So there was a lot of chat about order books and versus Vam. What are you, what are you particularly excited about with the virtual ammo? Yeah, I think going back to the liquidity point that Daphne mentioned, one of the greatest, I think, solutions to liquidity is the VMM, because every single trade is a trade against traders instead of trade against market makers.
01:45:10.376 - 01:45:58.840, Speaker A: So effectively, you have this curve where trader one goes long, price moves up by this much, trader two goes short, price moves back. Right. So it's effectively replicating an order book, but without having sort of like liquidity sat in order book itself, because every single trade adds volume on the platform. So what we're really excited about is the problem becomes not market making or liquidity provision. It becomes more about arbitraging prices back to an oracle price. So we're really trying to incentivize people to keep these prices constant. That's why you see funding rates can be different on drift and on mango, because the way that the price discovery is conducted is very different.
01:45:58.840 - 01:46:50.286, Speaker A: So we're really excited because this enables, I think, new trading strategies to be developed where arbitraging between different markets and new trading strategies taking advantage of how of the VMM and dynamic EMM is constructed. So, yeah, I think one of the things we're really excited about is just how it approaches liquidity as not necessarily a pool concept, but abstracts it away from price and price action. Very interesting. And then, so, on the option side, liquidity is kind of very complicated and something people are trying to solve because of the fragmentation issue between strikes and maturities. So how is psyoptions dealing with that? Yeah, I mean, that is definitely one of the biggest struggles. I mean, you think like, oh, we need liquidity on one market. But then when you look, it's like, okay, we have all these strikes, you have calls, you have puts, and then you have these expirations.
01:46:50.286 - 01:47:23.394, Speaker A: So you're just fragmenting liquidity across eventually hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of markets. And so, I mean, the first thing is capital efficiency. So that way the TVL can go a lot longer, like a lot further in the order book. And so that's where we're moving. A lot of the trading is going to be eventually to that under collateralized european style, where we make things more efficient. The Americans will always live on. There's a lot of unique things you can do with a physically settled, 100% collateralized american style option for like incentives and option liquidity mining and all that.
01:47:23.394 - 01:48:15.564, Speaker A: And so, I mean, the biggest thing is there is a lot of, like, options trading going on. It's just most of the volume is actually OTC, we all talk about dare a bit, but a lot of the real volume is happening. Otc. And I think as we build more structured products, we're going to build liquidity mining into the Europeans. And we have these more abstraction abstracted layers that utilize options and the order book underneath for things like impermanent loss, like a vix like product that friction's working on. I think that's going to be the tipping point of where we see more volume and more liquidity on all of the option order books we have. So we talked about this earlier about one of the challenges building on, you know, building in a decentralized way.
01:48:15.564 - 01:49:24.186, Speaker A: And, you know, if you, if you, if you're building an options platform, the centralized exchange, that's hard. That's like, you know, you have, because I have friends who are options traders and they talk about the sheer volume of data that's coming in and all the hookups you have to have now doing it on Solana in a decentralized way is like hard plus plus, because we have account size limits and every account has to be replicated across all these nodes, and even every transaction has to be a certain size. And so I remember talking about, so psyoptions and mango markets won the second hackathon a long time ago. I don't know, March and I got on a call with Tommy and we were like, oh, yeah, we need to be under collateralized, but neither of us knows how. How do you make the options under collateralized? And I was like, man, if you figure it out, that's the holy grail. Yeah, I remember that call. I was just like, you guys were working on your cross margining and that was coming out and going to launch in the next month.
01:49:24.186 - 01:50:17.262, Speaker A: And I just remember us talking about, how many assets can you fit into that group? Because just not even cross margining, just the options portfolio margin you're already dealing with, each thing is essentially another asset. Yeah. And if you think about it, like, if you go to Darabit and you look at it, they have hundreds of markets, right? Hundreds of order books, hundreds of assets. And we had that call in March, it was like, yeah, how many can you do under collateralized? You know, mango at the time was, I was like, three. But we're gonna work really hard over the next couple of months and we're gonna get five. And that was, you know, the state of the tech at the time. Obviously now, you know, we have the capacity, you know, to do like we're in the tens, twenties, but we have the capacity to do 100.
01:50:17.262 - 01:50:38.254, Speaker A: So we've like come a long way. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I think that's where like the CRM corps and kind of changing the architecture a little bit from the Americans is what, what is really needed. But it's, it's an interesting problem to solve that we've been, been working on for a while. Yeah, next conference will be here and we'll be like, well, we need to do thousands. We're at the hundreds range now. We need to do thousands.
01:50:38.254 - 01:51:07.460, Speaker A: Yes. So it's still, it's growing exponentially. We'll do it. This also actually speaks to a really interesting relationship between options protocols and perps protocols, where you inherently need that connection to properly hedge. So I think we'll see a lot of these, these protocols working closely together. Kento on the stablecoin side. So gaining liquidity is a slightly different question there.
01:51:07.460 - 01:52:07.922, Speaker A: It's more about kind of utility of the asset itself to some extent. So do you envision people using UXD as a stable asset when trading? Do you see it more as a yield product? Like what do you see as the kind of the core priority at least, or the main use case for UXD at least early on? Well, I think like, early on it will definitely be a yield product. So, like, people will use UXT to earn the yield from. So from the delta introduction and also from the liquidity mining rewards. And then from there it will be used primarily in DeFi applications. So we will first partner with stablecoin swaps like Sabre and mercurial Finance, you'll be able to provide liquidity to say like UXD USDC pool or USDT pool. And you will earn, like, you will earn the trading fees, you will earn the SBIr rewards, you will earn the MER rewards, you'll earn the UXP token rewards.
01:52:07.922 - 01:53:12.492, Speaker A: So, like, it will be like this yield optimization product later on. I think as more people, as it gets more adopted in like lending protocols, on serum, on dexs, it will become more integrated with the whole ecosystem and people will become more comfortable using it for trading. So it will start being used as sole UXD trading pairs and then also in the future, I was talking with Maximilian from Mango. We're talking about how we can use UXD as the quote currency for mango. So the p and L can be calculated by UXD and you'll be able to receive and pay off your p and l with UXD. And as it becomes more and more integrated, the network effects increase, which increases the utility of UXD. So I'm really concentrated on getting more adoption in the Solana defi ecosystem in the beginning.
01:53:12.492 - 01:54:10.158, Speaker A: So that's actually. That's a little bit screwy. Like, I haven't spent much time thinking about it, but if UXD is integrated with mango, but the, quote, currency in Mango is UXD, does that work? I don't want to put you on the spot. I, like, literally, I haven't thought. Yeah, it's recursive, but it works technically. But UXD will also be backed by perps on, like, say, on mango, on drift serum is going to have a perp next quarter, maybe Bonfida supports multicollateral, then it will be backed by multiple derivative Dexs, so it will become more easy for you guys to use as. So one thing I just thought about was maybe so, you know, USDC always has this because it's centralized, always has this risk of censorship and all the attendant risks of being centralized.
01:54:10.158 - 01:54:46.756, Speaker A: So maybe mango goes to being, like, bitcoin, quote, currency, and then UXD comes out of that. I don't know. I feel like you. I don't know. I'm probably in the minority here, but USDA feels like maybe not what we should build everything on top of in the long run. I mean, it's great now and mangoes built on USDC, but maybe not in the long run, and maybe, like, my mom will still use it, you know, some, like, old people, but we'll be with UXD. And I'm a big proponent of decentralized, stable coin.
01:54:46.756 - 01:55:27.324, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. And I think there's. There's many fewer dependencies and the canvas for creation is much larger. I think maybe in the future, bitcoin becomes the reserve currency, and everyone uses bitcoin or some volatile crypto, but that's at least 50 years out, 1020 years, USD is going to be the reserve currency of whatever we do. I don't think there's any way that people, like, unit of accounts are very difficult to change. It's very strong. So at least 1020 years, USD is going to be the reserve currency.
01:55:27.324 - 01:56:39.934, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it just depends on the implementation on chain of that USD representation. Yeah. So another question I have, and this is specifically about Solana, is when you were building these different protocols, why did you pick Solana? And specifically, what are you able to do on Solana that perhaps you weren't able to do on other blockchains or what attracted you? Yeah, I think one of the key reasons that we chose Solana in the first place, over, let's say, ethereum or any literature on Ethereum, was really the presence of a composable ecosystem. If you're on a L2, you're sort of limited by all the other applications on that L2, whereas in Solana, everyone is composable against each other. So that lets us, let's say if we wanted to do yield on our collateral, we could deposit that yield and like, say, jut or sabre, UXC could use us as collateral for their delta neutral farming. And it just sort of like all these little pieces, pieces at together. And we think that it's a really positive sum game, rather than being, like, sort of separated into different ecosystems.
01:56:39.934 - 01:57:36.086, Speaker A: And I think back when we started about six months ago, that was like, a pretty core reason for us to choose Solana. The other is just, I think from a UX perspective, depositing, like, you know, takes, still takes you like, $200 to get your, uh, USD from layer one to L2. And there is no direct bridge from any layer one to any L2. So we thought that with FTX being a bridge into Solana, with wormhole taking off, there would just be a lot more inflows of cash into the Solana ecosystem rather than any single other. And, you know, we really love that, the Solana energy, Solana community. And obviously, we chose Solana because of, like, being able to do parallel transactions and parallel processing, which is one of the most important things for a derivatives protocol that requires high frequency transactions. Yeah.
01:57:36.086 - 01:58:15.658, Speaker A: My decision to jump into Solana was, like, well over a year ago, before even Mainnet had launched. And then once Mainnet had launched, I was seeing what Anatoly and Raj were putting out, theoretically, of what they could do. And I just thought, if this is remotely possible, this is where I want to be. Given getting priced out of a lot of things on Ethereum, if you weren't early. And so being a developer, I recognized not jumping all the way in on Ethereum. And I was just like, if this is remotely possible, I'm jumping all the way in here. And then I was hanging out with Tristan from FTX, surfing with him, and he was talking about serum, what they were building and what was coming out, and I was just like, all right, I'm sold.
01:58:15.658 - 01:58:42.154, Speaker A: There it is. So I knew the order book was already there. Site options wasn't even an idea at that time. But once I had that issue in Tradfi where a brokerage denied me API access, I was just like, okay, let me just build options on top of serum. And it'll plug and play. I got into Sol because I saw the tweet by SPF where he said, sell all your soul at $3 and fuck off. I was like, okay, yeah, I have to be in Seoul.
01:58:42.154 - 01:59:17.562, Speaker A: And we jumped. I'm just joking. Okay. Like, to be serious, basically what Cindy said, composability is the main reason. So, I mean, it's very easy for us to integrate with mango. Drift and then saver, and then integrating with all these defi ecosystems is very easy for us. And then, for instance, if someone, like, if mango uses Ms as collateral, so, like, if marinade and mango kind of integrates, uses m soul as collateral, then we can use m soul as collateral to create a delta interposition, and then we earn even higher yield.
01:59:17.562 - 01:59:35.114, Speaker A: And, like, all of this is, like, only possible because of the composability thing. So, like, yeah, like, basically, like, composability is a big reason we chose Solana. Yeah. So I didn't think about composability at all. I think I looked at it. See, that's where those guys to worry about, they're composing on mango. That's a happy coincidence.
01:59:35.114 - 02:00:16.054, Speaker A: Yeah, I was just like, so for a long time, I was in crypto since 2016. I was a market maker, but I always wanted to build something, and I wanted to build a Dex and for, let's say, spiritual reasons. But every time I went into Ethereum, I just realized, this is not going to work. You can just imagine my level of enthusiasm was extremely high, and it was always knocked down. And then I saw, again, a tweet by SBF. And so I checked out serum, and this was the first time where I was like, oh, it's okay. Yeah, this can work.
02:00:16.054 - 02:01:03.384, Speaker A: And then you just have to go in, and that's when you use serum. You see that, like, it does feel exactly like a centralized exchange. You don't actually lose anything in that experience. Initially, it was kind of rough. It was a little bit rough. But that concept of extremely low latency, a latency that you don't notice, and it's fully decentralized and all that composability stuff, I guess, but, yeah, then you have to go in about a minute left. But one thing I wanted to just briefly touch on is, in traditional markets, derivatives are much larger in size than spot, and we even see that on centralized exchanges.
02:01:03.384 - 02:02:13.712, Speaker A: So when does that happen on chain, where perps options, you know, you know, and enabling UXD through those sorts of products that ends up flipping spot and becomes much larger, like we see elsewhere I think it took on centralized exchanges, like five years or so for that to happen, for that flip lending to happen from the start of spot markets like the development of derivatives. But I think everything's happened at five x speed in Solana and in derivatives. So I really think it's just a matter of getting the right platforms out there. I would say within, I don't know, a year or two that's going to be the case. Yeah, my gut saying a year or two. I mean, there's just, we thought we had this roadmap that we're gonna have to build all this stuff out, but we have now there's just so much capital coming into the space. There's so many teams now that are just coming in and starting to build on Solana and build new things that we thought we would have to be building six months from when we started, you know, but now they're just doing it now we're all working together, and I think that's gonna lead to faster adoption, more liquid option market kids, and I think that just creates that flywheel that will create more volume coming through derivatives.
02:02:13.712 - 02:02:22.364, Speaker A: Very cool. Well, awesome. This was really fun chatting and I appreciate everyone here listening. Thank you. Thank you.
02:02:41.204 - 02:03:19.224, Speaker B: As much as Defi allows for more freedom around managing assets, it can be a pain to keep track of everything across pools, protocols, and different products. And, yeah, I myself, this is something that I'm actually interested in hearing about, because managing so many different wallets and everything is. Can be a pain, especially when DeFi allows for more freedom, but maybe a bit more responsibility on your shoulders to manage all that. So, talking about your front page and the power of asset management tools is Thiago from Transfero and BRZ, token Adam from Nova Finance, semiar from ratio Finance, moderated by Johnson from GBV.
02:03:40.804 - 02:04:12.898, Speaker A: Cool, thanks everyone, for joining today. Really much appreciate it. And we've got an amazing panel here talking about, I guess, the asset management tool, the power of asset management management tools. So I guess I'll introduce myself. My name is Johnson from GBV, based in Hong Kong. Basically investing on the research and also, I guess, looking specifically around defi stuff as well. So I guess let us basically introduce yourself and take away you guys.
02:04:12.898 - 02:04:40.634, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you so much for having us today. It's a pleasure to be here. My name is Sam, I'm the co founder of Ratio Finance. Ratio finance is a collateralized debt protocol on Solana. One of our key differentiators and one of our primary USP's is our risk quantification so what we actually do is we analyze the underlying risk of the assets that are being put up as collateral. And in that way, we actually set the dynamic collateralization, liquidation and lending rates.
02:04:40.634 - 02:04:57.748, Speaker A: So, yeah, super excited. Have a discussion today with the rest of the panel. Perfect. Well, thank you, everyone, for after the party, being here and actually listening to a panel, I know it's hard. I'm Thiago. I'm from Transfero. We are more known here for issuing the BRZ token.
02:04:57.748 - 02:05:18.666, Speaker A: It's a stable coin based pegged with the brazilian real. We are the largest stablecoin in Latin America. Our biggest client, of course, is FTX. We manage all their BRL for flows in Brazil. Transfer does other things as well. We are regulated asset managers in Brazil. We started that back in 2015.
02:05:18.666 - 02:05:31.218, Speaker A: So we saw everything happening. ICo cycles everything, and. Yeah. So glad to have the discussion with you guys. Hi, everybody. My name is Adam Greenberg. I'm one of the co founders at Nova Finance.
02:05:31.218 - 02:06:08.374, Speaker A: Nova Finance is an asset management protocol on chain. We allow people to create synthetic assets and embed instructions around trade, exchange, and automatic yield generation. And our MVP is basically orientated around portfolios. So we let experienced investors create basically their own investment thesis and automate it so that less experienced people can invest sustainably in the crypto space. Cool. Great to meet you guys, really. So I guess I'll fire up my first question to Sam from racial finance.
02:06:08.374 - 02:07:27.688, Speaker A: So, I guess, like, when you're talking about asset management, DeFi, there are a lot of risks. And I guess, looking around the adoptions of DeFi and also gasoline the ecosystem as well, you have many, say, for example, digital finance, money coming in, centralized finance as well. So I guess my question to you is that how do you actually quantify the risk itself, and how do you actually bridge the c five space into the DeFi space as well. Yeah, exactly. So, you know, in a lot of ways, traditional finance and deFi, there's a lot of overlap there, right? So we take a lot of traditional financial modeling principles, a lot of credit risk modeling principles, and have adjusted those formulas to kind of account for the nuances that are in DeFi. And in that way, you know, we really hope to bring in more institutional money, more institutional players and institutional great investors into DeFi, because, you know, as many people know, traditional finance is all about your risk mitigation and balancing your risk profile. So by us actually allowing their users and these investors to see what the realized risk is, what the realized variances are of certain positions, it'll really allow these investors to make a balanced portfolio and really help them further get into DeFi in a way that they weren't able to before.
02:07:27.688 - 02:08:16.122, Speaker A: In particular with LP farming, LP is a highly volatile space. A lot of, you know, traditional finance, VC firms, hedge funds, etcetera, want to get exposure to this. But due to the constant volatility and due to the underlying risks and the extremely volatile nature of LP farming, it's oftentimes very difficult for them to do that. So by using our platform, by us partnering with them and showing them how to balance a portfolio constructed of different types of risky LP positions, it's really allowing them to enter the space in a way that they previously weren't able to. Cool. Perfect. I guess you mentioned LP pricing, all those kind of stuff, right? So crypto is quite volatile, and I guess there are so many assets within space as well.
02:08:16.122 - 02:09:27.234, Speaker A: So I guess my, the other question I'll kick off to Adam from Nobel Finance as well. So when you have that many assets, how do you actually diversify it? And how do you actually say, for example, I guess like looking around the SMS stuff as well. So you've got different wallet, different chains, and also you've got so many assets around it. So I'm just wondering, like, how can you actually manage them properly in a way, first of all, and secondly, I guess, how do you actually sort of diversify in a way to catch, say, for example, market narrative, sector rotation, et cetera as well? Yeah, diversification is a, a really hot topic, I think, and there's a lot of different ways you can do it and categorize it. For me, the real true definition of diversification is you have ten uncorrelated bets, and to be honest, you can't quite do that. In cryptocurrency, there's a lot of people who know the space well and recognize the kind of sub divisions. So, you know, defi, nfts, privacy coins, infrastructure protocols.
02:09:27.234 - 02:10:17.750, Speaker A: There's also something else that's only kind of recently came into the space, isn't really recognized yet, which is income diversification. So, for example, with stocks in traditional finance, you get dividends and things like that, and they can offset a lot of the loss that you get. So for us, with yield in DeFi, you have that chance to reduce some of the risks or the potential losses that you'd make. So that's something that we're very focused on with making as many assets as possible also auto generate yields. Okay, cool. So I guess you guys are quite like similar in a way, looking around, I guess like DeFi specifically. So I guess my next question to seagull from BRZ.
02:10:17.750 - 02:11:16.146, Speaker A: So I heard you guys are doing a stable for stable coin for brazilian as well. So I guess, like, look here, around the current market structure at the moment. So we already have liquids, USD, stable coins, USDT, USDC, decentralized stablecoins such as Dai as well. So why do you guys come up with the brazilian stablecoin? And I guess, like, what are some of the sort of unique market offering that you guys doing at the moment? Yeah, that's a very interesting question. Not a lot of people know, but in Brazil, first, the nature of the brazilian currency, right? It's a non deliverable forward, which means that no banks outside of Brazil can hold BRL and actually do transactions with that. So it restricts a lot the capital movement around the world. The other aspect is, in Brazil, Brazilians can only have bank accounts in local currency.
02:11:16.146 - 02:12:19.678, Speaker A: You cannot have a dollar account, you cannot have an euro account or a pound account, which means Brazilians, they actually do their accounting in local currency. So what was the problem for brazilian users in the crypto space? They would have to go to a local exchange, buy bitcoin with their local currency, and then send that bitcoin to an international exchange such as FTX or Bittrex, and operate against the dollar only. And operating against the dollar for a brazilian is not always the most efficient way, because effects, variations, fluctuations, can actually damage you a lot coming from a latin american economy. Right? So by creating the BRZ, you can actually hold BRL on a foreign platform that wouldn't be able to accept such currency. On the flip side, BRZ enables international platforms to access the brazilian market, because you guys know cryptocurrency exchanges, they are hardly getting bank accounts outside of Brazil. Imagine, inside Latin America, it's very difficult. So BRZ bridges that gap.
02:12:19.678 - 02:12:38.560, Speaker A: I totally agree that USDT, USDC, those are very liquid, very useful as rails between exchanges, and even as a reserve of value. But when it comes to accessing developing markets, you do need this bridge, which BRZ covers. That's the differentiation. Yeah. Okay. Gotcha. Cool.
02:12:38.560 - 02:13:52.670, Speaker A: Yeah. Interestingly, we were just talking on the backstage about a few things that I guess, three of you that potentially can collaborate as well. So do you guys mind sharing these kind of thoughts process behind, I guess, how the C five space can actually tap into deFi, and also how DeFi space can tap into the C five component as well, and then bringing all those, like, I guess, like mass adoptions and also traditional institutional coming on board towards the deFi ecosystem, I guess. Anyone? Yeah, I think there's a lot of opportunities here, especially, for example, with Nova, given that they are an asset management protocol, the portfolio managers, something that ratio can provide is displaying the risk of the certain assets that are being traded in those assets, so that, you know, the portfolio managers themselves can make very educated decisions with regards to how to balance the portfolios and making sure that there's portfolios available for every type of risk appetite, you know, so. Yeah, exactly. And for you guys, the risk profiling stuff you're doing, you know, you've got a really good system set up there. So, you know, we're looking to, you basically incorporate those kind of things into our own protocols.
02:13:52.670 - 02:14:15.362, Speaker A: So. Yeah, absolutely. A lot of opportunities to collaborate. And let's not forget that the starting point would be someone onboarding with fiat. Right, exactly. In that sense. So basically, you can just basically do the fiat on ramp and then tapping to the against defi ecosystem, and then risk management, and then portfolio diversification.
02:14:15.362 - 02:14:36.736, Speaker A: We got the whole flow here from start to end. We got the whole little synergy going right now. So very excited to see what we can all do together. Can we form a one stop giant protocol out there? Anything's possible. Crypto, this moves, this industry moves so fast, so maybe by next month we'll have some new spun up. Looking forward to seeing what happens. Yeah.
02:14:36.736 - 02:15:01.456, Speaker A: Cool. Yeah. One of the challenges, like for example, our asset management side has, we have two types of asset management operations, right? One, managing the collateral of the stable coin itself, which for now has to stay in traditional finance. Right. We have to back it with real cash. That now in Brazil is good because we have positive interest rates. So basically we can earn up to 7% risk free rate on our collateral.
02:15:01.456 - 02:15:40.202, Speaker A: Right. Which is pretty good. However, when you bring that reality to defi, there are way more sophisticated products to be explored. And now our difficulty is to convince our fund administrator to actually, hey, we're going to allocate part of this on DeFi protocols. You know, how can you calculate the net asset value of the portfolio on a smart contract or on a pool at radium? You know, like, so that's what you guys have to help us a lot. If only there was someone that was in risk quantification to allow these asset managers to see what the actual risks are so they can enter the space, you know, that would be crazy. That'd be really good, I think.
02:15:40.202 - 02:15:54.354, Speaker A: Yeah, we're very happy to be taking a part in that and helping out institutions such as yourselves and people like Nova as well. So. No. Perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting that you mentioned, again, LP pricing as well.
02:15:54.354 - 02:16:53.102, Speaker A: So I'm not too sure if you can share about you guys doing in terms of like, how do you actually pricing the LP risk behind? I can't get too into detail about that, of course, but we take a lot of traditional financial modeling. The one thing I will say is that there's a lot of similarities in finance and Defi, and in particular, LP pricing and undisclosed pricing of traditional financial assets that can be tied together very easily. But in particular, you know, accounting for some of the nuances in Defi, some of the, you know, idiosyncratic risk, for example, that's available in Defi as opposed to traditional finance, with, you know, just some of the little things that are so different, accounting for that, adding that into these formulas that already exist, improving on that, and then obviously doing a lot of backtesting. And, you know, we got some really great people working on all of our models and constantly updating it. So I know that wasn't a complete answer to your question. Yep. But I hope that was close.
02:16:53.102 - 02:17:45.404, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, interesting. And I guess, I guess for Adam. So I'm just wondering, so say, for example, right now, the market narrative trends very quickly and I guess, like, sector rotating in and out as well from different ecosystems. So from your point of view. So you were basically doing asset management tools, looking around the user behavior, say, for example. So from your point of view, I guess, what are some of the unique things that users need to be aware and also maybe you are offering as well, just to sort of increase the orders, like efficiency around asset management and helping the users to manage their sort of portfolio as well.
02:17:45.404 - 02:18:23.956, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So one of the big focuses you've got is accessibility. So obviously, we're Solana based right now, but there's an entire ecosystem of blockchains and assets out there. And even further beyond to traditional finance, you know, coming back to what I talked about, about ten completely uncorrelated bets. So that's something that we have a massive focus on. And we're really focused on integrations, partnerships already working on an EVM version of Nova, which we're hoping to roll out towards the end of q one. So, and then the second part is probably adaptability.
02:18:23.956 - 02:19:07.395, Speaker A: So there are other portfolio orientated platforms out there, but they're very fixed. And like you said, the crypto space changes so quickly all the time. It's a lot of speculative capital, which makes it very cyclical. So a lot of assets, when they don't have strong user adoption, like bitcoin, Solana, and other protocols like Ethereum, they're maybe only successful or outperform those assets for two or three months out of a year. So one of our big focuses is being able to provide the data and infrastructure for people to recognize those trends and make adaptations and the composition of a portfolio different. So they're always right at the front of what's hot, basically. Cool.
02:19:07.395 - 02:20:04.080, Speaker A: Interesting, I guess, like in terms of the future asset management space. So we now have defi infrastructure being built across, across different ecosystem, and then C Five is trying to tap into the defi space as well. Children of money is also joining. So I guess the last big question to everyone here, so what's the future like in terms of the asset management tool space? And also, I guess, what are some of the things that you envision that, say, for example, C five, and also deFi can work together to improve overall efficiency or reliability or reducing risk within the deFi space? Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, the last. Well, in particular, the last year has been kind of like the wild west in Defi. You know, a lot of stuff is happening. There's constant innovation.
02:20:04.080 - 02:20:36.284, Speaker A: There's all these, you know, things happening all the time. And I think that as the market matures a bit more, a lot of traditional financial principles, not necessarily the mechanisms, but the principles, will reemerge in DeFi to kind of structure it, provide some stability within the ecosystem, and really make it so that it's not just defi. It's not just traditional finance. It becomes open finance, where everything is being brought on chain, but it's done in a structured and, you know, permissionless manner. So that's my personal opinion. I think it's going to be really cool to see, and I think it's going to add a lot of efficiency. Efficiency.
02:20:36.284 - 02:21:24.988, Speaker A: But we do need, I think, a little bit more of the structure that traditional finance has and a little bit more of some of the tools that are present there, because, you know, finance has been around for hundreds of years, thousands of years, so they have something figured out. But I think Defi has a lot of room to grow still. Yeah, I think I'll follow on your note. I usually like to think of the future of Defi incorporating those elements from traditional finance. So, for example, one market that I think that is ripe to be taken is the import and export market, and whatever is derived from that market. So basically enabling, let's say, a chinese person to finance the agricultural production of Paraguay, for example. That would only be able nowadays through stable coins and decentralized applications.
02:21:24.988 - 02:22:07.362, Speaker A: Because in the traditional market, there are so many barriers, there are so many friction in this process. Even the price discovery or opportunity discovery can be a problem nowadays. Quick example, someone who wants to do any exotic effects trades nowadays, he will find liquidity problems. So someone importing something from Turkey out of Brazil would have to go from the brazilian real to the dollar, and then from the dollar to the turkish lira. So many intermediary banks, so much friction. Whereas when you have a pair, let's say Brz by Lyra, which is a stable coin from Turkey, you have a way more frick. A frictionless way to do that.
02:22:07.362 - 02:23:03.402, Speaker A: And once you start thinking about sophisticated products like, hey, why are you doing this FX trade? Oh, because I'm hedging my investment on coffee production in Bolivia. Then you start to have complex products, then you have more yield opportunities on the DeFi space as well, based on the real world economy. So I think that's the next frontier for DeFi to start to tackle those real world use cases as well. Cool. Yeah, I think that the future of defi and finance overall is automation. It's improved infrastructure around risk profiling, for example, with you guys, it's also compliance, allowing people to onboard and also decision making, which we're starting to get into with like daos and things like that. You know, for us, the way we see it is that when these things start to get sophisticated, the way that we allocate capital is going to become a lot more efficient and effective.
02:23:03.402 - 02:23:45.904, Speaker A: So when we're funding innovation, we're pioneering a lot of new technologies, technologies and ideas. And although what we're doing right now is very digital and kind of crypto orientated, it's going to be a lot more different industries getting into the space over time. Renewables, you're talking about like importing and remittance and all these kind of things. So yeah, that's where we see it. Funding innovation in a much more effective way than venture capital or any other previous kind of traditional finance has ever been able to do. Yeah, interesting. And I guess like Seagull mentioned the sort of open banking API kind of stuff as well.
02:23:45.904 - 02:24:56.698, Speaker A: So I guess like what's, what's more interesting from your background is just basically I'm more a Defi native guy, so I don't like though I've got a like finance background, but still consider myself as a DeFi native. So I'm actually very curious to hear your thoughts on, say, for example, based on your experience with the c five space at the moment. So when you're looking at the defi space at the moment, what are some of the things that the defi lacks of that you think that CFI can bring towards defi in a way that I guess like, trying to piece the puzzle altogether for the future. Open, what do you, what do you want? Open finance ecosystem. Yeah, well, to briefly talk about our experience with open banking, for example. So in Brazil, we developed our own infrastructure that connects the banking, the bank payment system in Brazil with our stablecoin. So basically, everyone who makes a local bank transaction gets his credit on the exchange already in BRZ's.
02:24:56.698 - 02:25:27.750, Speaker A: So that's already fully integrated. It's a 24/7 system. Instant payments, basically. Right. So what I think that DeFi can bring into that is, for example, why not give a credit limit to that guy based on a DeFi protocol of lending? Why not let him settle in international stable coins, even though he's using a brazilian banking infrastructure? You know, that's the next frontier in our perception. We're also bringing a fight to Argentina as well. We're launching the ARZ token.
02:25:27.750 - 02:25:51.890, Speaker A: That's a world of problems different than Brazil. I don't know if the audience is aware, but Argentina's, they can only take $200 out of the country per month per person. 200. So they are basically locked in this like a prison, financial prison there. Crypto is saving them and stable coins will help them, are helping them. Like the USDT. They are using USDt as a currency.
02:25:51.890 - 02:27:23.656, Speaker A: One day I was talking to the central bank of Brazil and they said, well, would you really keep your savings on a stable coin and not on a government backed fiat money? And I said, how many government backed currencies do you actually trust in the world nowadays? I mean, how many countries there are and how many currencies are actually solid? What, the pound, the franc, the dollar, the euro, how many more and how many shitty fiat currencies we have in the world. So a lot of people from a lot of countries, they would actually prefer to have better or USDC or BRZ than having their own local fiat currency. So that's where, in my view, is the opportunity is to bridge those two worlds and release a lot of people from this financial prison they live in, you know? So that's it. Yeah. So essentially, I guess, like the future of so called future of France, liberating all those like, financial prison, using leveraging defi infrastructure, and also tapping into like, say, for example, risk management stuff as well as management as well okay, cool. I guess, like, last thing, just to sort of wrap up the talk, really. So I guess talking about one, like, so talking about, what are some of the most exciting things that you've seen in the crypto space that I guess, like, motivates you to build your own protocol? I can go first if you.
02:27:23.656 - 02:27:52.664, Speaker A: Yeah, go for it. Go for it. It's honestly, a lot of the projects that are here today, you know, they've been very forward thinking and seeing the potential of Solana. You know, we were originally going to try and build Nova first on Ethereum, but that's literally not possible with. Yeah, it's hideous right now. So, you know, we're kind of slowly pioneering the future in finding ways to do the infrastructure more efficient. And now it's the time for.
02:27:52.664 - 02:28:34.434, Speaker A: I'd like to thank ourselves, ratio, port finance, and others who are just on that curve of setting up all the infrastructure on Solana. They're probably the future. And the things I'm most excited about. In our case, we started BRZ on Ethereum, but then obviously transaction costs and scalability problems led us to look into Solana. I can say that Solana went even beyond, because now we are one of the ecosystem fund managers for Solana in Brazil. It's a $20 million fund that we invest in early stage projects. So we have a bigger strategic alignment with Solana than, of course, speed and scalability and cost, but also a strategic alignment with the protocol.
02:28:34.434 - 02:29:05.466, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, for us, Solana in particular was super exciting just because of the types of transactions that we want to do, the types of protocol that we are. But what I'm most excited about, actually, is continuing meeting people like this. You know, our partnerships are always awesome. It's been great seeing everybody in person for the first time. Most people, you know, we've been talking to them for months and actually putting a name to the face has just been really cool. And, you know, the after parties and stuff have been nice, actually bonding with these partners. So I'm just really excited to keep this going and see where we can all take this the next couple of years.
02:29:05.466 - 02:29:35.554, Speaker A: Yeah, cool. Perfect. I guess. I guess thanks for the amazing, I guess, chat. Really talking about very different perspective from the c five and also deFi, in terms of asset management tools, and also talking about what I guess motivates you guys to build the protocol itself. I guess I'll just wrap up here and thanks for everyone for joining as well. Good one, man, two dogs.
02:29:48.234 - 02:30:31.924, Speaker B: Serum had 500 million of TvL in September, and as of today, that's gone up to 2 billion. So we're now going to hear from Edward Zuo, who is speaking about project serum, on what's coming up and the potential for it. And I know myself that actually, like, seeing a younger generation get interested in Solana kind of like accidentally, just through me being interested in it and really finding it to be like the best blockchain I've ever used is that I think that this TVL and just overall usage will scale exponentially as younger generations don't want to put up with the time of kycing and that Dex is real, like younger generations when use dexs. So I'm very optimistic on serum, just myself and one has to comfort. So, yeah, welcome, Edward, to talk about it.
02:30:49.664 - 02:31:46.474, Speaker A: How's everyone doing? We enjoying Lisbon? Enjoying breakpoint? It's good. It's good excitement. When people ask me about project serum, they ask me, you know, what is serum? And I have to give the same one liner, something like, well, serum is a protocol delivering the underlying liquidity infrastructure for different applications. Building on Solana sounds kind of cool, doesn't it? Sounds mysterious. Then they ask me, okay, cool, what does that mean? And, well, it means a lot of things, and it means, potentially the world. That's kind of what today's presentation is about. What is project serum? What is its ultimate vision? What does it have to do with the world? And what are serum's contributors doing to get us there? So, as I already said, serum is providing this underlying liquidity infrastructure.
02:31:46.474 - 02:32:28.648, Speaker A: In doing so, it brings a fully functional, centralized exchange experience to all of defi. This means on chain central limit order books. It means a matching engine. It means fast settlement, cheap transactions. All these great features brought to the DeFi marketplace at scale. More specifically, serum central limit order book powers an entire ecosystem of financial debts built on Solana by allowing them to pool their capital into one place, into one layer, and to allow them to match their orders and trade against one another. This leads to incredible synergies and the massive scaling up of DeFi to the rest of the world.
02:32:28.648 - 02:33:27.044, Speaker A: And the ultimate vision of serum is to power and bootstrap the global mass adoption of DeFi and emphasis on global. Because we're talking about a multi year program, we're talking ambitious and symbolic milestones, like $10 trillion of on chain value and 1 billion users. Because if we want DeFi to become truly massive, this is the kind of scale we have to think about. This is what we have to have in mind. So I think these are relatively modest milestones, but nevertheless, how do we get there? To get there, I think it's important to understand how serum, Dex, or serum, rather, kind of works under the hood. Otherwise, how are we so confident that serum, out of all the primitives and out of all the Dexs out there, is going to get us there? And part of the answer is, well, Solana blockchain. Yes, Solana has unlocked incredible scalability and incredible throughput, all happening on layer one.
02:33:27.044 - 02:34:07.736, Speaker A: And once you have something like Solana blockchain, you might say, okay, cool, it's time to build. It's time to start replicating all the financial services we take for granted in tradfi. Where do we start? Where do we start building? Is there any specific primitive we want to build first, or is it just not really a question? The serum philosophy is there is such a primitive you would want to build first before the rest. And I think some of the traders among the audience will actually know where I'm going to go next. That primitive is a fully on chain, central limit order book. You know, first of a kind, first of its kind, and sort of a one of a kind within Solana. And the order book.
02:34:07.736 - 02:34:53.544, Speaker A: I mean, you all know what an order book is. You've all used an order book whether you know it or not, right? If you've been on FTX, you've traded on the CME or CBO, you've traded on order book markets. Every major electronic exchange out there, tradfi exchange, uses an order book. And it's that half butterfly looking thing with the red and green bars. All the incoming limit orders, you know, the bids and asks categorized by price, time, priority, and then a matching engine would then utilize that book to determine which orders are partially or fully matched. So we have this order book, and you know them for the, you know, some of their incredible benefits when it comes to capital, efficiency and liquidity. The traders here, many of them, will know that the order book is sort of this holy grail for Defi.
02:34:53.544 - 02:35:32.268, Speaker A: This is big. Solan has unlocked something huge now that we have a completely on chain one. But for, you know, I think a fair question is, you know, what really is so great about an order book, and why are we trying to bring it into the Defi domain in the first place? So just really quickly, I just want to go through some of the benefits of an order book versus something like, say, an automated market maker model. Not that there's anything wrong with it, right? There's a time and place for amms, but let's think about it in terms of, let's say familiarity. You want DeFi to become huge. You need to bring in institutional interest, institutional capital, but on top of retail interests, of course, as well. But of retailers and institutions outside of DeFi.
02:35:32.268 - 02:35:59.464, Speaker A: Right. That's the market we want to breach. What are they most comfortable with shortly, it's, you know, what the rest of of the world, the uses to interface with the global financial system. And that's an order book. So familiarity is key here. And, you know, it's kind of like, no wonder that since day one of Serum's launch, incredible, you know, top tier market makers have been doing their thing on chain, allowing for serum to sort of bootstrap this liquidity from the beginning. When I say flexibility, I also.
02:35:59.464 - 02:37:03.218, Speaker A: I mean something like, if you think from, you know, the global financial perspective and getting it to be efficient while scaling on Solana, you ultimately need traders to make more meaningful opinions than, oh, I think these two assets are highly correlated, right. You need people to be able to specify the price, the direction, the size of their trades. And when you allow for trading beyond this, when you allow for people to say, yes, I want to buy or sell this asset at this price, at the specific price point for a duration of time, you allow for the trading, you offer trading beyond just the narrow range of prices that normally are entailed by the traditional amm. And this leads to greater capital efficiency. That's kind of the beauty of central amount order books. Liquidity gets concentrated to where it's most effective, and it gets updated in real time as new information comes in. So we get more efficient markets, more accurate market pricing, and on top of that, but with the order book, you have reduced slippage almost irrespective of trading value, which makes it the optimal trade execution model.
02:37:03.218 - 02:37:58.610, Speaker A: You don't have LP's taking on a permanent loss, and you don't have to rely purely on arbitrage to correct asset prices. So I apologize for that mini lecture baked in here, but I think it's kind of important to see the general direction now that I've sort of laid out. What is the order book and matching engine? Right now it kind of sounds like serum is, is just some Dex standalone Dex components. But how do we get from Dex components to the rest of the world? And, well, there's one word for this, it's composability. Yes, composability. In DeFi, you can have different protocols, talk to each other if they're built on the same blockchain as if they were native, and you can stitch together all these different protocols to create something that's much greater than than the mere sum of its parts. When we talk about composability with CiRM, what do we really mean here? What we mean is serum order book has the set of order book markets and different applications.
02:37:58.610 - 02:38:40.592, Speaker A: You can build a GUI, or you can build an API and then compose directly with that order book market to send in orders. Imagine, if you will, something like a pincushion where you have all these needles stuck into the pin. Question. You have all these different Dapps composing with the single order book market. In this case, let's say it's Bonfida. You make an order on Bonfida, that order could actually get matched, could actually get traded against by someone on a totally separate Dapp, which is radium in this case. And you can imagine how powerful this becomes as more and more applications start composing with this order book layer, how massive that shared liquidity base becomes.
02:38:40.592 - 02:39:16.264, Speaker A: And you can also imagine at a more nuanced level how convenient this is. When you have this whole matching layer. For developers who ultimately want to build something like a trading interface in their application, they no longer need to reinvent the wheel every time a new protocol is involved. You don't need to reinvent the wheel when it comes to bootstrapping liquidity, maintaining your order book, or however you're matching orders. You don't need to make market making partnerships or build amm pools or do all this very intensive stuff. As developers, you can focus on what's important for you by plugging and playing into serum. And that's what we mean by the scaling up of defi.
02:39:16.264 - 02:39:42.084, Speaker A: Let's move away from some of the abstract and talk about some concrete examples. What does it really look like when you compose a serum? This infographic is a bit misleading because there's actually more than 70 projects composing serum. Sometimes they compose with us without telling us. Please don't do that. We need to know. But there's many, many people building on serum sending value to serum. That volume, of course, goes to SRM by and Byrne.
02:39:42.084 - 02:39:56.538, Speaker A: And you know, what are people doing on serum? Let's take a close look. Here's one of my favorites. This has been around. This has been possible since day one as well. You can spin up your own state of the art Dex GUI, or rather serum based. Dex on serum. That's just a classic example.
02:39:56.538 - 02:40:33.886, Speaker A: You can find that in the open source repo. It's all on GitHub. If you really wanted to, you can create your own Dex that shares the same liquidity as all the other serum based dexs out there, you take the GUI, you could change up the look, the feel, the extra ancillary features you want to build on top of it. So if you're a Bonfita, maybe you want to target a specific niche, like traders of every level of experience. Then, you know, you build out Cirm based Dex. On top of that, you build automated trading strategies like the Bonfida bots. Or maybe you're a Dex lab and you have a strong interest in bootstrapping and accelerating the launch of new tokens.
02:40:33.886 - 02:40:58.294, Speaker A: You can have a Dex dedicated to the listing of custom markets and build something like an IDo launchpad on there. So I think this is a pretty nifty way of setting up getting started with serum and already begin participating in that, that shared liquidity base. There's dozens and dozens of these dexs out there, actually. All good for serum, all good for you and me. And you can go to portal dot project serum.com to check out more. They're all listed there.
02:40:58.294 - 02:41:42.664, Speaker A: Here's another one, the serum swap. This is also another great and easy way to get involved with serum swap is a bit of a misnomer. Don't be fooled, that's non amm. That thing in the background sends a market order directly to the serum or order book to tap into that deep liquidity there. You can imagine how an interface like this, again in the GitHub repo, you can imagine how convenient this is for someone building a wallet or another application that requires a user to be able to convert quickly into a custom token to use your app. So if you're soulflare wallet or you're solid or someone, you could have this kind of baked in, and it's great. You could also aggregate it too in a certain swap feature if you wanted, just really quickly through the other, I think, super interesting possibilities.
02:41:42.664 - 02:42:22.048, Speaker A: Serum can power liquidations and even portfolio construction features like rebalancing. Because again, all you need is for your protocol to send serum to send the appropriate limit orders into the serum dex. So if you're borrow lending, let's say you're a jet protocol and you want liquidations to happen, or let's say your Nova finance or solarise finance, you have an asset management platform. You need to do your rebalancing upon certain conditions. Serum is there for you. Serum powers these incredibly important functionalities, and that's quite cool. If you're an AMM like radium or atrix, believe it or not, you can also benefit from serum.
02:42:22.048 - 02:43:09.308, Speaker A: So instead of having fragmented liquidity and suffering from the normal drawbacks of reduced increased slippage. Rather, you can have your amm send orders into serum order book at positions alongside the ratio implied price curve, and in doing so, your LP's actually get access to all that incoming order flow and vice versa. People outside the AMM can also have their orders traded against your LP's, and that's super cool. NFTs are also a pretty big thing. We've seen a lot of incredible metaverse projects out there, a lot of even triple a rated titles out there. If you're Star Atlas, you know, Defi land Auri nfts are super hot. And I think part of that is driven by game designers realizing that you can take these nfts and make them into recognizable and immersive in game assets across multiple games too.
02:43:09.308 - 02:44:10.876, Speaker A: So players will naturally want to trade these nfts and serum. You know, you just utilize serums order book architecture to create a market structure that's different from an auction. Let's say you have multiple mints of a single NFT, you can spin up an order book market for those NFT items, and there you go. And now you're trading spaceships and characters in Star Alice. And that's an incredible use case. Last but not least is just what we call deeper integrations. And this just means if you fundamentally are building something that needs to match between buyers and sellers or borrowers and lenders bid and ask orders, at the end of the day you can build that on top of serum, you know, and this is the case whether you have a spot platform or derivatives or I suppose even nfts, you know, and a huge shout out to the people building incredible complex products and risk hedging tooling out there, you know, shout out to zero one, to Psi options, to zeta markets, to Hero network, to cypher, formerly known as offpeast, and many and many more.
02:44:10.876 - 02:45:06.808, Speaker A: These are the use cases that serum can power. I hope that these slides can really inspire some of you to begin thinking about what you want to build next and not feel overwhelmed by the steep learning curve that comes with maintaining your own order book, bootstrapping your own liquidity, having to make all these market making partnerships. This is what I mean by scaling Defi to the rest of the world and getting us to that end goal. What we end up with is this really elegant and simple model that's ultimately scalable. Imagine the superstructure of financial services on Solana and perhaps beyond, and some of them might compose with each other. You know, you have oracles you have borrow lending, you have margin services, but ultimately all of these different products in their own way, sort of compose with serum the order book at the bottom, right. Everything bottoms out at the order book because everything sort of bottoms out at the level of the transaction between buyer and seller.
02:45:06.808 - 02:45:52.612, Speaker A: If I can get a bit philosophical with you. And that's the simple model, the simple yet so powerful model. And how do we go then from the simple and scalable model that I just laid out to the next 100 million users? The next 1 billion users? Well, I think there's an easy answer here, or part of it is an easy answer, which is, well, you just build out the thing that a billion users would want and we can infer what that is. It's going to be wallets, it's going to be, you know, borrow lending, it's going to be derivatives and what have you. But some other, other trends aren't so obvious. You know, no one could have predicted the NFT craze. And you have people building derivatives on nfts and other interesting, you know, value adds on nfts.
02:45:52.612 - 02:46:43.794, Speaker A: Who could have predicted that? Well, the people who could have been most responsive to it. Apologies, can I get a glass of water, please? The people who could be most responsive to it surely are the developers and the builders and the users, right? We want the community to figure out what the best product market fit is because they're the best people to figure that out. And the serum and its contributors can be there to provide the resources foster to serve discussion, make sure that we provide everything we can to get the ecosystem to go towards where it should. And this is not just wishy washy language on my part. Thank you so much. I promise it's not COVID, it's just a post nasal drip. And what I just said isn't just wishy washy language.
02:46:43.794 - 02:47:54.866, Speaker A: And one clear illustration. Illustration of this is serum Core, the Asset Agnostic order book, which is a community driven and community oriented initiative by Bonfida, one of the oldest ecosystem participants in the serum in Solana universe. Bonfida and others had realized that, yes, the classic version of serum allows for the matching of spot, right? Allows for the matching of SPL tokens, which is great, but very hard if you're trying to build borrow lending or derivatives, because. Because you're trying to ultimately represent positions that have multiple dimensions in token formats. Very painful. So the Bonfide team had created the serum core, which is a pure matching engine that can match any arbitrary financial asset. And what this means is, well, it means that in 2022, it means that in 2022, you have all these different projects already migrating onto CiRm Core, and we can look forward to the next wave of CiRm based innovative financial adapts with a focus on complex products and a focus on derivatives and risk hedging.
02:47:54.866 - 02:48:26.254, Speaker A: And this is already happening. We have so many protocols already, including some veteran ones in the serum ecosystem, already migrating on over to cirm core. And that's super exciting. Exciting. Another thing we want. Sorry, another thing we want for serum is decentralization. Right? And what I talk about kind of leads into this core tenet of serum, because as the community and as the users of serum and Solana and Defi, as that becomes bigger and bigger, we need to be able to be responsive and accommodative to their different needs.
02:48:26.254 - 02:49:24.564, Speaker A: And we also need to make sure that all the different voices have achieved chance to be heard and that everyone can collaborate together and discuss in the appropriate forums how to get serum to the direction it needs to go. Last month, we have launched the Serum Community forums, which is a great place to start these discussions and to talk about these really important parts, about all these different aspects that determine serum's growth and serum's future. We've also launched the DAO voting platform, which is now live. You go and make proposals and have people vote on them. You know, you have people vote now on the things that matter for you, whether it's who gets a certain grant or whether it's, you know, certain things about the tokenomic structure, or whether you are interested in a liquidity incentives program like liquidity mining. There's a lot of new proposals and recent, recent activity in that area. And this is, you know, this is great because we need cirm to be by the community and for the community, and to tap into the wisdom that the community has.
02:49:24.564 - 02:49:55.084, Speaker A: But figure out the best way of doing so so that we can get serum to where it needs to be. Just one quick, last strategic direction, which is institutional capital, institutional adoption. If you want DeFi to become huge, you need institutional adoption. There's no way around this. The numbers between DeFi and Tradfi are not comparable. Fine. How do we bring on all these institutional players on chain? How do we make them feel more comfortable? Because there's two issues here, at least from what I understand.
02:49:55.084 - 02:51:01.802, Speaker A: You have an issue of letting them feel comfortable on chain and knowing sort of what to do, because it's a completely different environment for them. Secondly, you need these institutions to be able to match the KYC to meet the KYC and AML standards, because if you trade with the wrong person, you trade with, with someone on a sanctioned list, that's, you know, that's, people can go to prison, and that's huge financial penalties. So we want to avoid that and really bring institutional capital to drive Defi's growth without upsetting, you know, the appropriate, any counterparty or any, any regulating body. So I think the first question I mentioned already has an answer. Right? We have an on chain order book, and that's very familiar for these institutions, for market makers, for different prop shops. And already there's discussions and even deployment of things like an incentive scheme for different market makers or an API endpoint for high frequency traders to come on and to feel comfortable and do what they do best. I'm also going to give a shout out to Solrise finance and their partner, civic Technologies.
02:51:01.802 - 02:52:15.322, Speaker A: They've done a very cool thing, which is they've created, created Solana's first permission Dex. By using a serum based Dex and then using civics online identity solutions provider, they can create a permission environment where everyone trading on the serum Dex actually has to go through KYC. I know this sounds a bit counterintuitive to the values of DeFi, but this brings more freedom, more power, and not less, because now you have institutions coming and giving rise to an entire new market of institutions, institutional level, institutional quality liquidity that is ultimately parallel and complementary to what's happening on cirum. And more and more projects who currently are not public are actually doing this and exploring ways to consolidate all these different pools of institutional liquidity by figuring out who has the equivalent KYC standards and then virtualizing orders across these different markets to give. Give rise to an even greater institutional pool that can be of use for those in the traditional cirm ecosystem, as it were. So we've talked about a lot of things today, and it's crazy, because this is just the beginning of Serum's journey. Everything is moving at breakneck speeds.
02:52:15.322 - 02:52:44.434, Speaker A: Serum is going to become slowly more decentralized in order to remain agile and responsive to the needs of its communities, bringing on institutional capital and institutional expertise to bring and grow out Serum and Solana into the rest of the trad five domain to make defi truly huge. And, you know, whether you're a developer or a user, we invite you to come along for the serum journey, because there's much to build, and serum is always waiting for you. Thank you.
02:52:57.554 - 02:53:20.104, Speaker B: Quick mention that peoplepleaser has an NFT drop that recently came out. It's at peoplepleaser dot metaplex.com. So that's spelled ppl. Pleasr dot metaplex.com. So people like ppl. And then please or without the e at the end. But besides that, we're breaking for lunch for about an hour, and then we'll resume back up here.
02:54:47.824 - 02:54:50.968, Speaker A: I had a dream felt just like.
02:54:51.056 - 02:54:52.124, Speaker B: Real life.
02:54:55.274 - 02:54:57.386, Speaker A: And all I believed was.
02:54:57.450 - 02:54:58.894, Speaker B: In my head.
02:55:02.954 - 02:56:17.764, Speaker A: To rest your life created from Stardust welcome back, everyone, from our lunch break and the final portion of our program for this afternoon, I'm taking over from Marin, lovely Marin, who we all love. Not as pleasant, perhaps, but what I do offer is, as someone who's helped produce this entire show, put a standard for this stage on all the programming that was very lively, things that were happening. Now we know it's a challenge after a few days of being in an audience. And this is the last little segment we have here. So what we did was we saved those projects that have the most life, the most action, and are about things that are happening now on Solana and that are changing the world. So the first session, led by Maddie Taylor, who's head of growth at Solana Labs, will focus on skipping and jumping low, building friction across chains. Thanks a lot.
02:56:17.764 - 02:56:59.204, Speaker A: Welcome, Maddy. Hey, everyone. Hope everyone had a good lunch. We have a really exciting panel. We're going to be talking everything kind of cross chain, I think. You know, it's pretty obvious now to me that we're living in a multi chain world, which has been great. There's been all these ecosystems popping up across l one s and l two s.
02:56:59.204 - 02:57:27.652, Speaker A: But how do all these things connect? And how do the downstream ux, how does that work as well? So we're going to be discussing all of that. But first, before we dig into things, it would be great if you guys could just introduce yourself, tell us a little about your project as well. Sure. Hey, everybody. So my name is Chris Hart. I'm the CEO at Civic. Civic has been in the blockchain identity space since 2016.
02:57:27.652 - 02:58:09.290, Speaker A: So we're kind of ogs. We've been around for a little while. We've worked with blockchain companies, we've worked with non blockchain companies. And actually think this is a really exciting time because what we're hearing from projects unlike what we had heard previously over the last couple of years is identity is becoming really, really important, whether that's for DeFi, whether that's for nfts, it's becoming really essential, and it's something that they need and they want inside their project. So for us. That's really cool, because what we've built basically is an identity Lego that you can pull off the shelf. It's fully composable, it works cross chain.
02:58:09.290 - 02:58:35.648, Speaker A: And in 2018, we launched our sister company, Identity.com. And Identity.com is a nonprofit, and they have something called the Identity Gatekeeper protocol. And basically our identity token lives on that identity gatekeeper protocol. And we basically provide identity. And I think it's important just to say identity doesn't always mean KyC. It can actually mean other things.
02:58:35.648 - 02:59:21.870, Speaker A: It can mean fully anonymous, as in the case of ignite, which we launched on Solana on Monday, which is for NFT mints and drops. It can mean pseudo anonymous, like we're doing for NFT creators who want to be instilling trust in their community, but they want to be semi anonymous. Or it could be full KYC, like Solarise Dex Pro, that awesome team. Or we've got snow Crash, which is an NFT platform based on metaplex launching on Solana. You're going to hear a lot about that project, I think, soon. So we're really fired up about like, the cross chain identity. It needs to be elevated up beyond one chain, but we're doing it all on Solana because it's fast, cheap, and the time to finality is really good.
02:59:21.870 - 02:59:53.114, Speaker A: So that's us. Hey, everyone, I'm Gabe Cohen. I work at three box labs, which builds out a product called the ceramic network. And the idea is that we have mutable data on decentralized storage. So you can bring your own blockchain and bring your own decentralized storage. Ipfs, arweave anything else and have high integrity data that can change over time. Think about dynamic nfts or any data that you want to associate with your decentralized applications.
02:59:53.114 - 03:00:36.294, Speaker A: And we're really trying to realize the power of decentralized identity, putting users in control of all of their data independent of any centralized institution or even any centralized storage solution or blockchain itself. So free your data on ceramic. Hey everyone, Simon Harmgart here. I'm from Parsec and IQ labs. So we've been around since 2019 with Parsec, and what Parsec is all about is about making it really easy to access data happening on chain in real time. So it's all about streaming data. So whatever data you want to monitor, Parsec has its own programming language that's super easy to use called Parsec QL.
03:00:36.294 - 03:01:14.862, Speaker A: And if you want to monitor custom event within your smart contract or internal external function calls, we can detect that in real time. And then you can send notifications to users, telegram, discord, or alert an endpoint by leveraging webhooks. Or even if you wanted to integrate email, you could go ahead and send an email again in real time by just detecting that event on chain. So Parsec Paris started off with streaming, and now we're moving again into historical data soon as well. We're cross chain ETH, BSc Solana, we're heavily invested in Solana. We really believe in the future of Solana. So that's all about Parsec.
03:01:14.862 - 03:02:14.004, Speaker A: And then we launched a new protocol that's called iQ protocol, and it's all about making it really simple for users to build their tokenomics. And what we noticed is that the incentives of all users aren't always aligned in protocols. So you're going to have users who just want to hold the token might not want to use it for whatever utility it has, but then you're going to have users who actually just want to access the service, not be exposed to the price fluctuations of that native token. So what this protocol allows is to actually rent wrapped expirable versions of that original token from lenders. And everyone wins at the end of the day, because people who want to access the utility can pay like a monthly fee or an annual fee, like if it's a subscription, in order to access whatever it is. And the fees they pay go back to the lenders in the form of interest. So, yeah, that's all about IQ labs, and we're also doing collateralist renting of nfts.
03:02:14.004 - 03:03:11.726, Speaker A: So you can think of like in game content, being able to rent these versions of, of the NFTs in order to access whatever utility they have in a game or other application. Great, thanks, guys. So one common theme I think is between some of your projects is the notion of identity and its importance. And honestly, when I've used crypto protocols, I'm just using my address associated with my wallet to interact with these things. I don't necessarily necessarily think of that as my whole identity. So I'm curious, like, how do your projects kind of expand on that notion of identity and including more data to be able to utilize in a lot of the Dapps that we see today? So, Chris, do you want to start? Yeah, I think it's a great question. And there's this notion of identity that is kind of baked into blockchain today, which is my wallet, is my identity.
03:03:11.726 - 03:04:00.354, Speaker A: Why do I need anything beyond my wallet? I've got my private key, I've got my 24 word seed phrase. But I think the problem comes in when you try and do things where you need multiple wallets. And I think all of the guidance suggests when you're doing purchases, you should use a burner wallet and then you should put it to your other wallet. And then what if you want to get an ethereum nFt? Or what if you want to do something on Casper or polkadot or whatever? Pretty soon you end up with 510, 15 wallets, maybe more. And also, the wallet doesn't actually express anything about your identity as a person. Right. So there needs to be an abstraction layer above the wallet that basically rests, we think, on a did or a decentralized identity standard that's also on chain.
03:04:00.354 - 03:04:53.222, Speaker A: We think it's really important that identity live on chain chain in a fully decentralized way and that it's not sort of siloed away into a database, but it's actually readable on chain because it allows other Dapps, other protocols to actually access that information. So the way we're thinking about it, Maddie, is we're taking this notion of identity and we're saying, yes, it's associated with a wallet, but there's a layer above that really can tie all of these wallets together. And by the way, you. You can have more than one identity. It doesn't mean you should have just one identity. You could have an identity that's very narrow and it's being used for NFTs purchases, or it's being used for something very specific, or you could have a very robust identity that has multiple wallets associated with it. That's more Kyc.
03:04:53.222 - 03:05:44.284, Speaker A: Like, you've gone through document provision, all that stuff. And the last thing I'll say is, I think it's really important that it's reusable because this is one of the things we see in crypto where people get this fatigue. Right? It's like, oh, my God, do I have to do Kyc again? I have to go to another Dex, I have to go to another protocol, and it's like Groundhog day every time you go do it. So I think there's a real advantage from an adoption point of view on the retail side to be able to provide identity. And then on the institutional side, we do Kyb at civic, and we also provide identity of an institution tied to a wallet. So this is going to crack open so many use cases, we think, for crypto and on one chain, yes, but cross chain as well. Yeah, that's.
03:05:44.284 - 03:06:38.186, Speaker A: That's awesome. I totally agree with a lot of most of what Chris said. I love the use of decentralized identifiers, which we also make use of at ceramic, which is technology from the w three c that's up and coming. And we see that your solana or ethereum or any other blockchain address you have is not your identity, but it facilitates your identity. And the more of these keys that you attach to a common decentralized identity identifier, it makes your identity stronger and less fragile. And dids are really needed to have more traditional security controls, like key rotation or revocation, or even assigning access control rights to different pieces of data that you want to read. And I would also just warn everyone that viewing your financial data as your identity is a huge risk, like telling everyone, here's my Solana account.
03:06:38.186 - 03:07:27.354, Speaker A: And also, this is me, bad idea. You want some anti fragility there. You need higher level control, like decentralized identifiers. No, I agree with a lot what everyone's saying. It's sort of with parsec just going off the identities there is that parsec sort of tries to bridge the gap between web3 and web two. And I know, like we're trying to build identities on web3, but with Parsec, we like working with a lot of different projects. So whether that's like, I know civic has some AML stuff, so being able to a detect a transfer happening on chain in real time, and being able to communicate with a different protocol that, hey, this deposit just happened, and being able to combine, for example, their risk data, would love to work with them on that, for example.
03:07:27.354 - 03:08:39.938, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think cross chains super important, and we've been talking to some protocols as well that want to do some cross chain stuff. So for example, detect something happening on ETH in real time when a specific event happens, and then send that data to their Solana implementation on the other side as well. So I think this cross chain data is going to be really important, whether that's to monitor all these Dexs automatically, to get data off of them for arbitrage opportunities, or just to build your cross chain experience more seamlessly by detecting the data and then being able to send this data to an endpoint to automate code or whatever you want it to do. Great. So as you build out a more comprehensive identity system and be able to surface that to decentralized apps, what are the most exciting deciding use cases that you have seen unlocked through this ability? Or if you haven't seen them yet, what do you want to see built with this kind of primitive. Yeah, yeah, that's a great question. So one of the things we're seeing at civic is the advent of permission defi.
03:08:39.938 - 03:09:15.694, Speaker A: And so I mentioned at the beginning, we're working with Solana and Solarisedexpro. Alameda is one of the big market makers coming into that Dex. And it's really interesting. Like, what is permissioned anyway, in the context of a Dex? Well, basically, it means the counterparties can be known. So if you're trading with somebody on Coinbase, for example, you know, they went through the Coinbase onboarding process, right? They had to provide their identity. They had to go do all this stuff. Whether it's an individual or an institution, if you trade with somebody on Coinbase, you know who they are.
03:09:15.694 - 03:10:09.894, Speaker A: We need to actually take that model and blow it out into the decentralized world, and that's where identity can really come into this. So what we've done with the permission pools on Solana with solarise Dex pro, is to say you're going to do a certain level of identity verification as a retail trader or as an institution. And once you do that, you get access to these pools of liquidity to, that are now available for you to trade inside this little ecosystem. Now, where it gets really interesting, I think, is when you take that and you blow it out across chains, and you say, okay, I'm a yield seeking investor. I want to go look for the highest yield, but I want to be able to do it cross product and cross chain. I don't want to have to care. Is it on ethereum? Is it on salon? Do I have the right KYC? Am I allowed to do it? I just want to be able to go use that product.
03:10:09.894 - 03:11:14.942, Speaker A: So I think what we're building at civic and these guys as well, on, you know, this middleware kind of enablement layer, is to say, how do we get to that next level of adoption? How do we connect everything with these sort of abstracted identity elements and middleware pieces with notification? That unlocks institutional money, because the amount of money in Defi, whatever it is, it goes between 150 to 200 billion. That is a drop in the bucket compared to the amount of money that wants to come in and can't yet. But pretty soon, it will come in, and that's going to be a game changer. Yeah. One of the big things I see is making your data more powerful by making it your own. And one of the. One of the examples I like to give is, if you think about all the streaming services you use, whether Netflix or Hulu or HBO, you all have preference data in all these separate services, and depending on how much you use them, they have different levels of accuracy, and you often have to repeat much of the same behavior across all those sites.
03:11:14.942 - 03:12:09.554, Speaker A: But if they have shared a common format or even had an interoperable format, you could own the preference data yourself and share that out to any service you interact with. So I think we're seeing a transition from services competing on their user tables and more on the quality of their services. And that's what something like ceramic enables, by giving you control of your identity and your data and not requiring you to re enter it and recreate it everywhere you go. Totally, yeah. Part of IQ labs just going off with what we were just saying there. With those streaming services, a lot of screen streaming services, they require some personal identity, which shouldn't always be the case. There's going to be instances where you need your identity, you're going to need KYC AML, but there's also going to be those other instances, more like a Dex, where you don't need that so much.
03:12:09.554 - 03:12:47.614, Speaker A: What Parsec has built with IQ Labs is more like being able to any decentralized application be able to use their token more as like a decentralized SaaS subscription. That's sort of how we use it at Parsec. No one necessarily needs to. We don't need to know their identity. We just, they can purchase our tokens or rent our tokens in order to access our services as well. But again, there's going to be both use cases, both for the decentralized and more KYC AML in order to bring that money into the ecosystem as well. Great.
03:12:47.614 - 03:14:26.280, Speaker A: What do you guys think? We only have a few more minutes here. What do you guys think are still the biggest friction points when building a cross chain app? And what do you think needs to get solved in the next two years to make it completely, you know, frictionless for an app to connect to all these different chains? Yeah, I mean, I think largely it's getting these connection points between chains to such a status that you can actually send messaging across notification services like Parsec, you know, identity layers, like what civic's doing, and then getting, I think, people to understand the power of having applications that can access cross chain protocols, cross chain defi pools, being able to bring your NFT from point a to point b and represent it on any chain you want, whenever you want. Some of these consumer driven use cases have a tendency to remove friction because creative projects see the potential and they have communities they want to serve, and suddenly they're out there innovating. To the extent that we can be ready with these kind of middleware and identity layers to meet them where they are, I think things can just explode. I think in terms of friction, just because it's such a dynamic space, it makes it challenging to know which chain is ready for what at what time, but I think we'll get there. What do you guys think? Yeah, I think there are many chains that are really interesting and have their own respective strengths. And to truly, really leverage the strengths of different tools and technologies, we need strong commonality.
03:14:26.280 - 03:15:22.732, Speaker A: And that looks like really good data standards around how we interoperate on data, whether it's schemas or signature types or key types, like having a place to centralize or at least agree on how we can work together across these ecosystems will make our data more free and more powerful. And a lot of that work is happening in the w three c decentralized identity foundation and other standards bodies. I think the biggest thing is we see one of the trends happening right now. There's all these bridges that are being launched right now, and like, cross chain bridges is one of these big trends that is happening at the moment. And you see all these different competitors pop up. So I think that's really important for cross chain to be able to ultimately get to the goal for the end user not to know what chain that they're interacting with. Obviously, we'd probably all love for it to be on Solana, but I think there's going to probably be different ecosystems, just like you probably have your preferred brand.
03:15:22.732 - 03:16:00.132, Speaker A: There's going to be people living in these different areas as well. So I think great, ux. So you eventually don't know what chain you're interacting with, but also being able to have notifications, have data, go cross chain. Hey, this deposit got transferred, now arrived in your other wallet or your wallet that you use across chain, and now it's ready for use. Or just to notify that, hey, this happened for your application, so you can do whatever you want to do. And last question. We'll have a few time here, but one of the things that's important is creating a shared set of standards.
03:16:00.132 - 03:16:37.114, Speaker A: And so I just quickly, if you can just talk on how you think about your specific dids or data layer becoming the standard and how you approach that. Yeah, I mean, we agree w three C did standards should be adopted and should be implemented. There's been a ton of work that's gone into it. I think it's an important foundational stone in identity, and it will foster greater adoption. Gabe? Yeah. Ceramic is building out a data warehouse, essentially, where you can define any type of data schema and tools like that, facilitated by these standards. Bodies is key.
03:16:37.114 - 03:16:58.762, Speaker A: Yeah. And with Parsec, we're a cross chain solution. And, yeah, you can make it really easy to access that data across chain easily. But like with Parsec QL, we have the standard both for real time data, but also in our historical data as well. So it's like a one stop shop. And Parsecql makes it really easy to, to access that data happening on chain. Awesome.
03:16:58.762 - 03:17:28.374, Speaker A: Well, thank you so much, guys. Great insights. Thanks, Matt. Great. So what I heard, skipping and jumping, they're not skipping and jumping into blind spots. They have an idea of where it's going. And these are actions that are taking place more and more and more.
03:17:28.374 - 03:17:56.866, Speaker A: So people are skipping and jumping across these chains. Now, speaking of skipping and jumping, I'm going to warn you, we're about to put a session on that has one little technical gymnastic. We're going to be joined by a speaker on their phone. We'll see how it goes. If the connection's not good, we're going to cut it. But luckily, we've got some other great speakers for deeper and wider. And Darren Lau, who's with the daily ape, is going to lead this conversation on how market efficiencies are coming for the masses.
03:17:56.866 - 03:18:33.782, Speaker A: Thanks a lot. All right, hi, guys. My name is Darren. I'll be a moderator for this session. Today's topic is about deeper and wider market efficiency for the masses. So before we begin, can you guys just give a round of introductions about yourself, what you guys are doing in the space, and just introduction about yourselves? Sure. Dan Gunsberg.
03:18:33.782 - 03:19:16.208, Speaker A: I'm the co founder of Hero Network. We're building a decentralized derivatives, primitive for future swaps, options, paramutual markets, something unique on Solana. Probably the best way to think about it is what we're doing is kind of rethinking the fabric of the derivatives landscape. Globally, $188 trillion market and thinking about how you build a decentralized CME, decentralized OCC Options Clearing Corp. And I'll do it on Solana. Great. Hello, everybody, I'm Justin Schmidt.
03:19:16.208 - 03:19:48.020, Speaker A: I'm head of strategy at Talos. Talos is a bilateral crypto trading platform. We provide full end to end workflows for traders, primarily in CEFi, including connectivity to 30 to 40 different market destinations, both exchanges and otcs. Everything from pre trade trade to post trade, including settlements both in crypto and fiat. My background is primarily in traditional finance. Before this, I worked for Goldman Sachs. I worked for a couple different hedge funds in New York and London.
03:19:48.020 - 03:20:25.434, Speaker A: That's me. I'm Norbert. I'm basically a founder of Synthetify. We are aiming to give a ability for people to mint synthetic assets directly on Solana, so they don't need to use bridges or even access different asset classes like commodities, indexes, or even stocks directly on chain. Hi everyone, my name is Anton Bukov. I am co founder of 1inchh network. It's a network of different protocols and the most well known aggregation protocol.
03:20:25.434 - 03:20:58.946, Speaker A: Please excuse me for being in the middle of your chip. All right, thanks. Thanks for introductions. Given that you guys have all built products that are all targeted towards the retail market. So just wanted to ask a quick question here. Like, what do you find is the difference between building for retail users compared to building for institutions users, for example? Yeah, sure, definitely. Solana is super early, so most of the money is coming from institutions and VC's.
03:20:58.946 - 03:21:39.898, Speaker A: So this is probably like primary market for us right now. But definitely, like the NFTs are helping out with bringing more people from like not even financial space to the system right now. Let's say we are focused on mostly unlocking the liquidity and this is targeting like the financial guys. But once we reach like some, you know, adoption level, then definitely we're gonna also like target directly retails. And thanks to the Solana, they will don't even know that they are using a blockchain. This will be like super layer abstraction and basically an instant settlement. Yeah, so we are more on the institutional side for sure.
03:21:39.898 - 03:22:51.732, Speaker A: We are more b two b eventually. So we tend to power more of the medium to largest institutions that are then themselves connecting via their customers to retail. So our primary responsibility is, I'd say safety, soundness and performance of the platform. And in doing so, we help them serve their end clients and provide that experience to end retail customers. Yeah, I think that when you're building for retail way more kind of UI Ux focused, and once you start to get into the guts and like in our example, like building out a kind of more of a base layer derivatives primitive, you start to think about things that are, that if you were kind of just thinking about retail, you never think about. And these could be things like credit guaranteed settlement, like how do you guarantee settlement on chain? How do you, you implement things like market maker protections or basically some of the elements that exist in tradfi that you do need to see and you want to see crossover. The other element that I think is something that I think from the worlds that are these two worlds kind of merging together is really the KYC element.
03:22:51.732 - 03:24:00.968, Speaker A: And definitely from the institutional side, you are not going to see. I think it is going to be very difficult to see institutions put large amounts of capital, if any, into decentralized networks without some type of identity or base kind of KYC being done. So like, I think civic was on just on the last, you know, on this last panel, and they're doing something very interesting, like, you know, that we're going to be implementing into hero network around Kyc. And I think that you have to still have those elements even in some light touch form in order to really think about getting institutions to participate. And at the end of the day, like, we look at crypto as a whole, it's, you know, right now, it's, you know, just under $3 trillion in total market cap. But you look at decentralized derivatives, I mean, you're talking about a open interest that is somewhere in the order of just under $200 trillion. And so if you kind of take a step back and look at the forest of the trees, that's really what the opportunity set is and really what we're going after.
03:24:00.968 - 03:24:40.822, Speaker A: And I think that if you're thinking about building towards institutions to help build your liquidity and participate in your protocols, then you're going to have to think about those things in order for it to happen. I can add that wind one inch started to build for b two c because we were building initially for ourselves and we. That was it. We never know. I think he dropped off there. I think we'll just continue on without him. I think for now.
03:24:40.822 - 03:25:33.974, Speaker A: Another question that I had was given that you guys just mentioned about KYC and stuff like that. So curious to know, how do you guys find this whole KYC issue? I've noticed some projects have a ban on us countries. Is this an issue that you guys are facing as well? And how does this affect the adoption of your platforms? Yeah, as I just said, I think there's just balancing. We're definitely at the outset focusing on what I would consider more of traditional semi institution. Also really on operators who, you know, like, you know, just like Justin said, it's very much of a b, two b to c type of play. And I have yet to interact with an institution or a professional trading firm that has said that it's okay to not have KYC at your entry points to your primitive. I think it's a requirement.
03:25:33.974 - 03:26:51.614, Speaker A: And I think what's going to happen is if you don't have it or you don't think through ways to have it implemented either at your base layer or at the application layer, is you're constantly going to run into this issue of truly being able to capture a much wider global audience coming to your protocols. You just. I think what's going to happen is you're going to end up with these two kind of markets. You're going to have this lit world that has some level of like an evolved form of KYC that networks will be participating in, and then you're going to kind of have this, like more or less of a black market that that will exist that, you know, may suit, you know, most of the, you know, some parts of the world world really well, but it all depends on who is coming to your protocol and who's participating. Yeah, it's a fantastically interesting question. On our platform, everything's bilateral, so all the counterparties are KYC'd with each other. And then I think if you talk about what's happening in Defi and on chains, the institutions are absolutely going to require compliance with the financial crime rules, whether it's KYC, AML, CFT, CFT, etcetera.
03:26:51.614 - 03:27:31.054, Speaker A: But I think the engineers and the lawyers need to get together and figure out where it makes sense in the tech stack. So if you're in the highly performant part of the matching engine at the Nasdaq or New York Stock Exchange or whatever, they're not doing KYC checks at that very base level. It's happening somewhere higher up in the actual stack. You're onboarding the customer, and then they sort of get the okay and that kind of thing with Defi to be seen, I think. But I think there's definitely potential for KYC to be applied at some higher level. And that you have the base layer that's very highly performant, like obviously Solana, very performance sensitive. And then somewhere we figure out where the KYC fits in there.
03:27:31.054 - 03:28:16.414, Speaker A: But definitely the institutions are going to 100% require that we are building basically directly on Solana. So let's say KYC is another option, especially, like in our field, which is synthetic right now, it's, let's say not a problem, but once released, like stocks and that kind of stuff, then definitely having this centralized, this might be a problem. So for us, definitely a solution is decentralization and censorship positions. Right. And that way, let's say the KYC is not part of problem. But definitely for, like, institutional, then yeah, there might be additional layer on top of synthetify to bring this KYC. Right, got it.
03:28:16.414 - 03:29:16.666, Speaker A: Given that you guys are all building. You guys are building Solana, you guys are building on chain projects as well. How do you guys think that this brings more efficiency to the markets? For example, does having everything on chain is really beneficial to the public, retail especially? Like, how do you guys think about this? Like, what kind of data do you guys provide for people to make the best decisions possible? But, okay, so for us, like, you know, I think about it as, like, when we take a step back and look at what we're building, we. I can't, you know, my background's been in proprietary derivatives trading for, you know, 20 plus years and was very active on, you know, multiple exchanges. A member of the CME Chicago of trade and Whatnot. And, you know, if you kind of think about how those exchanges existed pre being public or, you know, it was very member owned and member governed. And like, if you had a, you owned an exchange seat, you had some level of vote and participation in who sat on the board of governors and whatnot.
03:29:16.666 - 03:30:35.302, Speaker A: And so I, you know, once it became public, that all changed. And so I think what decentralization on one hand does is it gives us an opportunity to kind of rethink that and evolve it back to a place where if you just simply replace token ownership stake token ownership with what used to be an exchange seed, and that token ownership is giving you governance, it's giving you participation and rewards. And now you actually have something that looks like something that existed 30 years ago, years ago, and actually becomes very useful here. I think a second point, too. And, you know, one of our investors who, the president of the company is a former, former head of futures and options at Citi, and that guy that I become close with, he, you know, he made a great point and said that post 2008 2009, that what the regulators really did is they actually ended up concentrating risk because they didn't really know what to do with the calamity that happened. And they ended up kind of vesting risk and market risk into much, much smaller amount of banks. So you had this thing that it was somewhat disintermediated, but it kind of mushroomed up and then collapsed.
03:30:35.302 - 03:31:24.518, Speaker A: And then suddenly you had six banks that were controlling everything. Like the amount of systemic risk, risk that that creates for a financial market is massive. And so I think that, you know, thinking through these ways to apply elements of decentralization where you now can extract away some of those intermediaries and some of that control of market risk and spread it out very wide. Again, I actually think will benefit the stability and security and, you know, and start to mitigate the systemic risks in the market that actually currently exists today. Yeah, that's great. I agree with a lot of that, certainly. I think what's happening is we have this new infrastructure and we're rebuilding a lot of the tools that we had from tradfi, and we're doing it in a way that is extremely innovative.
03:31:24.518 - 03:32:07.886, Speaker A: But this diaspora of innovation where people are kind of almost trying everything, is almost getting funding right now. And so people are trying all these different things. And we've had great learnings from traditional finance where there are these rules, and there are rules for reasons. And there's obviously new cool stuff from crypto and old valuable knowledge and wisdom from traditional finance. And these need to come together in some capacity and hopefully be complimentary to each other in the next three years, five years, whatever. This is not going to happen in the next two, three months or anything like that. But in many ways, there need to be new structures created to think about what it means around systemic risk.
03:32:07.886 - 03:32:51.252, Speaker A: Right now, crypto, $3 trillion cumulative asset class is not systemic. When you have a major clearinghouse that might go down or something in traditional finance that's systemic. The regulations are there, I think, generally, not to be super oppressive, but they're there because they don't want to create, you know, catastrophes for humans, broadly speaking. You know, it's not to make it be difficult to do business. So, you know, I think, you know, tying this back to Solana and what's going on there. You know, I think the interesting aspects here are this is part of this innovation diaspora that's happening, where this chain is designed to be performant. It is very, I think, well suited to things like financial systems like Defi, like payments for talos.
03:32:51.252 - 03:33:17.984, Speaker A: We support, you know, we're a software company, so we can be very flexible for all the institutions. We support various different types of tokens. We obviously support sol itself, but in a very real way, there's still, I think, this continuing innovation that's happening, this continuing design, building things. And we're still going to be figuring out, I think, for some time, what this means in terms of the actual, like, integration between traditional finance and crypto, though. Yeah, it's still. I mean, it's. It's still a green field, right.
03:33:17.984 - 03:34:25.336, Speaker A: And, you know, we were talking backstage because Justin's background at Goldman, we both came from traditional finance. And we were kind of, you know, just joking about, like, the kind of some of the. Both the cultural aspects and the level of experimentation and advancement that's happened in the last few years in things that cross over and kind of where you and I are standing, which is kind of at this intersection section of tradfi and Defi now that, what a rude awakening so many of these banks are going to be in for when they kind of see the power of, like, what, you know, even mild disintermediation looks like. And, you know, and culturally, the space as a whole is very kind of, you know, will rally around kind of what is more this newer technology. And so ultimately, I think it is going to be something where a balance is going to end up needing to be struck in order to kind of move forward in a frictionless way. I think it's also, like, heats to, like, the main point of defi, which is, like, giving a fair chances your bank account shouldn't matter how much you got, like, paid or whatever. And bringing this transparency because of the blockchain, I think it's really important.
03:34:25.336 - 03:34:56.192, Speaker A: Like, you know, most of the guys are trading, you know, like in dark pools or wherever and bringing this on blockchain, whereas everybody's getting a fair chance, you know, it really brings more competition, fair market and more efficiency. Right. Yeah. One more point I'll add to is, I think, the incentive structures around decentralized networks. You know, some of the things that we see today, I think, are, you know, maybe being done a little naively and like, you know, there's. But there's. It's one of the beauties of the space that we're in.
03:34:56.192 - 03:35:15.664, Speaker A: There's so much creativity and exciting experimentation going on at the same time, and some things work, some things don't. And you have this massive community of users that effectively is willing to be a test pilot sitting on rocket ships. Right. Yeah. The ecosystem is still tiny compared to, like, the whole market structure. Right. Everybody's experimenting, but once something clicks.
03:35:15.664 - 03:35:49.406, Speaker A: Right. It's getting really big ridiculously quickly. Right? Yep, got it. Thank you. I think one last question I had for you guys was that what do you guys think is some ways to really drive adoption to the space, not just to your project specifically, but what are some things that you see that can be used by other people to continue driving more users to your protocols, to the space in general lending? Without a doubt. I think if you kind of. I know people hate hearing this, but if that first wave of defi kind of 1.0
03:35:49.406 - 03:36:48.320, Speaker A: is about lending, that I can tell you. I mean, we all have, you know, we all have friends and family in, you know, who's not in crypto. But if you, you can go find the majority of the world, and even at the institutional level, pensions, government, doesn't matter. Like, the, the real capital in this world craves yield. And so, like, you can think about something like, you know, when we think about hero network, it's such a wide opportunity set because it's everything from like derivatives on in play sports to derivatives using to create, you know, option structures for yield harvesting and for structured products and things like that. And so, but man, if you go and tell somebody right now that you can give them 6% interest on their retirement money, they will worship the country, walk on. And let alone we all know the yields that are available in crypto today.
03:36:48.320 - 03:37:43.824, Speaker A: And obviously, as more capital gets into the space, it's going to get compressed. But again, like the whole token concept, the incentive structures, the way things are designed, it's so, it is such a breakthrough that I think eventually the banks are going to have to get there because, like, you know, what, what's a good yield now? And in the institutional world, like 2075, Aramco bonds for three and a half percent like that, you know, in crypto, it's many multiples of that and with, with a limited amount of risk. I mean, you can go to FTX right now and lend out uS dollars for, you know, somewhere between ten and 20%. Last August, when leverage was up and things were really popping, it was you were looking at getting 80% to 100%. Now you're getting 80% to 100%. But behind that is a basis trade that is really yielding maybe 250%. And so there's a lot of gravy there.
03:37:43.824 - 03:38:32.704, Speaker A: And so I think that lending actually is the number one inroad for inroads into crypto and into defi as a whole. And at that application layer, it's so crucial that you have the right platforms that are helping to drive that. Yeah, I agree with gunny there. All of the yield gen, whether it's staking or lending, is bringing in the entire credit side of traditional finance and opening their eyes to what's happening in crypto. Just like I think NFTs are bringing creatives and influencers and artists onto blockchains and having them be a part of the ecosystem as well. And then I would just say, zoom all the way out. I was speaking at Credit Suisse last week, and you come to events like this and the average person you meet here is just unbelievably knowledgeable about crypto, and they know so much and they're so well connected.
03:38:32.704 - 03:39:14.252, Speaker A: And then you go to sort of the other side of the spectrum at one of these traditional institutions, and there's still just a lot of education and time that's going to be required for the continued sort of mass adoption of, I'd say, broader people coming to crypto. I think the easiest example is, like, just putting money into a crypto, like, to the bank, because right now, if you go, like, to European bank or Switzerland, you are getting charged basically a negative interest. Right. And I think that is ridiculous. Right. And I think this is like, at least like, you don't need to interact with any of the protocol. Just keep their money, like accounts or whatever in metamask or phantom, and use the USDC like us dollar.
03:39:14.252 - 03:39:21.764, Speaker A: Right. All right, thank you, guys. I think that's all the time that we have. I think. Thanks for time. Thanks for your time and thanks for your insights, guys. Thank you.
03:39:21.764 - 03:40:11.710, Speaker A: Great. Thanks, Darren. Thanks, everyone. So, yeah, I told you the little technical thing was going to happen. It happened, but we cut them, and hopefully it wasn't too distracting. But anyway, when weird things happen on the stage, at the end of the day, maybe it's good because you have been here for a couple of days and we're trying to make sure you can make it to the end. That's why all these sessions about lively things, things that are happening right now, we had skipping and jumping.
03:40:11.710 - 03:41:02.958, Speaker A: We had some market efficiencies, and now it's about riding the big waves, the future of liquidity and market making. So if you remember to what Meltem said in one of her keynotes on Monday, liquidity is everything here, and we're going to learn a lot more about liquidity through David Liu, who's going to be leading the next conversation. Thanks, everyone. Hey, guys, thanks for being here. We know that's the final day. You know, everyone's probably quite exhausted. So great to have all you guys joining us for this panel on liquidity and market making.
03:41:02.958 - 03:41:38.378, Speaker A: My name is David Liu. I'm from, I'm a co founder at Drift Labs. We're building a decentralized drift protocol on Solana right now, primarily focused on perpetuals. So you may have heard my colleague Cindy earlier on stage, and I guess without further ado, pass it on to Jacob to kick off the short 22nd introduction before we could dive into the meat of today's discussion. Cheers. So I'm Jacob with GSR, market maker and liquidity provider in digital assets, both on chain and off chain. Hey, I'm Simon Nursey.
03:41:38.378 - 03:42:00.330, Speaker A: I work for QCP. We are a digital asset service provider. I run the derivatives trading. We're market makers in options across a wide range of venues and to our customer base. I'm Joe. I work at CMS holdings. We operate a little bit as a hybrid fund between actively traded strategies and then venture investments over there.
03:42:00.330 - 03:42:30.654, Speaker A: I help head up our investment portfolio and good afternoon, my name is Yuri. I work at Anchorage Digital. We're a platform for institutions that securely custody, trade, and do a lot of on chain activities for digital assets. Great. Thank you, gentlemen. So I think what we'll start off with is talking about the breakdown between centralized market making on centralized platforms as well as decentralized platforms. Especially over the past year, year and a half, we've seen this massive inflow into Defi.
03:42:30.654 - 03:43:14.424, Speaker A: So I thought it might be worthwhile to start from a market commentary perspective, get the panelists thoughts on what that transition has been like for them. We've got some options market makers here as well. So perhaps, Simon, siding with you on just some of the things you've observed in the space, and then we can pass it around. Sure. Yeah. So for us, we've been quite taken aback by the shift of the explosion in the Defi options space. We always felt it was a difficult problem to solve, getting derivatives on chain, but now it's not experimental or a test or anything like that.
03:43:14.424 - 03:44:06.954, Speaker A: It's a very significant part of our business. We're turning over about $250 million a week of Defi crypto options through the various vault projects out there. This is up from zero just a matter of months ago. So we're very bullish the sector, and it's clear to us it's not about, it's all about the customer experience. It's just a nice, easy process. Connect to wallet and trade, and we're seeing a lot of customers moving over to that who don't want to go through all of the painful process of where are you located, what's your doing? All the KYC and things. This is a super exciting area for us, and we're, and we're all in.
03:44:06.954 - 03:44:51.186, Speaker A: So, Jacob, how about yourself? GSL, also in options quite heavily. I'd love to hear from you too. Yeah. I think generally we try to be agnostic versus prices discovered on centralized exchanges or in decentralized exchanges or venues. The decentralized space is much more capital inefficient at this time. It requires a lot more capital, but the yield is quite a lot higher. Some of the innovations that we are seeing now is basically weeks to weeks, month to month, on how in the decentralized space is becoming much and much more efficient.
03:44:51.186 - 03:45:29.204, Speaker A: So I think we're going to see tons of more liquidity moving that way, and we're going to see an even faster rises in decentralized derivatives and options. So I agree with Simon. Got it. And I guess, Joe, I'll pass it over to you. And we talked about capital inefficiencies, thinking we're seeing a lot of that. And a lot of this is being mirrored in the amount of insane yields that we see on all these platforms, these derivative protocols such as DYDX as well. I mean, from both your perspective and CMS, how do you guys see this opportunity? Yeah, so for us, I think right now we run quite a bit of automated strategies on things like DyDX and perpetual protocol.
03:45:29.204 - 03:46:26.732, Speaker A: But what's been interesting to us is, I guess the capital efficiency kind of leads the funding rates on these platforms to get out of whack a little bit faster than you see on a centralized exchange. So from the trading perspective, we're looking to take funding rate arbitrage trades most of the time between decentralized exchanges and the centralized exchanges. I think as we see liquidity kind of continue to get into this space that will start to dry up. But right now that's kind of what we're focused on between kind of automated Dex trading and then our bread and butter on the centralized exchanges. Got. And like for you, Yuri, how about you? What's your position in for Anchorage as well on this market? So Anchorage is in a very unique place in the crypto industry where we are a federally chartered bank in the United States. So what does this mean? So, like, you know, if we look at options, for example, that we started talking about, options are reasonably new in the crypto space.
03:46:26.732 - 03:47:05.200, Speaker A: Obviously there's always been OTC options. But then, you know, a couple years ago we saw the CME list options. You know, now there's all these, you know, option platforms in the DeFi space. And, you know, as an institutional facing platform, we get a lot of interest from all sorts of clients who, especially ones that are coming in from the traditional finance space of their options interest. Right. So there's a lot of work that Anchorage is doing in the regulatory front to allow clients to start trading here. You know, maybe it starts with something simple like the NFA CFTC registration so we can do CME options and then also do a lot of work on how to approach from a regulatory perspective.
03:47:05.200 - 03:47:47.030, Speaker A: You know, things like, like Simon and Jacob talked about as far as, like, options and defi platforms and more of the OTC space. All right, so I think, Joe, I want to hone in on one thing. You talked about the funding rate basis arbitrage, which is quite significant. And I think this is where this whole intersection of c five and defi seem to overlap. It's very easy to go one position, say long run perpetual protocol, and take the hedge on FTX. So without obviously revealing too much alpha, is that what's brought you guys into the space as initially traditional play in this? Yeah, well, I mean, I think we play kind of across the entirety of the platforms. Right.
03:47:47.030 - 03:48:21.106, Speaker A: So, I mean, we'll provide liquidity as well as trade on things as well. I mean, I think for us, we're kind of just after wherever the opportunity lies. So, I mean, right now we're finding a lot of arbitrage opportunities there. I think we would like to trade a bit more standardized what we do on the centralized exchanges, but I think we're waiting for a little bit more institutional participation, just a little bit more liquidity, kind of backing the framework of what we have right now before things kind of get there. So, I mean, I think it's opportunistic, but it'll definitely change in the future. Got it. I mean, let's hope.
03:48:21.106 - 03:49:25.890, Speaker A: I mean, this is a good segue to, I guess, capital efficiency, which inefficiency, rather, which is what Jacob talked about earlier. It seems like partially there's a chicken and egg problem, I suppose. When is the liquidity going to arrive? Before we even step into that? What's the experience been like to even set up strategies, even to get involved in defi in the first place? Because we discussed this earlier, but there's usually some barriers to entry, even, say, moving from l one has its own challenges, and then moving from l one to l two has its own set of limitations, which you don't really get on a centralized platform. So, Jacob, perhaps you can start there. Yeah, I think looking at the arbitrage opportunities just initially, you have two different price discovery mechanisms. You have the constant product formula on decentralized exchanges, and you have a central limit order book. So that's a pretty natural space for price differences to occur, and that becomes a natural attraction for an arbitrary to go in and are between DExs and DeXs.
03:49:25.890 - 03:50:20.824, Speaker A: Now, the initial entry to the decentralized space is that instead of having an account, you now have a wallet. Instead of doing trades, you are now doing transactions. And if you are fairly, I guess, sort of established firm where you need to have all the control, backstop controls within your organization like we do, you need to be able to synthesize transactions as trades and recognize wallets as accounts. And then you need to integrate on quite a lot of decentralized entities, still very fragmented. And we don't really have this interoperability yet. So there's tons of work and prioritizations to go after these different pools, but the opportunity is certainly there, and we're seeing less fragmentations, more interoperability coming. So I think generally it's the place to be at the moment.
03:50:20.824 - 03:51:12.800, Speaker A: In Defi, as we see it, the problem of the sort of primary markets is solved right through vaults, and there's a lot of vault solutions out there at the moment. It makes it very easy, the process of putting money in, taking money out. And as a, as a market maker, we're, it's very straightforward getting involved in that and extending liquidity there, that the challenges as a market maker is then being able to move into the secondary markets and provide two way consistent streaming markets all the time. And for that we need leverage. We need risk aggregation and leverage. Risk aggregation and efficiency of trading. Right.
03:51:12.800 - 03:52:00.126, Speaker A: And we're not there yet. It's definitely more capital efficient to trade on the CFI exchanges, but all of the components are definitely there. And we've met numerous projects in the last few months that are putting the bits and pieces together right here. We've got friction PSi options all producing, looking at very good solutions for this. So I'm quite sure that it's just around the corner in terms of a full order book based DeFi. And then I think the shift of liquidity will happen very, very quickly, I guess. Yuri, anything else on that? Guess you talked about regulatory, a lot of structural challenge, and I think that a lot of funds and larger organizations these days struggle with that.
03:52:00.126 - 03:52:45.404, Speaker A: I mean, I had a conversation with a large market maker, and that person requested the KYC pools in order to market make on a platform like ours. And I guess that's obviously a structural limitation for you guys. Have you seen that? To be a blocker to entry into the defi space? Yeah, obviously, the KYC is first and foremost. That is by far the most important thing for a lot of the customers that we talk with. Obviously, I think a lot of the crypto native funds are very comfortable right now with what KYC AML looks like in the crypto space. For example, our customers face Anchorage. And if Anchorage decides to source liquidity and deFi, most crypto natives are okay with that.
03:52:45.404 - 03:53:53.978, Speaker A: But when you're looking at folks that are coming more from a traditional finance space, they obviously dig a lot deeper. I don't think that the majority of them are quite comfortable with a lot of the DeFi exposure, although a lot of strides have been made over the last, I would say, year. Right. But right now, I think, for example, let me give an example here. A lot of the traditional finance folks, they want to use bitcoin that they hold for a long term timeline to like, for example, go open interest on futures, right? But you know, they deal with futures commission merchants which are under the CFTC umbrella and there's no regulation that's says, all right, well, you can have bitcoin as underlying collateral, so you can use a platform like Anchorage to place your bitcoin in. And then we cross margin us dollars, which an FCM can take, and then the client can actually, through two steps away, use their bitcoin to go short and long future. So for now, we were seeing it just like in that regulatory framework.
03:53:53.978 - 03:54:18.856, Speaker A: So not quite there in the defi space. But I think if we have the same conversation, I'm answering the same question next year, I think the answer is going to be quite different. Absolutely. So I think this takes us to the next part of the conversation. I want to unpack in a bit more. A lot of this growth in DeFi has absolutely skyrocketed the past two years. I remember trading options, actually OTC back in 2019, and that was the only way to do that.
03:54:18.856 - 03:55:06.284, Speaker A: This was even before Darabit was even really capital efficient. And that in itself had its own challenges. And fast forward two years, so much has happened to the point where a decentralized exchange like DyDX can overtake coinbase in the amount of volume down in a day. So in terms of that migration of liquidity, not just for DoiDX, but for other platforms, how has that informed a lot of perhaps your thinking around the evolution of these defi exchanges? And I think we can start on derivatives. It seems to be that derivatives capture a lot more volume spot. Simon Pap, starting with you, given you sort of alluded to the options piece very early on. You know I'm an options guy, right? Yeah, we're still.
03:55:06.284 - 03:55:32.726, Speaker A: I mean, so DyDX has been a massive eye opener for us. Yeah. The success of the platform and how quickly liquidity has moved on to it is incredible. And even this, we know is not an ideal solution. Level two, blah, blah, blah. You know, there's. But it's clearly set the path for where liquidity is going to move and how it's going to set up.
03:55:32.726 - 03:57:05.404, Speaker A: I actually see a world in which we have liquidity going in two different pools. We've got the regulated coin based style, us sort of liquidity, liquidity pools, FTX, etcetera. And then, and then this less regulated direct access defi world of liquidity pools. And I think there'll be, we see increasing divergence between the, between the two sites. You know, if you look at a lot of the, a lot of the exchanges that are sort of under attack right now from regulators, or rather being challenged by regulators right now, it's clear that a lot of the customers that are now struggling to reach those exchanges will divert themselves to Defi and consider crypto options are currently unavailable in a regulated format to half the world's population. Yeah, this is the sort of solution that DeFi brings in, but it's a separate world of liquidity to this other exciting area, which is the whole regulated world and traditional finance entering and taking advantage of these assets. Jake, for you, do you see something similar where there's going to be almost distinct pools to serve different customer groups? Yeah, I still think there will be centralized and decentralized liquidity for a long period of time.
03:57:05.404 - 03:58:47.764, Speaker A: What I'd say about the derivative space within decentralized finance, inherently yield farming is inherently unsustainable in the long term in its current form, and liquidity mining is also fairly unsustainable. There's some quite interesting innovations going on where you actually have sort of protocol owned controlled liquidity, rather than user owned liquidity, where you put on, you get it back. But what derivatives and options do on decentralized finance is that it's provide a sustainable yield. So instead of having yield farming as traditionally, we can look at the inherent volatility of the asset class itself, and we can create yield from that, and I think people will more and more migrate to that sort of long term sustainable yields. So that's quite exciting to be able to provide that in a decentralized ways, because it's already quite big on decentralized exchanges. Yeah, I mean, I guess from our side, we probably share a similar opinion where we see a world, at least in the near future, where there's these KYC regulated pools, and then there's also your typical decentralized what have you that we're using now. I think for us, we hope this isn't the future that we kind of trend to, just because you kind of end up in a similar scenario that you see right now, where you kind of have the big boys all in one place, and there's a lot deeper liquidity over here, and then retail's kind of playing on their own little playground.
03:58:47.764 - 03:59:23.242, Speaker A: And I think for us, from an idealist perspective, all this stuff kind of unifies into, I don't know, a lot more of a wholesome kind of liquidity front than kind of just a different type of fractured liquidity than we're seeing right now. Sorry, go on. Yeah, just one more aspect to kind of look at to answer this question is security. Right. So at Anchorage, you know, security of your assets is probably the most important thing that we do. Right. So, you know, when you look at a DeFi platform, you know, do I want to place a $50,000 trade there through, like, some sort of a metamask wallet? Sure.
03:59:23.242 - 04:00:00.290, Speaker A: Like, no problem. Right. But if you have a, you know, a big institutional client and they want to do a $10 million trade, maybe accessing a DeFi platform, even though the execution may or may not be better, we kind of look at it from a security perspective. Probably not going to put $10 million of clients money onto a metamask. So there's also these types of considerations as well, especially when you're dealing with an institutional client that has done a ton of DD on you, due diligence on you for security purposes. There's also those considerations that I think are going to be fixed over, over time as well. Got it.
04:00:00.290 - 04:00:34.414, Speaker A: So it sounds like there is a question around even just access points. Right now, we're all using on chain wallets to interact. I think Jake talked about transactions. Let's quickly move on to, I guess, even the whole constant product curve piece that we talk about, the amms, it's very much like a defi native piece that you've seen, and it's widely popularized by uniswap. Then x. X times y equals k. Naturally, that's quite different to just the pulse central limit order book type model.
04:00:34.414 - 04:01:53.204, Speaker A: So starting perhaps quite high and then moving down. Very curious to get your thoughts on the evolution of these very defi native type systems. So, Jacob, have starting with you. Yeah, I mean, I'm not a huge fan of the constant product function because price only moves when you trade, and it's in traditional finance, in the central even order book, you can move your quotes around and price change that time is much more smooth price discovery process. But there's been some limitations across speed and cost on l one s, which has led amms to look like they do what we're seeing with things like Dydx and a lot of the sort of l two innovations into bringing central limit order book type quoting into defi, I think is fantastic. I think that's a, you know, that's big for someone like us, and we're leaning into that space quite a lot, I guess, like unpacking, that just says, sorry, no, go on. I take personal offense at amms.
04:01:53.204 - 04:02:35.954, Speaker A: I've been market making for 20 years. And to sort of reduce your job down to x times y equals z is a bit of an upfront. Right. We know that market making is difficult. A good market maker is able to anticipate flow, measure liquidity, get a touch on who's doing what, and use that in order to make the tightest price possible to provide the best liquidity to the market. I don't think a formula can do that. I know that market making is easy, and I've seen that in, in my 20 odd years, profitable market making is very difficult.
04:02:35.954 - 04:03:29.868, Speaker A: And I think the, and I think the trick with amms is that the, is that you get in other people to pay for the liquidity or the losses that you're providing through your liquidity, and then there's a little bit of smoke and mirrors to conceal that. So I do not see amms as a sustainable, long term means of providing liquidity to the market. I think there's a, there is a, to really maximize liquidity in the market, you do need active risk taking participants that are, that are injecting and have got a very real role around this. Not a problem. This is wonderful. We want this kind of like, dissonance, contrarian opinions, because I know that, you know, there's a lot of maxis out there that seem to think, oh, no, and to be frank, I'm shooting myself in the foot. Because we run a virtualized amm model on drift that has the exact same challenges.
04:03:29.868 - 04:03:57.096, Speaker A: It's like for you to exit your position, there needs to be someone who takes your position, and only then can you sort of get the exit liquidity and that. Joe, sort of nodding. So your thoughts as well on this. I know we've had a chat separately about this, too. Yeah. Well, I think, I guess I would say, like we see it, that amms might serve their purpose, maybe for smaller things, you want to do a quick swap for a new token you saw, or this or that. Maybe it's a little bit more of a retail centric thing when you start getting into trading derivatives and stuff like that.
04:03:57.096 - 04:04:45.890, Speaker A: And I believe it's similar to what you're doing. You can have, like the virtual amm with maybe an actual spot amm behind that kind of backs it, because what we've seen, being one of the larger traders on perpetual protocol, is that when the market moves, it's a lot of retail driven folks on the platform, and they're all trading the same way. So what you get is kind of this lack of liquidity for somebody to come in and take the other side of the position because the entire market's going one way, and it kind of just leads to this whole mess of liquidations when things come back to the other side. So I think we've been happy with how things are so far, but I think there's room for improvements. I don't think we'll see it go away completely, but it's definitely going to, I think, evolve a bit more from what we've seen so far. Yeah, I think I would just add that the crypto markets are just iterative in general. Right.
04:04:45.890 - 04:05:12.254, Speaker A: So the AMm formula and that type of trading is still very new. Right. It's like the first iteration, you know, and we were talking in the back room a little bit about, you know, virtual amms, which are kind of, you know, a concept built on top of the AMM itself. Right. And there's also a big education gap, too. Right. You know, from the traditional markets, everyone is very familiar with central limit order books and the whole order book structure.
04:05:12.254 - 04:05:41.454, Speaker A: And, you know, the two triangles, the blue and red or green and reds, that you see on exchanges. That's what pretty much everybody knows from bonds, you know, derivatives, equities, and in crypto, you know, we have these new concepts, right? Do they work? You know, you know, maybe in some cases. In some cases not. Right. If you see, you know, what Citadel virtue do that would never work on an Amm because it just moves too quickly. There's just not enough infrastructure, I guess, built out around that. So, yeah, definitely very good points made by, I think, both sides here.
04:05:41.454 - 04:06:27.254, Speaker A: And I guess, touching on central limit order books, we're starting to see l, two s, even Solana, for instance, project CRM DyDX, which we discussed earlier, being able to really handle some serious volume now and sort of coming full circle. Is infrastructure perhaps a big contributing factor for you all getting involved into defi Simon, perhaps starting with you? Yeah, absolutely. So many challenges are solved with the right infrastructure in place. And I think I've been super encouraged by what we've seen in the last three days. I think that. I think we see some pretty rapid progress now. It's looking quite forward to it.
04:06:27.254 - 04:07:13.588, Speaker A: I mean, I can talk from our side a little bit more maybe on the hardware infrastructure than on chain. So for a lot of our decentralized trading strategies, we have developers committed to either running nodes on whatever network it might be on, or just kind of monitoring the thing the whole day. I think perpetual protocol, again, might be good example, like running our own XDai nodes and being able to track everything that's coming through. It gets a little bit tougher on Solana. That one's definitely been quite a haul right now. So, I mean, given the transaction speed that's going through, it's quite hard to kind of look back on everything that happened unless you're running your own nodes or have access to an archive node as well. So kind of getting all that stuff in place, and I guess for us, it's a lot of proprietary software and work on top.
04:07:13.588 - 04:07:48.212, Speaker A: It's kind of just been like a little bit limiting to the scale right now. So I think we're kind of seeing that across the board, too. I mean, a lot of firms kind of have their feet wet, at least, excuse me, at least the crypto native firms. But I think everybody's kind of getting ramped up and getting a little bit more familiar with how this stuff works. And once everyone's kind of got their feet in the ground there, I think we'll see things ramp up quite a bit more on the trading front. Got it. And I guess in the time that we have, like, I think something perhaps maybe more broad, philosophical is that in a firm like GSI, you guys have gotten very active into Defi, particularly over the last year, year and a half.
04:07:48.212 - 04:08:47.962, Speaker A: I mean, in sort of the future for you guys, is Defi here to stay for you guys? And will you guys get more and more active in this space as we grow? Yeah, I think we're going to continue to be more and more active, I think, about 2020, 5% of our leading liquidity. So a bit over a billion per day is run through Defi today. I think that's going to continue to grow for our partners that we work with. What's really exciting for them is, you know, composability is super, super important. There's great work being built, being done that that's very exciting for us. Bridge financing is a great opportunity. It takes a long time to move between l two s to l one s there's a lot of stuff being built out which is very, very important, where we'd love to provide liquidity and help our partners having more capital efficiency in defi super important, as well as the derivatives and options space.
04:08:47.962 - 04:09:53.418, Speaker A: So that's really where we're, where we're focusing from a GSR perspective for QCP, biggest options. Market makers argue you guys are doing a lot of work with, I think, some of the, I think, ethereum protocols like ribbon Finance as well and a few other projects. What's the future for you guys? Oh, look, we go wherever our customers go and whether they want us, right. We naturally seek points of highest liquidity, but also the points where the highest demand is, and make sure that we're participating in all those markets taking advantage of whatever flows and themes there are. So we're just, our strategy is basically around keeping everything open and being able to chase the market wherever it goes next, which is challenging itself. And I think it's evolving so quickly, even on just like a daily. I think we also see things in weekly epochs, almost like stuff just moves so fast.
04:09:53.418 - 04:10:25.526, Speaker A: And as we wrap up, Joe, yourself, and I guess how you see this evolving the space. Yeah, I mean, for CMS, we'll just continue to look to get involved in any way we can. I mean, we kind of participate across the board right now, whether it's on the trading side or some of the decentralized lenders. We're kind of just looking to be one of the firms that can help kind of, kind of bootstrap these things out the gate and be early users ourselves, since we're so familiar with it already. So I think we just kind of keep our eye on what's out next. And CMS will probably be involved in one way or another. Absolutely.
04:10:25.526 - 04:10:59.328, Speaker A: And Yuri, to wrap it up. Yeah, I would say that right now, the traditional finance firms that are coming into Anchorage, they've basically been greenlit to hold bitcoin, ethereum. Right. That's where the biggest asset managers that are regulated, United States, that those are the assets that they're basically allowed to hold. So what Anchorage is trying to do right now is to figure out how they can leverage those assets in order to use them as collateral with all sorts of different derivative platforms that are available to them out there. So we're trying to just build out the infrastructure for traditional finance firms to do that. Great.
04:10:59.328 - 04:11:40.684, Speaker A: I think that's time for us, everyone. Thank you again so much for tuning in the afternoon of the final day. Please give it up for our panelists, us today. Thank you. Thank you. All right. As a producer of this event, I just want to say thank you to all you guys.
04:11:40.684 - 04:12:34.614, Speaker A: The energy out here has been great, despite it being the last afternoon of three days. So we did try to anticipate, obviously, these energy levels at the end, and we want to make sure all this content at the end is easy to grasp because these are live projects, live things we learned a little bit about deeper and wider riding big waves. And now our last session of the day, a great and simple concept for everyone from zero to 2 billion. Right. So for the last session today, please give it up to Chris and Ian, who are going to tell us exactly what's going on and how this progression was made. Thanks, everyone. All right.
04:12:34.614 - 04:12:45.294, Speaker A: Hey, everybody. Thank you for coming. My name is Chris McCann. I'm one of the general partners at Race Capital. I was out a little late last night. My voice sounds terrible. I'm sorry.
04:12:45.294 - 04:13:32.506, Speaker A: We were one of the original seed investors for Solana itself, so it's a kind of incredible to see everything go on today. And we're also seeing an investor in sabre, in my opinion, one of the more interesting, unique projects in the Solana ecosystem. So before we dive into sabre, maybe I want a little bit of a context for everybody in the crowd. How did you learn about Solana? Why did you pick Solana? Because you were doing a lot of things in the original OG Ethereum defi space. So how did you find yourself over here to begin with? Yeah, for sure. I've been following Sam for a while from FTX, probably since July last year, but I basically have a friend group of traders that have just been following, I guess, the growth of FTX, and they saw that they got really into Solana, so they looked into it and they kind of just brought me in. They're like, hey, you should look at this Solana thing.
04:13:32.506 - 04:14:09.234, Speaker A: It's a really fast blockchain, and these really smart people are building on it. So, yeah, we built a stapleswap for the Solana hackathon in November of last year, and we just built some quick app. But, yeah, basically we left the Solana ecosystem for a bit for maybe two or three months because the tooling wasn't as developed. But around April of this year, we just got back into it because anchor came out and it seemed like a lot could actually happen really fast with the Solana ecosystem at that time. And there was a lot of good support for stable coins. So we thought that was the right time to launch Sable. That's when you did that.
04:14:09.234 - 04:14:28.002, Speaker A: Cool. And that was part, that was like the original. That was the very first hackathon, right? Yeah, yeah, it was the first hackathon. Cool. And how did you. So when Sabre launched, one of the things that was probably the most incredible things for a lot of the people viewing. This is your TVL growth completely exploded in the first few weeks, months post launch.
04:14:28.002 - 04:14:58.364, Speaker A: And this was at the time when TVL was not really a thing in the Solana ecosystem yet. There was radium and there was serum, but it was still like a pretty small ecosystem. How did you guys do that? Yeah, for sure. So I think there's two things. One is that we really tried to make a really nice Ui. So it wasn't just the swapping UI or the experience of staking, but also just seeing the numbers count up. As you stake into saber for liquidity mining was something that we prioritize.
04:14:58.364 - 04:15:33.272, Speaker A: We had a higher number of tokens so that people would be able to all get at least one saber and see things count up. But we just tried to make the experience really fun. The second thing was that we brought in some friends to basically build on top of Saber and just grow out the ecosystem. But, yeah, so that was like Sunny aggregator, but yeah, they basically built an app on top of us and they did the same thing. They tried to also make it feel like a game. Yeah. Like those two things combined, I guess, made our app really, or our apps really fun to stake into.
04:15:33.272 - 04:16:19.644, Speaker A: Actually, I wanted to talk about that because even I get a lot of questions sort of being involved. Sabre actually has a big ecosystem of other apps and projects and things being built on top and kind of around all of your core liquidity pools. I'm curious, like, how do you view Sabre as part of this ecosystem? Can you tell us a little bit more about, I guess, the overall strategy? Yeah, how do you think about that? Yeah, for sure. So we view Sabre as like the liquidity foundation for any sort of stable swap. So not just stable coins. Right, which is the obvious one, but also things like staking drivers like Sol Msoul and bitcoin ETH, that kind of thing. But from that, we basically don't want to make it any more complicated than that because we want to support any possible asset from that.
04:16:19.644 - 04:16:51.994, Speaker A: Yeah, we're trying to get people to leverage the fact that our assets or LP tokens are just, I guess, better to hold than like holding the actual, like bitcoin or east or whatever on chain just because you earn like, swap fees. There might be some staking rewards you can get from it, but there's other things. So we're just trying to help people build apps that, I guess, illustrate what that is. Got it. And I think it was just like a couple days ago, you launched this, like, cash initiative, or I guess another group of founders launched the cache nib. Can you tell us more about that one, too? Sure. Yeah.
04:16:51.994 - 04:17:43.398, Speaker A: So we brought in a friend, actually, to build a suite of products that leverage Sabrin some way. So they built this thing called crate protocol, which is basically a way to group baskets of assets together. But that person also has a lot of friends that they know. One of their friends built this stable coin. We've been trying to get someone to build it for a while that basically aggregates Saber LP's and stakes them into sunny. So people are getting saber and sunny rewards, or at least a DAo is, and then that token itself could be a stable coin that we could just promote to get more liquidity into saber. And, yeah, the reason why we are focused so much on liquidity is that that's what provides the, the best slippage for swaps and gets people to perform big trades in large volume.
04:17:43.398 - 04:18:23.840, Speaker A: Got it. So maybe if I could reiterate, you don't see Sabre is just the singular pool where you do the swaps, but you actually see this much more as an ecosystem where people are going to use your LP tokens, your liquidity pools, your other things into many, many applications surrounding what would become the sabre ecosystem. Like, is that, is that kind of more or less how you view it? Yeah, for sure. So sabre is a Amm and a Dex, right? So amm as in it has like some asset you can put money into and you get trading fees of some sort. And then the Dex part is Dex. Right, but I think the Dex part is not something we necessarily, like, want to focus on that much. Right.
04:18:23.840 - 04:19:06.716, Speaker A: All we do is we let people trade between stable pairs. Right. But the liquidity is like the more important and we want other people to actually build the Dexs on top of us. And, yeah, for amms, again, we dont want people to have to think really deeply about what an LP token is and how it works. Wed rather have other protocols even profit from the fact that they could just build on top of us and just get the fees themselves and it just generates more liquidity for us and generates more fees for our users. Cool. And I guess last one on the topic of sabers specifically, I guess, what's next? What's coming out? I don't know if you have any announcements or anything, but what are you guys thinking of in the sort of short and medium term? Yeah, so the main thing for sabre is governance.
04:19:06.716 - 04:19:35.898, Speaker A: We really want to focus on decentralization so that we could, again, what we really care about is the ecosystem. So we want people to be building on top of sabre and contributing back upstream. We think decentralization is really important because it provides this neutral ground for anyone to just build on top of. And it's just like a common library that anyone can use. So there's that. And also we're continuing to support the ecosystem. We want to work with other projects or founders that are thinking of building on top of sabre really closely.
04:19:35.898 - 04:20:23.182, Speaker A: We want to make sure that they have everything they need in order to build on top of us. And one reason for this is that this is actually another reason why we got into Solana ecosystem. So Solana labs actually has this thing called the Solana program Library, where they've basically built out examples of how to build an amm, how to build a lending market, and all sorts of things like that. And a lot of the top projects in Solana are actually forked from the original code from there, saver included. And Sabre contributed upstream. We contributed the Stapleswap curve back to the Solana program library. But, yeah, because of Solana, like, supporting this initiative of having code out there for other people to use, then it developed this really vibrant ecosystem of products in a way that I think no one could have anticipated that Solana would grow this big in one year.
04:20:23.182 - 04:21:06.594, Speaker A: Like, I guess from last November to today, the ecosystem is completely different. Yeah. And it's only because the Solana ecosystem, Solana Labs, just supported people building on top of Solana. How do you actually, I wanted to transition, I guess, away from sabre specifically and more kind of thinking about other founders, especially more technical founders thinking about this ecosystem. I remember in the beginning, development was very rough. It's probably still a little rough to do a lot of this stuff. I'm curious, from a founder, more technical perspective, how is it sort of using a lot of these libraries, how is using things like anchor? Is there other big missing, other pieces from the developer ecosystem like you wish you sort of saw out there? Yeah, there's a ton of things missing.
04:21:06.594 - 04:22:29.760, Speaker A: I think one is that it's kind of hard to basically audit, like the history of program upgrades. There's a culture around decentralization already within Ethereum that I guess compound created, where basically you have a governance voting thing where you can see things in the past. But I think we just need a little more tooling around that for us to have an ecosystem like that. Yeah, but other than that, yeah, I think those kinds of things just needs to be built, and hopefully projects like us will be able to create our governance programs and make other people use them, I guess. And then what are some of the more non obvious considerations you have when you're starting one of these projects? Like, for example, I know you guys, and I'm friends with a lot of the ecosystem projects, and the amount of support requests and discord messages and Twitter threads and everything, I could only assume how overwhelming all of this stuff is. I guess you being as a founder now, today with one of the bigger Solana apps, what are some of the things, other people in the room who are thinking about starting something, what should they be thinking about before they go on this journey? Yeah, I think the number one thing is they should think about, like, building really fast. So one thing we prioritize really hard at Sabre is, like, shipping actual products.
04:22:29.760 - 04:22:52.864, Speaker A: Right. We don't spend as much time engaging with the community as a lot of other products do. But what we do is we want to have, like, the best, I guess, products and best use cases for assets in Solana. And I think in the short term, it might not be the, like, the most exciting thing. Right. Like, we don't look like we're like, I don't know, like meming or whatever. Right.
04:22:52.864 - 04:23:11.416, Speaker A: But in the, in the medium term, which in crypto is maybe like three or six months. Right. This will make the ecosystem a lot more robust, and people will actually have a lot more things to do on Solana really fast. Yeah. So shipping things is what we care about. Yeah. These guys are shipping machines.
04:23:11.416 - 04:23:35.556, Speaker A: And by the way, if there's any entrepreneurs out there, like, with a heavy shipping mentality, talk to Ian. And we'd also love to talk to you, too. We love teams that have this characteristic. And even from day one, you always had this. You and Dylan, your brother always had this mentality. Maybe on a more personal level, how is it starting a company with your brother? You and Dylan are brothers together. You're both doing sabre family.
04:23:35.556 - 04:23:59.036, Speaker A: I'm sure there's some interesting stories there as well. Yeah, it's fun. So this is not actually the first time Dill and I work together, but I think it's maybe the third time. I had a startup before, which didn't pan out. And we also both worked together at a company called Pipe, but we kind of have similar ways of thinking about things. He also cares mostly about product. He also has the same things he likes and doesn't like.
04:23:59.036 - 04:24:33.498, Speaker A: He gets annoyed about the same things as I do. So because of that, we can kind of rely on each other to just operate independently for a lot of the time. And that's really great. I think the hardest thing about running a company in general is communication. When you have more people or you have people you haven't worked with that much, then a lot of times people don't agree on things, and then that causes conflicts or just causes things to. It causes people to not focus on the same mission. Things become slower and less efficient, but we don't have that because we're brothers.
04:24:33.498 - 04:25:09.454, Speaker A: We know each other for a long time, and we kind of, like, grew up in the same, like, I guess, environment. So we think the same way. Got it. And changing topics a little bit. I think I saw a tweet from you the other day that you were stating that I'm probably going to butcher the quote that you believe all the Solana native apps themselves you think they're going to win over versus a lot of the other porting ones. So, for example, if you took compound and ported it over to EVM compatibility to Solana, you think the Solana native version would actually win itself? I'm curious, can you, like, dive into a little bit of that and, you know, maybe not so much on the controversial side, but I'm curious, like, why you hold that view. Sure.
04:25:09.454 - 04:25:40.814, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think, taking a step back, one reason why the Solana ecosystem is doing way better than almost any other non ETH ecosystem is that it's not an EVM chain. And because of that, every single Solana dev is actually a Solana device. When I'm in the hacker house here in Lisbon, people are often not actually that familiar with ethereum and solidity development. They're actually just here just for Solana. And they even got into crypto because of Solana. So with that, you just have a developer ecosystem that's focused only on Solana, and they can't move to EVM if they wanted to.
04:25:40.814 - 04:26:11.054, Speaker A: They'll have to learn new things and just be in a different culture. And with that, Solana development is easy. Or right now, it's so much easier than building. Or I guess EVM development doesn't really exist right now. And I guess if someone were to port something over, they wouldn't have the. I guess that was your question. If someone ported something over to rust, if it's a project that's not native to Solana, and doesn't know about Solana.
04:26:11.054 - 04:26:38.346, Speaker A: There's not that many products right now. So those products, I guess, won't necessarily have as much. I guess they won't be within the Solana ecosystem, which is developed kind of its own way. Like, it has its own, like, catchphrases and stuff that people say on Twitter that are not in Ethereum and vice versa. So it's just different cultures. Got it. So you're bullish on Solana, specifically ones, not necessarily the kind of more multi chain world, if you will.
04:26:38.346 - 04:26:58.802, Speaker A: No, I think there will be a multi chain world. It's just that I think that Solana has its own culture that is like, you can only be part of the Solana culture if you are in the Solana ecosystem, I guess. Cool. So we have six minutes. Let me do some rapid fire questions, kind of more fun ones. Sure. Sorry I didn't prep you for any of this, but I'm going to throw some out there.
04:26:58.802 - 04:27:37.084, Speaker A: If you were going to apply in the hackathon today and you could not do saber, what would you start? Yeah, I would look at whatever is a really big defi up on Ethereum right now that, like, you know, is generating a good amount of revenue and just replicate that in Solana that doesn't exist yet in Solana. I wonder what that would be. I mean, I think DyDX would be a really great thing to build. That's. There's several teams working on, like, perps and margin and stuff right now, but it's not like, the most popular thing to do yet in Solana. So I think there's still a lot of room for innovation there. Rapid fire question.
04:27:37.084 - 04:27:52.980, Speaker A: So quick answers. Oh, sorry. Two, I guess. What do you think? What is your prediction on what you think the TVL for the Solana ecosystem will be, let's say, at the end of 2022. 2022? End of full next year, I think 100 billion. That's my guess. Okay, you guys heard it here, folks.
04:27:52.980 - 04:28:19.140, Speaker A: 100 billion. Let's see how close we get. Outside of sabre, what's the project that most interests you in the Solana ecosystem, for whatever your own personal reason? Yeah, I think cash, the stablecoin bill, and Saber lp's is pretty interesting. Not non saver, not in the saber ecosystem at all. That's a hard question. Okay. I think just the general, like, staking derivative ecosystem for Sol is pretty good.
04:28:19.140 - 04:28:40.254, Speaker A: It improves decentralization. Cool. I guess if you had any feedback or sort of imparting thoughts for technical founders trying to build something, what would your words of advice be you should just build something. Don't talk to too many people. Don't fundraise before you build a product. Yeah, just build. Got it.
04:28:40.254 - 04:28:55.514, Speaker A: The mango ido contract. Bullish. Bearish on the construction of the contract. I haven't read the code. That's all I'm going to say. Okay, let's see. Let's see if I can think of any more.
04:28:55.514 - 04:29:37.514, Speaker A: You're answering my questions a little too fast, I guess. You said to answer faster. I guess maybe our last thought and we can kind of wrap up at the end, I guess. Now, you being in the Solana ecosystem, building one of these apps, seeing where it is today, which is honestly super incredible to see how much progress it's made, I guess. Do you have any reflections kind of being part of this and the whole movement that, honestly, this spawned? Yeah, for sure. I think it's really great that a lot of people are ending the Solana ecosystem. Yeah, it's just crazy to see so many people actually coming here for Solana event.
04:29:37.514 - 04:30:13.630, Speaker A: When I first got into Solana, there was no one interested in it, honestly, there was so much fun and everyone was saying Solana is like a bad chain. So, yeah, it's just interesting to see how it became like a completely different chain after a few apps launched. And yeah, I hope this pace of development continues and I hope Solana moves towards being more, I guess, like it should get more qualities of ethereum over time. Right now it's like, you know, we're like in the mania phase, I guess. And there's all sorts of people coming in, but yeah, we should prioritize developers as well, hopefully. Cool. Well, thank you, Ian.
04:30:13.630 - 04:30:35.288, Speaker A: I really appreciate all your thoughts, especially the more personal ones they have to share. If anybody wants to talk to us, you can grab us afterwards. I think this is the final talk before they close down this venue. So I hope to see everybody at the afterparty. Make sure to talk to other people in the room, especially people you don't know. The Solana ecosystem is a small place still. It's a small world.
04:30:35.288 - 04:30:54.416, Speaker A: I have a lot of love for the community here. So thank you guys for coming. Thank you guys for listening, and I hope you guys have a wonderful evening. Bye, everybody. Hey, man. Yeah, thanks. Alright, everyone, thanks for coming.
04:30:54.416 - 04:31:13.584, Speaker A: That's the show here at LX. You're going to see things being taken down. Please stay out of the way of all these great staff who have been so patient and worked so hard over the past few days. There's still more content at Estuva Fria this evening. And of course, the closing party tonight. Thanks for coming, everyone, and see you next year. See you next year.
04:31:13.584 - 04:31:25.704, Speaker A: Eight.
