00:00:00.320 - 00:00:40.558, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Dailygui refuel where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano and today's the 28 October 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So before we get into the news over the last 24 hours, I just did want to give a shout out here that on Saturday morning, australian eastern Standard Time and Friday evening, kind of like us time here, I'm going to be doing a kind of like show called Agora TV in the Olympus Dao Discord channel. So if you click on the invite here which will be linked in the YouTube description, you can join the Olympus Discord channel and kind of like get ready for that. So we'll be talking about Ethereum, the merge L2s and more. So obviously I'll be taking questions from the audience as well.
00:00:40.558 - 00:00:54.870, Speaker A: So if you're interested in asking me some questions there, be sure to attend it. I'm looking forward to this. I always love doing these things, love answering questions, love educating, of course. So definitely go check this out. We linked in the YouTube description. All right. I don't do these often.
00:00:54.870 - 00:01:37.056, Speaker A: I've been doing a little bit of doing these a little bit more often than usual lately. But I've got I to talk about, got the markets a bit here because I, there was some discussion in the Discord channel today around like obviously shib the dog token going absolutely insane over the last few weeks. I wrote about in the newsletter actually as well. I think it was yesterday or the day before where I basically said, you know, this, this sort of, sort of stuff's got kind of a net positive for ETH because it's like burning ETH right now and it brings in new users and things like that. But I guess like just the market dynamics of it. I think people right now are worried, you know, about last time this happened when one of these dog tokens went crazy was dogecoin, right. And that happened in May and then dogecoin kind of like obviously topped and dumped and then the rest of the market went with it a few weeks later.
00:01:37.056 - 00:02:04.382, Speaker A: And usually when you look at these things, you look at these kind of like irrational pumps in different markets, you kind of think to yourself, well, you know, it just means that this is kind of like late stage stuff in a market cycle. There's, there's lots of retail investors coming in, they're buying into this stuff just indiscriminately and it can't go up forever. So inevitably the whole market's going to come down. I don't think that's going to happen. I don't, obviously, I don't have a crystal ball. I don't know what's going to happen. But I think right now is very, very different to what happened back in May.
00:02:04.382 - 00:02:39.948, Speaker A: In May, Ethan, BTC had been in price discovery for a while. Like BTC, I can't remember, I think was November. I pretty sure it was November, maybe even October. BTC had broke past its old all time high of $20,000 and had been pumping like crazy up to, what was it, 64k or something like that. Um, and then it kind of like had been going a little bit sideways, uh, for, I think about a month, maybe a month or two from there into, into May and June. And ETH had also broken through its all time high in January and had kind of like done, uh, gone into price discovery as well, all the way up to $4,400. And then obviously we had the big crash.
00:02:39.948 - 00:02:56.188, Speaker A: And for the last six months, it's been sideways. Uh, that is very different to what's happened now. Ethan, BTC aren't in price discovery. They've both kind of like gone to their old, old all time highs. Uh, he touched it barely. As you can see here on the chart. ETH kind of like touched it at about 43, 70, 75.
00:02:56.188 - 00:03:44.904, Speaker A: And BTC kind of like went a bit past it up to like, I think 67, 68k because of the ETF hype. But, but they came back down and they haven't been in price discovery for months at this point. So we're not, you know, if you kind of like look at market cycles and look at how they've played out in the past, we're not in the kind of like end stage of a cycle. If BTC and ETH had been going up for a while in price discovery and, you know, it was kind of like, well, we have to calm down at some point and these other things are pumping like the random dog tokens, then they'd probably be cause for more concern. But right now, you know, ETH is sitting in this range between seems $4,000 and $4,400 or not even 4400, I say 4000 to 4300 kind of range. It just keeps ping ponging through this. I mean, this is only the hourly chart, but you can kind of see we've been doing this since the 21 October, so hasn't been that long.
00:03:44.904 - 00:04:19.616, Speaker A: It's been like, you know, what's today, the 28th? Been only a week since it's been doing this or if we, if you go back here and it's kind of the same thing, but just generally, I mean, even back to the, back to here, it's kind of like been trending up, but ping ponging. Right. But if we, I mean, I'll switch to the daily chart here. Oh, that's a two day chart, especially the daily chart here. So I can kind of, like, illustrate what I mean by this. So when all these dog coins and stuff were pumping during kind of like may or kind of, it wasn't just like dogecoin was a bunch of other things as well. Some, some other silly tokens we had kind of come up.
00:04:19.616 - 00:04:47.826, Speaker A: And you can see on the screen here we've kind of broken through all time high in January on ETH. Like, you can see, I'll just zoom in in January. And then we've got, we've gone up and up and up, up, up into price discovery way past the old all time high, all the way up to 4400 ish here. And then we came down, obviously of a crash. Now, what's happened over the last kind of like six months since then is that we've, we've kind of like consolidated down here. A lot of people got to kind of like sell off if they wanted to here. A lot of people got to buy in cheap eats down here.
00:04:47.826 - 00:05:17.580, Speaker A: We went to 1700 after, after being a 4400 solo people scooped up. And then at the late July, early August, we started going up again. And then we've just gone back into another range here. You can even kind of like say that we've been ranging or basically going sideways since like August essentially, where we've gone up, but we've come back down, we've gone up again. And now we seem to be wanting to trend up more here. But you can see like, the stark difference between the two, right? Like you had ETH pretty much in a bull market from like March 2020. Like pretty much.
00:05:17.580 - 00:05:57.782, Speaker A: I mean, mostly up, only there were some, some parts where it kind of, like came down a little bit and kind of like went back up shortly after. But it was basically like a huge bull market. I mean, from the bottom of March 2020 to where it topped out at 4400, that was like almost a 5000% gain. We haven't gained anything from the last, from the last all time high here. But if you take from the bottom kind of like the local bottom here and go up here, we've gained what, 100 and something percent, 140%, nowhere near the same magnitude, and I don't expect another 5000% gain from, from, from ETH anytime soon. From that, from that low, that would be like a massive amount of. I mean, that would be like a 50k ETH plus.
00:05:57.782 - 00:06:37.910, Speaker A: Obviously, that's going to happen eventually in the, in the distant future, but not now. So from that point of view, um, you know, not, not to kind of like get too into the weeds here, I just don't think we're in the same stage of a market cycle now onto, I guess, like Shib and why Shib has gone up in value. I mean, look, if you've been in this ecosystem for a while, you know that retail investors, I mean, any new investor from, to this space retailer otherwise find it very hard to discern between different things. And a lot of them really just come for the money. They just want to gamble. They just want to throw a few hundred dollars at things and they just want to kind of like hit, hit a, kind of like a lottery ticket. And they just don't have kind of like any knowledge of the crypto ecosystem, and they don't even care to learn.
00:06:37.910 - 00:07:16.054, Speaker A: Now, in Shib's case, the total supply of Shib is 1 quadrillion. Yes, 1 quadrillion, not trillion quadrillion, which means its unit price is extremely low. Even at a $40 billion market cap, its units price is like 0.008, I think it was, which is obviously not even nowhere near a cent. And people were kind of like memeing saying, oh, you know, Shib's going to go to a dollar. I mean, if Shib went to a dollar, its market cap would be $1 quadrillion. But because half of the token supply has actually been burned, it would be like $500 trillion still absolutely ridiculous, right? So from that point of view, that's never happening.
00:07:16.054 - 00:07:37.218, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that the narrative is there, right? The narrative of like, oh, my God, like, Shib's going to go to a dollar. Let's keep buying it. All this retail floods in. It's really easily accessible on places like Coinbase. It's also got like a lot of liquidity because of that as well. It's had like a mania around it because it's like a dog, dog coin. A lot of people who missed out on doge were like, oh, I'm not going to miss out on the next dog coin.
00:07:37.218 - 00:08:18.794, Speaker A: So they buy Shib it. You know, it's just like this classic retail, new to crypto coin that people love to buy. And of course, it's not just them buying it, it's the traders who see all this demand coming in and look at the chart and like, holy shit, like, I need to jump on this chain. And they actually did jump on it in a big way. They sucked the value out of Ethan BTC over the last few days, which is hilarious because it's kind of like this random dog coin is affecting the wider crypto markets, and it's the same thing that happened with doge as well. Mind you, I think there's that aspect to it, and there's also the kind of, like, meme aspect to it as well, where, you know, dog, dog memes in general, like, just dogs in general, like, very easy to meme, very easy for people to relate to. Everyone loves dogs, right? Or at least most people do.
00:08:18.794 - 00:08:43.201, Speaker A: This is very easy people to relate to. So all that together kind of brings together, like, a shelling point for people to speculate. And they all speculated on this thing. Like, I know people that put in, like, a $100 into shib and was like, oh, if this goes to a dollar, I'm going to be able to retire. And, and they actually truly believe that this wasn't like them meming or joking. They truly believe that. They're truly like, well, you know, bitcoin was worth nothing one to one day, and now it's worth like, $60,000.
00:08:43.201 - 00:08:59.449, Speaker A: So, you know, Shib's worth nothing right now. So Shib can easily go to a dollar. It's just, it's, it's the unit bias. They don't understand market cap. It's, like, very foreign to them, and that's what kind of pushes this up. So, you know, I know people kind of, like, see this and they're like, this is ridiculous. This is stupid.
00:08:59.449 - 00:09:19.940, Speaker A: This makes the market look like a, look like a joke. But really, this is just the way humans have always been. We've just made it really easy for them to access assets like this and to speculate like this. If you think about just generally casinos and gambling, it's a massive industry, and that's exactly what this is. They're not betting on a fund fundamental tech. They're not betting on a roadmap. They're not betting on anything.
00:09:19.940 - 00:09:43.572, Speaker A: They're literally placing, placing a monetary bet on something that I know is gambling that I know is essentially a lottery ticket. And they're just doing it because they're like, well, I've only put a $100 into it. Who cares if I lose a $100? It's not a big deal. And that, and, you know, you multiply that mentality by millions. And millions of people. That's a lot of money. And then as I said, you have like the traders and the whales that come in and you know, ride the wave up and suck money out.
00:09:43.572 - 00:10:00.946, Speaker A: Now, do I expect shib to be, have any long term lasting value? No, I don't. Right. I really don't. Maybe they proved me wrong and they kind of like for some reason develop their own ecosystem and do some things. I heard people saying that, oh, they're going to have a decentralized exchange. All this other stuff. I mean, I don't know, I don't, I don't buy it.
00:10:00.946 - 00:10:26.456, Speaker A: Right. But, but you know, these things can persist based on like memes and marketing and kind of like people just holding these things because they're like, oh, well, you know, I only put a $100 into it. I'm just gonna let it ride. I don't really care. You know, maybe one day it'll be worth like a million dollars. Maybe we're at zero, whatever. And then there's all the stories of people who actually made a lot of money by buying Shib, like really, really early on when it had like a less than million dollar market cap and, you know, they made hundreds of millions of dollars.
00:10:26.456 - 00:11:07.424, Speaker A: But most people wouldn't have done that. Most people would have sold like even for like a five or a ten x from where they bought in. So all that comes together to basically have this effect on, on the, on the wider market. So I guess to answer the person's question today in the Discord channel or the general sentiment, I don't believe Shib, you know, if it crashes really hard from here, I don't believe it's going to tear the rest of the market down with it. I actually believe that a lot of that money is going to find its way into Ethiopia and other assets because not so much probably the retail money that went into it, but more so the trader money. They love rotating between things. They're not just going to go back to cash and be like, well, I'm going to go to cash because I feel like the market's too hot right now.
00:11:07.424 - 00:11:30.566, Speaker A: It's not like Ethan BTC aren't hot. They haven't been in price discovery for a long time. So what people are going to do is they're going to allocate to these things to basically rotate and ride the next wave up. And this is exactly how markets work. And that's why markets work in cycles over the short term, long term, like short to medium term, the traders and kind of like people chasing trends and momentum. They kind of like, rule the markets. And you see that play out with pretty much every asset.
00:11:30.566 - 00:11:52.924, Speaker A: But over the long term, it's the investors that rule the markets. They do the fundamental based investing. They kind of, like, hold things for the long term, and they kind of like, set a price floor and kind of keep bidding it up as time goes on. But short to medium term, forget it. Fundamentals don't play out on those timeframes. Like, as much as I'd love for them to do so, they don't. Markets away too inefficient, especially the crypto market, which is the most inefficient market in the world.
00:11:52.924 - 00:12:35.500, Speaker A: Like, there is no way to value any of this stuff, really. You can do naive valuations like PE ratios, and you can do other valuations on crypto assets like Ethan, and try to value it, but it doesn't fit. Like, for example, doing a PE ratio on a DeFi protocol. Well, you miss a lot of context around that DeFi token because, yeah, okay, there's price to earnings is PE and price to sales. But then does the protocol have like, a locking mechanism, something like what curve has, or, like a bribing mechanism? Does it burn its own kind of, like, tokens, like, all of that coming together? You have to consider that, and then you have to consider the premium for being a crypto asset. The, you know, maybe it accrues some sort of monetary premium as well. There's so much that goes into this sort of stuff.
00:12:35.500 - 00:12:58.054, Speaker A: I don't expect the crypto markets to have any kind of, like, widely agreed upon valuation framework for a very long time. And I don't expect these kind of, like, meme pumps to stop for a very long time as well. So that's just my general view there. I'm going to. I'm going to move on because I spent about ten minutes on this now. But essentially, yeah, I don't expect the market to go down from here. I don't expect the bull market to kind of, like, end.
00:12:58.054 - 00:13:23.834, Speaker A: I expect BTC and ETH to go back into price discovery relatively soon. I think right now we're just trying to consolidate around here. And, you know, whenever BTC and ETH consolidate, other things tend to pump because people are chasing gains and chasing volatility. But, you know, I think that that is kind of like coming to an end. And BTC and ETH are definitely going to, going to run probably in November, December. Q four is usually pretty good for BTC and ETH. Q one is especially good for ETH.
00:13:23.834 - 00:14:05.766, Speaker A: But generally, I just don't think that we're going to nuke from here. Even if shib kind of, like, cools down and stops pumping, I really don't think that's going to affect the rest of the market in a negative way over, like, the next few weeks, couple of months, maybe it does over a couple of days. Like, the really short term is kind of, like, hard to tell, but I'm expecting ETH to kind of, like, go back into price discovery very, very soon. All right. Actually, on a related note, because of the Shib mania, Uniswap today generated over 13 times more fee revenue than the entire bitcoin network. And that means it generated almost $10 million in fees. Now, this isn't gas fees, this is protocol fees, or I guess, fees that go to liquidity providers.
00:14:05.766 - 00:14:20.208, Speaker A: So every uniswap trade is either a 0.3% or, I mean, there's three different fee tiers in v three, but I think it's 0.3%, 0.1%, and 0.05% maybe. I don't actually. I don't actually know for sure there.
00:14:20.208 - 00:14:35.768, Speaker A: I've forgotten. But every uniswap trading curves a fee, and that's where you're seeing kind of like the fees accrue here. And of course, ethereum benefited from it, too. But Ethereum had $67 million worth of fees. This is gas fees. This isn't. Well, I mean, Ethereum protocol fees are gas fees.
00:14:35.768 - 00:14:58.992, Speaker A: So this, this is gas fees. But, you know, Ethereum benefited from this as well. That's an insane amount of fee revenue. I mean, even if you look at the amount of eat that was burned, 16,202 ETH was burned over the last 24 hours, which is $67 million worth of ETH that is gone forever. Like, whenever I say burn, some people ask is, like, is this gone forever? Is this deleted? Like, where is it gone? It's gone. It's completely removed. It's never coming back.
00:14:58.992 - 00:15:23.722, Speaker A: Unless, okay, I shouldn't say it's never coming back because the protocol. Because if people wanted to, they could band together and basically say, let's. Let's, um, issue all this new ETH that was burned, um, and then, you know, go on our merry way. That's not going to happen, right? It's pretty much impossible. But I don't like using the term like, never going to happen. Like, when bitcoin is say, oh, the 21 million cap is never going to be changed. I mean, it can be changed, right? This is all social consensus.
00:15:23.722 - 00:16:04.534, Speaker A: But outside of that, yeah, I mean, this is, this is a lot of ETH in one day, in the last 24 hours. And, you know, the total ETH burned right now, if I look over at my iPad, 655,000 ETH billions of dollars just burned. So all, as I said when I was talking about the shib stuff, it's a net positive for Ethereum, because we're burning ETH at the same time. These things aren't just like free riding on the Ethereum network anymore. They're paying their kind of like jews to all ETH holders in burnt ETH, which I just think is really, really awesome. And on that note, over the last 24 hours as well, we burned more. Ethan was issued by both the proof of work ETH one network and the proof of stake ETH two networks.
00:16:04.534 - 00:16:31.358, Speaker A: This is the first time this has happened since ERP went 1559, went live as well. And this is ETH as ultrasound money. So we had our first ultrasound day where issuance for the entire day was net negative, inclusive of proof of work issuance and proof of stake issuance, which proof of work issuance is about 4.5% right now yearly. Our proof of stake, I think, is zero point six, zero point seven percent. I probably let probably, I think it's 0.6% yearly.
00:16:31.358 - 00:16:47.458, Speaker A: So obviously you get to 5.1%. So he burned more than that over the last day, which is absolutely amazing. And obviously, post merge, we're only going to have to worry about the 0.6. Maybe it's higher. By the time the merge comes around. Let's say it's like 0.70.8%, we're only going to have to worry about that.
00:16:47.458 - 00:17:15.574, Speaker A: And if we have the same kind of like fear of revenue, which there's no reason why we shouldn't, unless the market turns down completely, we go into like a really brutal bear market. ETH is going to be net deflationary every single day. Every day, and by a wide kind of like amount as well. So absolutely crazy. There a lot of ETH being burned. And I just love seeing it. I love knowing that, like, all this kind of stuff's going on in ETH, layer one, and kind of like thinking to myself, well, this is actually net good for Ethereum.
00:17:15.574 - 00:17:56.964, Speaker A: Yes, I know the fees at layer one not good for end users, but as I've mentioned before, L2 is for end users, but, you know, and the kind of like, layer one is never really going to get much cheaper. So. So, yeah, really, really cool to see that we had our first ultrasound day. So Mstable, a project that I'm still involved with, I haven't spoken about in a little while. They've been working on some stuff behind the scenes, but just a disclosure. I'm an advisor and investor in Mstable, but their TVL has exploded recently, so it has surpassed $150 million over the last few days, which is 100% growth from last week. The MUSD supply now exceeds 118 million save APY, which is that basically their yield generating mechanism for stable coins.
00:17:56.964 - 00:18:20.682, Speaker A: It continues to outperform the competition, and the protocol fees are being used to buy back MTA as well, with more exciting things coming. As I said, they are working on some stuff in the background, which I'm pretty excited about. And, you know, m stable is basically, I think it's considered right now, a Defi 1.0 protocol, kind of quote unquote there. But they've been grinding. They've been building through kind of like the trail of disillusionment, which. Which a lot of Defi has gone through.
00:18:20.682 - 00:18:45.698, Speaker A: And they're coming out with some really cool products very soon. They're coming out with some really cool things pretty soon. And I wrote about this in the Daily Gwen newsletter today around risk within DeFi protocols and how there's a lot of DeFi protocols that are newer, that will offer you, like, these really high yields or whatever, but, like, they're really new, and it's. They're much riskier than the older ones because, I mean, it's newer code. They've got newer mechanisms. It could be exploited. It could be exploited both.
00:18:45.698 - 00:19:12.502, Speaker A: Sorry, at the. At the contract level or kind of like as an economic exploit. So if you like, for me, if you know, a stable coin yield farming, I do it through m stable because of the fact that it's like. I mean, obviously, I want to support the team that I'm involved with, but also, it's. It's much safer because of the fact that it's using battle tested protocols to generate the yield. And I know they're not doing any kind of, like, degen stuff to kind of juice the yields. They're just doing it in a very kind of, like, pragmatic way.
00:19:12.502 - 00:19:37.094, Speaker A: So definitely check it. Check them out. If you've got some stable coins lying idle and you want to generate some. Some safe yield on them, I definitely recommend m stable. As I said, though, I'm heavily involved with. With their ecosystem as being an advisor and investor, but that's because I love the product that they're building. So, Ryan, Berkman's had a really great thread today about kind of like, I guess be sorry, I should say.
00:19:37.094 - 00:20:12.966, Speaker A: What's the term I'm looking for? Kind of advising caution around bad ETH staking providers. So he basically says here, beware bad ETH staking providers. After the merge, ETH stakers are entitled to block rewards, tips, and Mev. However, it seems that some providers may be planning to keep 100% of the tips and MeV for themselves, which, if true, is some trad five bullshit. What's a good provider? Question mark. And then he goes into the thread and goes through this. I highly suggest reading this thread, but essentially, and what's very important to realize about this is that, as I've said before, once the merge happens, all the unburnt fee revenue, which is the tips.
00:20:12.966 - 00:21:09.160, Speaker A: So there's obviously the base fee and then the tips as part of ERp 1559, all the unburnt fee revenue as tips block rewards and Mev are going to be going to stakers. But if you're staking with a service provider that isn't kind of like taking in those, that Mev and those tips and passing them on to you as a staker or like staking with them, then that is really bad. And it doesn't really, it doesn't really make any sense. That's really bad for the end user, and you should not be staking with that, that provider. And if, and at the same time, though, there was a good comment here from, from, from Roman, who said, you know, it's a free market, providers with higher yield will get all the stakes. And I mean, I agree with that as well, where essentially, if it gets called out publicly that one of the staking server providers, or multiple of them, are not paying out the kind of like tips and Mev to their, um, kind of like to their users that are staking with them, someone else is going to just eat that steak. Especially because, um, you know, after the merge, like a few months after the merge, there'll be withdrawals enabled.
00:21:09.160 - 00:21:52.708, Speaker A: People will just be able to fluidly, kind of like move their stake from one provider to another. Well, you know, in that case, they're gonna lose business. So I think that there may be some that do this, maybe the more hostile kind of like providers, maybe the ones that think that the users aren't going to notice this, because to be honest, I actually think like, there's gonna be a lot of people staking that just don't pay much attention. They're just gonna buy ETH as like a risk free Internet bond sort of thing if it kind of like goes into the tradfi system. But still, as a community, we should call this out. We should kind of like pay attention to it and we should make sure that people are aware that they're entitled to not only the block rewards, but the unburnt fear of a new aka tips or and also the mev. So go read this thread.
00:21:52.708 - 00:22:34.798, Speaker A: It was really great. It kind of explains it in more detail for you. So Murid Gupta here from Sushiswap put out a tweet thread about how the cream finance kind of like hack or exploit happened. So for those of you who don't know, cream Finance was exploited yesterday for over $100 million worth of with the funds. This is, I think it's like the second or third exploit for cream. They really have not had a good shake of it the last few months. And this is kind of like what I wrote about in my newsletter today where I basically said there's a reason why more of the kind of like ETH ogs only use the battle tested and longstanding protocols like maker, uniswap, compound curve, stuff like that.
00:22:34.798 - 00:23:22.176, Speaker A: Because these newer defi protocols are much, much riskier and they, and also you just don't know, kind of like not only if they've got a bug in it, but like how good the team is and how like how good the team is catching these sorts of things or developing these sorts of things. So from that point of view, you know, this, this hack was obviously crappy for people who are using cream, but at the same time, like we really need to do a better job of kind of like telling users, well, you know, these protocols are newer, they're, they're kind of like not as big. They definitely are an easier target than kind of like some of the older protocols out there. Yes, you may be able to generate some more yield or some kind of like more gains, but you're kind of like paying for that in much more increased risk. Risk, I should say. So in this thread, mudit basically goes through, you know, how the exploit happened. It actually happened.
00:23:22.176 - 00:24:08.304, Speaker A: Like, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description, you can go check it out. But basically what happened is that there was a massive, I guess like flash loan, I think it was a flash loan of up to a billion dollars that kind of like was, was used to do all of this to exploit $100 million out of curve. And you can read all about it here, but you know, really it's just insane. Kind of like what what kind of happens here with these kind of like exploits where essentially to exploit something like this and to do something like this, especially from my understanding, the bug was present in the code for quite a while. You need to be really, really smart, and you need to be kind of like as smart as the people building it, or even smarter than that. And you need to be able to kind of like test this and make sure that your exploit is going to go through and then do it. And then also be sure that you can get away with the money as well.
00:24:08.304 - 00:24:45.676, Speaker A: So, I mean, as I said, I read about this in the newsletter today, but essentially, we need to do such a better job of warning users about this because no code is 100% bug free. It will never be 100% bug free ever. Even if you have like a million audits, even if you have what's called. What's the, what's the term I'm looking for right now? I'll think of the term. There's basically something that you can do that ensures that the code would run as you've programmed it, which doesn't account for bugs. If you've programmed a bug into your code, well, then it's running as you've programmed it. So that doesn't even kind of like account for that.
00:24:45.676 - 00:25:36.874, Speaker A: There's a term for it. It's just, I can't think of the term right now. But essentially you cannot go into these things and think that they're going to be foolproof and think that they're never, never going to get exploited or hacked. They may want, you know, they may never, it may never happen to them, but you can never be sure. And that's just with all software, crypto or otherwise, and from that point of view, we need to do a much better job of kind of like warning users about this. And, you know, I always talk about risk a lot on both the refuel and in Discord Channel because, like, for me personally, like, I'm not going to put 100% of my portfolio into some new kind of like dj and yield farm because I know there's like high chance of it being exploited or a high chance of it being a scam or a rug. Now that's not to say that you, you can't do, you can't put money into it, but don't put like your whole portfolio into it, like throw it through, throw a small portion into it if you want to kind of like gamble and kind of like yolo, as they say, into it, but don't, don't put in like, a large amount.
00:25:36.874 - 00:26:10.090, Speaker A: Like, that's just crazy, right? Uh, but you know, even still, like, there are legit defi protocols out there that you shouldn't be putting a large amount of money into either. Uh, you know, especially the newer ones, because you just don't know. And, you know, cream, uh, for all intensive purposes, what is a legit defi protocol? But they're a newer protocol. They, uh, definitely, they've been kind of, like, exploited before. They seem to kind of, like, have a lapse in their security practices if kind of, like, this bug kind of, like, snuck through. But at the same, as I said, like, uh, there's no 100% foolproof way to protect against these sorts of things. So, yeah, just something to be cautious of.
00:26:10.090 - 00:26:36.684, Speaker A: But you can go read this, uh, tweet. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So, Veevee, I think that's how you say it, has announced today that Disney is going to be doing nfts using their platform. Now, Veevee is actually built on immutable x, which is using Starkware's technology, which is a validium secured by Ethereum. So Disney is doing nfts on Ethereum. That is the headline right there, which, I mean, I spoke about this yesterday. I spoken about it countless times on the refuel.
00:26:36.684 - 00:27:04.646, Speaker A: Nfts are the biggest onboarding vehicle ever for crypto. And I'm really, really happy that Ethereum has, you know, they're scaling solutions now that people that these kind of, like, teams can tap into. Because really, when it comes to nfts, no one cares about decentralization and security for 99% of nfts. I want decentralization and security for my punk. I don't want it for some random NFT that I aped into hoping to flip it. Like, no one cares about that at all. The high value NFT is fine.
00:27:04.646 - 00:27:39.572, Speaker A: It can live on layer one ethereum, all well and good, but most nfts people just want to have it and just want to be able to kind of, like, play around with it. They don't even care that it's centralized or at least like, not as decentralized and secure. So that's where some of these kind of, like, solutions come in. Like a validium from. From that immutable x runs on, which basically gives you a kind of like, trade off where they store the data off chain, but they put the proofs on chain. So you get more, you get better security than like a pure kind of like, sidechain or something like that. But you, you do have a security trade off, and you're not getting like the full kind of like security and decentralization of a roll up.
00:27:39.572 - 00:28:19.330, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I think this is fine. And I mean, the fact that these kind of like massive companies are building on Ethereum and users will actually probably never know that it's on Ethereum, because not only are they probably maybe not even going to know that it's built on immutable X, they're going through the front end, which is VV. So they may know about VV and be like, okay, well, I know this platform, this is the one that I interact with, but they've got no idea that what's powering it is immutable X. And they have no idea that what's powering immutable X is starkware. And they have no idea what's powering starkware is Ethereum. And that is the magic, that is how we scale Ethereum to the world. As I've said countless times before, most people should never, ever, ever have to worry about Ethereum.
00:28:19.330 - 00:29:10.564, Speaker A: If they want to get involved with it and be interested in it, that's fine. But most people should never have to worry about the underlying architecture because there's all these things built on top that abstract that away and that's how you onboard kind of like the mass amount of users and that is mass adoption. So, yeah, I mean, I've explained that stuff before. I'm running out of time here, so I want to move through the rest of this stuff. Hype has launched with their guarded launch and they've kind of launched, launched this thing called an Alpha race featuring 13 different NFT series. So some of these kind of like NFT series include crypto punks, bought apes, cool cats, crypto toads, you know, all the ones you've heard of before. But essentially what this launch does is it basically allows you to set up your profile on here and participate in a competition to, sorry, but once you set up your profile by picking an NFT and picking a squad and adding lore to your nfTs, that that's participating in the competition where you earn points for doing this.
00:29:10.564 - 00:29:51.816, Speaker A: So, I mean, the competition only lasts for 72 hours and it's already been 24, I believe. So you've got another 48 from now, probably even less by the time you've watched this. But as I said, yeah, you pick your NFT as your profile picture, pick the nfts to be in your squad. So if you own nfts from these collections, you can pick them to be on your squad and then add lore to your nfts to earn these points, which I think is really cool. I mean, this is just another way to, I guess, show off your nfts and kind of like, be more involved in, like, the cultural aspect of it. And, I mean, adding law to your NFT, your own personal kind of, like, story to your NFT, is like kind of the whole thing, right? That's lighting, adding kind of like a cultural aspect to it. And it's kind of like putting your own spin on things, which I think is really, really cool.
00:29:51.816 - 00:30:25.940, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out if you haven't already. And I should have talked about this before when I was talking about the sushi swap kind of, um. Sushi swap, sorry, the cream are kind of like. Like exploit. But basically, Cyrus UNESc put out a great tweet here where he said the Dapps that he's willing to put more than 50% of his total net worth into in no particular order, consists of maker, Aave, compound, curve, and uniswap. This is the exact same list for me. As I mentioned yesterday, maker is pretty much the only place, or one of the only places that I trust a large amount of my ETH in, besides putting it into staking.
00:30:25.940 - 00:30:48.910, Speaker A: I have put it into Aave before. I would put it into compound. Kevin Uniswap as well, I'd feel safe with. But maker is where it stays a lot of the time because I do a lot of. A lot of loans against myself on maker for various different reasons. But these are the blue chips. I know their tokens haven't performed really well, but in terms of the security of these apps and kind of like, the battle testedness of these apps, I mean, they're unmatched, essentially.
00:30:48.910 - 00:31:06.252, Speaker A: They've been around for a very long time. They're built by world class teams. They have a lot of audits. Yes, I know I said that audits aren't a way to kind of like foolproof a system, but. But from memory, rv two had five audits from top tier firms. Make a multicolored, had a lot of audits, compound as well, curb and uniswap. And that's what they say.
00:31:06.252 - 00:31:56.874, Speaker A: None of these have suffered exploits before. Two of these compounds suffered that comp token minting exploit the other day, which obviously didn't affect kind of like, the compound user funds, but it affected kind of like the comp token, and obviously the value of that and maker during the kind of, like, COVID crash in March 2020, became under collateralized but they came back from that because they have an inbuilt insurance mechanism where they basically mint MKR and sell that into the market to cover the shortfall. I think curve has, may have had a bug before that got fixed, but as far as I know, Uniswap across v one, v two, and v three has never had a bug and aave as well. I'd have to double check on that, but I think so. So that's, that's really cool. But, yeah, I mean, I agree with Cyrus here that these are the apps that I would put, you know, more than 50% of my net worth into and feel comfortable with it. But still, I mean, I, you know, I feel comfortable with it to an extent.
00:31:56.874 - 00:32:29.498, Speaker A: I'd still be kind of like jittery about it and be like, you know, there is a risk here, but I'm doing it for some particular reason. So that's kind of like how I think about it. All right, couple of shout outs here. So David Hoffman put together a really great blog post in bankless today called Ultra scalable Ethereum. Now, this post is basically all about modular blockchains and kind of like monolithic blockchains and how Ethereum is scaling. David and Ryan also did a video on the bankless YouTube, which, which you should check out covering this as well. And a couple of weeks ago, David and I did a stream about modular blockchains.
00:32:29.498 - 00:33:03.100, Speaker A: And obviously I've written a lot about this, too, but I think this blog post gives the best kind of like concise and, I guess, put together summary, I guess you could say, of what an ultra scalable Ethereum looks like, of, you know, what the challenges Ethereum is kind of dealing with, with the blockchain trilemma, how we invert the block train, a blockchain trilemma with modular blockchains, how they compare to monolithic ones, how ethereum is scaling by roll ups. All that good stuff. I mean, go read this. I'm obviously not going to read this on the refill, but go give this a read. It was really great. I mean, I always love reading David's writing. He's a very great writer.
00:33:03.100 - 00:33:39.438, Speaker A: He's actually the inspiration for a lot of my writing within the Daily Gwei, and he references a lot of Polynyar's work, of course. Course, you know, everyone's favorite, favorite modular blockchain evangelist. So, yeah, I highly recommend giving this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. And finally, I wanted to give a quick shout out that gitcoin is looking for a product manager to work on their mission of building and funding digital public goods. If you live and breathe crypto, believe crypto can be used for good, can turn ambiguity into clarity, organized, detail oriented, and have product skills. DM a Wookiee here, which I'll link this in the YouTube description, um, to, to inquire and apply there.
00:33:39.438 - 00:34:07.652, Speaker A: I mean, I couldn't think of a better team to be working for than Gitcoin or a better dow, I should say, because they've got the Dow now. So definitely go check them out. If you're, uh, you know, have experience in product management, even if you don't, if that's something you want to kind of like get your start in, you should definitely reach out to Ouaki here. As I said, all links in the YouTube description, but I think I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, get that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:34:07.652 - 00:34:09.464, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
