00:00:00.240 - 00:00:27.958, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli gray refuel wary capitalist news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the news Asana, and today's the 30 September 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So we've got a nice little merge retrospective thread here from Marius, who talks about, I guess, like, what's happened in the almost two weeks since the merge. So this is, this was really cool. So he says, almost two weeks after the Ethereum merge, it's time to have a little retro hashrate. Right before the merge was 860 terrahashes, etc.
00:00:27.958 - 00:01:17.036, Speaker A: Hash rate went up by 100 terahashes, ETH power has a hashrate of 50 terrahashes, and Raven went up by ten terrahashes, equivalent to 20 terrahashes in ethash. So less than 200 terahashes went to other proof of work networks, thus mining rigs doing 660 terrahashes a second are shut off, or 860 terrahashes from the all time high of 1.06 PETA hashes, which ultimately leads to a reduction of 76% or 81% from all time high. And this corresponds to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 13,680 tons every single day, which is equivalent to two coal power plants. This means crypto uses 16.264 terrahashes less energy per year. Global energy consumption is 14,000, I think, megatons per year.
00:01:17.036 - 00:01:51.818, Speaker A: So yes, the ethereum merge reduced global energy consumption by 0.1%. Even if some of the miners switched to other networks. That's still in my mind, like, just boggling, mind boggling, right? The achievement that we've kind of gone with here, with the move from proof of work to proof of stake and how much less energy the network is using, it's, it's actually still just incredible to me. I'm still in disbelief about it. And the Marios continues and says, I suspect that over the next weeks and months, even more miners will shut off their rigs as profitability on the smaller proof of work coins is already negative for energy prices that are greater than $0.05 per kilowatt hour. Overall, I'm pretty pleased with the merge.
00:01:51.818 - 00:02:33.052, Speaker A: And then last tweet here gets a little bit, gets me a little bit hype where he says, and this is before the security improvements, reduction of economies of scale for block creators, and the ability to implement subcommittees to sharding easily. Shanghai is already being worked on, which will enable withdrawals. Don't listen to Micah and some other cool things if you don't get that reference. Micah Zoltu, he's pretty active in the core development sphere, or at least in the social sphere there. And some bitcoin maximalist took his comments from the ETH R and D discord, posted it on Twitter and said look, withdrawals aren't going to come for a long time because Micah was, I guess, alluding to that. But from what I can tell, like I'm pretty sure withdrawals are going to come in like the first half of next year. Like that's my ballpark figure.
00:02:33.052 - 00:03:28.286, Speaker A: There is obviously very vocal signaling from the core devs because they want to get it done, the community wants it done. I'm not. So I'm not expecting any kind of major delays from that six to twelve month timeline that we, we kind of gave, or I guess like the community kind of came to understand after the merge there. So yeah, just a cool little retrospective from Marius focusing on the energy usage and the energy usage reduction, which is just absolutely insane to me. So I'll link this thread in the YouTube description if you wanna read it again, but just thought I'd highlight that. All right, so speaking of proof of stake, some absolutely massive news came out of stakewise today, and they basically introduced stakewise V three, which is a major upgrade to the stakewise protocol, aiming to help decentralize Ethereum. So obviously right now, staking is, I mean, I wouldn't call it centralized, but there's obviously a lot of centralization vectors to staking and there are big pools and things like that, so we need to change that.
00:03:28.286 - 00:04:06.820, Speaker A: And there's tons of stuff happening in the background and this, and this is one of those which is stakewise V three. So it's currently in development. And the V three upgrade will feature permissionless liquid staking for solo operators. And this is the headline feature here, permissionless liquid staking for solo operators. That means that as a solo staker, you can permissionlessly stake with stakewise, get a LSD token. And this won't contribute to centralization around pools because it's still, you're still staking as a solo operator. So Os ETH will be the liquid staking token with slashing protection built in, and an open marketplace of mini pools called vaults to choose who will host your validators.
00:04:06.820 - 00:04:48.636, Speaker A: So essentially, stakewise is kind of becoming this, I guess, hybrid, or at least more in line with the rocket pool model of things, instead of being centralized, which obviously is amazing. Like that's what we want to see here, and they're doing it in a really, really cool way. Now, oval network had a tweet thread about this, talking about how this has revolutionized liquid staking as stakewise. V three vaults will enable individual stakers to mint a liquid staking ETH token while staking their own ETH. And vaults will use DVT or distributed validator technology and protect Ethereum. And there's a long thread here from our bone network that you should give a read. But I've talked about DVT before, and I've talked about how DVT can help a lot with decentralization concerns.
00:04:48.636 - 00:05:43.604, Speaker A: And I'm super excited that stakewise has actually, I guess like just decided to implement this as part of their v three network upgrade here. So I'll link both of these threads, you can go check them out in the YouTube description below. But I think this coupled with withdrawals being enabled and then that coupled with just more competition coming online is really going to alleviate a lot of those centralization concerns around proof of stake. Now, I know there's a lot of concerns around MEV extraction right now and how flashbots has I 25% of total, sorry, flashbots has 81% of the MEV boost relay kind of market share there and they're censoring tornado cash transactions right now. And I think it's about 24% of the overall network or something like that. So we're obviously having this concentration of builders, and Tony here actually has some stats around this. So Tony is an Ethereum research.
00:05:43.604 - 00:06:42.972, Speaker A: I shared on Twitter some stats around MeV Boost builders market and mev boosted block market on this website is on his website here as well at the subdomain avv boost. And you can go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description, but just more stats around this. But I think that that right now is the main concern is this kind of, I guess, centralization of builders. But the thing is, is that we've expected this for quite a while, and this is why things like PBS and CR list have been in the works. Now, PBS is akin to the way mev boost operates today. It's just that instead of it being like an extra sidecar thing that gets implemented kind of extra protocol, it becomes an in protocol feature, right? And then we couple that with CR list, which stands for censorship resistant lists in order to maximize the censorship resistance on Ethereum. And obviously there's other things that we can do to alleviate concerns around this by making, I guess the shutterized beacon chain upgrader reality, which I've talked about in the past, which is basically this notion of everything is private in the mempool.
00:06:42.972 - 00:07:13.836, Speaker A: You can't actually see what the transactions are. And this would go for Mev transactions as well. So, public or private mem pools? Everything is private. So you can't actually see what those transactions are. And you can only see what they are once they are actually mined into a block. Now, obviously, this doesn't help with censorship at the attestation level of validators attesting to blocks, but it does help with that at the inclusion level, which is what the main concern is. The thing about the censorship at the attestation level, if you start not kind of attesting to blocks, you're basically just going to send your own validator offline.
00:07:13.836 - 00:07:33.476, Speaker A: And if the majority of the network stops doing not the majority. If a large enough portion of the network starts doing that, then they're going to fork off into their own chain, and then social slashing will be enacted for those actors, and the canonical chain will just continue on as normal. So censoring at the. At the attestation level is actually like. I mean, it doesn't actually work for anyone. It doesn't work at all. It's.
00:07:33.476 - 00:08:14.358, Speaker A: It's. It's basically a non starter. But at the inclusion level, we're already seeing it happen, right? We're already seeing people using the flashbots relay, which currently censors tornado cash transactions. And that means that if you want to get these, if you want to get your tornado cash transactions in via that relay, it's not going to happen. It's just going to be dropped. Now, of course, that's not a major concern as well, because you'll still get your transaction included, because there are plenty of builders that are still including those transactions, but it's not ideal. Ethereum wants to be maximally censorship resistant, and I encourage people who are using the flashbots relay to use another relay, another mev boost relay that does not censor, because you need to protect the network at the end of the day, especially if you're a.
00:08:14.358 - 00:08:43.734, Speaker A: If you're a solo staker and you were using flashbots as your mev boost relay. I'm not gonna. Not gonna be mean here, but I think it's really stupid to do that. Like, already, as a solo staker, you should probably have more of a connection to the network and more of a care about keeping it decentralized and secure, because you are a solo staker, right. You're not outsourcing this to anyone else. So I think that comes with a responsibility as well, to ensure that you're not using relayers. If you're using mev boost that sends a transactions.
00:08:43.734 - 00:09:17.444, Speaker A: Now that's just my opinion. You're not forced to do anything you don't want to do. That's the beauty of it. At the end of the day, like, no one's forcing you to do this, no one's even forcing you to use an MeV Boost relay. But if you do, actually, if you are a solo staker and you care about Ethereum's decentralization, it's credible neutrality, it's censorship resistant properties, then you should be using a relay that does not censor, and you shouldn't be censoring any on your own anyway. And the worst part about this censorship is that it's not even required as part of the sanctions. As far as I know, there has been no legal requirement from the US government for block builders to censor these transactions.
00:09:17.444 - 00:09:50.662, Speaker A: It really is just the lawyers of these companies telling them, hey, play on the safe side of things because the punishments are severe in the US. So I completely understand that. I understand the rock and a hard place these centralized companies that are running these relays find themselves in. But at the end of the day, like, there has been no legal requirement. And even if there was, I mean, it's still shitty, right? Like, I'm not saying that we should care about what each nation's legal requirement is at the end of the day. Because Ethereum is a global network, it is not bound to any one nation state. But the people that build on the network, the people that I guess use the network, are bound by those rules at the end of the day.
00:09:50.662 - 00:10:25.480, Speaker A: So I can understand that. But as stakers, and you should be using something that doesn't censor, at least in my opinion. But yeah, you can go check out all of these updates. I'll link them all in the YouTube description below. All right, so we've got a major announcement out of Metamask today. They have brought out or announced something called portfolio DAP, which is an entirely new way to manage your tokens and nfts across multiple chains and multiple accounts. So from first impressions here, this seems to be a competitor to Zerion and Zappa and de bank as well.
00:10:25.480 - 00:10:50.596, Speaker A: Kind of like those portfolio views that we're used to within those tools. I mean, you can see a screenshot of it here. I mean, it's not very clear, but basically that's my first impression of this. But at the same time, I mean, Zappa and Xero have much more functionality than something like this. I think they've got a bunch of other things built in. They've got doing a lot of other things around that. But I think the metamask kind of looked at their wallet and was like, okay, the Ui Ux is pretty bad still.
00:10:50.596 - 00:11:37.574, Speaker A: It's obviously, Metamask is secure and reliable and everyone still use it. I mean, I still use it, but the thing is, is that people have been clamoring on for ages. Hey, metamask, can we have a way to kind of view our portfolio or view our nfts or view our defi positions and all that sorts of stuff? And that has obviously become, been filled in the past by Zappa and Zerion and others such and other such portfolio trackers. And I guess Metamask saw that and was like, okay, let's bring this in house. So, I mean, I think this is live. Is this live today? Yeah, it's, it's live right now at portfolio Metamask IO. And actually, if I'm on the sassle ETH account, I can go here and see what's, what's up so I can connect my metamask, connect sassle ETH, and then I'll be able to see my profile pop up here if it wants to, wants to work.
00:11:37.574 - 00:12:00.964, Speaker A: No, I, you know what, these things, they'll work the first time for me. Let me. Oh, no, no, it's loading. It is probably the first time I've connected it here. So, yeah, I guess it's showing me my whole portfolio on sassle ETH across all the various networks that have been selected here, which are obviously all EVM networks. And you can kind of use a watch list here and there's a settings and then you can see your nfts as well. So it's very basic.
00:12:00.964 - 00:12:27.002, Speaker A: Like, it's not, it's not to the extent of what Zappria, Zappa and Zerion have. But that's not to say that I guess metamask won't keep integrating more and more features and stuff like that. So I expect that to happen too. But just great to see more competition here and great to see metamask doing something like this, because as I said, it's been one of the main criticisms people have had of metamask in the past, and it's great to see them produce something like this for end users. And there's also a dark mode. I've got light mode on there. There's a dark mode as well.
00:12:27.002 - 00:12:52.362, Speaker A: So very cool to see. I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. All right, so meta announced today that everyone on Facebook and Instagram in the US can now connect their wallets and share their digital collectibles. So I believe you can connect your own ethereum wallet here. I think this was, this, this kind of, like, had already happened, but in like a limited feature rollout here. But essentially everyone in the US can now do this.
00:12:52.362 - 00:13:40.726, Speaker A: And there's been a rolling blog post here that I believe I've covered in the past, but it lets you connect from a bunch of different wallets, such as metamask and rainbow and I think a coinbase wallet as well, and a bunch of other ones. As I'm not in the US, I don't think this will work for me. So I'm not going to show you a live demo of it or anything, but this is, is pretty big that I guess, like, Instagram and Facebook are still going down this road, still embracing this stuff. I know Mark Zuckerberg's I guess, like, vision for meta is to be a metaverse company. And there's been a lot of heavy criticism about that, and a lot of it is not unwarranted, just given the fact that the metaverse is still a very undefined thing. I think. I think the best example of a metaverse that we have really over the last 20 years has been mmos at the end of the day, right? Like, I've been playing World of Warcraft classic lately because the new expansion pack came out, or I shouldn't say new expansion pack because the classic is just a rerelease.
00:13:40.726 - 00:14:07.840, Speaker A: But I've been playing that, and as I'm playing it, obviously more people, a lot of people are playing it right now because it's a new release and there's people everywhere and I'm interacting with them, playing with them, doing all this sorts of stuff. I'm like, this is the metaverse. Like, I'm playing as a character that I created. It's, it's, my character's a Tauren, right? It's not a human. And it's playing as, like this death knight class that has all these abilities and everything. It's not me. Like, I am my kind of like, touring character in the game while I'm playing the game to everyone else.
00:14:07.840 - 00:14:50.396, Speaker A: Like, I'm not Anthony Susanna, I'm not sassle, I'm not like, you know, I'm not an ethereum influencer to anyone on that game. In that metaverse, in the World of Warcraft Metaverse, I am my, whatever character I'm playing at the time. And people know me as that. I know me as my character name, obviously. So I think that that, and not just World of Warcraft, but MMOr's generally are the best example of a metaverse that we've had. I think that once we get to a point where we have like a lot, I guess like an MMO that's lasting, that's popular in virtual reality, that takes it to the next level. And obviously Facebook is very, or meta is very involved with virtual reality headsets because they bought out Oculus a while ago and they've got the Oculus rift headsets and other similar headsets as well, they've been releasing.
00:14:50.396 - 00:15:26.812, Speaker A: So I think that they're right about the Metaverse, but maybe wrong on the implementation side so far because right now, like, we don't know how it's going to shape up when within the NFT ecosystem either. It's kind of like a thousand experiments being run in parallel to see what sticks. But I think there will be something here. I do think so. I just think that it's going to take longer than probably we would like. And as I said, there are already metaverses out there that prove out the use case. But what it's going to look like with NFTs, virtual reality, all that sorts of stuff, I guess we're seeing the early, I guess, examples of that as time goes on here.
00:15:26.812 - 00:15:51.860, Speaker A: But yeah, anyway, you can go check out this blog post here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Warner Music Group has announced a collaboration with Opensea today to do, I think, music NFTs. So music NFTs is another thing that's come under a lot of scrutiny. I know there's a few people on Twitter that I follow that are really, really into them. One of them is Cooper Turley. He's, he's been a good friend of mine for a little while, and he's really into music nfts.
00:15:51.860 - 00:16:29.384, Speaker A: And now Warner Music Group is slowing their weight behind it, which is one of the biggest, I guess, music groups in the world, and teaming up with Opensea to, I guess, do things around music nfts here. So I guess a big vote of confidence. Obviously, Warner Music Group sees something here. Who knows if it's going to work? Who knows if it's going to be popular, if it's going to actually have lasting value, if people are going to care, we're going to have to see. It's the same thing with what I was just talking about, where we're going to run all these experiments. We're going to see what people care about, what they don't care about, and then I guess like that'll become the standard going forward as well. So you can check out this blog post to read all about their announcement today.
00:16:29.384 - 00:17:03.420, Speaker A: All right, this. Yeah, okay. There go loaded. So Anurag from Polygon here today put out a thread talking about how Polygon is really just a bunch of startups within a startup, and he lists out all the things that they're working on right now. So. Or just some of the stuff that they're working on right now, such as ZkvM through her maze, which is an EVM opcode based ZkvM, a really fast zero knowledge crypto prover that can prove any EVM transaction with Polygon Zero. A new ZKVM that will power, that will have parallelization and privacy built in, which is maiden a new ZEVM roll up sequencer node.
00:17:03.420 - 00:17:31.004, Speaker A: A roll up SDK built with this node, which will also support validiums and sovereign roll ups. A brand new data availability layer targeted for sovereign roll ups and validiums. A decentralized roll up sequencer hub to service any roll up EVM parallelization account abstraction. A ZK based global id system. A generic message passing a mechanism between chains based on ZK. And I guess, yeah, that's, that's most of the stuff that he's listed out here. It really is insane how much Polygon has going on right now.
00:17:31.004 - 00:18:11.346, Speaker A: And like across many different verticals too. And they've really taken the ethereum scaling, I guess, roadmap to heart and are working on it in various different ways, like not just roll ups, but other L2 constructions such as volidiums. And they're also doing things like sovereign roll ups and app specific things. And they have their SDK. And I spoke about stack and network yesterday about how they have their SDK as well. And someone asked in the comments, like how is this different, I guess, in Polygon already doing this. And it's a good point, but I think Polygons SDK, at least right now, is more of a white glove service where essentially Polygon will work with the teams to spin up these things, at least as it exists right now, whereas stacker network is meant.
00:18:11.346 - 00:19:00.744, Speaker A: He's trying to be a more generalized do it yourself kind of solution there, which, which obviously makes a lot of sense. But still, I mean, it's, it's good, always good to have more than one of these things out in the wild. But I just wanted to yeah, highlight this thread because it just, it really does amaze me how much Polygon has going on. You guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon, so obviously you can take that for how you will, but just, just generally, I think credit is due where it's due at the end of the day. And I think that Polygon has more than proven to the ecosystem that they can execute and deliver as well. I mean, this isn't even mentioning their business development team, which I talk about all the time, so I'm not going to get into that now, but I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below if you want to go and give it a read. All right, so a new integration was announced today from Aztec, which are they're integrating, or I guess like they're introducing a ERC 46 26 bridge.
00:19:00.744 - 00:19:38.604, Speaker A: So ERC 4626 is, I guess like the yield ERC standard. So they say, you know, it's a template for the creation of tokenized vaults that represent shield shares of a single underlying token. So why would you do this? Tokenized vaults are useful. They represent shares in an underlying yield bearing vault. Examples include aave a tokens, compound c tokens, and yearn y tokens. So obviously we need standardization here, which is where 4626 comes in. And then Aztec has introduced this bridge that they're calling the one bridge to rule them all and allows people to issue and redeem shares of ERC 4626 vault after that vault is listed in the contract.
00:19:38.604 - 00:20:04.568, Speaker A: But there are a few minor gotchas. The vault has to be listed in the bridge contract before use, and the vault share and asset tokens and have to be registered on the rollout processor. But overall integrations will no longer require their own standalone bridge contract. So big upgrade here on the UI UX side for Aztec when it comes to their integrations here, which is awesome. 4626 has been getting a bit of noise. I think I've spoken about it before within the ecosystem. I think I spoke about it maybe a couple months ago or something.
00:20:04.568 - 00:20:35.490, Speaker A: I remember M stable was actually looking at this as well. But yeah, very, very cool to see this integrated with Aztec, which is, as you guys know, the privacy roll up. We always need more of that. All right, I missed this a couple days ago, but Stark scan was announced, which is a next generation Stark net block explorer that the community deserves, as they say, so. And then they list out ten reasons to use Stark scan in your dapps. So I believe it's live today. Yeah, it's stark scan.
00:20:35.490 - 00:20:54.386, Speaker A: Man, it's a mouthful co here and you can see it's a block explorer for the stark net ecosystem. See, it's tracking things like blocks, transactions, contracts, all that sorts of stuff. They're very, very cool to see this. I mean, this looks awesome, honestly, like it's really snappy. I mean, you can see me playing around with it here. There's no lag really. You can see all the relevant information.
00:20:54.386 - 00:21:25.012, Speaker A: It loads very, very quickly. You can, I guess, deep dive into it and see everything or similar things that you might see on Etherscan. But yeah, this is, this is awesome. So I just wanted to highlight this for you guys to go check out because obviously the stocknet ecosystem continues to grow and we want to have a window into its growth overall and be able to explore all of the things going on under the hood. So speaking of Starkware, there, Starkware's Regenesis plan is here and it's smooth. Regenesis will follow Chira 1.0, making stocknet contracts simpler and safer.
00:21:25.012 - 00:21:53.736, Speaker A: So the Regenesis will be seamless for users, simple for developers, no downtime involved, and shaped with the help of the Starknet community. So the TLDR is here. So they've shared the detailed plan for the Regenesis, which is shaped by extended discussions with the Stocknet community. Regenesis will follow the release of Cairo one. Users should be prepared to update their wallet during the transition phase and developers are required to port their contracts over. So it's mostly seamless for end users, they just need to update their wallets. For developers a bit more involved, they need to port their contracts over.
00:21:53.736 - 00:22:36.088, Speaker A: But again, not too heavy of a lift there. So if you want to read the details about this regenesis, you can go check this out. Check this blog post out, which I'll link in the YouTube description for you below. So speaking of metaverses, before, hash flow has introduced us to their hash verse today, which is a story driven gamified dao where you will shape the future of hash flow by staking tokens, completing quests and earning rewards@hashflow.com. Hashverse so there's a thread here going over exactly what this is and how they're developing this and how they're developing their Dow model. But this is really cool because it reminds me of what element finance did as well. They kind of like gamified their decentralization or their Dow gamified that their token issuance here.
00:22:36.088 - 00:23:19.470, Speaker A: And you can see on this page, you know, enter the hash verse, shape the future with through governance, through quests, earn you know, this is starting to look like an mmo right now, which is cool because it's kind of talking about what I spoke about before, how mmos really have been the one true metaverse at this point in time. But this isn't live just yet. Just kind of like they just introduced it here where you'll be able to, I guess, stake tokens, participate in the Dow, and they've detailed it in the Twitter thread here. And they native token, I believe hash flow has announced their native token in the past, which is HFT. So when asking when token, the Dow requires HFT to operate. So they're announcing that the HFT token will go live on November 7, 2022. Actually, I missed that before.
00:23:19.470 - 00:23:34.532, Speaker A: I don't know how I missed that. And that, that was just news to me. So yeah, that's going to be going live. And if you want the full details of all of this, you can go read the blog post here, which is not a short, not a long read. It's only about three minutes. I think this is cool. As I said, I want to see more, I've said this plenty of times in the refill.
00:23:34.532 - 00:24:06.160, Speaker A: I want to see more experimentation with daos, with token issuance models, with getting the community more involved, not just giving tokens to the community through an airdrop and being like, hey guys, here's some tokens, vote or don't vote or dump them or don't dump them. Totally up to you. No, I mean, we need better models here. Like we need to align incentives better here. And I think that's what hash flow is trying to do with hash verse. All right, last up here, a very, very interesting tweet from David Hoffman today that got me thinking. So he said 8 hours of ETH issuance burned inside of 40 blocks.
00:24:06.160 - 00:24:59.294, Speaker A: It's easier to burn ETH than it is to issue it. Now I've been talking about this a lot on the refill over the past couple of weeks, especially in a post merge world, about how we're not deflationary all the time because gas fees aren't over that ultrasound barrier of around 15 way all the time. But the thing is, is that because we're issuing such low amount of ETH in proof of stakeholders, it doesn't take much to wipe out that issuance, right? Doesn't really. And the thing is, as David Hoffman outlines here, 8 hours of that issuance was burned inside of 40 blocks because gas fees spiked. So you can do some really fun math around this. You can say, okay, well, if gas prices were at 100 way for 24 hours, right. What would the burn be and how much proof of stake issuance would that offset? Well, if 8 hours of ETH issuance was burned inside of 40 blocks, we can do some naive math here.
00:24:59.294 - 00:25:20.911, Speaker A: So 40 blocks times 12 seconds, you got 480 seconds here in minutes, right. Or I should do in hours, actually make my math easily here. So that's just 0.13 hours, right? 0.13 hours in, you know, at 100 way burned, 8 hours of ETH issuance. That's, that's crazy. Could you imagine 100 way for the whole 24 hours? There's.
00:25:20.911 - 00:25:48.232, Speaker A: Right, like, I mean, I've stuffed up the math here because doing math live on this video is quite difficult. But if you extrapolate that out to the total amount of blocks that are issued each day, which I can actually do, because you can just do a naive thing here. I'm just going to do it quickly here. Eight, six times. Oh, man, I am failing right now. Times twelve. So there's 7200 blocks per day in proof of stake because each block is 12 seconds.
00:25:48.232 - 00:26:15.746, Speaker A: So if we'd had 100 gwei at 7200 blocks, we would be destroying a lot more than 8 hours of issuance. I mean, you can just divide it by 40 here, 180. So you, if I'm doing my math right here, 180 times 8 hours, you get 60 days. If I'm doing my math right, I hope I am. I don't know for sure. Maybe you guys can correct me. 100 way for 24 hours would wipe out 60 days of proof of stake issuance via the burn.
00:26:15.746 - 00:26:47.992, Speaker A: I hope by math is right there. It sounds insane off the top of my head. I am going to check that after, after this episode. But the point is, the real point here is, is that like, our issuance is so, so low within proof of stake, that any like demand or any kind of spike in fees is going to remove a lot of that. I guess that issuance, and the thing is, it'll make up for the periods of time where we're below that ultrasound barrier. So that's why it doesn't make sense to measure things day to day. To call it deflationary day to day.
00:26:47.992 - 00:27:06.616, Speaker A: It makes sense to call it deflationary from longer periods of time, such as months or years or even just since Genesis. Sorry. Since the implementation of ERP 1559. So I'm going to do some math on this. Maybe I'll post my results in the daily grade discord channel. But I think that it's worth thinking about. It's worth realizing that the burn is very strong.
00:27:06.616 - 00:27:41.416, Speaker A: It can offset a lot of that issuance that we have under proof of stake. And someone actually asked me the other day in the Discord channel, like, why is a deflationary ETH desirable? And we had a bit of discussion about that. You can go Google, Google, you can go search and Discord channel for the discussion there. But the TLDR is basically that, in theory, makes ETH more valuable, a more valuable ETH, makes the network more secure. And at the end of the day, Ethereum has to earn its deflationary properties because there's still perpetual issuance going to stakers. There's still inflation, perpetual inflation going to stakers. It's just that we're offsetting that via network demand.
00:27:41.416 - 00:28:02.080, Speaker A: So it's not a, is not a deflationary currency by default. It is only deflationary because of the burn at certain periods of time and over certain time intervals. So it's worth keeping that in mind as well. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week.
00:28:02.080 - 00:28:02.504, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
