00:00:05.050 - 00:00:53.106, Speaker A: Gas. No, not the black oily fuel that runs your car and pollutes the planet. I'm talking about gas, the ETH required to power every transaction on Ethereum. Gas is a term that was coined to describe the ETH, or ether required to transact on the ethereum network. So ETH is money, digital money, native to Ethereum, paid to miners to get your transaction confirmed in a block on the Ethereum blockchain. Now, more specifically, every transaction that occurs on the network requires a set amount of gas, which is the unit used to measure the computational power required to process a transaction and to process a transaction included in a block. Miners are expected to be compensated for this task, and this is accomplished by setting a gas price with every transaction, which is the cost of one unit of gas denominated in Guai.
00:00:53.106 - 00:01:48.190, Speaker A: One ETH equals a billion guai. So, for example, when you send ETH from one account to another, this costs 21,000 gas. And if you were to set a gas price of one guai versus today, where we regularly see gas prices of 100 guai or more, this transaction would cost 00:21 ETH gas price is what everyone's been talking about since the summer of 2020, when DFI exploded. See, when more people are competing or bidding to get their transactions confirmed, gas prices go up. Since the DFI Apple protocol will require a predetermined amount of goose, it's the gas price you bid that determines the maximum amount of ETH you pay as network fees. To summarize, gas price represents how much ETH you're willing to pay per gas. When you send a transaction, you specify the gas price in guai per gas, where one guai equals zero one e.
00:01:48.190 - 00:02:25.766, Speaker A: I hope I said that right. Did I say that right? I'm not sure. The total fee paid equals gas price times gas used. So if you understand that gas price is the one variable you can set to pay more or less ETH of transaction fees on Ethereum, you can start to master how to save money on gas in DeFi. Here's three tips for how you can be gas price before clicking confirm on any transaction, check gasnow.org because the prices are fluctuating in real time based on a kind of auction like bidding. Among those submitting transactions on Ethereum, including Defi apps, gasnow.org
00:02:25.766 - 00:03:27.918, Speaker A: or Etherscan gas tracker or ethgastation info, all of them tell you in real time an estimated amount of time to confirm your transaction based on how high or low of a yes price you pay. Leverage l two powered apps whenever possible. And as of today, we know that synthetics, uniswap and curve are all building with L two solutions which should enable transactions to happen in a few hundred milliseconds and for pennies per transaction. But thankfully, there's a few options like loop ring, an L two powered Dex AMM and Ethereum wallet that trades at 2000 transactions per second. That's quite a lot. Lastly, be patient in most cases, unless you're trading on an Amm and your transaction has to confirm before the market rate changes, most DFI related transactions can sit for longer at lower gas prices while you wait for it to confirm. Becoming familiar with how to drop? Replace a transaction using this video by Defi dad can save you lots of time and trouble unsticking a pending transaction with too low of a price.
00:03:27.918 - 00:04:11.130, Speaker A: The key takeaway here is that girls is never a topic of joy within the DeFi and Ethereum community. But by learning and understanding the auction line biding process to set prices, one can save lots of money over time. A simple rule of thumb is if your Ethereum transaction confirms immediately, you overpaid. Find ways to reduce your costs so you can let that money earn passive income in other DFI applications. And we should win a prize this year for the most use of the word gas in a single video. Gas you've been watching DFI 101. Do be sure and check out the other videos in this series and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new video videos as they drop.
00:04:11.130 - 00:04:12.940, Speaker A: And above all, stay safe out there.
