00:00:00.330 - 00:00:34.534, Speaker A: You. Hi everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Bolton book claims that Trump told Treasury Secretary to go after bitcoin. The Washington examiner has a tidbit on an excerpt from John Bolton's new book, The Room Where It Happened that involves bitcoin. The publication reports that in May 2018 and a conversation about trade with China, President Trump told Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin that instead of negotiating trade, he should, quote, go after bitcoin for fraud. Minuchin's response was, if you don't want me on trade, fine.
00:00:34.534 - 00:01:24.594, Speaker A: Your economic team will execute whatever you want. Last July, Trump made a stance on bitcoin known tweeting I'm not a fan of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, which are not money and whose value is highly volatile and based on thin air. Next line JPMorgan Chase on bitcoin Passed its first stress test, but no safe haven in a note to investor clients, JP Morgan Chase analysts said that bitcoin is not uncorrelated to traditional investments such as stocks. They observed, quote, Bitcoin saw severe drops in liquidity around the peak of the crisis in March, but that disruption was cured much faster than other asset classes. They conclude that cryptocurrencies passed their first stress test at this time. However, they made this caveat quote There is little evidence that bitcoin and others served as a safe haven. I e digital gold.
00:01:24.594 - 00:02:24.330, Speaker A: Rather, its value appears to have been highly correlated with risky assets like equities. This all likely points to the continued survival of the asset class, but likely still more as a vehicle for speculation than as a medium of exchange or store of value. Next headline consensus codefi to launch Ethereum 20 Staking service consensus codefi announced an Ethereum 20 Staking as a service pilot with Binance Kobe Matrixport Crypto.com, which is a sponsor of my shows Drama, Capital and Trustology as participants. The target market for the staking API will be large exchanges, wallet providers, custodians, and crypto hedge funds who can use this as a white label service. Stefan Coolikin, president and CFO of Ether Capital Corporation, tweeted that Ether is, quote, about to become a yielding instrument with annual returns of up to 20%. He further elaborated in a Tweet storm quote Warren Buffett famously said he'd prefer all the farmland in the US.
00:02:24.330 - 00:02:50.654, Speaker A: Instead of all the gold in the world. Why? Farmland is a productive asset on which you can earn cash flow. Cash is king. Understandably, Buffett doesn't value bitcoin either. With staking, however, you can turn your cryptocurrency into a productive asset that generates a yield. You're now holding farmland, not gold. However, Stefan warns the yields of 20% would likely occur earlier when there's more risk, and then drop to two to 3% as staking becomes more relevant.
00:02:50.654 - 00:04:24.650, Speaker A: He concludes with staking as blockchain's answer to a yield instrument, it's just a matter of time before staking networks like Ethereum get the attention they deserve from traditional finance. Next Headline Reddit holds an Ethereum Scaling Bake Off reddit and the Ethereum Foundation are inviting Ethereum Scaling projects to show how their scaling solution can be used to bring Reddit's Community Points to mainnet, first to support the hundreds of thousands of users of Community Points, and then later to scale to all of Reddit's 430,000,000 monthly users. They'd like for projects to share their demo in the comments of The Post by July 31, as long as they meet certain requirements around scaling decentralization Usability, Interoperability and Security. Next Headline Quadriga Downfall Due to Fraud says Ontario Securities Commission The Ontario securities regulator took the unusual step of publishing the findings of its investigation into the collapse of Canadian cryptocurrency exchange Quadriga CX, saying that it, quote, resulted from a fraud committed by Quadriga's Cofounder. And CEO Gerald Cotton. The ten part report details how, by the time it ceased operating, Quadriga owed 76,000 clients $215,000,000 in assets, but only 46 million was recovered to pay out for securities regulator report. It's a riveting read showing how Quadriga did not store clients crypto assets specifically for them, nor did it store them in secure, offline multisig wallets, as Cotton claimed.
00:04:24.650 - 00:05:10.000, Speaker A: Instead, most assets were held in hot wallets and placed on other crypto asset trading platforms. Even then, many of those were simply being traded and spent by Cotton, with $28 million worth of Klein assets lost trading on those platforms. But most of all, Cotton traded with Quadrika customers using fake money. 97% of this trading was through an account under the name Chris Marque, though others were called Scepter Jerry R. PO, the regulators write. Quote Cotton credited these accounts with fake crypto assets and fake fiat currency through manual adjustments to Quadriga's internal ledger. For example, in 2017 and early 2018, he credited the Chris Marquee account with single deposits of $100 million and $50 million.
00:05:10.000 - 00:06:35.290, Speaker A: By 2017, the exchange held 20,000 fake bitcoins, and Cotton had lost $115,000,000 by trading fake assets and covering those losses with the assets of new clients, effectively running a Ponzi scheme. Although Quadriga touted its high volumes, in reality Cotton was partied to at least 35% of all trades in bitcoin settled in Canadian dollars on the platform, plus, he also siphoned $24 million of client funds to himself and his fiance. In case you missed it, be sure to check out the interview I did with Vanity Fair writer Nathaniel Rich on the downfall of this exchange for the magazine next headline former CFTC chairman published his argument that XRP is not a security. Christopher Giancarlo, aka Cryptodad, who is now senior counsel at the New York law firm Wilkie Farngallagher, co authored with a Wilkie colleague a paper titled Cryptocurrencies and US. Securities law beyond bitcoin and ether. It argues point by point that the cryptocurrency XRP, previously known as Ripples, does not qualify as a security. According to the four prongs of the Howey test, however, Ripple, the company which owns the vast majority of XRP, is a client of Wilkie Farngallagher, and the paper quote, relied on certain factual information provided by Ripple in the preparation of this article.
00:06:35.290 - 00:07:45.550, Speaker A: Next Headline bancorp vulnerability highlights issues with ERC 27 tokens Bancorp found a vulnerability in its latest smart contracts deployed on Tuesday, putting $450,000 worth of user funds at risk, though they were able to white hat migrate the funds to a safe wallet blockchain. Engineer David Meehall pointed out that the issue stems from a fundamental design flaw with ERC 20 tokens, since, he says, quote, the user makes one transaction to allow the DAP to access their tokens and another to run the transaction. Due to current gas prices, many people just enable limitless transactions so as to do the call approve just once, as he says, but now you've given unlimited control of your funds to another contract. However, he notes, the ERC seven seven token standard makes it so that the recipient can never access more tokens than the user sent. The drawback, of course, is that ERC seven seven tokens are a vulnerable to reentrancy attacks, which is what happened with lend FME. But as he says, at least these don't put user custody funds at risk. Great fun bits.
00:07:45.550 - 00:08:26.670, Speaker A: Fred Ursom Talks Creators in Crypto on a podcast Fred Ursom, partner at Paradigm, and Blake Robbins, partner at Ludlow Ventures, and Jesse Walden, founder of Variant, discuss what business models are working for creators today and how crypto can change that. They're excited about people tokenizing themselves or an hour of their time, and using tokens to get others to promote them. It's worth a listen if you're interested in where this space might go. All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Kane and the Comp launch, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of your podcast player. And don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the podcast on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com
00:08:26.670 - 00:08:39.930, Speaker A: slash c slash Unchained podcast and subscribe. Today. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from fractional recording, anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Josh Durham and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
