00:02:35.490 - 00:03:12.114, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon, good evening everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of eGlobal and super excited to welcome all of you to LF Grow. So you're watching this thing on Ego TV. This is the platform we'll be using for today's summits talks, kickoff finale and the rest of this event. This is where you get to talk to us live. You can kind to sign in and say hi, customize your avatar, and if you have any questions in the future for our speakers or any of the talks, you can type them in the chat and we'll be able to relay those questions to our speakers. Also, for everybody who signs in and engages with us, we'll be giving everybody a NFT PO app as well.
00:03:12.114 - 00:03:38.486, Speaker A: So be sure to say hi and tell us where you're coming from. So this event is brought to you by ETH Global. And for those of you who don't know what ETH Global is, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to onboard thousands of developers into the Web Three ecosystem. And we do this primarily by running hackathons and summits and LF Grow is no different. So we have both components here for this event. We're going to start off with the hackathon.
00:03:38.486 - 00:04:23.750, Speaker A: The hackathon officially begins today. This is the kickoff of us talking about how the hackathon is set up and how everything's going to work. And then shortly after that, I'll talk about the summit, which just begins in about 40 minutes. And we'll have a jampacked agenda of amazing talks and speakers that are going to be talking about the future of kind of how we see this space and all of Web Three evolve. For the hackathon, we have 500 hackers from 41 different countries spending 13 different time zones participating and building new ways to think about social networks. So I can't wait to see what comes out of this event next week and to kind of see where everybody was coming from. We put everybody on a map and it kind of still blows us away that we have representation from six different continents and so many different people from so many different parts of the world.
00:04:23.750 - 00:05:41.206, Speaker A: So we're super excited to see the diversity of what everybody is excited about, the problems that you care about, and the things that make you super passionate about working in this space and thinking about new ways to build social networks. And I'm excited to welcome all of you to this event and not just the hackers. We also have ten ecosystem partners who are going to be here this entire time and over 61 ecosystem mentors who are also going to be here helping you get unblocked or get help on anything that you need to finish your projects. Whether it's technical help, understanding how do you think about architecture, or just even general understanding of how something is structured or built, So you can better understand as well as kind of cater those understandings towards applying them to your projects. And to top it all off, we have $200,000 in prizes that are going to be given away as part of this event and we'll go into what these prizes are and how everything is split up. So stay tuned for those details. Just want to especially thank the Lens Protocol for being an amazing collaborator for this event and also some amazing partners like Polygon Studios live peer degraph ENS two can ceramic unstoppable domains, chainlink and lit protocol.
00:05:41.206 - 00:06:51.686, Speaker A: They're all offering different prizes for different ways where you can use their APIs, SDKs or protocols. And we will be going through a lot of those details very soon. So let's quickly talk about the hackathon. So the goal of this session is to cover some of the logistics around how everything is set up and us answering the most common questions we get from all the participants, especially first time participants and any nuances that we can clarify. So the most obvious question that we've gotten here is what can I actually build? As I've kind of already prefaced, this is an event about understanding how we can extend and build on the Lens Graph. So the most common things that we think everybody can be excited about is looking at different ways to think about how we use social graphs. In Web Three you get a really immense commutable as well as composable way to think about information, identity preservation and just ways you can leverage any history from any other place and include that in any new mechanic that you are trying to do.
00:06:51.686 - 00:07:47.900, Speaker A: There's a lot of creativity around social graphs. This also lets you enable a new way to think about claim and drops. So whether it's supporting a different way to think about whitelistings or user bases that can get access based on different sort of qualifiers, there's also ways to think about how do we include this thing in governance and identity or especially how we work with Dows. And of course, as part of any network, you have so much more room to think about visualization analytics and understanding where information is and how it's flowing between different parties. So these are very high level themes. We're going to go into a lot of that throughout the event through various talks, also the website for the hackathon and also you can see a lot more detail on what is actually possible on a technical level very soon as we have a detailed talk about the architecture of Lens Protocol. So let's quickly talk about the next ten days.
00:07:47.900 - 00:08:40.614, Speaker A: So what I want to cover is how everything is set up and what the next week looks like, what it means to kind of think about forming a team, how you can get help, all the prizes you can win, all the talks and workshops that are happening as part of this event. Obviously, the summit. That's going to happen just after this talk and how judging and submission works. So let's start with communication. Everything about this event is going to be on our discord, which means that if you are a hacker or a partner, you should have gotten access to the LF Grow channels. These are all private channels, which means only people who are participating at the event will be able to see them. So please make sure that you have logged in and authenticated discord from your dashboard and that you were able to see the LF Grow chat and all the other channels on the screenshot.
00:08:40.614 - 00:09:44.974, Speaker A: This is where you can go to get help and have any information about, or just kind of keep up with any information about talks, agenda, any changes, or just kind of how judging and everything else has worked directly. And this is also where you can get help. So if you go to the Mentorship Help channel, you can ask your questions there. And you'll also see channels for really specific protocols. So you can ask the teams over there for help on how you use something, or if you need to clarify, or if you are facing any bugs, you can kind of get help in multiple places there. On top of all of that, for every talk workshop that's being hosted, you are also going to be receiving calendar invites so you can quickly see when everything is normalized to your own time zone and the entire event schedule is on our website. We really want this thing to be asynchronous as possible, which means that even though we have people from so many different time zones, we understand that you may all not be available to attend any talks live, whether it's through work or school obligations or anything else.
00:09:44.974 - 00:10:25.594, Speaker A: So everything that we're doing as part of this event is going to be recorded, which means as soon as it ends, it will be available on our YouTube and you can kind of find all these links, the agenda, what's upcoming, all the deadlines or any other changes on our website. And you can just head over to Lfcrow Ethglobal.com to get the latest information about everything on this event. So let's quickly talk about how the time zone or the hackathon works. I'm also looking at questions from the audience. If you have any questions about the logistics, feel free to ask them here and I'll be able to look and answer them for you. So the hackathon officially begins now, which means you can start building.
00:10:25.594 - 00:11:14.380, Speaker A: As of one and a half hours ago, you can start working on your projects. You can have up to five members on your team and you have now the next nine days to hack and submit your projects. Submissions are due at 12:00 p.m., which is noon Eastern on Sunday the 27th. So this gives you nine days to work on something, get help, give us feedback or ask for any feedback and kind of submit the projects and then judging will begin the day after. In terms of rules and criteria, the rules are fairly straightforward. Everything that you are submitting must be done from scratch, which means that anything that was done as part of a submission for this event should have started today with a traceable and proper GitHub history.
00:11:14.380 - 00:12:19.386, Speaker A: So you are allowed to use pre existing libraries. We do not want you to re went the wheel. So if you have any open source libraries that you want to put in or any other boilerplates that are available already, you are more than welcome to use that and start there to make your lives easier. But we will ensure that everybody else has done all the work just during the course of this event and not before. And we will also enforce that people are not committing just the day before. So you should maintain a proper git of history and anything that we see that does not look like it may be fully traceable or it was likely done before, this event will be considered disqualified project in terms of other things that we want to add, you have to use Lens Protocol as part of your submission. This is an event entirely about thinking about how Lens Graph can be introduced in all of your different ideas and only RSVP hackers will be eligible to win any prizes.
00:12:19.386 - 00:13:23.842, Speaker A: Which means that if you submitted a project and you did not have your team member listed officially on your dashboard at the time of your submission or right now and you end up winning a prize, only the people who are listed on the team will be given the prize at the end. On top of that, there can always be different edge cases and we totally understand that. So if you feel like something is going to be different for you or your team, please email us and we want to understand what that situation is and handle that accordingly. So reach out to anybody on the global team, preferably over email, and we'll be able to address your concerns from there. And of course there's ever glooming question of what if? I'm new to all. There's a lot of you who are coming in from the web Two side trying to understand what could be possible and we also want to make sure that this is an event that lets you explore what could be possible and this is totally okay to sort of use as an opportunity to understand what is out there. So what we recommend is you should head over to find a team channel.
00:13:23.842 - 00:14:12.770, Speaker A: If you're still looking for projects or other teammates or you want to join a project and you can offer a specific skill set there's a lot of people here already have discord asking for needing help with various skills or specific expertise on different technologies. So if you are one of them, you can absolutely ping and reach out to any of those other members. And we also encourage all of you to introduce yourself in the LF Crow Chat channel. We're curious to learn where everybody's from and what they're excited about. And of course, it is totally okay to hack solo. You don't have to necessarily work on a team if you prefer not having a team, or if you would like to just use this as an opportunity for yourself to challenge yourself to see what you can build, that is totally okay too. And a lot of you have already attended the brainstorming and the team matching sessions yesterday and earlier today.
00:14:12.770 - 00:15:06.838, Speaker A: So a lot of you should have still kind of gotten all the information you need to understand what you can do to pair up with somebody if you're still looking for a team. And of course, there's a lot of talks and workshops and there's a lot of amazing content for beginners and people from every skill set. So we'll be making sure that you have a chance to kind of look up and catch up on all these things that come out of this event. So all these talks, panels and workshops will be recorded and streamed. And we also have a summit right after this thing. We have an amazing set of talks and speakers coming on and we'll be kind of going through a lot of those details very soon. But you can check out everything directly on Ethglobal's YouTube channel by heading over to Eat Global and for all the details around anyone, from judging to submission to the timelines to any criteria around how things are looked at.
00:15:06.838 - 00:16:15.336, Speaker A: All that information is available on your info center, which is also linked on a lot of the calendar invites and your dashboard. And once again, the website is lfgrow Heapglobal.com. So another kind of thing here is that if you missed any opportunity to participate in the team building session, there's still a lot of people who are on Discord looking for teams, and you can check out and catch up on what's happening on the discord channels for looking for find a team channel and start talking to people there. The reason we do the session as a zoom call is to allow for one or two opportunities to have everybody talk at the same time, synchronously on a call so you can have more context and kind of go back and forth faster. But depending on the demand we'll look at addressing if there's another thing that we should do today or tomorrow. Also one thing to note is that there is a notion of a check in for this event. There'll be two quick check ins next week on your dashboard.
00:16:15.336 - 00:16:58.910, Speaker A: These are just simple questions that we ask everybody on understanding how things are going. And this kind of lets us give you the help you need, which is anywhere from understanding where you're blocked, where you need help, or if you are still stuck after a couple of days of anywhere from not getting somewhere or still not being able to understand if this something is possible. We get to route you to different people, whether it's our partners or other developers out there, or just being able to answer. You should think about doing this instead or anything to unblock yourself. Your stake will also be returned as you respond to these check ins. Again, these are very simple forms and they'll appear on your dashboard early next week. And we'll also notify everybody over email and discord that the check ins are now available.
00:16:58.910 - 00:17:28.004, Speaker A: It's just a way for us to understand how things are going. So nothing too formal and just more of a mini survey. And submissions are due at 12:00 p.m. Eastern on the 27th. So this gives you nine days to work on your projects and submit them on Sunday. And this kind of leads us to how judging is set up. So the judging, I have a typo here.
00:17:28.004 - 00:18:09.212, Speaker A: Judging happens on the 20 eigth of March, not on the 14th, and judging is split into two different tracks. There's a main judging, which will be from 09:12 P.m. To 02:30 P.m. Eastern, and then there's sponsored judging for any prizes that you are applying for, which will be asynchronous. The way main judging works is you have four minutes to demo and record your kind of project. We will require video submission. So on Sunday, as you are submitting your projects, you will have to record it up to four minute video of what you have built and how everything works and who you are and sort of why you built it.
00:18:09.212 - 00:19:02.692, Speaker A: And that is what will be used by all of the prizes consideration as well as the judges on Monday. And we really recommend that you don't do this thing last minute because it will require you sometimes to get anywhere from the video right to seeing if you actually are able to put everything you want to in a four minute limit. So please kind of give at least one to 2 hours of just a buffer to make that submission happen. And all these details again, will be available on your dashboard. So you'll be able to do all of this thing via your dashboard. And we'll have the judging section on the infocenter be populated to give you all the nuances around how do you think about this thing, including examples from previous submissions that you can use as a reference. Ask for any sponsor judging for any prizes that you're going to be applying for.
00:19:02.692 - 00:19:52.908, Speaker A: All that happens also via your dashboard and asynchronously so on the submission form, as you're submitting your projects, you'll be able to specify, these are the prizes I'm going for. And based on which prizes you select, we will be sharing your projects with those projects and the protocols. And they will be reviewing all those videos as well and reaching out to you if they have any questions. But this will not be a live session like the main judging. So all of our partners and sponsors will look at all of your recorded videos and use that as a way to understand what's happening and they'll reach out to you if they need any clarification. So all that happens asynchronously and of course I want to talk about the Code of conduct for this event. The rules and the code of Conduct is listed on Ethgoba.com
00:19:52.908 - 00:20:51.940, Speaker A: rules but the gist of it is that please be respectful and harassment and abuse in any capacity will not be tolerated in our community and we will take immediate action if we see somebody being disrespectful. Also, if you have any kind of you need any help or clarification, please reach out to anybody on the global team whether it's through discord or email and we will be able to address any of your concerns or take action appropriately and immediately. So that covers a lot of the logistics. I'll see if there are more questions coming in, but without kind of further ado, I want to quickly take a second to talk about our partners and thank them for kind of being part of this event. So we asked them to record a video about kind of who they are, how everything is set up on there and why they're excited to be kind of part of this event and why we're doing it together with a lot of them. And without further ado, I'd like to sort of welcome Stani from Lens to talk about Lens Protocol.
00:20:54.700 - 00:22:15.730, Speaker B: Welcome, everyone, to the electro hackathon. This is an amazing opportunity to hack on the future of social media, especially with the Web Three components. So today's social media has a lot of different kind of challenges and it's being built in a way where there isn't much of an ability to contribute as a developer. And Lens Protocol is going to change that. It's going to change that in a way where you as a developer can actually focus on building better social media applications without creating the network effect and the platform effect that normally would have to compete with traditional social media platforms. Essentially what Lens Protocol is, it is a web Three social media protocol that is built completely on smart contracts, meaning that the profile creation is tokenized as NFTs. Followings relationships are tokenized as NFTs and the protocol itself has modules, different kinds of follow logics, collection logics and also reference logics that can be changed or as a developer you can contribute to create new ones.
00:22:15.730 - 00:23:29.784, Speaker B: So the protocol is modularized to various different kinds of use cases. And the idea is that if we have Web Three built in a common social graph it means that you as a developer you can focus on actually building better user experience or focus on building social media application that focuses on particular use case or a niche or essentially creating something completely new that no one has thought about yet. The protocol is very simple to use and there is an API as well. So Lens API helps you to do all the middleware heavy lifting, so indexing NFTs and getting the data that you actually need to build very amazing and beautiful front end. We at this hackathon, we're looking to see a lot of creativity. Creativity in the design, the user experience, and also in your idea. And also I want to say that hackathons are the best places to meet new friends and it's an experience.
00:23:29.784 - 00:23:56.080, Speaker B: So essentially, whatever you're building, you should enjoy the process, enjoy contributing, enjoy building and exploring the Lens Protocol itself. And also if you need any kind of help reach out to its global team, reach out to our team. We're happy to help you. We're happy to brainstorm with you and support you. Thank you so much and have amazing time during the LF Grow hackathon.
00:24:02.240 - 00:24:20.448, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you so much Stani. And we'll just hear from him in a few minutes. But the other one we want to talk about is Eric, who's going to talk about Live Peer. So without further ado, let's hear how you can integrate Live Peer. Eric Tang and I'm the co founder.
00:24:20.464 - 00:25:17.780, Speaker C: And CTO at Livepeer. Livepeer is building the video streaming infrastructure for Web Three. And we're really excited to be here at LF Grow working with you all on decentralized social applications. And that's simply because in today's world, almost all popular social applications have a significant video feature. However, all of these applications have a broken underlining economic incentive layer. And part of the reason is because it's so complex and it costs so much money on the infrastructure layer to build these types of applications so that only companies with deep pockets can actually succeed. And as soon as these platforms get to a certain scale, they start to exhibit very strong anti competitive behaviors and they start to hold their users and their data hostage.
00:25:17.780 - 00:26:23.308, Speaker C: For example, if you are streaming on Twitch and you want to be able to make money on Twitch, then you have to sign up to be a Twitch partner, which means you promise that you will exclusively stream on Twitch and not other platforms. Another thing that happens in these platforms is that they take arbitrarily high take rate. YouTube is famously taking 50% of the take rate. What that means is for every $2 that YouTube makes, it only shares a dollar with their creators for a platform that their entire application experience is to share creator content to their viewers. This is a really high tax in the Web Three world. All of this changes and that's really rooted in the fact that users now own their content and they own their data. We're already seeing this happen where applications are built around this fact and multiple applications are built on the same set of data.
00:26:23.308 - 00:27:24.156, Speaker C: For example, the most popular NFT application in the Web three space, Openc, has only a two and a half percent take rate. It's not because Openc wants to take an arbitrarily low take rate, but it's because OpenSea simply does not own the user's data and OpenSea needs to be competitive to all the other NFT platforms that are around the world. Now, we're just at the beginning of this evolution, and we're really excited to see what kind of ideas you, the hackers, are going to come up with. So Live Peer is offering prices that total up to $16,000 for this hackathon. And we've also created LF growth specific Hacker Quick Start Guide, which was shared in the Discord channel. In there you will find SDKs and tutorials and even code examples that you can clone and use that to help on your hack. So come find us in the discord, tell us about your hacks.
00:27:24.156 - 00:27:27.680, Speaker C: We'd love to help you, and good luck.
00:27:32.660 - 00:28:14.776, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much, Eric. And yeah, I mean, this is one of the interesting pieces, which is when we talk about decentralized social media networks, we're usually looking at a Twitter alternative or just a way to think about posting content. But there's so much more to think about in social content and media consumption and just videos is a massive part of kind of how everything is growing. So I'm super excited to see how people think about ways to think on all these networks as we look at different forms of media other than just text, too. So this should be really fun, and I can't wait to see what everybody builds. All right, so let's go into all the prizes.
00:28:14.776 - 00:28:28.870, Speaker A: So we're just at the tail end of the prize and we can go through the rest of it with our summit. So first up, I want to talk about all the amazing prizes that you can win with Lens. So without further ado, let's welcome Stani again to talk about all the prizes that they can.
00:28:31.560 - 00:29:28.900, Speaker B: GM for all LF grow hackers. So we have some interesting bounties to announce. So we have three tracks in total. So the track one is the front end track, and the idea is to reward the best implementation of a front end build on top of the Lens protocol. So the first price is $25,000 worth of price, and the second one is 10,003rd, is 5000. And then we have category prices, 1250 each. And different categories are audio, curation, matchmaking, social gaming, commerce, creator monetization strategies, composable content forking.
00:29:28.900 - 00:31:02.144, Speaker B: For example, if you create some sort of an interesting meme template application on top of Lens protocol, and then we have eight category is the moderation. So essentially, you can build any kind of new social media experience with the Lens protocol. And based on the implementation criteria, such as the design, how nice the user experience is, how beautiful the application is, novelty, originality, the technical accomplishment, how much effort you put there, the potential impact, and of course creativity and fun. Also we have a protocol track, so 20,000 for most creative new modules, so 5000 for the follow module, 5000 for the reference module, 7001st and 3000 for the second collect module. So here you can be very creative and contribute directly to the Lens protocol with these new modules and same criteria here. And especially creativity, usability is very valued. And then third track is the tooling and that's 30,000 for the Bounties, 5000 for Migrator to the best webtube vampire.
00:31:02.144 - 00:31:45.120, Speaker B: So essentially creating a Migrator application where you can log in with your existing web two social media profile and then be able to migrate your profile by creating a new profile and even migrating your previous post into the Lens Protocol. Also, 5000 for the best marketplace for Lens NFTs. So here we are looking. Also creativity, efficiency and usability as well. 5000 for most creative use of ML. So machine learning. So you could create different kinds of algorithms, follow algorithms, recommendation algorithms collect algorithms.
00:31:45.120 - 00:32:16.990, Speaker B: 5000 for the best feed algorithm. 5000 for Dow Tooling and that could be helping dows to create dow lens accounts and make from multisig. And 5000 for graph Explorer. Could be dashboard visualization something like Ether scan, but will be more of a lens scan. So it's 100,000 word of Bounties. So it's going to be very interesting. A lot of things to do.
00:32:16.990 - 00:32:22.030, Speaker B: Enjoy and have fun. Thank you.
00:32:25.280 - 00:33:01.704, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Donnie. And I know you went through a lot of the prizes very fast, but you can kind of take a screenshot here. It's a brief breakdown of everything that was just said. It's going to be for a second 3rd place prize and there's going to be a lot of tracks. So this is a front end track with 50,000 in total for various different categories and modules, and then a second track for protocol specific things where you can create different modules and different variations of how you would think about any world with how these modules should be changed from how web two is structured. So 20,000 for this side and then there's a whole big massive section on Tooling. Tooling just gets me excited every time.
00:33:01.704 - 00:33:25.040, Speaker A: But there's a lot of things you can do here in any of these categories to win any of these prizes. And don't worry, this is not the only place where all the prizes are. You can head over to our prizes page which I'll link very shortly to get all these details, including documentation and links and even videos on how to get started. So next up, I want to talk about Livepeer and we'll have Paige from Livepeer talk about all their prizes.
00:33:26.740 - 00:33:27.104, Speaker D: Live.
00:33:27.142 - 00:33:57.720, Speaker E: Peer, and I'm going to talk to you about the prizes we're offering for building the future of decentralized social media with Live Peer. Do you think video is core. To the future of social media. Want to create the next decentralized twitch YouTube or TikTok. Livepeer is web three's open and decentralized video infrastructure layer and we make it easy for you to store and stream video in your application. As a presenting sponsor for LF Grow. Livepeer is offering $16,000 in prizes.
00:33:57.720 - 00:34:35.492, Speaker E: 4000 for the best Web three video creator social platform like YouTube or Instagram, 4000 for the best video streaming social platform like Twitch, 4000 for the best short form video social platform like TikTok and finally, 4000 pool prize for projects that integrate with Live peer. Remember, you need to have completed a Live peer integration in order to be eligible for a prize. We're excited to see what you build and we're here to help sign up for a product session with me or time with one of our engineers to help with your integration. Good luck.
00:34:35.556 - 00:34:36.410, Speaker F: Have fun.
00:34:38.860 - 00:35:09.124, Speaker A: Awesome. So just to summarize, Life here is offering $16,000 in total, one for best social creator platform, one for best streaming social platform and best short form video. So there's a lot of video related things that we can do here. And there's also a pool prize 4000, which means anybody who uses Live here will split this amount equally. Then we have Polygon Studios. So the best social media adapt built on Polygon will be receiving 5000. The best DAP that uses Web three identity as its core will be receiving 3000 for the first place.
00:35:09.124 - 00:35:46.412, Speaker A: And the best implementation of Polygon Finity design in Adapt will receive 3000. And the best following five DApps that leverage Polygon specifically will win 1000 each. Then you also have lit protocol, which is a way to think about how do you actually give consent to your data across different audiences. So the best private data solution on Lens will receive $4,000 for using lit. Then we have the graph. The best use of existing subgraphs in integrating that into a new social network will receive 1500. And the best new subgraph creation as part of this event will receive $2,000 in total.
00:35:46.412 - 00:36:30.072, Speaker A: The first place gets 1500 and the runner up gets 500. And we also have Chain Link offering $4,000 in link tokens to the top five project or $5,000 into top five projects that use chain link for their projects. And then we have ceramic. And Ceramic is offering $2,000 with the best social app that also integrates Ceramic network and the SDK into their app for managing data. And the best integration that uses Nftdid account types will also receive 2000. Then we also have two can protocols. So two can protocols offering $4,000 in total for the best use of tools and networks that sort of bring in carbon markets on chain, especially as part of these interactions.
00:36:30.072 - 00:36:58.672, Speaker A: And this is going to be an exciting one to see how people think about using these things in new ways of thinking about Web Three platforms. And just to kind of summarize all these things are available on Lfprobal.com prizes. You can see all the details, documentations and boilerplates for getting started with all of these protocols. So finally, before we get into our summit, I want to just remind everybody to pace yourself. We really don't want this thing to be exhausting for you. This is very much about learning and experimentation.
00:36:58.672 - 00:37:29.680, Speaker A: We really want you to have fun. So we're kind of bringing in new technologies and protocols to see how everything can be in the future. And this is an event where 500 of you are going to really try every different variation of everything that you can see that excites you. So without further ado, I want to welcome and congratulate all of you for being part of this event. Happy hacking. And I will see you all on our discord. And with that, we are ready for our summit.
00:37:29.680 - 00:38:28.496, Speaker A: So we have an amazing day packed for all of you. Just to give a quick overview, we're going to talk about just jumping into what we think about the future of decentralized social media looks like with Legion Stani and Baliji Trinidad. We're going to give a more detailed technical architectural interview of how Ledge Protocol is set up. We're also then talk about other ways to think about new ways social networks should grow from protocol side and what we can do to extend them. Then we'll talk about just how we think future of on chain creation and collaboration. Looks like if you have a social identity that can be commuted and composed, we're going to have Juan Benet and Jonathan don't talk about just unstoppable thoughts and how we actually think about data preservation in this context of everybody having access to everything always on chain. And we also want to talk about just the impact of how we think about public goods and carbon credits in climate and how that integrates with Web Three, specifically with social impact at scale.
00:38:28.496 - 00:38:58.364, Speaker A: And lastly, we're going to talk about how anywhere from tooling to collaboration to ideas that we can think about on making it easy to work with. Dows. So let's get started. I want to bring on our three amazing panelists. Stein Kochev Legion from variant and Balji Srinivasan from 1729. As our panelists, I want to welcome all of you here. I'd like to ask if you turn on the videos and we'll talk about our round three of basically decentralized social media.
00:38:58.364 - 00:39:27.060, Speaker A: This has been a very active conversation we've had with a lot of you here. And kind of the goal is to kind of finally see that this is now being put into action, a lot of it from our learnings from these chats before. And I want to quickly ask everybody to give a quick introduction on themselves on who you are and what you do. So I'll start with Lee would love to kind of understand who you are for the audience to know. And then we'll go with Balji and Stan.
00:39:27.960 - 00:40:10.390, Speaker E: Hey everyone. Lee here, and I am a general partner at Variant Fund. We are a first check crypto fund investing in the ownership economy, really, of the belief that crypto enables digital ownership, which facilitates new user experiences across the board in a variety of different categories. I've been a consumer investor for many years. I previously spent four years at a 16 Z covering consumer networks, including social networking marketplaces and other kinds of multisited networks. And then I left in 2020 to start my own fund, investing in the future of online work and the creator economy. So it's really nice to be here with everyone today.
00:40:12.200 - 00:40:16.230, Speaker A: Amazing. Balgi would love you to give a brief intro.
00:40:17.000 - 00:40:27.560, Speaker D: Sure, yeah. I'm Balaji Srivasin, former CTO of Coinbase, former General Partner at Anderson Horowitz, investor in a bunch of web three things tweeter.
00:40:30.380 - 00:40:32.520, Speaker A: And without further ado, Stanik.
00:40:34.080 - 00:41:25.150, Speaker G: I'm Sonic Kolachov. I'm the founder and CEO of Ave. So we're a team that builds and creates Web Three protocols. And over the past years, I would say past five and a half years I've been building decentralized finance and now we have built the Lens protocol and kind of like creating more tools for developers to build the future of Web three social. I think myself as kind of like a more of a technologist and curious community member and I'm super excited about the hackathon here, especially hearing that we have over 500 hackers, which is insane. So, yeah, that's my introduction. Pleasure to be here.
00:41:25.680 - 00:41:46.070, Speaker A: We're excited to have all of you here. So I want to start off by just kind of just kind of understanding how each of us interpret that. When we say decentral social media, this means different things to all of us and kind of just jumping right in. I want to start with Balaji and kind of get your understanding on when I say decentralized social media, when somebody says this, how do you think about that? And what does that mean to.
00:41:47.800 - 00:42:17.020, Speaker D: I mean, the way I think about it is if you think about Bitcoin bitcoin's backend is open and PayPal does not you can print out every bitcoin transaction that's ever happened. Everybody in the world can do that with a computer and Internet connection. Just download the blockchain and do it. But you cannot do that for PayPal. It wasn't set up that way. Only the PayPal engineers have root on their database. And so that's why I think of what blockchains are, is they're the next step after open source.
00:42:17.020 - 00:43:05.596, Speaker D: They're not just open source, you also have open state and open execution. Open state, meaning the back end is open and public. Basically every record can be printed. Not necessarily every row in a database, because it's not a SQL structured thing, but every record in the blockchain can be printed and it's also open execution where if you run a node, you are able to see every opcode. And insofar as people didn't trust a ranking algorithm of some kind, the decentralized social media implementation of that people could run the equivalent of a decentralized Twitter node or Facebook node. They actually interrogate the opcodes and actually see that the ranking algorithm is not shadow banning them or biased in one way or another way or that it is. And so once you have an open backend, once you have open state and open execution, here's some things you could do.
00:43:05.596 - 00:43:37.568, Speaker D: For example, if you had a properly decentralized Twitter, you could print all tweets, you could load them into a database, print all tweets that are a particular string, print the entire social graph, sort every follower by the number of tweets they like. You could do sentiment analysis, you could send end to end encrypted messages to their users using their public private key pairs. And perhaps most importantly, you could integrate this with every aspect of your backend. It basically sits next to your postgres because your slice of an open state database is actually yours. You have root on it. It's more like your space on AWS or GitHub than your space on Twitter. It's much less locked down, much less restricted by API.
00:43:37.568 - 00:43:56.492, Speaker D: So that just completely changes how you build, because so much engineering time is spent maintaining Flaky integrations with these social media APIs, which can basically just deplatform you at any time, and protocols are just much more potentially reliable and stable than that. That's what this space means to me. Amazing.
00:43:56.546 - 00:44:11.410, Speaker A: I think you ended up prefacing the rest of the set of questions as well. So we go deep into any of these topics, but I want to start with Lee. How do you think about this thing and how much of this do you agree or disagree with Balaji's views, or rather disagree nuances on?
00:44:12.180 - 00:46:02.560, Speaker E: Yeah, I would echo everything that Balaji just mentioned. I think it's interesting to consider decentralized social networking in contrast to the current state of social networking, which is extremely centralized. So today the state of the world is one in which there's essentially a very small handful of centralized social networking companies that effectively control all of the means of content production and distribution for all of the users in the world. And that really is predicated, or is due to the fact that the data and content and basically all of the identity and relationships and every piece of data created by these users is privately owned by that handful of companies, rather than being publicly accessible as an open utility or through that open state, as Volaji was mentioning. And so the implication of that is that the existing social networking paradigm is actually quite coercive, where as a participant in this landscape, if you want to be able to reach people or participate in content creation that reaches anyone, you really have to go through this handful of centralized gatekeepers in order to do that. So I think of decentralized social networking really as the opposite of all of that where if we start with the base layer of OPENState then you could have many different developers all building different applications and interfaces on top that showcase that information in different ways and compete with each other to offer the best user experience. And there could be a proliferation of different discovery algorithms or different content moderation approaches that really serve up different types of social experiences to users.
00:46:02.560 - 00:46:14.520, Speaker E: So I think that's a really exciting vision of the world. And the implication then is that users would have a lot more choice and agency in the systems in which they're.
00:46:17.820 - 00:46:21.260, Speaker A: Absolutely and Stannie, without further ado.
00:46:25.200 - 00:48:13.996, Speaker G: I definitely think there's kind of like what's been echoed is that decentralized social media, it creates a lot of choices. Choices for the users, choices for the developers. And the way we have built web Two is we got this enormous efficiency by centralizing a lot of data, making it as efficient as possible and then using that data to basically knowing and understanding what the users want and selling them to. And the kind of like a difficult task here is that you always need to follow this particular model when you build a social media business or application and you don't have many choices there. So what decentralized social media helps, especially from the builder's perspective, is that you actually can, as a builder, when you have this kind of like a social graph, as the public good and you can focus on actually building that particular user experience that you want to achieve or certain use case or maybe certain kind of like, I would say, build an application with certain values. For example, maybe you are more interested in building more humane social media or making it more private. Or maybe the future of social media for your user base might not be what's your reach of followers in the graph, but maybe the quality of those followers and how much engaged there are and when you would have to create a new social media application from builders perspective.
00:48:13.996 - 00:49:38.152, Speaker G: Perspective you need to build this big platform effect and to compete with the users and get those network effects. And in web three social. What I kind of realized is that if you make this particular piece as a public good and everyone is pretty much sharing resources with each other, the networking, the data what happens is that you can just switch your focus on whatever you want to build so you have more choices as a builder. But at the same time it's kind of like a waterfall effect going towards also to the end user, meaning that as a user you can start actually voting with your I will not say voting with your feed, I would say voting with your wallet and your lens, maybe profile amongst those applications which actually serve you the most. And that might be the user experience you're looking for on the same content distribution platform or it might be just an algorithm you prefer more to use even within the same application because you are not stuck anymore on building towards the same mode. For example, you might have users that are more interested in actually discovering new content or maybe just getting more deeper content on particular topics. And this allows developers to like maybe first time ever to compete with big social.
00:49:38.152 - 00:50:20.916, Speaker G: Media platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and so forth. Because essentially everyone who is building on top of same graph are actually growth hacking for each other. And that's kind of like a value proposition from my perspective. And there's a lot to be said about the ownership. So you are essentially building something that is owned by the users. You own your profile, you own your connection with the audience, especially with the NFDS and then you can actually take that audience kind of like elsewhere or you can meet them in another application. So there is definitely a lot of advantage there and also compatibility.
00:50:20.916 - 00:50:44.830, Speaker G: Maybe now that we have this common like a graph, maybe we'll see applications that couldn't be built before because no one is actually in a web. Two social media sharing those resources on this kind of like a scale. And I think that's a very big opportunity for now. All the developers who are building social now.
00:50:45.760 - 00:51:18.376, Speaker A: Absolutely I think we're all sort of echoing similar themes here, which is a good premise to think about alternatives and I know Balsi, you've written a lot on this in the past on just anywhere from how to exit Twitter to just what a good alternative would look like. So maybe my kind of question to you is what do you particularly disagree with sort of how existing web, two large kind of consumer social platforms are set up with and what do you think they can do better? We kind of understand the censorship resistant argument but what else kind of goes in that?
00:51:18.558 - 00:52:13.608, Speaker D: Sure, so censorship resistance is one way of thinking about it, but I think a better way of thinking about it because censorship resistance seemed like more of an edge case, much less so today. But an even better way of thinking about it is in terms of digital property rights. And one way of thinking about that is in the deal that social networks were offering seemed too good to be true or is amazing deal because they gave you free distribution to everybody in the world and hosting and all of these content creation tools and you just had to bring yourself and hit some keys. And relative to the 1980s for example, or even the early 90s when distribution was very scarce and to be on TV was this huge thing. Now anybody could stream on YouTube or post on Blogger or Twitter or Facebook or what have you, this was this huge thing. So initially that was a great deal. But as time went on now that's become actually sort of considered the standard package.
00:52:13.608 - 00:53:27.520, Speaker D: And now what has happened is basically, rather than being neutral platforms, these platforms have a huge thumb on the scale and lots of people, whether it's YouTube's adpocalypse or people are getting downranked in search results or there's various issues where, as more of life has now gone digital, people don't have a share of what they're creating, and they don't have control over their digital presence, which comes more and more and more important as it becomes a larger percentage of your life. One question I ask to people is what percentage of your hours are spent? Your waking hours are spent looking at a screen and people realize, wait, it's actually more than 50%, often for many people, for many information workers. So most of your life, your remaining life will be spent in the Matrix in some way. And if you don't have root over the matrix, if you can just be boom, just basically locked in a box in that matrix and all the doors are closed and your money is taken away and you're silenced. Like that scene from Black Mirror where the guy is just mass blocked and nobody can hear him anymore, that's actually possible if somebody has root and then those people wouldn't even be able to hear you and you'd just be totally powerless. And so against that. The alternative is for people to have control and have economic rights.
00:53:27.520 - 00:53:59.944, Speaker D: And that control means private keys and the economics also means private keys. So it's both the freedom and the prosperity. Those are kind of they go together. People talk about the freedom in terms of censorship, resistance, but it's also the prosperity in terms of digital property rights. The reason that's so important is crypto creators will be so much bigger than even Internet influencers because they get a direct cut of what they create. Billions of people are not getting a cut of what they create. When they do, they're going to create a lot more of it and it's going to be a lot more useful because they're going to be doing it in return for cryptocurrency and not simply likes and RTS and so on and so forth.
00:53:59.944 - 00:54:04.220, Speaker D: I think the Internet looks very different when that happens and I think we need to accelerate.
00:54:07.440 - 00:54:32.200, Speaker A: Think. And by the way, Sunny, if any of you have any things to add on, just feel free to jump in. I don't want this to be like a take your turn type of setup, but I think you touched on a really awesome kind of theme here. And Lee, you've written a lot about this as well, which is just kind of how does this turn everybody into an ownership sort of side of the economy here? So I'd love to kind of hear your thoughts on what changes in this world and how do we think about marketplace versus social labs, or are they the same in this context?
00:54:33.420 - 00:55:51.040, Speaker E: Yeah. So I really like to ground a discussion about the shortcomings of the existing social media platforms in kind of the concept of user freedom, where today it's the fact that network effects, the combination of network effects plus closed data is a recipe for user coercion. And a lot of people will say, but creators and users are free to just exit from these platforms, choose not to use them, you can delete your Facebook account, whatever. But I think people who say that users have a choice, I think it's actually quite hollow because there is this pool towards these platforms because they control and represent so much distribution and network effects that are proprietary to these platforms. And so this has created all sorts of issues for users and creators in the current social media paradigm. I recently wrote a blog post called The Creator Economy is in Crisis. Kind of outlining, really, the parallels between the gig economy and how it's turned out, as well as the creator economy, where the gig economy had made all of these promises to the supply side about being your own boss.
00:55:51.040 - 00:57:21.710, Speaker E: Kind of being free to work on your own terms whenever you wanted, and obviously didn't quite live up to that because the platforms, the apps controlled really every level of detail of how the supply side actually was able to work, ranging from pricing to intermediating the customer relationship to determining whether or not you could even work on the platform at all. And a similar set of issues are now arising on the social media platform. Social media platforms with respect to creators, where you have this exploitation of creator labor, this underlying insecurity, because the algorithms and discovery is really controlled unilaterally by the platforms, as well as intermediation of all of the relationships with one's audience. And the result of that is that you have this entire class of social media creators who exist in this kind of state of economic peril where they at any moment can lose their livelihood and access to their customer base. So I think that's a huge issue today. So I very much agree with Vology that the current state of the creator economy and the economy that has arisen from these social media platforms, it's not just about freedom, but there's a huge part of the economic opportunity that is lacking because people really don't have a choice in the platforms that they're participating in.
00:57:26.260 - 00:58:06.540, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think maybe one kind of question that we get all the time is nobody disagrees with anything that's said. But I guess the question is how do we think about whether it's psychologically or from an experience standpoint, how things would look like if everything was tracked and it feels too transactional. Does that take away any of the experience? Or how people look at from consuming information to interacting with anyone, from their peers to their friends? Is that an actual fair kind of counter to having everything tracked and just being at your own sort of mercy of understanding how you parse that information because it exists.
00:58:07.760 - 00:58:45.400, Speaker D: There's both good and bad about that. I think the good is that all of these basically unmonetized actions people know. If you think about it, like the Netflix CEO once said something like our competition is the time you spend having a drink of wine with your significant other. Or something like that, right? And that's because basically there's 24 hours in a day and they're just essentially fighting to take as much of your time as possible. And these loops are built to be as addicting as possible and that is something that benefits that centralized company. And the thing is, on the one hand you can appreciate how hard it is to build these companies. It is really hard.
00:58:45.400 - 00:59:43.004, Speaker D: Then you can also appreciate that it's actually extremely difficult to have something where you've got a loop like that which has been optimized for addictiveness on many people and it's draining so much time and then not have that be compensated in some way. So that's the good part is now people actually get compensated for their time. The bad part is, as you say, things become more transactional. I think on balance though, there's some good to that too. And the reason is so much on social media is empty posturing, so much is hostility and so on. It's funny, like when my friend said, wow, if I was a teenager, there's all these famous people that are online and what do people decide to do when they're kids? A lot of them decide to just troll these famous people rather than go and be like, hey, I'm also into art and this is a great artist, maybe they can teach me something. And here's that's like a much more positive kind of thing.
00:59:43.004 - 01:00:39.870, Speaker D: And I think you might be able to get more of that if there's more mechanisms for economic alignment as opposed to simply like zero sum status, right? Those are some of the things I think about where I think on balance there's certainly negatives. Some relationships become more transactional. We'll probably see also once everything has a price, you're going to see a lot of things that you didn't think of as being priceable now have a price like sentiment. People will be able to trade memes and hashtags and so you'll be able to short and say this social movement, I actually don't think it's going to have staying power. I think people are going to basically sell on this and probably that'll be like a social market alongside it. Lots of unpredictable consequences. So I can't say I know every aspect of what's going to happen, but I think on balance it's probably better to add some degree of scarcity to the mix here because otherwise that scarcity is hidden and it basically exists as root on somebody's server instead of put that back into people's hands.
01:00:42.800 - 01:00:43.824, Speaker A: Go ahead.
01:00:44.022 - 01:02:48.308, Speaker G: Yeah, I want to add there because it's actually fascinating because normally when you look at how all these kind of like Web Three platforms work, you have databases and you have data in one company's database and it's valuable, but that data is valuable for kind of like a DAP party and the stakeholders that the data is shared. And essentially what happens is that it's the users that are constantly giving up that interactional data and kind of like signaling what kind of things you like in life and it's a vast amount of data but the value is captured there in my opinion. So I have this one theory that the value is going towards those stakeholders and this monetization system and the users. We kind of have built previously a system where the users are there to use the product and the customers and we're just shifting in a place now and an environment where actually these networks and protocol are built for the users and it's meant for them and the value should go back to the users. It's really interesting because in Blockchain what is happening actually you might have the same information of value as you would have in a traditional data systems. But that data is kind of like it's accessible, maybe, but also it's in a ledger that is distributed. And you might argue a bit, even in a way that because you have the same data in a distributed system, and you have this kind of like a transparency there, but also the access rights, for example, that you might be able to transfer that value or interact with that value, or you as a member of the community that builds a bit more value into that.
01:02:48.308 - 01:04:01.048, Speaker G: And I think there's definitely a couple of issues here. One is that we in a Web Three, we transact quite a lot in public, we love transparency in we love seeing new information and what people are doing and using. Then it's kind of like up to us building application to use that value in a way where we create better applications for us, better user experience, but also use the data in a way it's beneficial back to the users. But in the first place we are already getting part of that value anyways. But if there is for example, an application that it has been built on top, that actually for some reason you're not aligned with how the algorithm processes your data or how it collects some additional information. It's so easy to just change the application and have the similar experience. So I guess taking that big layer, the social graph and decentralizing a lot of components of social media, it creates an environment where those platforms and values, they have to compete.
01:04:01.048 - 01:05:06.132, Speaker G: So you actually are competing not only of the user interactions, but with their values and you want to be aligned with the users because if. You as a social media application developer, you're not aligned with the users. You will essentially lose them to somewhere else because it's very easy to create a new application when you have this kind of like a shared resources. And I think this should some way drive this kind of like a competition on listening the community more better and also the users. Maybe now it's time to actually even the off chain algorithms to actually kind of express what those algorithms are, what kind of data they're used and how they are actually good for you. And if you don't do that, what happens is someone else will do that and they can spin up very quickly. And I think this is the radical kind of like a change here that we have the opportunity from the developer and user level to actually create a new ecosystem, make things better and you're not tied into the system.
01:05:06.132 - 01:05:27.290, Speaker G: And this is something that Lee mentioned, that if you lose your account in Twitter kind of like for some reason or you're afraid that's your living hood, but now you have basically the value and it's up to all these applications to show you how you can get most out of it.
01:05:27.740 - 01:05:30.996, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think maybe a question for Lee.
01:05:31.028 - 01:05:31.610, Speaker D: And.
01:05:33.340 - 01:05:54.770, Speaker A: What, what would you say the ingredients are for a really good alternative that's crypto and Web Three Native for? Just think about new social platforms and I think that'll cater us for the rest of the conversation. What are the out there? Sorry, the ingredients for a good alternative to a Web Three Native social media platform?
01:05:55.560 - 01:06:38.712, Speaker D: I do think the single most important is crypto identity, whether it's ENS or solana names or like Urbit or a bunch of other things that are out there. Right. And the reason for that is we're going to probably need a better term than Connect wallet because it kind of sounds like this thing's just going to drain your money or whatever, right? Probably going to need something like that. But if you've seen like Web One, Web Two, Web Three, like Web One is username password, web Two is login with Google, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, et cetera. And then Web Three is currently connect wallet MetaMask or something like that. That portable identity is way more important than I think many people think. Because when identity becomes portable, back ends become liquid.
01:06:38.712 - 01:07:29.496, Speaker D: Like you could have the if it's truly one click and you could truly log into a new service as easily as you load a new web page. That means the billion user tables suddenly become liquid. These gigantic ice blocks that are Facebook's database and Twitter's database of all these users where there's lock in, those all become liquid and can flow between platforms potentially as easily as just clicking. And the thing is that when you talk about something like that, it's kind of like the transition from taking photographs with cameras, taking photographs with digital cameras. At first, digital cameras were clunkier in some ways than normal cameras. They had worse resolution. If you remember the first iPhone camera, that wasn't the first digital camera, but the first iPhone camera was much worse than a typical but it was portable and it was everywhere.
01:07:29.496 - 01:08:25.248, Speaker D: And so people used it a lot. It got better and now it's way better, right? And so the same way, once web three identity hits, that flipping, and it's got millions of users now, hundreds of millions, if you include all holders. I don't know how many millions of ENS users are, but once that's there, and once you have services that are built for that first, eventually and it'll take a while, because there's a lot of momentum in these things by not 2025, but let's say late 2020s, maybe 2030. You have a crypto phone where that's built in, and you have identity that's actually fundamentally on your private keys. And people wonder how it could have been any other way, because your identity is linked to your money and all your digital property and how could we have ever lived? Whereas on corporate servers, once that happens, now exit, digital exit becomes much more powerful. That means these big services don't have as much lock in. They need to actually fight for their bread every single day, which is good when it's a huge corporation, it should be doing that, providing a service to people.
01:08:25.248 - 01:09:01.740, Speaker D: And then what happens is that's why I said, what's the scarce resource of each decade, right? The 2000s, it was bandwidth, and the 2010s, because of social, it was attention. The think it's block space, just figuring out technically how to put all this stuff on chain. And then when we've liquefied every single big company back end with web three in the think, the scarce resource will be loyalty. That is to say, every single community, because people can leave at a moment's notice. They're going to actually need to provide something that is more than simply utility. They're going to need to provide value to their community. And I think so that's where the 2030s go, that's loyalty.
01:09:01.740 - 01:09:04.030, Speaker D: So seeing ahead a little bit.
01:09:04.880 - 01:09:08.060, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for the alpha, Bali.
01:09:10.180 - 01:09:18.070, Speaker D: There's a good post, one of my friends wrote this called the billion user table on this. John Stokes wrote this post, which explains that thesis in a little more detail.
01:09:18.920 - 01:09:31.880, Speaker A: One quick follow, as you kind of talked about entity, is the argument that it's a propagation game and not anything else. Are you just fundamentally saying, we just need more people? And that's when you can actually do a mass mover?
01:09:33.100 - 01:10:42.740, Speaker D: Well, I think here's the thing you can do, and this is something I've been thinking about. What I want to see are vampire attacks on Twitter's user base, Facebook's user base, like LinkedIn, et cetera, in the sense of just like sushi swap, I'm pro uniswap. I think Hayden's a pioneer and so on and so forth. I think in a macro sense, it is good that vampire attack occurred because it made Uniswap do like a token and so on. Kind of good things happened. I think overall as a function of that, right? When protocols compete, you win, right? And so effectively, vampire attacks, once you get to a certain scale, you could do something where, let's say you have a million people with an ENS social network or SNS social network or something like that, urban social network, whatever, that's working, right? They all have 100 friends and so they could decide, okay, this thing is working. What's our growth strategy? Our growth strategy is we invite the heck out of our friends and we do the following proof of sperm.
01:10:42.740 - 01:12:08.980, Speaker D: Okay? So proof of sperm means that you are posting, let's say a tweet or a post or something that is like your last post, your tombstone post on that social network, and so long as that's up your tokens or whatever vest in this new thing. But any further action that you take publicly on that social network means that you haven't actually exited from it, right? So something like that would sort of be like proof of exit or proof of sperm or something like that, where you spurned the old web two network for the new one. And if you get a bunch of people to do that collectively, you're like Moses parting the Red Sea, right? You get collective exit, collective migration, sort of like the mass migration of people to, you know, SF is done and now we're all moving together, right? And I think you're going to see something like that online where it's like a community migration and then social networks actually start becoming community aware because there's a culture to that community. Once you have Tokens integrated with social networks, right now, people don't really care if someone moves from Twitter to Facebook to Instagram, whatever. They don't really have a culture. But people definitely do care if you move from Bitcoin to Ethereum to Solana to something else like that. Once Crypto Tribalism is integrated with social networks, those are truly online digital tribes that have a lot of community and association.
01:12:08.980 - 01:12:13.310, Speaker D: And I think that's going to be very important for the world to come both in positive and negative ways.
01:12:15.120 - 01:12:32.880, Speaker A: Amazing. I think this is like a perfect time to kind of think about, or rather ask Donnie on just what made you start lens and can you talk about sort of just overall, how do you address all these things that we brought up and historically consistently been brought up about the criticisms of existing social platforms?
01:12:34.180 - 01:13:48.744, Speaker G: Yeah, well, the start of the Lens, I think it was more of like an accident in the sense that we were kind of like helping out in a NFT auction contract and realized that actually one of our developers realized that you can be on the current NFT standard. There's a lot of things, you can actually do a lot of cool things and if you innovate on the smart contract area and from there kind of like we noticed that one of the ways to do you can actually of course tokenization NFT profiles, but also you can create dynamic content, dynamic NFTs. And essentially we ended up testing a model where you have this kind of like a follow NFD. So if I'm following Balaji, I'm the number one follower, the number one fan, I get the Token ID one. And if there's let's say 10,000 followers, all of those follow relationships are tokenized NFDS. So if I go into my any wallet openc and look at that follow NFD, it reflects kind of like the latest content of Balaji. So if there's a picture of a cat and reposting a picture of dog, the content changes.
01:13:48.744 - 01:15:12.724, Speaker G: So essentially we realized that actually just having this experimentation, you create this kind of like a permissionless distribution channel between you and your audience and this could be pretty cool thing for wider Web Three social. And of course in our team, web Three social was something that was very fascinating and we are always looking what to innovate in larger Web Three space because we see kind of like Web Three space as an economy. So there's decentralized finance, but also in economy you have ecommerce, you have social, you have creator economy and all these different parts, but you need a value network to transact. So whether it's like a monetary value or social value or something that we didn't even realize that is considered valuable until we put it on chain. And I think for us approaching the whole Web Three social was somehow important to approach from developer perspective and see what kind of ideas we will have. Because what they learned from the Ave protocol experience previously in DeFi is that you're never building by yourself. You're building as a community and ecosystem, and you basically want to grow together.
01:15:12.724 - 01:15:37.950, Speaker G: And that's kind of like I think Lens Protocol is very fascinating protocol, but I'm pretty sure the stuff that will be built during this hackathon will be way more Cooler, and our protocol becomes the boring kind of like a back end. And I'm also expecting that people will build those migrators for Vanpar attack in some very classy, nice way.
01:15:39.520 - 01:15:54.000, Speaker A: Amazing. Lee, I think I want to tap into something you said earlier in one of your answers and I would love to kind of get a glimpse of what you think the set of opportunities is in Web Three to kind of let people choose their own algorithms.
01:15:56.280 - 01:17:59.540, Speaker E: Yeah, I think obviously, in the past few months and years, there's been a ton of criticism over the existing state of social media and whether they take too heavy of a hand in content moderation or too light a hand like they're blamed for all kinds of social ills and events that have transpired in the past few years. Really? Because there is only one content moderation policy that can be upheld at a given time on a given platform and it's built in this very monolithic way. So I think the opportunity is really for users to be able to choose among a set of different options available to them in terms of type of content they would like to see, type of discovery, experience they would like to participate in and ultimately choose an experience that maps to their beliefs or views and degree of discoverability and content moderation. I think that is kind of the North Star goal of decentralized social media. I think there's also obviously a lot of downsides to that potentially as well, that probably don't get addressed often enough, which is if the existing social media paradigm has created all of these filter bubbles, then a more decentralized social media landscape would probably enable that even more where people would opt into the set of discovery algorithms or the set of content moderation policies that best corroborate their existing viewpoints. A thought experiment that I like to pose to people is do they believe that existing social media platforms have prolonged the pandemic? Usually the answer that I hear is yes. You can imagine a world pre social media and the current world in which we do have social media.
01:17:59.540 - 01:18:31.670, Speaker E: In which world would the pandemic have lasted this long or would the pandemic be longer? And most people agree that social media as it currently stands has proliferated misinformation about the pandemic and the vaccine, et cetera. So in a world in which users are opting into their own algorithms, I'm not sure how to solve a problem like that, to be honest. I think it's one of the open questions around the next generation of social media.
01:18:32.280 - 01:19:02.280, Speaker D: Yeah, the tricky part, I'd give kind of a couple of comments on that. One issue is that it's not that necessarily centralized governments did so well on it either. Right. One of the issues is that especially in the west, people either react with apathy. They react with apathy first and then panic. They only have kind of two modes. And so like the sober, careful, like, okay, let's do vaccines, but not say it's just the flu nor triple mask after vaccines.
01:19:02.280 - 01:19:55.352, Speaker D: That sort of like kind of scientifically reasonable sort of thing was not as much there. It's not obvious to me that the centralized authority will get the right answer if it gets a wrong answer. It's catastrophically wrong. And so you might tolerate some people getting it wrong in order for at least one of those solutions to be correct. There's more system robustness even if there's more loss in an average case, there's less loss in an extreme case. And the other thing I'd say, by the way, is with Spanish flu in 17 1918 ish that was something which was heavily censored by governments. It's kind of the opposite of today because states were gaining power at that time rather than kind of losing power, that media was centralizing rather than decentralizing and it was actually a much more lethal virus by everything we can see like about 100 million dead.
01:19:55.352 - 01:20:50.688, Speaker D: COVID-19 is not nothing. It's going to be about 10 million dead worldwide when all is and done, if we're lucky and no nasty new variants arise. That's still pretty bad, but it's not 100 million dead, we're fortunate. It was exponentially ramping in the early days, but kind of stopped around like 7500 dead a day as opposed to 75,000 where it easily could have gone. And so the thing is but the Spanish flu because it's so censored, people kind of didn't even remember that it had happened. It was sort of literally orwellian like kind of memory hold wiped out and wasn't a common point of reference and so on because governments at that time thought, oh, if we have control, we should censor it to stop panic. But lots of people died and we don't know, maybe it's because we've run an experiment, perhaps COVID-19 would have spread to more people and we would have not gotten a vaccine on time had folks not taken preventive measures or maybe it would have been exactly the same.
01:20:50.688 - 01:21:31.790, Speaker D: The counterfactual is sort of hard. There's folks who do this thing at the country level and they'll say, oh well, Sweden had this policy, others had this policy. But really what you want is actually a huge table with individual cases and you actually want to diff that against the pharmacogenetics in the background and so on to see what actually or the immunogenomics rather like what variants might have made you more or less susceptible. TLDR is I'm not sure that you can say that the kind of very powerful states that existed in the 1910s did a better job. Maybe they would have been better, but I think they have much higher downside risk if they get it wrong. So that's my counterargument lee not gain saying anything you're saying, but the counterargument is centralization, has catastrophic risk when it goes wrong.
01:21:36.420 - 01:23:05.196, Speaker A: I think what we're sort of getting to is that obviously there's well to kind of back up a little bit, I think it's going to be obviously hard to know and you can't run these types of experiments, counterfactually, or rather just look at that and change some variables and see how this would pan out. But we kind of, I guess, are agreeing on the fact that at the end of the day, this is more about how people get to choose their own adventure in this kind of world. Whether it's a billion people and billion rows existing in a single place and everybody having a slice of how they want to experience something or just being able to understand what this would mean if they were to ever exit or just wanting to get more control. And this kind of leads to the question of sounds like we blend this thing with identity. And once you get to skill, everything is a social graph at the end of the day, and it's even more powerful in terms of things being actionable in kind of Web Three. So is this something that any of you agree or disagree with? If so, what do you think the set of the opportunities are? Because I feel like one thing I want to reset everybody on is every time we say we need a new social network, people think it's a Twitter or Facebook alternative, which kind of mentally puts us in understanding this is like a text communication platform, but there's other different ways of thinking about media platforms. What does that look like? And sort of, what do you think about just social graphs at the end of day that are Web Three native? Maybe Stani, you can pick us up.
01:23:05.196 - 01:23:06.476, Speaker A: Or Bob, you go for it.
01:23:06.578 - 01:23:37.796, Speaker D: Sure. So I've actually thought about this a lot, and I actually think people don't understand that Web Three, it's not just people calling it Web Three. It really is the third web, and here's why. Let's say the first web, the dub dub dub, that's an open web, and Google could index that. It's actually very difficult to index the open web. It's nontrivial, but you can do it with crawlers and so on. And for example, you need to do things like you have a finite amount of download bandwidth, and you have to guess whether a given site is going to update and then spend that crawler bandwidth to go and download it.
01:23:37.796 - 01:24:30.428, Speaker D: And maybe it only updated a little or not, or a lot. And so you have like Cisco prediction algorithms just for whether to recrawl a site and so on and so forth. And it's actually crawling is a very complicated thing, and it's a million different formats, and you have to do wrapper, induction, all this stuff. If it's a database populated page, how do you know you've got all of it? Are you breaking the web app by crawling it, et cetera, et cetera? And then the social web is even harder to index because it's on Facebook and Twitter and LinkedIn's servers, and they don't want to let you index it. LinkedIn did lose the high five case where know now in theory can index LinkedIn, but they're still not making it easy for you. In theory, individuals can do like a data export, but really it's not just data that you want to export, it's your identity and your connections to others. The social graphs, not just you as an individual that wants to leave, it is you plus your social graph.
01:24:30.428 - 01:25:00.112, Speaker D: That's your community, your subculture. Right? And so what people don't get about blockchains is up until this point, they've mostly been hosting financial data. And it didn't look like Web One or Web Two data. It didn't look like HTML pages or social pages. But now it's starting to. As block space increases, you have things like DSO and mirror and urban and capsule social. Essentially you have decentralized storage of posts and identity and other kinds of things.
01:25:00.112 - 01:25:19.844, Speaker D: And the consequence of that is actually profound because, among other things, it radically simplifies indexing. One way I can prove this is already going to be a big deal is anybody can set up something like BTC.com or Blockchain.com or Blockchair.com or so on. You can set up a block explorer. It may not be as good as the production ones, but you can do that because that gets back to the early point.
01:25:19.844 - 01:25:49.296, Speaker D: These are open state services. The back end is open, right? So anybody can set up a front end for them. And that's already happened. In fact, multibillion dollar businesses have been built as block explorers, either scan and blockchain.com and so on and so forth. That shows that the concept of an open back end where you build clients for it is super powerful. So the thing is that indexing, because it's easier searching web three is way easier than web one or web two, because rather than that crawler problem where you have to go and ping a bunch of sites and so on, it gets all pushed to you.
01:25:49.296 - 01:26:09.668, Speaker D: You just get a block every whatever seconds. You just get a block of all the updates. Imagine if you got a block of all the updates on the dub dub dub, right? That's insane. Now, of course, they'd have lots of pointers out to them. You wouldn't necessarily the data availability problem is a nontrivial thing to solve, but we're solving it. That's why I said block space is the scarce resource of this decade. It might take a while, but we are solving it.
01:26:09.668 - 01:26:50.980, Speaker D: Whether it's zero knowledge or many of the other scaling techniques, it'll be solved in different ways in different times. Now you have this super parsable thing. You don't have to do all this inference. Maybe you subscribe to a bunch of different chains, but still it scoped the problem in a much easier to solve way, and you get something else that I think people underestimate. You have a web of trust integrated with everything, okay? So you have digital signatures as a first class field in every single blockchain that you're indexing in this way. And what that means is the social web had some of that, of course, because you had identity, but you still have fraud, you still have fake profiles and so on. And web one is even more plagued by this where you don't know whether a web page is written by a human or an AI or something like that.
01:26:50.980 - 01:27:23.004, Speaker D: That's why Google search quality has dropped off to such an extent. That's why they've just relied on pure money as the ranking algorithm, where more and more of the time their first page is festooned with ads. They don't have the sort of non commercial community signals. And that's why people will search on Twitter or Reddit rather than Google. Increasingly to find people, real people talking about this, but now with something where people are effectively signing their social posts, their other content with their ENS or their SNS or their other identity. You now have digital signatures as a first class feature that's huge. And they're open, they're not like the closed social web.
01:27:23.004 - 01:28:05.160, Speaker D: And you can also of course include the balances of these users to see how real they are. You have a much richer set of signals for effectively integrating the social web with the open web, with now the financial web, which also makes more money. And I think Google has been caught completely sleeping by this. I think Facebook might be the only one that survives, maybe Twitter as well, because Facebook said they're doing NFTs with Instagram, zuck still runs his company and Twitter is actually pretty crypto aware. But the others that have not been making moves on this, google hasn't even done a block explorer, which has nothing to do with issuing a token or anything like that. I think they're actually in much bigger trouble. I'll say one other thing, which is a big chunk of Google nowadays with Google search is actually queries for recent events.
01:28:05.160 - 01:28:46.136, Speaker D: They don't actually show the historical stuff. If you may have noticed, it's hard to find historical stuff. That means that if it's recent events, their index is highly biased towards things that open state platforms which are less than a year old. A large fraction of searches on Google will move to new clients. So they're much more vulnerable than people think because the full scope of what they index and the difficulty of indexing it may just get know, sometimes the way to solve a problem in math is you just define the problem. And so this problem has now been defined in a different way. Research becomes easier, it's got more signals, google doesn't have the core competency around it and they could just get boom disrupted like this.
01:28:46.136 - 01:28:50.170, Speaker D: The disruption is already happening in block explorers, but they don't realize how important that is.
01:28:51.660 - 01:29:28.100, Speaker A: Amazing. I think that's the alpha leak, not the block space argument. We are at time. So I'll just do two quick questions and then we can call it I want to respect your time. Maybe just one question that actually just came in from the audience and similar to what you just said Ology, but I'll have anybody kind of come in is we're obviously seeing Twitter and Facebook kind of go jump into integrating NFTs and just other kind of web three primitives. How do you think about competing with them in that world? Do you think that's an advantage to them or do you think that just helps them sort of prolong their relationship with their customers or that doesn't matter because somebody will overtake them. That's web three native.
01:29:29.240 - 01:29:31.060, Speaker D: Is that a question for me or Lee.
01:29:31.880 - 01:29:38.730, Speaker A: I was like, I'll keep that open. It's an audience question. I think want to make sure that from a time standpoint, anybody who wants to take the first step can go for.
01:29:41.820 - 01:29:55.680, Speaker D: Sure. I mean, basically I think Twitter and mean crypto is kryptonite to large companies, right? So because it has risk. And you know what's much scarcer than budget is risk budget.
01:29:56.340 - 01:29:56.752, Speaker A: Okay?
01:29:56.806 - 01:30:51.424, Speaker D: Because budget, you can kind of make more money. But risk, especially like regulatory risk, PR risk, like larger companies, once you have an average of many people, once you have more risk averse people in the organization, it's really hard to take a risk. I respect Zuck a lot for taking, even if I think that they should have started I actually said this at the time, they should have started by just integrating bitcoin and ethereum into WhatsApp? With like off chain payments or something like that. That's what they should have done rather than starting like Slash DM. But I respect them greatly for trying that when they were already under. A lot of only a founder actually has the risk budget, right? So companies that are founderless typically don't have risk budget. And risk budget is this thing is like on any accounting statement, they'll show the reward, they'll show the financial return, but they won't show the risk that was taken to get that return that is not actually accounted for.
01:30:51.424 - 01:31:39.824, Speaker D: It's invisible to people many times, and that's where there's low risk and high risk returns. And so I think once you think of crypto as kryptonite to most large companies, I'm actually much more bullish on, frankly, places like India, Israel, outside the US. For the most part, as well as small startups and stuff within the west because they don't have the baggage. There's a huge internal immune reaction from a lot of web two companies either both their executives and their customer base against web three. You saw this, unfortunately, with Discord, with Kickstarter, with other companies like this, people will make also the kind of neutral argument, hey, we can't afford the risk, whether they agree with it or not. So I think for the most part, with some exceptions like those two, maybe they'll make it. And in fact, if you look at the history of Silicon Valley, very few companies have actually made the leap between technological know.
01:31:39.824 - 01:31:56.630, Speaker D: Microsoft, Apple are unique in terms of reinventing themselves every decade. But lots of other companies, like Decateway Computer, they're big in one era and they just missed the right angle turn for the next one, right? So we'll see. But I actually think a lot of them are going to fall. We'll see.
01:31:57.400 - 01:32:47.904, Speaker E: Yeah, I'll just add to that for the person who asked this question. I think the exciting opportunity in my view with Blockchain is to actually build social networks that couldn't have existed in the previous paradigm. So social networks that would have been impossible. To jumpstart from a network activation perspective or to get past that zero to one stage. I think that is the opportunity that now exists with blockchain and tokens. And so I would worry less about or think less about being constrained to more SKU morphic social networks as they exist today and adapting that for crypto and more thinking about what entirely net new social networks could exist that currently don't. And that might sound quite abstract.
01:32:47.904 - 01:33:36.820, Speaker E: So I'll give an example. I think one of the open opportunities still remaining in social networking is to build a local social network. Like 20 years into the development of the internet, we still don't have a view into what is happening in a 510 miles radius around me. There's no app that I can open where I can see in this moment who is around me, who's doing what, what is happening in my neighborhood, in this place where I am. And many people have tried to do that. But the amount of network density that you need to reach in order for that experience to be valuable to any given user is so high that I don't think any app has ever gotten there. And so I think that is an opportunity and perhaps the solution to that is leveraging tokens to get to that level of network liquidity.
01:33:40.060 - 01:33:41.288, Speaker D: Sorry, go ahead. Sorry.
01:33:41.454 - 01:35:07.904, Speaker G: I just want to mention that I think what's significantly different now is that many of these web two social media platforms, they are very big. But I think what's going to happen is that when we have kind of like a decentralized graph and you lower the barrier to enter to the competition of building applications and building user experiences, and it means that, as previous, you might need a bigger team to deliver a social media application and build something. Now you might need just maybe one, two developers, maybe. We'll see from this hackathon something very interesting built in a couple of weeks that's very exciting for the whole social media space. So lowering the threshold is where kind of like we bring more people to compete and build applications and more people to use them as well. So I think I would not say that it's hard to compete against the bigger participants and stakeholders, especially when we're in a situation where it's so easy to build now a social media application which means that there is more and more innovation when the kind of like a bar to enter is lower. And it's the same in decentralized finance.
01:35:07.904 - 01:35:40.540, Speaker G: It doesn't take much of actually building a protocol, it takes a bit time, but essentially even improving a protocol might take less and there's less financial kind of like a security risk on a smart contract. So I could imagine seeing a lot of interesting stuff coming up and when you have this innovation coming from everywhere, it's just like a constant remix culture. So when you look at open source development it's always been remix culture, like Linux distributions and everything. It's all remix.
01:35:41.040 - 01:35:42.350, Speaker A: Absolutely, yeah.
01:35:42.880 - 01:36:17.124, Speaker D: Let me say one thing, which is I half agree with Lee and I half disagree and I'll say why? So part I agree with. I absolutely do think that new kinds of social networks will be built. And I think many of them will involve finance as a first class feature because every user, you can assume every user in a crypto social network has a balance and can send encrypted messages where you couldn't do that in normal social networks. Just like Instagram and Snapchat assumed you had a mobile device and opened to the camera. Whereas Facebook and Twitter started out as non mobile. So they were built around a different set of assumptions.
01:36:17.172 - 01:36:17.480, Speaker A: Right.
01:36:17.550 - 01:37:18.830, Speaker D: So I definitely do think new kinds of social networks will emerge. With that said, somewhat related to what Stanny was saying, the back end change to a web three social network is so challenging and gives actually so many benefits because it makes it fully programmable. Like the early Twitter and to some extent the early Facebook, were that what people might just do is essentially have almost exactly the same client, like a familiar client that everybody knows, and just put all of their energy into innovating on the back end and making that actually work first and then kind of the new things would sort of come out of that. So without gain saying what you're saying, Lee, I think that would be an engineering mindset approach, which is the front end has been debugged. People have figured out what RTS and likes and so on are freeze that have that be exactly the same and just open the back end and put all your energy into that. And developers will then take it from there and innovate on other kinds of things that's like one, you know, different folks are trying different things. Farcaster DSO, all these folks are trying different things.
01:37:20.320 - 01:37:28.336, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, I think this is a perfect note to end this panel on. I want to thank all three of you, balaji, Stani, Lee for taking the time and also going a little bit.
01:37:28.358 - 01:37:49.368, Speaker D: Over, I've got a little announcement. Well, I just all right, I'm just tweeting it now. Boom. Okay, new book coming out and probably everybody here will like it. New book, how to Start a New Country. It's finally coming out. You can preorder it now.
01:37:49.368 - 01:38:11.950, Speaker D: Arrives on July 4, perfect day. So it's my top tweet right now. So if anybody in the chat wants to see it, I thought I'd save the best for last. And I got a nice little blurb by Mark and Vitalik and Brian and so on. So check it out. Be out in about three months.
01:38:12.400 - 01:38:17.792, Speaker A: I will pre order this right after. Thank you so much and really appreciate this.
01:38:17.926 - 01:38:19.264, Speaker D: All right, thanks everybody.
01:38:19.462 - 01:38:20.610, Speaker G: Thank you so much.
01:38:21.860 - 01:38:44.810, Speaker A: Okay, so with that, we are ready for our next talk, and that is us going deeper into how the Lens Protocol is set up so you can actually learn about the internals of what you can actually do from a graph standpoint. And without further ado, I'd like to welcome David and Josh to go into all those details. Josh, David, appreciate this and I'll let you get.
01:38:47.980 - 01:39:01.432, Speaker F: Thank you. Thank you so much. Let me get our little presentation up here. GM, everyone. My name is David. I'm the product manager for social over at Ave companies. And that includes Lens.
01:39:01.432 - 01:39:53.176, Speaker F: And I'm super fortunate to be joined today by Josh, josh Stevens. He is one of our amazing leading lead backend devs who helped create the Lens API, which we're going to get into later today. And we just want to give a quick overview of the lens protocol. Why we built it, what you can do with it, what are some awesome things you can hack on it, try to give out some ideas, some alpha, as well as what the lens API is, why we built it, and what are some of the things you guys can build with it? So, without ado, let's kind of jump into a quick overview of Lens Protocol. So why did we go out and build Lens? Well, web two, social media is broken. Networks, they sell your data. I think this was mentioned a lot in the last session, but you're paying with your personal information to get distribution.
01:39:53.176 - 01:40:18.040, Speaker F: There's no such thing as privacy. The reason you're not paying for Facebook, you're not paying for Twitter is they're taking your data. They're turning around and selling ads. And additionally, your data is not portable. As a creator, as a user, I am bound to the network I'm working with. If all of a sudden Facebook or YouTube decides to turn me off for any reason, I've lost my audience, I've lost my content, I've lost my connection to my fans. And that can spell the end of a career.
01:40:18.040 - 01:40:56.032, Speaker F: In addition, I have no ability to go between any two services. It turns this social graph into a moat. Whether or not the app is better. If I'm a startup and I've created this really great new user experience, these new fair algorithms or something that people like, I have to jump start this graph and I'm at a huge disadvantage even though I have an objectively better product. And lastly, user data centralized, right? We've all seen what happens when large databases exist. They become targets for hackers, bad actors. Things can get hacked, data gets leaked.
01:40:56.032 - 01:41:33.980, Speaker F: Never a good situation. The last thing we need is more scams and more hacks. And so the goal with Lens is to use Web Three tools to bring power back to the users, back to the creators, and really change the game theory of Web Two social. It's currently zero sum. Facebook only makes money off of data in their system, as does Twitter, as does TikTok. And they're all incentivized to really lock you into those ecosystems, build in positive feedback loops. Using Web Three, we can turn on its head, and we're going to do that with Lens Protocol.
01:41:33.980 - 01:42:13.740, Speaker F: We are going to allow developers to build apps and tools on a singular composable and decentralized social graph. So what does that mean? It means that we are going to have all of the data built using NFT technology owned by users on a permissionless blockchain. We are currently building on Polygon. Our testnets are on the Mumbai testnet. We're getting ready to go to Mainnet soon. And it allows app developers to focus on the user experience on a UI, a UX and content moderation rather than user acquisition. And for creators and users, you own your links to your audience, you own your content and you own your monetization.
01:42:13.740 - 01:42:49.264, Speaker F: And if you don't like a certain platform and you want to go elsewhere, it's as easy as clicking currently today Connect wallet. I agree with what Bellaji said in the last session of hopefully we get better terminology. So with that, let's dive into a little bit of how Lens works under the hood. What is the actual kind of infrastructure that we're building? The first kind of key primitive is the profile. The profile NFT. If you've ever worked with unstoppable domains or very, very similar, we have this NFT that represents your profile. It's got your handle.
01:42:49.264 - 01:43:22.188, Speaker F: For example, I could be at David, Josh would be at Josh. It lives in my wallet. I can have multiple in the same way that when I'm on Twitter, I have at David E. Silverman, my nice fancy professional account, and a couple of anons where I like to post things that I want to keep personal. It's minted upon creation. I can have other metadata on there, maybe a bio, but I also have this special array that I can fill with publications. This is where I kind of post my content to and we'll come back to exactly what publications are in a minute.
01:43:22.188 - 01:43:51.252, Speaker F: In addition, it has another field called a follow module, and we're going to come to that a bit later as well. The next thing we have is following. We represent follow with a follow. NFT if my wallet Davidv ETH wants to follow at Josh, I will execute that transaction using Lens and I will receive a at Josh follow NFT. It'll say that I follow at Josh. It will have a token ID based on the order I followed. So I'm his fifth follower.
01:43:51.252 - 01:44:53.310, Speaker F: And it will also have a reference to his latest publication, which is really interesting because it means when I go to try to render this follow NFT in any wallet, whether that be rainbow or even a smart contract wallet like Nosisafe or I go to OpenSea or Zapper, it's going to resolve to whatever his last publication was. Which means every single wallet has now become a distribution mechanism for me as a creator, a content creator. In addition, these follow NFTs have built in governance, and so every creator has a built in social token, just without the ERC 20. Let's say Josh tweets out a bunch of really great developer alpha. He publishes out a lot of great stuff on Solidity. He can pull his audience should he be doing on snapshot. He can say I want my 1st 500 followers, have them tell me if I want to do some more stuff on maybe Ave V Three, or if I should be diving into Alchemy's V two and let his audience kind of decide what he wants to build.
01:44:53.310 - 01:45:24.552, Speaker F: We then kind of get into what a publication is. So a publication is just really kind of a bunch of metadata that says where to find content. And some things about that content lens takes is completely agnostic as to where the actual data itself is stored. You can reference a place on chain. You could also reference IPFS, AR, weave, ceramic. You could even reference old Web Two, a URL or an S three bucket. And that just tells you where to get the content.
01:45:24.552 - 01:45:52.144, Speaker F: And in the metadata you can fill out anything as you normally would. You can even say what application it was posted with. You can also add this thing called a collect module, which will produce a collect NFT. This allows any publication to be turned into its own standalone NFT, where the creator kind of defines the Minting logic. Let's say I post this really great image of a recent trip to London. I can set monetization. I want to allow anyone to be able to collect this.
01:45:52.144 - 01:46:31.340, Speaker F: That's our term for mint for one ETH. And when they go through and pay me the One ETH, all of a sudden they have a collect NFT in their wallet, exactly mirrored from the original publication. I can even include additional logic for mirrors. Mirrors is how somebody retweets. So if somebody wants to share my content, let's say I post that really great image of my trip from London and Josh decides to mirror that on his own feed and somebody collects it from seeing Josh's feed. I can actually specify a certain amount of that Mint fee to go to Josh's wallet. And so we can actually even incentivize curation entirely on chain.
01:46:31.340 - 01:47:08.760, Speaker F: Publications come in three types regular posts, which is the plain use case I've posted an image, or I've posted a piece of text, or I've posted a video using Livepeer. It also has this concept of comment, which is a reference to another publication as well as some additional content. So I can comment on someone else's image with my own image. Maybe it's a meme with my own text, this is a great image. Or again, any other arbitrary content. And the last type of publication is a mirror, just a simple reference. That's the same thing as a retweet or a share or talk to Formulation.
01:47:08.760 - 01:48:14.910, Speaker F: Now, as a Web Three developer, how can I kind of build in interesting extensions to Lens? Well, Lens kind of has these things called modules and they allow you to build arbitrary logic onto Lens protocol and they come in three places and they are really powerful. The first one is the follow module and this is set on a per profile basis. The follow module runs, it's arbitrarily logical run and it has to resolve to a boolean yes or no to let you know whether or not a follow NFT is minted. So when my wallet Davidv ETH tries to follow at Josh, his follow module will run and using some series of conditions, will decide whether or not me David EV ETH the wallet is allowed to follow him. And we can do really powerful things with that, right? I can say that only people who hold certain NFTs are allowed to follow me. Maybe I want to restrict it to certain NFTs on Polygon. Or I could even use a chain link oracle to say you have to hold an AVAX warrior on AVAX or a Board Ape or a Punk on Mainnet in order to follow me.
01:48:14.910 - 01:48:45.656, Speaker F: I can make it payment. You have to pay me five ETH to follow me. I could make it you have to have some pull up or been at these different events. You can make it as complex as you would like any of these, so long as it kind of just comes back to a zero one value. Additionally, you can have that follow NFT go to a smart contract. You could use that to build out subscriptions. If you don't top up this contract every now and then with Buymatic every month, I'm going to pull away your follow relationship.
01:48:45.656 - 01:49:29.092, Speaker F: And now we've built kind of subscriptions. The next one is a reference module and this is run before somebody tries to comment or mirror my piece of content. So I post an image, let's say via my at David profile. If at Josh wants to try to comment or mirror, the reference module will run on a per publication basis and decide whether or not remember a boolean answer at the end whether or not Josh is allowed to reference either comment or mirror. And again, I can do simple token gating. Only people with 32 FWB are allowed to reply to my content. Only people who have certain NFTs are allowed to reply to my content.
01:49:29.092 - 01:50:35.804, Speaker F: And I can combine this with other higher level integrations. A really interesting use case would be what if I wanted to build a completely private social network on top of Lens? Well, I could have the actual content in a publication be stored in ceramic encrypted using lit protocol, another sponsor in this hackathon and I could have the access control be you need to have at least 32 ETH in your wallet to get the decryption in order to see what the post is. And I can also have the comment, collect and mirror functions all require that I have 32 FWB in my wallet at a given time. And then the only people who are allowed to engage with my content view, sorry, read and write need to be in my community. So that's reference and the last area is collect. I think collect is really the most powerful and that is logic that is run to decide whether or not this kind of collect NFT this NFT that references this original publication is Minted. So the example is I post an image and I can say for one E this gets minted out into an NFT that you can control.
01:50:35.804 - 01:50:48.690, Speaker F: I can set a cap. Hey, you only can do this five times. You can do this five times with incrementing. So the first one is one E, the next one is 1.1 E. We can also do really complex logic. The community has really jumped at this.
01:50:48.690 - 01:51:47.280, Speaker F: The community wrote one that does DeFi aware NFTs. So I will sell my NFT for five matic, but before the transaction completes, it takes the matic, deposits it into Aave and sends the a tokens to the creators. Now, creators have kind of self driving NFTs. We have another one. The great folks over at Klima came and built in the refi collect module, which you could even extend the logic further and say, hey, take some of the look at how much gas this transaction used. Convert that to carbon offsets, take some of the incoming funds, convert it using toucan to base carbon token, retire it on chain, and now my entire transaction is carbon neutral. So that's some of the stuff you can do with collect and different ways for people to build on top of Lens and what our goal with Lens is to really foster a broad, diverse and evolving social ecosystem.
01:51:47.280 - 01:52:24.664, Speaker F: Fully composable and transferable on chain social graph. You can go from one application to another. You can bring all of your followers, you can bring all of your content, you can bring all of your NFTs and it's composable to any other application, whether it be NFT, Minters, whether it's DeFi or other blockchain. Applications that are yet to come, can build on top of these existing tools that we're building. Follower NFTs allow for social DAOs and new types of social tokens. Governance mechanisms including snapshot, delegation and compatibility with Ave governance as well as Governor Bravo are fully built in. And lastly, the real key thing is modularity.
01:52:24.664 - 01:53:13.100, Speaker F: We allow developers to focus on the experience and the front end and leave the network effects to the protocol. You don't need to create a bootstrapping plan. As users start using any application built with Lens, your application has access to all of those users as well. We call the protocol Lens as the lens plant enriches the soil around it and allows other plants to grow around it. And that's kind of our view from the ecosystem changing from a zero sum game that we currently see in Web Two to a collaborative sum game in Web Three. Now, in addition to just the Web Three, the Web Three hooks that we have with modules, josh is going to talk to you about the Lens API, which is something that we have built at Aave to allow solidity, free Web Three social development. Josh.
01:53:14.400 - 01:53:38.080, Speaker H: Cheers, David. Bear with me. I have got COVID, but I should be okay. So, yeah, we have built an API for all of this. So if you're building a social media site, the key things that are super important is speed. If you're on Twitter, et cetera, et cetera. If you lose that speed, it becomes unfun scalability and traceability.
01:53:38.080 - 01:54:28.620, Speaker H: All these things are super important to be able to get to. Now, we were building an API anyway for our own internal needs, but we thought, why not share that with you guys? So the API abstracts all the complex things about the protocol away. So, as David's been talking about, how many amazing features there is, like modules, different kind of modules that take in different input parameters, all these kind of things, the API abstracts that away to a simple enum with standard stuff to pass in. If you want to enable a reference module that only your followers can comment, it's a boolean. And it will construct the data for you, the sign type data, and then you just send it on the client. So it's more of more of a helper tool and a traceability tool. And we think it's super important that if we're going to build the next social platform, that we have tools.
01:54:28.620 - 01:54:44.616, Speaker H: So Web Two developers can just focus on building a say, board ape community or anything like that without having to understand the protocol completely, because it is quite overwhelming with how many features there is. So that's the idea. Do you want to hit the next slide?
01:54:44.648 - 01:54:45.340, Speaker A: David?
01:54:47.120 - 01:55:35.150, Speaker H: So build front ends fast with Lens API, so you don't have to worry about indexing or querying the data or reorgs or speed of fetching the data and everything's done super quick. So we have an indexer watching all the data. We index that data so we can grab it quick. And when you get a publication back, all that data is extracted for you. If someone said, hello world, that data would say Content, hello world, it would extract the module for you, saying they have a fee to collect this, which is zero one ETH. And then you have a simple way to be able to construct that and redeem it with another function called collect. So all these things allow you to really just focus on what you guys need to build and want to build.
01:55:35.150 - 01:56:11.024, Speaker H: You don't have to deal with any real data. So we have crons watching the data, making sure that the hash still exists, and then removing them away from the queries if they don't exist anymore. We have full caching layer on there to allow this to be super quick. The queries are really fast to kind of grab everything that you want. Some of this data to grab is super complex. Like a publication can include how many times it's been mirrored, how many times it's been collected, how many comments it's got. A publication is an unlimited pointer.
01:56:11.024 - 01:56:45.744, Speaker H: So what I mean by that is you can have a post and a comment and it can go unlimited depth and it can keep pointing and pointing and pointing. So being able to scale that like how Facebook and Twitter do really quickly to have that user experience is super important. You don't have to worry about pre filling the contract data or validating it. And what I mean by that is we have these with SIG methods that you just pass. You want to collect a publication and all you literally do is pass the publication ID. It will construct you all the type data for you. It will a validate that you conform to all the modules as well.
01:56:45.744 - 01:57:10.132, Speaker H: So say you have to follow to collect this publication, it will validate that for you and throw a Web Two error saying hey, you don't follow this person so you can't collect. It does that for everything. If you don't have enough balance, if you haven't approved enough for the token, all these things allow a much better development experience where straight away you know, oh, that's gone wrong with the protocol and this person doesn't have enough balance.
01:57:10.196 - 01:57:11.460, Speaker A: Et cetera, et cetera.
01:57:11.620 - 01:57:50.180, Speaker H: As I said before, it's a web, two style interface. So if you go to the Twitter API, it's super easy to just go and get all the followers or following. Yes, it's heavily rate, limited, but we took inspiration from kind of the Web Two interfaces. And just as easy it is to get the followers that are on Twitter, it's just as easy to get the followers that are on Lens, it's just as easy to grab all the publications, it's just as easy to get everything a user has collected. And all these things is super important for growth for the Lens protocol. And I think one of the biggest things is there's not a huge learning curve. The whole API is built using GraphQL.
01:57:50.180 - 01:58:08.350, Speaker H: It's super easy to fetch what you need when you need it and you can just focus on the stuff that you want to build. So all the documentation is there for you to use. And yeah, we're super excited for you guys to use it and give us some feedback about how it helped you or how we could improve it. Yeah, it's super cool.
01:58:11.600 - 01:58:33.380, Speaker F: Awesome. Thanks. Josh. A few other things I want to point out about the API that I think are going to be kind of key and also point a bit about the strategy we're doing with lens. The first thing is we want to give Web Three developers really awesome new, powerful tools to build with. Some of the ones we're super excited about are these dfiware NFTs with collects. We're really trying to see what people can do with follow NFTs and this concept of social dows.
01:58:33.380 - 01:59:05.196, Speaker F: On the web two side, we want to make things easy and approachable for brand new developers. Not every single person wants to be an expert in solidity or should be an expert in solidity. The reason Web Three social is going to win out is because we're approachable for everyone. And that is really the goal with the Lens API. We also want to make sure that every single application built on the Lens API is going to get a top notch set of features. So beyond just access to the full social graph, there are built in queries for search, for timeline, for explorer common pages. You may want to put in a social graph.
01:59:05.196 - 01:59:27.216, Speaker F: And in addition, we have a data science team. We've kind of said that Ave is working on its own front end. The same algorithms will be powering that are going to be ported through the API. So as those algorithms kind of get built out and improved, your application will gain from that as well. We think that's kind of a big thing. We want to help out. Not everyone's a data science expert.
01:59:27.216 - 01:59:44.780, Speaker F: You can kind of pump in from an existing awesome data science team. And the last thing is really making easy to use tools so people can focus on novel and unique experiences. We want to abstract away the blockchain for developers who may not be familiar with it. And that's really the design goal of the Lens API.
01:59:45.360 - 02:00:33.000, Speaker H: Can I just add one more thing, just to put it into perspective of how much easier that it makes for you to unfollow someone? Actually, to do that, you have to burn the follower NFT of that profile. Now that profile itself, every profile has their own follower contract address, right? And you could have minted three or four different tokens in there. And on chain, there's no way to go, hey, how many tokens do I own of this? Without looking at the indexer. But with the API, you literally just go, I want to unfollow this profile. It will construct all the data for you. It will do all the joins that needs to happen, and all you do is sign and send that transaction and then you've unfollowed that person. That's just one of many examples where it really helps the development of anything that you do on this protocol.
02:00:34.300 - 02:01:01.408, Speaker F: Definitely a big thing I want to shout out is, we have our bounty. Think, you know, we teased this at the start of this session. We're really looking for people to build front ends on top of it. I know there was some people talking in the chat like, is there a. Reference UI. Well, we hope that people build a reference UI. There's been a couple of great tools in the Lens community that's been built so far inside of if you go to the Lens discord, I think there was a simple explorer, a profile creator, and a way to build statuses.
02:01:01.408 - 02:01:34.990, Speaker F: And that was running on our testnet. For anyone building, please make sure you use the new testnet. We're looking for protocols, people who are going to build some really novel, interesting collect modules, reference modules, and follow modules. I think there was a brainstorm session we were doing in the voice chat of Discord and somebody was talking about it. They were thinking you could do on chain private DMs with read receipts using custom collect modules, lit protocol and ceramic. Not saying that hits a couple of different sponsors for the hackathon and partners. Maybe it's a cool thing to build.
02:01:34.990 - 02:02:20.792, Speaker F: There's tons of really awesome things that can be built here. And on the tooling side, we want to make it so that this is still a friendly place for developers. Building explorers, building vampire attacks to help the entire network gain from stealing users from Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, TikTok. I'm probably going to get in trouble with legal for saying all these names, but I'm calling out targets. We want people, we want everyone to kind of gain from web three social show that there's more use cases for blockchain than just speculative tokens. And then lastly, Stannie said earlier in the last session, you're never building by yourself, but you're always part of an ecosystem. And we've learned this really early on with Lens.
02:02:20.792 - 02:03:16.770, Speaker F: The community has jumped through our bounty program and built more modules than we even built as the original Genesis team and has given so much feedback, we had to redeploy a brand new testnet just for this hackathon to make sure that people were using the most up to date feature set. And so we really encourage, as you guys are building, please provide feedback. What else do you want to see in the contracts? What else should we be putting in to all of these different primitives? Or you can write updates to the primitives yourself. Come help build this next generation social graph. And same for the API. What else do you want to see in this API? How can we make your lives easier as developers? How can we make this community grow? How can we do it all together? How can we really help this ecosystem? So we are going to be around all week in the ETH Global Discord. We're going to be in the Lens discord, we're going to be on Twitter to really definitely want to hear from you on what we can do best.
02:03:16.770 - 02:03:30.180, Speaker F: So that's Lens at a very high level. As always, you can reach out to anyone on the team for questions, feedback and comments. And we look forward to seeing what everyone here builds. And we hope you guys have a great hackathon.
02:03:32.360 - 02:03:33.350, Speaker A: Thanks, guys.
02:03:46.760 - 02:03:48.810, Speaker F: Kartik, sending it back over to you.
02:03:57.720 - 02:03:58.644, Speaker D: Hey, we're back.
02:03:58.682 - 02:04:02.888, Speaker A: Kartik broke away from the had a little technical issue there, so we're going.
02:04:02.894 - 02:04:04.456, Speaker F: To go to a quick break.
02:04:04.558 - 02:04:05.272, Speaker A: Thank you guys.
02:04:05.326 - 02:04:06.330, Speaker F: That was awesome.
02:04:06.940 - 02:04:08.200, Speaker D: Much appreciated.
02:04:08.700 - 02:04:12.696, Speaker A: And everybody, we can hold for just.
02:04:12.718 - 02:04:14.840, Speaker G: A couple of minutes till our next talk comes.
02:04:14.990 - 02:04:16.010, Speaker F: Thanks, everyone.
02:04:27.860 - 02:05:13.780, Speaker A: That's it. All right. Sorry about that. I had some technical difficulties on my end. Everybody, I think we are a little bit ahead of kind of.
02:05:15.990 - 02:05:16.418, Speaker D: We'Re a.
02:05:16.424 - 02:12:07.506, Speaker A: Little bit ahead of schedule here. So what we'll do is kind of take a quick break. I know a lot of you have been kind of watching this for a good 2 hours already with the logistics and the last panel and the discussion. So while we wait for the next set of speakers to kind of join in and get ready for our next talk, we will take a quick five minute break and then come back. So we'll just kind of put on a timer. In the meantime, enjoy some lo fi beats and we'll see you all very shortly. It all right.
02:12:07.506 - 02:12:37.680, Speaker A: Welcome everybody. Hope you had a good quick five minute break. And with that, we are ready for our next talk. So next talk we're going to talk about what does it mean to kind of get more creative on building on top of Lens. And for this panel, we actually have three amazing people. So we have Rich, Ramon, and Simon from we three, and they're going to be talking about all the things that you can do and how you can extend your creativity with Lens. So without further ado, let's welcome all of them here on stage and allow them to turn their videos on and I'll let you all get started.
02:12:39.170 - 02:12:46.382, Speaker I: Hey, everyone. Nice to meet you. Should we just get started, Kardik?
02:12:46.446 - 02:12:51.860, Speaker A: Absolutely, yes. Also you should flip the video on so the live stream can see you as well.
02:12:54.390 - 02:13:09.206, Speaker I: 1 second. Just going to the start of our slides. Okay, give me 1 second. Can you see at least my slides for now?
02:13:09.308 - 02:13:11.160, Speaker A: Yes. Okay.
02:13:17.050 - 02:13:22.474, Speaker I: Cool. Okay, Rich, Simon, are you guys ready.
02:13:22.512 - 02:13:24.190, Speaker G: To so I can kick it off?
02:13:24.340 - 02:13:24.846, Speaker D: Absolutely.
02:13:24.948 - 02:13:25.920, Speaker F: Go for it.
02:13:26.450 - 02:13:28.814, Speaker A: Okay, cool.
02:13:28.932 - 02:14:18.046, Speaker I: So welcome everybody. Thanks for being this is talk number three four. So still staying with us and excited to have quite a few folks here to kind of listen into what we have brought to you today. Today it's a lot about kind of like what can you do with Lens and how to think differently about what products or innovation you can build on top of it and kind of like where this could lead. So I think we already heard a lot from Stani and Josh and David of what Lens is. So I shortly just kind of want to introduce us in the call and maybe Rich and Simon, once you talk, you maybe can just introduce yourself very shortly who you are and kind of.
02:14:18.068 - 02:14:18.942, Speaker G: Like what you do.
02:14:18.996 - 02:15:08.160, Speaker I: But I'm ramon. I'm part of we free. We Free is a web free design collective. So we're a bunch of designers who realize that web free is growing exponentially. And it's one of the most interesting area for design to come in because it's early, because we don't really know yet how to use it best because it's still hard to use. And so we came together and we realized there's a lot of space for making the space more accessible, more inclusive, opening it up for the next generation of users. And we primarily do this through helping through product and product design and brand strategy and really help kind of like building narratives from early ideas to actually bring it to the market.
02:15:08.160 - 02:16:25.574, Speaker I: Maybe a little bit of how we got involved in Lens just to kind of like as a little bit of disclosure, we have been working with them since quite a while in the background to really shape the brand itself of Lens, but also kind of help expand what Lens could mean for the ecosystem. I think Stani was saying is it's really about building an ecosystem. And so what we have been tasked to help out in the last few weeks is really kind of like pushing the edges of what Lens could do in several places and really help to kind of shape that. So with that, I would love to shortly talk about why we or we believe or I believe social graphs matter or what social graphs are. Being a designer in that space, I think it took me quite a while to understand what the hell is a social graph? Why does it matter? And we use the metaphor of kind of like it's a little bit an iceberg. So we know social media, we know newsfeeds, we know friends lists, we know that it matters to have brands online or being able to connect to them and write with them through messengers. But it's really kind of like just the top of the iceberg that we really see here.
02:16:25.574 - 02:18:04.900, Speaker I: And there's so much data and connections and content or connections that below the surface that are part of the social graph that are not really accessible for us, but they're also kind of like the bread and butter of the traditional web, two platforms like Facebook, Twitter and all of that. So I think for most people that come into this space talking about the social graph, it's really just kind of like the top of the iceberg. But what is really exciting is what lies below that. And what we mean with that is that basically everything has a social graph, right? When we started to explore Lens, it was a lot about, is this social media? Is this a new news site? Is this a feed? Is this a friend's list? What is it really? And the reality today is that basically everything that web two touches and potentially web free will touch too, has a social graph, has a social component where we connect with each other, being it from sending and transacting from one wallet to one wallet. Kind of like following someone's on chain activity to kind of like the more traditional web two applications like Twitter or all of that. So when thinking about where lens is going I think one thing wrong button is this is bigger than decentralized Twitter. Feel like when we start to ideate in this space we often end up with decentralized Twitter a new news site it's like the go to things and we really wanted with this kind of like exploration and what we're going to show you today to kind of push what an open graph can enable for an ecosystem itself.
02:18:04.900 - 02:18:09.920, Speaker I: What do we mean with this? Is that it?
