00:00:00.920 - 00:00:23.314, Speaker A: Welcome, everybody. This is the third day of the week on bounded mean oscillation, and I'm thrilled to introduce Daniel Guerrella from University of Malaga, who will be giving his third lecture from the mini course on bounded mean oscillation.
00:00:24.654 - 00:00:59.384, Speaker B: Okay, thank you. So, we continue with the. Because yesterday we spoke about the duality theorem about the multipliers multiplast. Today we are going to start speaking about the Taylor coefficient of functions in VMO. Well, of course, since BMO is a service page again, let's see. Every day is the same. When I start, there is some problem.
00:00:59.384 - 00:01:39.604, Speaker B: Okay. Well, of course, BMO is containing h two. So if we take a function f in BMo and we take its tailor expansion, then we have that the some of the absolute value of the coefficient squared is five. Of course, the commas is not true. It's not even true for sp. But let me see whether we can say something else about the telecophist. Let me recall a classical theory of Paley Paley.
00:01:39.604 - 00:02:37.654, Speaker B: This has to do with power theory of Halamar gaps. Actually, it's an embedded theory, a multiplier theorem. Suppose that we have a constant lambda bigger than one, and then what we can we have a function f, any function f span of ancn. And we have a sequence of integers which is like in the sense of Hanamars, so that n j plus one is bigger than lambda times nj. With this lambda a constant bigger than one. Then we can say that if we start with a function which is in h one, then if we only consider the function sum of a njc to the nj, this is in h two, and we have. So this can be considered as multiplier theorem from h one into h two.
00:02:37.654 - 00:03:49.974, Speaker B: This says that if we have the the sequence which is one in the is zero always, except for the engines, then we have multiplied from h one into h two. Well, actually, if we use the Featherman's duality theorem, then this theorem can be improved as follows. We can substitute this h two by bm. And then the theorems says that suppose that we have some positive, some lambda bigger than one, as before an ella Gonadi sequence of integers. Then if we have a function f in h one, and we consider the one that, where we take only the coefficient, the same coefficient, but at the places of the nk, then this function is not only in h two, which is what palestinian tell us, but actually it is in Bmo. And of course also there is a constant BmO normal dysfunction. G is bounded by the h one naught of f.
00:03:49.974 - 00:05:07.970, Speaker B: As I say, this is quite easy to prove just using the the fever mass duality here. But as an immediate corollary of this, we obtain that if we consider functions which are given by power series with Falamar gaps. So if we start with the function which is of this kind, where the nk plus one over nk is bigger than in constant lambda bigger than one, then for this kind of function, power side is given by power side with calamar gaps. Then for this kind of function we have that f is in Bmoa if and only if it is in h two. Okay, actually, well, actually it is possible, but I'm not going to give details. It is possible to give a result which is somewhat stronger than this improved pylose Mattel j. We can Pavlovit obtained some result which says that for BMO function, some result has to do with the sum of the square of the coefficient, but using dyadic blocks, dyadic blocks.
00:05:07.970 - 00:06:01.760, Speaker B: But I'm not going to speak. I will restrict to this, but I guess that is something. There is an extension of this improved palace theory obtained by Matthej become popular. But then let me, let me restrict to this. The duality theorem Fefferman's duality theorem can also be used to obtain another sufficient condition on the Taylor coefficient of a function f, which implies this membership in BMO. As an example, let us see how that we can prove using the duality theory, we can prove the following result that if we have a function f set sign of a and c n, and if the an are big o of one over n, then we can assert that f is in BMO. Of course, this can be proved in some other ways.
00:06:01.760 - 00:06:48.794, Speaker B: In fact, at the end of the talk I will see another way of proving this result. But let me illustrate how the Feyreman's duality theorem can be used to prove this result. So this is one just has to use the duality theorem plus Karthik inequality. So if we support that this is true, we call end the supreme the suprema of n plus one times a absolute value of a and take a function g in h one. Say this. So if we use hard dis inequality, hard dis inequality. So we start with this sign of a m bar bn bnc since am bar is smaller than a constant of ARR.
00:06:48.794 - 00:07:27.464, Speaker B: So we can, we can marginalize this am bar by this m times m plus one. And now here we simply use hard dis inequality. Since g is in h 1d sum is smaller than PI times the h one naught of f. So we have that this sum is finite. So if this one is finite, of course this limit exists. But if we recall the Fefferman duality theory, saying that this limit exists for any function g in h, one is equivalent to say that the function f is in Bmo. So the function f is in Bmo.
00:07:27.464 - 00:08:29.798, Speaker B: Just using the duality theorem plus hardly synagogue. As I say, this particular result can be obtained in some other ways. But I decided to put it here just to illustrate how the duality theorem can be used to do this, let me say that there are some other result on the tailored coefficient of BMO function. And of course I have to mention this deep result of Fermat that actually we have a function f in the analytic in the unit disk. Then with positive Taylor coefficient, then the function f is in bmo. If and only this is satisfied, then actually this is a result of effervan that he didn't publish. But later on they have appeared a number of different proof of this result.
00:08:29.798 - 00:09:28.214, Speaker B: For instance, in the, in the manuscript, the 20 years old manuscript that I uploaded yesterday, there is a proof, but there are several proof of this result over the years. Well, this is all also can be essentially equivalent to this one, that if we have a sequence of complex number, then saying that the function f of set, when we put here absolute value of lambda ncmbmo is equivalent to this, and this is equivalent that the sequence lambda n is a Hadamard multiplied from h one into l one. So actually, these two results are essentially equivalent. And this is a, as I said, a very strong result of FNMA. But I just mentioned here. But of course, it is impossible here to give a proof. But if you want to see one of the proofs, you can look at the manuscript that I uploaded yesterday in this.
00:09:28.214 - 00:10:35.140, Speaker B: Okay, and now let me, let me speak about something that I like, because when I started working in complex variable, I was more into the geometric function theory than in operator theory. So I always liked the theory of conformant mapping, univalent function. So let me speak here a little bit about the relation that we have between bmo function and conformal mapping. Univalent function. Well, the terminology univalent function and univalent function in the disk will be an analytic and one to one function defining that is. So it will be a conformal mapping from the unit disk into the image domain. Well, if we use the k one quarter theory, one quarter theorem, and Schwarzenegger's lemma, then it is quite easy to prove a well known result that if we have a univalent function in the disk and the image if omega.
00:10:35.140 - 00:12:14.094, Speaker B: So in other words, f is a conformal mapping from the unit this onto the domain omega. Then the distance from the if we take a point set in d, the distance from f of set to the boundary of omega is controlled by this quantity one minus mod c squared times the absolute value of f prime I recall that this is the expression that appears in the definition of the block function. I recall that this the set of functions is a function analytic index for which the supreme of these quantities is so. So if we have this immediately we get the that if f is a conformal mapping from the unit disk into a certain simply connected domain omega, then the function f is a block function if and only if d supreme is finite. But looking at this, this happens if and only the supreme of these distances is bounded. But saying that the supreme of these distances is bounded is equivalent to say that the domain omega does not contain arbitrarily large discs. Okay, so the univalent function, the conformal mappings from the disk into a domain which belongs to the block space are completely characterized, are those for which the image does not contain arbitrarily large bits.
00:12:14.094 - 00:13:44.124, Speaker B: Then the natural question is that we want to answer. We will try to answer is what happens with VMO instead of the block space, what are the univalent functions which belong in VMo? Yesterday, two days ago, I guess we found a good number of examples of functions which are block functions but are not in BMO. Recall that BMO is contained in the block space. But we have found a lot of examples of low function which are not BMO functions. However, for univalent function, this cannot happen, because a result of Pomerenke asserts that when we restrict ourselves to univalent function, if f is analytic and univalent in the unit, then being a vm of function is equivalent to being evolved function. So in other words, we can say that the intersection of PMoA with this family of univariate function which I will denote by this u is the same as the intersection of. Well, this is actually, it's not difficult to prove, but anyway, we take a couple of surveillances in calculation and so on.
00:13:44.124 - 00:15:08.714, Speaker B: Actually, vome proved the result somewhat stronger. He didn't need to have to be univalent. This result is true if we put something like univalent in the mean. But anyway, we are going to restitute univalent. So if we use this result, and together with a simple fact that is that VmoA and both Bmo and the block space are closed under subordination, then this gives, this gives the following that if omega is a simply connected domain, then omega is a BMO domain if and only if omega does not contain arbitrarily large difference. Well, what will I mean by saying that something is a BmoA? In general, if we have x, x is in a space of analytic function, a domain omega will be said to be an x domain if every f holomorphic, indeed with f of d containing omega lysine. So if we use this result, we get that when omega is simply connected, then omega is a BMO domain if and only if it is a block domain, if only it does not contain arbitrarily large.
00:15:08.714 - 00:16:03.748, Speaker B: But what happens is we don't impose here the condition of being simply connected. So, so if we consider the question for block function, the answer is the same. If omega is any domain not necessarily simply connected, then omega is a block domain if only omega does not contain arbitrary linearly. So for instance, let's see if we can see that in the plane, we take all the points with integer coordinates. We take this point out, all the points with integer coordination problem. Of course, here. Also the domain that we obtain here is.
00:16:03.748 - 00:17:36.286, Speaker B: This is a logo, because of course, in this domain, in this domain, there are not arbitrarily large discs. However, this is not a BMO domain. Actually, the BMO domains are characterized in terms of capacity BMO domains. Domain omega is a BMO domain if and only if there exists two positive constants, r and delta. So that if we take any point in the plane, the capacity of the intersection or the complement of omega with the d sub radius r and center at synod at that point is bigger than that. So with this in mind, if we take the, this example, this example is not a Bmo domain. But if we take out a little segment starting at any of this point with the same length, if we take a little segment starting at all these points, these were the points with, with coordinates in the integer.
00:17:36.286 - 00:18:50.986, Speaker B: But if we take a little segment over here starting at any of this point, then this is the, but the plane minus the plane minus simply the points m plus and y is not. Okay, this is what more or less what I have written in the, in that picture is what is written here in the indentures. Okay, but let's see, there are more connections. There are more connection of your univalent function album. Actually, the distortion theorem, say the distortion theorem for the univalent function. Let's say the, the b verbat theorem that a two is smaller than or equal than two for a function f in the class s, then immediately gives that if f is univalent and zero three, then the log of f is a block function of Jupiter. If we consider the class s well, for those which are not familiar with the class s, the class s is a class of normalized univalent.
00:18:50.986 - 00:19:52.836, Speaker B: The class s is the set of univalent functions in the list normalized by the condition that f of zero is equal to zero and f prime of zero is equal to one. Of course, the leading example of a function in the classes is the keb function, which is extreme for a lot of problems in the classes. Among them I have to speak about the Bwbach congestion of the tailor coefficient of any function in the class f bounded by n. So the result in result connecting univalent function block function with f is univalent and zero three. Or if you prefer, the first is in the classes, then the log of f of set over set is in the blockage is in the block space as you prefer. When f is univalent, zero three log of f is okay. But actually this connection with the block space can be improved.
00:19:52.836 - 00:21:17.058, Speaker B: And it is true that if f is univalent and zero three, then log of f is in BML. Or in the same way, if f is in the class s, then the log of f of z over z is a function mbm. So this result, which is given just as a consequence of theorem a two less than two can be improved, saying that these functions are in Bm. I guess this is always first proved by independently by Albert Berstein and by c minus. So let's see. But actually we can say more, we can say more in this line. Well, as I say, if we want obtain bounds on the notes of function in this class, we need to restrict that as to normalize classes of univariate function, the most used classes of univalent function that one uses are the classes, as I just mentioned, univariant function we take zero to zero and with f prime of zero equal to one and the class that I will denote by s naught, which are the classes of analytic in the valley and zero three and satisfy the normalization f of c reward.
00:21:17.058 - 00:23:03.608, Speaker B: We have to impose a normalization so that the classes that we consider are normal families and compa families or analytic value. And then in winter street to to these classes of normalized univalent function, then actually it is possible to prove the following that if we have any function f in the class s not, or if you prefer a function f in the class s, then in the first case the Bmo p norm or log of f is bounded by the Bmo p norm of this function. The log of this is, this is the conformal mapping from the unit disk onto the plane minus the semi line, the half line, the negative half line, and this is equal the vm or this function is exactly the hp node of the same function and the same result. If we put here the function in the classes. If we have a function in the classes and we take log of f of z over z, then the Bmo p norm of this function is majorized within the classes by the Bmo p norm of the corresponding function with the kb function. But in the same way as here, the Bmo p normal dysfunction is exactly the h p norm of dysfunction. Let me see that I have, I write here for zero less than p, less than or equal than two, and actually, well, this is a problem where I say that dysfunction is extrema or dysfunction is extrema.
00:23:03.608 - 00:24:25.444, Speaker B: But actually we know a complete characterization of the extremel function. That is, we can, we have a complete characterization all those function f that we put either here or either here, for which here we can write equality. I'm not going to give details about what is the characterization, but let me say that there are a lot of extremel functions. There are a lot of extreme functions. In fact, if we have function in the univalent function satisfying that the maximum modulus is at most a big o of one minus r squared, let's say if f is in the class s or in the class s not, then we can say that f of z is smaller than or equal than a constant times one minus r squared. If f if x is in the class s, then we can say this exactly anyway, but this big o of one over one minus r squared. But actually, what we can prove is that if we have a function in the classes for which the growth of the maximum modulus is as big as it can be.
00:24:25.444 - 00:25:48.582, Speaker B: Actually, I have written this in positive frame and ninjas, but I'm not going to to speak about this. If we have a function in the glasses whose maximum modulus grows as fast as it is possible, then this is an extremely function. For the question that I have considered here, for those functions, we have equality here. This is one thing, but another thing is that this condition on the growth of the maximum model is far from being necessary. In fact, I'm able to construct functions which are extrema for this question for which we have equality either here or here, so that the maximum modulus tends to infinity as slowly as we want. Actually, I don't know, I'm not going to give details, but let me see that the construction of those functions for which the maximum model grows very slowly, an arc extremer for that problem. The function that I constructed are more or less like this.
00:25:48.582 - 00:26:55.318, Speaker B: We take a domain, we have the plane, and we type the conformal mapping on toy domain, which is something like that, with a certain thing which approaches here very, very fast, sufficiently fast. Well, this is some way symmetry. So f is going to be a conformal mapping of the disc onto a domain of this kind, where this approaches asymptotically verify and we multiply f by a certain blasc paradox. And in this way we can get those functions whose modulus, whose maximum modulus tends to infinity arbitrarily slowly, but for which are extreme. Let me see. In the previous theory, as I said, I write here the conditions that p is less than or equal than two. It is an open question whether or not this is true for p bigger than two.
00:26:55.318 - 00:28:01.778, Speaker B: This is another example of the situation that I mentioned yesterday. And there are a number of questions in BMO which behavior is different when we consider the conformally invariant north p where p is smaller than two and when p is bigger than. So the corresponding problem for p bigger than two is. I don't know whether this is. However, what I can say is that if I take here any of those functions that I know that is extrema, in the case p less than two, then if I put here dysfunction, then I'm p bigger than two, then I can. What I can have is that this is bigger than or equivalent. So what I mean is that if I take some p bigger than two, and I take here one of the functions which has a which is extrema, in the case p is smaller than two, then for that function I will.
00:28:01.778 - 00:28:37.060, Speaker B: I will put here a greater than or equal to. However, as I say, the problem for p bigger than two is. Ok, I don't know. I guess this is intentional. Okay, we don't know whether this inequality remains true for p bigger than two. However, for those functions which has the extrema, for the problem in the case p less than two, for those functions in the case p bigger than two is bad. I haven't been able to prove that we have the alanine, so this is one of the questions.
00:28:37.060 - 00:29:47.822, Speaker B: Of course there are a lot of other connection of BMO and municipal infection, but anyway, I cannot continue on this because I would have only 20 minutes left. And so I go to speak a little bit about some other, let me speak a little bit about the derivative of b function and trying to find some, some subspaces of BMO. Well, of course, if we speak about the derivative of BMO functions, if BMo is containing the block space, we immediately get this, because being in the block space is equivalent. So if f is in a BMO function, then actually we have. But the question that we can ask is, what happens if we don't consider here an infinity, but we consider the integral means of order p, say, with p finite. Well, of course, this trivially implies that for p finite, we also have this. This is trivial because this implies this.
00:29:47.822 - 00:30:45.584, Speaker B: But actually it is possible to change when p is finite. It is possible to substitute this big o by a smaller. So if we have some function f which is in Bmo, then actually we can say that for any p finite p m prime is little o of one over one minus. And actually this is all with the little o is sharp. And actually even for h infinity, actually this is a classical result that was proved by Hallenberg and Macgregor that said that if we have any non increasing function phi intended to zero, we can find a function f which is even in h infinity. For with the limbs of this is infinity. So this result with a little here is sharp even for age infinity.
00:30:45.584 - 00:31:26.240, Speaker B: Let's see, another question that arises is whether we can substitute here this link soup by link. Well, let's see. Let's use something. Let us recall that f is in BMo is equivalent to saying that this is a condition measure. So, and in particular this final measure. And so immediately we get that this, if f is in BMo, then this integral is finite. But actually it is possible to prove that this estimate that I put here f in BMo in place here.
00:31:26.240 - 00:32:09.456, Speaker B: But this result is also charged in a very strong setting. Actually, it is possible to prove that if we have, if we put here, we take here any function so that integral from zero to one of one minus half prime squared is finite. If we put here any function here, we can find a function. Let's say I put here something, a function f in Bmo, say, so that the integral means of order p of f prime are bigger than a constant times v here. Actually, I'm not getting into details here. I give a more precise, a more precise result. But let me see that.
00:32:09.456 - 00:33:03.384, Speaker B: What we can say about that is, but, but let me see. Let's consider again the characterization of bmo function in terms of galaxy measure and let's see, we have seen that this is very useful. We have obtained a good number of results on Bmo using that. One other thing is the following. The mean lip system we can find subspaces of bmo. In fact, it is possible to prove that the mean ellipse is spliced in lambda p one over p, as are the spices of Bmo. What is lambda lambda p alpha lambda p alpha lambda p alpha is the set of f in hp.
00:33:03.384 - 00:34:29.203, Speaker B: So that, well, the characterization is that the integral modules of continuity of order p so that omega p delta f is the goal of delta to the r. And this classical result of hardy little would say that f is in lambda p p alpha is equivalent to the saying that the integral means of further p of order p of the derivative is big o of. I like to write this in this way, one minus r to the other. Okay, what about this space? Well, from this space is when Al, if alpha is bigger than one over p, then actually lambda p alpha is contained in this calculator. Actually lambda p alpha is contained in the space lambda. Let's say it's contained in a certain ellipsis class. So if alpha is bigger than one over p, the function which are in lambda p alpha have a continuous extension to the, to the clause.
00:34:29.203 - 00:35:05.334, Speaker B: And the index one over p is in the limit of continuity. Lambda p one over p is not contained in the desire. So this index, the index alpha one over p is in the limit of continuity. Let's see, let's go back. Okay, not the go back, go back. Okay. So this lambda p one over p, using the result that I have mentioned before.
00:35:05.334 - 00:35:54.994, Speaker B: So is the function f analytically satisfy that the integrals mean for the p of f prime are big o of. I like to write this in this way. So this is also, you prefer, it's just having here in downstairs, one minus r, one minus r. Well, as I said, this is in the limit of continuity. Well, Simon Peterson, in the case p two, they proved that lambda two one over two is inside Bmo. And actually, unless sometimes later, burdenshapiro and sled extended this to generate. So what we have is that for any p between one and infinity, the mean space lambda p one over p is containing.
00:35:54.994 - 00:36:37.304, Speaker B: Let's let us say that the function log of one over one minus f is in all these expressions for one. So maybe this is, I should have said this before. I said that this space is not contained in net infinity. This function is lambda p one electron. So this is what I said. Does this index is in the limit of protein? Well, but it is possible to prove that this result is also cannot be improved at all. I say that lambda p one over p is containing Bmo, but.
00:36:37.304 - 00:38:07.750, Speaker B: Well, the first thing that I should say is that the inclusion lambda p one over p included in Bmo can be proved easily also using the colors of measure characteristics of BmO. But the second thing that I want to say is that this inclusion, the inclusion that I have lambda p one over p included in Vmo a, this is strong also in the very, in a very sharp, in a very strong way. And actually we can prove the following. This is something that I proved sometime ago in collaboration with Oscar Vlasco, Maria Silandera Marquez, which was a former student of mine. And the result that we have is that if we consider some p between one and infinity, and here, instead of one minus r to the one over p, we put something which is a little bit bigger. So if we take any function omega, so that omega delta over delta one over p tends to infinity of delta zero, and we put omega four minus r here, then it is possible to construct a function f which is not in Bmo, but is in the corresponding space, the substitute or lambda p one over lambda p one over. Okay, uh, I'm not going to, I'm not going to.
00:38:07.750 - 00:38:54.308, Speaker B: Well, and let's see, this is a construction that we, we obtain also using, using conformal mappings, uh, things like that. But I'm not going to, to give details. To give details. Okay, well, I have just spoken about, I have just spoken about. I have just spoken out. Let's see. I think that when I mentioned the examples that I found here, I mentioned a kind of example for which this maximum modulus tends to infinity arbitrarily slowly.
00:38:54.308 - 00:39:39.544, Speaker B: And the example that I mentioned were not had to do with the problem that I had. So, let's forget about what I said here. I enabled to find this example, but they are not the one that I gave them. The example that I mentioned before are the one which works for this. The example that works for these are those that I mentioned before. We consider a conformal mapping from the addition to a domain like this, where we choose this in an appropriate way, we call f conformal mapping, and we multiply this f by n. Appropriate blasphemy.
00:39:39.544 - 00:40:31.790, Speaker B: This is the function that we can construct so that it is in bmo, is not in bmo, but is in the, in this generalized, generalized. Meanwhile, we put instead of one minus r to the one over p, this omega of one minus. So this inclusion that we have written here is cannot be improved at. Okay, well, there are. I have just mentioned these spaces. They mean listed spaces. But of course there are many other sub spaces that have been studied very extensively over the years.
00:40:31.790 - 00:41:22.374, Speaker B: Of course, I have to say that the best of space is Bp Bp, the function f. So the integral of f, which are in the function f, which are so that f prime is in a in the app minus two. This is the vessel space vp, so the species Bp are subspecies of BMo. And also there are the Qp spaces, which have been studies very extensively. The Qp spaces in general are defined for zero less than p less than infinity. And even maybe we can put zero less than or equal to p less than infinity. The space q zero is the digitized space.
00:41:22.374 - 00:42:08.284, Speaker B: The space q one is the space vMoa. The space QP for p bigger than one is the block space. But when we are between zero and one, we obtain proper subspace of BMO. But I'm not going to give details because I don't have time. But I should. I should mention that there are a lot of subspaces of BMO which have been extensive yesterday, and there is a. But I'm not going to.
00:42:08.284 - 00:43:11.354, Speaker B: Then maybe, I guess, that I have five minutes left. So, but to end us, to end up the lecture, let me say that BMO of course, appear also in a natural way in many contexts, as I have said. And in particular it appears when one study operators acting on distinct spaces. Analytical advance I'm just going to mention one example. One of the operators that is being studied widely are the water operators. Integral operators in general, and let's see again the integral operator. If we have an analytic function in the disk, then we can consider the so called Voltaire operator tg, which can be thought as a generalization of the SSR operator.
00:43:11.354 - 00:44:06.732, Speaker B: Then the Volterra operator is defined as following. We have a function f analytic in the disk tg of f is a function defined as the integral from zero to set of the g prime times f. I will write also the companion operator ig, where the rows of g and f are intersect. We take the derivative inf and we put the g. These two operators are usually, this is called the companion operator because these two operators go always together. What is the reason that if we add these two operator, if we put tg plus ig, this operator essentially gives us the multiplication by just by the rule of the derivative of the product. So this is why usually these two operators go together.
00:44:06.732 - 00:44:56.444, Speaker B: This is called the Volterra operator. And this is, I don't know the terminology. This one is called the companion. As I said, these operators have been studied widely in a lot of acting on distinct spaces. And let me just to emphasize how BMO shows up in many contexts. Let me emphasize that a classical result of Pomerenk that actually he produced in the context on trying to work on certain signal invariable fascia. But in his work, he proved that this operator, the operator is bounded on h two if an only g is in Bm.
00:44:56.444 - 00:45:32.670, Speaker B: Let's see. Okay, this is the result that was proved by Pomeric the operator. The Volterra verita tg is one that if only this function is actually. Let me see that. Let me say that this can also be obtained easily just in using the characterization of emo in test of trials of measure. Just recall that h two can be written as the tie dt to one. This is the literal Palea identity.
00:45:32.670 - 00:46:20.134, Speaker B: The function f is in h two if and only the integral of one minus mod c squared times f prime squared h five. This is a late little Paley identity. Okay, so if we have g, suppose that we have g and tg is one different h two interest. Well, saying that tg is one different h two interest two, this means that tg of any of f is in h two. So by saying that this is in exclusion, we just have to take here the derivative of tg of f. The derivative of tg of f is deep prime times f. So what we have is this.
00:46:20.134 - 00:47:35.644, Speaker B: But if we, so we need this to be finite for any f in l in h two. But if we look at this, this is the same as saying that the function f is in l two with respect to this mesh. So tg is bounded from h two into h two is equivalent to saying that h two is contained in the space l two of one minus mod c squared d prime dh. But this using the galleys embedding theorem, this is equivalent to showing that this is a carousel measure. And by the duality theorem, the other theory, this is equivalent to saying that the function g is in Bmo. So this is just to give an idea of the way that the collection characterization characterization of Bmo appears and allows us to produce easily. Well, let me show that of course, the distinct companion or the result that tg from s two into s two is compact if and only the function g is in vanishing vmoa.
00:47:35.644 - 00:48:13.594, Speaker B: And also let me say that this result of course was extended to other indices of p by Allemangaskin. And actually they proved that the TG is round f on HP. If only f is in. Of course, I have to start, but let me see that. I just, I have just given an example, but BMO function appears in a natural way in many contexts and studying the boundary of a lot of operators in distinguished spaces. And so I guess that I will stop here.
00:48:16.094 - 00:48:55.394, Speaker A: Thank you very much, Daniel, for a great series of talks. If anybody has a question, you can either write it in the chat or just please go ahead. I think I have a view of the chat, but there is nothing there for the moment. So, since any questions.
00:48:58.254 - 00:49:06.674, Speaker B: There are many questions, but I mean, it's not enough time to put it now. I mean, I think we will discuss with Daniel later on.
00:49:10.454 - 00:49:21.710, Speaker A: So I just want to ask, actually, because I was out of power yesterday and I don't know if Daniel maybe provided the slides or the notes.
00:49:21.742 - 00:49:38.828, Speaker B: Yeah, I provided, but I will provide. I have corrected a few, so I will provide a new version of the slides because I have corrected a few erratas. And so I will upload a new version right now. Okay.
00:49:38.916 - 00:49:50.144, Speaker A: Okay, great. Thank you very much. Thank you, Daniel, for. I got your email. Thank you for your reply about the.
00:49:50.644 - 00:50:42.096, Speaker B: Thanks to you. It was, I should say, yesterday, when I was speaking about the multipliers of BMO, I just mentioned the result by Ortega and Fabrega, but there is a very related result by estegenga, which actually is essentially equivalent. I didn't mention it because I just prefer to write down in the conformally invariant way. But Gloria, Daphne pointed out that to me, and I want to. I should mention that there is a lot about the multiplexing BMO. Essentially, the one that I wrote yesterday, is essentially equivalent to a result obtained by Mister Ginger. I guess that I mentioned the correct version of the auditor's page.
00:50:42.096 - 00:50:42.964, Speaker B: Okay.
00:50:44.224 - 00:50:49.632, Speaker A: Actually, that paper, I first learned about it from Joe Sima.
00:50:49.688 - 00:50:50.284, Speaker B: So.
00:50:53.864 - 00:51:19.036, Speaker A: Okay, so I myself can see the mini course slides, I guess, and the paper. So if anybody else is wondering, you can download them from there. Any other questions or comments? Well, if not, then let's take. Thanks, Daniel, again for a great series of talks.
00:51:19.220 - 00:51:20.304, Speaker B: Thanks to you.
00:51:20.924 - 00:51:24.804, Speaker A: Thank you. Okay, so we will continue in nine minutes.
