00:00:01.950 - 00:00:02.500, Speaker A: It.
00:00:16.260 - 00:00:28.720, Speaker B: And do you prefer people asking live questions during presentation or do you prefer people asking at the end? Just asking. Because the Zoom webinar, we can enable mics now or we can wait till later just based on your preference.
00:00:30.500 - 00:00:41.850, Speaker A: I. Hard to say. I guess I'm open to questions during it, but if it's like a particularly targeted question, I guess.
00:00:43.260 - 00:00:52.060, Speaker B: Okay, so, attendees, you may get a notification from me saying your mic is enabled, so then you'll be able to unmute yourself at your leisure.
00:00:54.480 - 00:00:54.940, Speaker A: Cool.
00:00:55.010 - 00:01:02.850, Speaker C: And then, Sarah, I just dropped the YouTube link as well. And then let me share this out with everyone.
00:01:03.460 - 00:01:03.824, Speaker A: Great.
00:01:03.862 - 00:01:04.960, Speaker B: Thanks, Kiman.
00:01:07.220 - 00:02:03.270, Speaker C: And welcome, everyone. Yeah, we'll get started here in just a few minutes. Let some more people join us. Really excited to have Aria and Sarah joining us from IC three today share their new research that they've been working on around stablecoins. If you have questions, definitely feel free to drop them into the YouTube chat and we'll be able to share those as we go along throughout the presentation. Perfect. And Arya, are you, are you ready to go?
00:02:03.720 - 00:02:04.470, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:02:05.000 - 00:02:33.870, Speaker C: Cool. Well, thanks a lot, everyone, for joining us today. Really excited to have IC three and Arya joining to share his new research. Really want to thank Sarah for helping set this up and all the work and research that everyone is doing over at IC three. If you have questions throughout, drop them into the YouTube chat. If you're listening there, if you're in the zoom with us, feel free to share your Q and A. We've also enabled talking, so you can just raise your hand and then we can unmute you.
00:02:33.870 - 00:02:42.050, Speaker C: Without further ado, Sarah? Yeah. I'll let you introduce and share a little bit more about IC three and everything that Aria is working on.
00:02:42.740 - 00:03:14.196, Speaker B: Okay, thanks, Keenan. So hey, everyone, my name is Sarah Allen. I am the community manager for the initiative for cryptocurrencies and contracts IC three. IC three is an academic blockchain research initiative based at Cornell Tech with researchers at nine global campuses, and Chainlink is an IC three partner. So thanks today to chainlink for hosting this webinar. Ariah Clogus Munt is an applied math PhD student at Cornell. His research brings together economics and computer science to study the design of DeFI protocols and economic networks, and he's also working on the gyroscope stablecoin.
00:03:14.196 - 00:03:16.670, Speaker B: And Ariah, I will turn it over to you.
00:03:17.760 - 00:03:51.440, Speaker A: Thanks for the intro, Sarah. Yeah, I'm Ariah Klagasmund. I'm a PhD student at Cornell and I'll run you guys through a little bit of my PhD research on what I call the unreasonable design of stablecoins. Reasonable and unreasonable. So the past year or so has been really a year of DFI. DFI assets under management has grown basically like 50 x or even more in that time. And the system of DFI protocols has also become much bigger, but also much more complex.
00:03:51.440 - 00:05:14.560, Speaker A: So it's been a year of DFI, but it's also been a year of DFI crises. So in particular, about a year ago, back in March to 2020, there was a large ETH crash, and this led to sort of deleveraging spirals, something that we'll talk about a little bit more later as part of my research in the DAI system, which led to increased volatility and sort of like a short squeeze effect on the DAI stablecoin. And it had some side effects then that led to sort of like maker auctions being liquidated for zero dAi, and sort of like minor extractable value occurring around these liquidation events. There's also been a number of other things over the past year, including sort of like money loopholes, ability to steal money from different protocols, actual attacks on protocols that sort of made use of oracle quirks, actual other attacks on minor extractable value on stablecoins. And then recently, this past winter, the introduction of some of these new algorithmic stablecoins that then proceeded to crash, such as basis cash, empty set dollar. There were also other stablecoin crashes, such as around origin dollar and a hack in that system. And very recently sort of struggled launch of the Faye stablecoin.
00:05:14.560 - 00:06:32.612, Speaker A: So that kind of motivates my research in this area on stablecoins. And here we're thinking of a stablecoin as basically a cryptocurrency, where there's this added economic structure. And the aim of this added structure is to stabilize the price or purchasing power. And some of the issues we have in this area that are sort of motivated by these past examples are that we lack really good risk based models that span this design space and help us understand the different trade offs when we're designing these systems. And that's kind of where this work aims to fill in, kind of filling the gap and sort of seeding where the right sort of questions to ask and models to start using in future stablecoin research. And so in this talk, I'm going to go through a little bit of decomposition of how we think about the design space of stablecoins, then sort of motivate two primary fundamental design questions around stablecoins that we're going to start to answer. And then start to answer those using models of price dynamics of these systems, and then models of what we call governance, extractable value and geV, or end minor extractable value MEV in these systems to sort of help understand are these systems secure? And this work is based on these four papers, which are all available on archives.
00:06:32.612 - 00:07:38.750, Speaker A: So if you really like the talk, do look these up. And then this is with co authors, including Dominic Hartz and Louis Gudgen, Sam Werner and Daniel Perez at Imperial College London, and then also my advisor Andrea Minka at Cornell. So, let's start by decomposing the design space, running you through how I like to think of stablecoins. So one of the first distinctions to make, I think, is between stablecoins that are based on custodial mechanisms and stablecoins that are non custodial. So this is an example of on the custodial side we have tether, and on the non custodial side we have DAi, and on the custodial side we have risks around sort of counterparty credit risk, censorship risk, and traditional sort of financial risks, and how these banking sort of systems are set up. And the good thing is that these are well understood. But the bad thing is that this is kind of the risk we are trying to minimize by entering the cryptocurrency space in the first place.
00:07:38.750 - 00:08:49.188, Speaker A: And then on the noncustodial side, we have sort of new risks and attacks that we have to first map out what are the risks and then help to solve in terms of how should we be designing to mitigate these risks. And as we'll see, there are risks around sort of deleveraging crises in these sort of stablecoins, risks around sort of price feed and governance manipulations, and more generally sort of like minor extractable value on the base chain because miners have the ability to reorder transactions to their benefit. And then also the risks around sort of like smart contract bugs and how these things are actually implemented, and whether an attacker could manipulate those implementations. And the problem here is that these are not as well understood, and that's kind of where this research leads. So the custodial side we can kind of map out along the lines of sort of traditional finance and traditional financial models. I won't really focus on this in this talk, but I'll give just a basic overview. There's more information in our papers, but basically you can think of these as one type being basically a fully reserved fund, and this is basically like USDC BUSD that would fit in here.
00:08:49.188 - 00:09:59.000, Speaker A: And it kind of acts like an ETF sort of model, as in you can mint and redeem essentially shares or tokens of these stable, stable coins in return for the underlying collateral through the issuer. Then there are other types that are kind of more parallel to traditional banks or sort of like money market funds. And these are sort of like fractional reserve funds that are kind of like fully collateralized, but sort of like fractionally liquid collateralized. And then you can similarly interact with these custodians to create and redeem the supply, but they have sort of also added threshold risks akin to how banks work. And then on the other side, you also have sort of like central banks that could come out with central bank digital currencies. But, right, we're going to sort of focus on the other side throughout the rest of this talk on the noncustodial design of stablecoins. And so here I like to break it down first as the first distinction in terms of where are these stablecoins getting their value, what sort of collateral are backing these systems? And in one case we have like in dai, exogenous collateral.
00:09:59.000 - 00:10:48.380, Speaker A: So something like ETH, where there's sort of enough scope to this collateral that it moves relatively independently of the stablecoin system itself. And these have what we'll see as market deleveraging risks. Through the rest of this talk, there's also a type of endogenous collateral, and this is where there's been essentially a new collateral asset that's been created for the specific reason of being collateral in these systems. But that also means that the value of this collateral is very tied to sort of like expectations in this particular system, and that's why it's endogenous. And we'll see that this has sort of like amplified feedback effects as opposed to the exogenous collateral case. And then there's also a type of what we call implicit collateral. This is kind of the basis type stablecoin design.
00:10:48.380 - 00:11:36.200, Speaker A: And we'll see that this essentially works by trying to set up that there's like an incentive to absorb risk in these systems during a crisis, but there's no sort of like forward looking obligation from this point in time. It really comes down to speculators becoming choosing to absorb the risk in the actual crisis. And we'll go over a little bit of this in more detail in a coming slide as well. So, right, this is the area we're going to focus on in the rest of this talk. So to sort of motivate how these systems work, let's go through kind of like how a CDO type structure sort of works. And this is how most stablecoins today actually work. So in a CDO design, we have a portfolio of underlying assets, and we split this portfolio into two tranches.
00:11:36.200 - 00:12:27.390, Speaker A: One tranche is a junior tranche, which is sort of more risky. And then there's a senior tranche. And the idea is that this is less risky. And then if there's a loss that's incurred, this is first borne by the junior tranche, and the senior tranche is protected. And the idea with stablecoins then, is that there's a risk absorber, which kind of takes the place of this junior tranche. And the stablecoin holders are sort of fulfilling this senior tranche with trying to be protected if there are downfalls. And then there's an added mechanism where if there is enough, sort of like of a crisis event, there's a deleveraging process that dynamically adjusts the supply so that it's kind of like a continual system, so that essentially the CDO structure can continue into the future just in like a downsized form.
00:12:27.390 - 00:13:21.500, Speaker A: The space of stablecoins is a bit more expansive than just this, though. And so I'll try to motivate several different areas here. We've already touched on this idea of primary value, or sort of the collateral backing the system. And right, this sort of spans from exogenous collateral to endogenous collateral, and what we term implicit collateral. And then there's another sort of function in the system of who actually is absorbing the risk through this sort of like primary value. And in one case, we have sort of like equity risk absorption, where there's some sort of uniform equity token in the system. And holders of this token are basically all supposed to absorb the risk in the system, as opposed to there are other systems where there are agents who are making their own sort of custom decisions about how to absorb risk in these systems.
00:13:21.500 - 00:13:55.268, Speaker A: And then there are newer sorts of systems where the protocol is kind of designed to absorb risk itself as kind of like a reserve or insurance based sort of mechanism. So let's sort of go through a little bit of how this works. The main type that I was alluding to earlier is this leveraged based sort of design. This is like the CDO model that we just stepped through. And here we can have. It can be based on exogenous or endogenous collateral. And senior edge shares is a term that's kind of thrown around, too, to describe some of these systems.
00:13:55.268 - 00:14:32.336, Speaker A: And it's kind of a subcase of this leverage based system. So essentially here we have a market in senior shares. There's like a market cap of endogenous equity shares. And the idea is that these equity shares are meant to absorb the volatility in the system. So this is looking back at the diagram here, where you have sort of like endogenous collateral, but also equity risk absorption in that case. And then there's another type, the basis sort of design, or what we term implicit collateral. And in here, speculators are meant to maintain the peg by betting on future supply expansion.
00:14:32.336 - 00:15:23.744, Speaker A: Something that's akin to betting on leverage in this implicit collateral, kind of like backing the system during a crisis. And the idea here is that there's no pre committed collateral as there would be in these leverage based systems before. But instead, essentially the speculators are coming in and either deciding it's profitable or not profitable to reduce the supply voluntarily. And in doing so, they kind of have to like, in judging if it's profitable, they essentially have to bet that the supply is going to expand beyond this pre crisis sort of level. Or else the system kind of like this basis type design doesn't really work. And that's kind of also like what we've been experiencing in the past winter with the rollout of these basis type designs. And then there's another type which is basically reserve backed.
00:15:23.744 - 00:16:02.732, Speaker A: And in here, the idea is that the protocol maintains its own balance sheet and uses this balance sheet to market make around the peg. And there are some key questions around here, around what actually makes up this balance sheet. And sort of like various attacks to whether you can exhaust that balance sheet and sort of break the peg. But it's another type of design that's also being rolled out these days. There are also various types of meta stablecoins that are basically combinations of all of these different sort of lower level stablecoins. So moving on to sort of the rest of the types of functions in these systems. We just covered sort of different types of risk absorption.
00:16:02.732 - 00:16:47.080, Speaker A: This is also intimately connected with an issuance function. And here issuance can be agent based, which kind of is in Dai. Essentially, if you're opening a vault in Dai, you are deciding sort of how much stablecoins to issue from that vault. And so deciding in aggregate, what should the supply of Dai be. And there's also different sorts of algorithmic issuance, which is where these algorithmic sort of designs come in. And there's also this deleveraging process that we alluded to earlier, which is sort of behind the scenes in all of these different designs, which is also essentially algorithmic. And then there are stablecoin holders who are seeking stability through holding this asset.
00:16:47.080 - 00:17:49.228, Speaker A: And then sort of like behind the scenes, there's also governance that needs to update the system and similarly price feeds that need to say what these assets are actually worth. And then further behind the scenes, there are miners who always have the ability to reorder transactions to their benefit. So we can sort of map out how these different stablecoins today fall along several different axes. So this is showing how they fall within three particular dimensions, one being what type of risk absorber? Is there another type? Where is the primary value coming from? And then in the sort of like third dimension, how is issuance happening, whether it's agent based or algorithmic? I'll sort of put out the slides later if you want to peek into this in more detail. But just very briefly sort of sketching out some of the issues that's come up here in Black Thursday. We saw that there were sort of deleveraging crises in some of these designs, like Dai. We've also seen that other sort of implicit collateral designs fall apart.
00:17:49.228 - 00:18:46.416, Speaker A: The market for these fall apart. Here's an example of nubits and recently, this past winter, sort of both basis cash and empty set dollar. And these senior shares type designs also have problems. And so whenever we're making new designs, we should have this in mind as essentially like a case study. And so steam dollars ran into quite a lot of trouble back in 2019, 2020. And then very recently, the rollout of Fay led to several sort of liquidity problems in how the protocol is actually market making using its balance sheet. I also then briefly want to sketch out kind of like how do we think about different types of algorithmic stablecoins and sort of approaching this? Whenever a new user is coming into the system, essentially they are paying, if the system is working, that new user is paying a dollar for each newly minted stablecoin.
00:18:46.416 - 00:19:47.588, Speaker A: And one key question here is, where does that dollar actually go? And we sort of map out a spectrum upon which it can go. Sort of on one extreme it goes to sort of the pockets of stakeholders in the system, and on another extreme, it goes completely to the protocol's balance sheet. And then there's a room for in between where it can goes partially to both. And then the next sort of key question is what happens in a crisis in these different sort of design choices. And in the case, in one extreme where it's going sort of like to stakeholders, that means that a system is not retaining extra value, essentially, to handle crises, and it's solely relying on sort of speculators to jump in in these situations. And if they don't find it profitable to jump in those situations, essentially, if a sort of future demand growth becomes less credible, then the system doesn't work. And then somewhere in between where it's like partially going to the reserve, partially going to stakeholders.
00:19:47.588 - 00:20:31.632, Speaker A: In this case, the reserve is kind of smaller than it could have been, but it's there. It means it's potentially less stabilizing, but it also means it's prone to sort of like bank run style risks. And this needs to be like a critical concern when designing these systems. And the other case is when 100% of it goes to the reserve. In this case, it's basically strictly stronger, as in there's more value to work with in a crisis and there are still worries about it, but it's strictly stronger than some of these other designs. And we're sort of seeing this with the rollout of algorithmic stablecoins so far. So we've seen sort of empty set dollar basis cash and sort of similar designs like dynamic set dollar, all essentially failing to maintain their peg.
00:20:31.632 - 00:21:30.740, Speaker A: And so sort of the extreme on this side definitely seems to be not working. We've also seen similar things historically with newbits, which is kind of in between, but further to the side of all the way to the left. And then there are some several ongoing experiments around sort of like fractional reserve designs. And then there are also some experiments here on the other side. And so we're going to keep kind of a keen eye on these going forward. But there are also several other dimensions than just this one dimension to think about. So here, for instance, it's very important to think about the composition of what are the actual assets in these reserves, what are their risks? And basically are those assets valuable when you need them in a crisis? And then a follow up question of how does the protocol actually maintain liquidity in the system, and how liquid of a system does that lead to? And this sort of contributed to some of the problems in the Faye launch.
00:21:30.740 - 00:22:24.356, Speaker A: And so these are sort of like three primary dimensions I like to think about in terms of analyzing different algorithmic stablecoins. Another sort of area of difference I want to point out before leading into sort of the main models and results is sort of like parallels and differences between the governance sort of setups of these systems. And sort of like how do these compare to traditional money? And so here I'm going to compare sort of like the dai system to the traditional money system. But similar other designs can also be compared sort of on the top level we have on the Dai side maker governance. And this is kind of parallel to how the central bank is acting in traditional money. But a key difference here is that we can usually assume that a proper central bank is stability seeking kind of for its own right. It's targeting economic stability in a sense, whereas maker governance is really designed to be profit optimizing.
00:22:24.356 - 00:23:07.336, Speaker A: And so we have to take that into account when we're sort of thinking about these systems then a level lower. On the Dai side we have Dai vaults or CDPs. And this is kind of parallel to how commercial banks operate in the traditional money system. Essentially, vaults are here to absorb risk and sort of determine the issuance of an endogenous stable asset or the Dai stablecoin itself. This is kind of parallel to what commercial banks are essentially doing by making loans. Except that on the commercial bank side we can basically assume that the asset that's being generated is stable, sort of as backed by the central bank. Whereas in the vault case we really have to sort of be worried about that.
00:23:07.336 - 00:24:25.660, Speaker A: This is an endogenous asset and it's either stable or not stable based on how we set up this system. And then sort of at the bottom level we have die holders which are kind of parallel to depositors then at the actual commercial banks and traditional money. And as we're sort of seeing here, because of these sort of key differences, we sort of need nude models to think about the noncustodial setting. And so this sort of motivates two fundamental questions that we're trying to answer with the rest of our research in this area. So the first question is around incentive security. And so basically this is asking, is there mutually profitable continued participation across all of the parties in these systems? Or basically is it profitable for everybody to participate with these terms? And this has to take into account sort of like the attack potential of these systems, the sort of like equilibrium interest rates that need to fund these systems. And two key things we're worried about is sort of what we call governance extractable value, because there are governance systems as part of these systems that are sort of updating either parameters or basically even changing the systems over time, upgrading the contracts directly.
00:24:25.660 - 00:25:20.272, Speaker A: And they could do these in sort of like best interests of the protocol and that's the aim. But they also have sort of like other avenues that may be more profitable. And sort of the design of these systems has to understand that and take that into account. And then there's similar problems around the lines of minor extractable value, where basically miners are even more abstract, sort of like governance process behind the scenes of the base layer and deciding the ordering of transactions in these systems. And then the second question is, basically, after we know that there's participation in these systems, we can then ask, are the incentives actually leading to stable outcomes? And this is what we call economic stability in these systems. And so, to address these two questions, we're developing three different types of models. One around understanding price dynamics in these systems.
00:25:20.272 - 00:26:19.110, Speaker A: Basically, how do the issuance incentives either lead to stability or instability? And then two types of models to help understand governance, extractable value and minor extractable value. And so we're going to touch on the price dynamic models first, and then also touch a little bit on the other ones in a little bit, sort of to set up the landscape with these price dynamic models. In the traditional financial literature, we usually start from a setting where we assume that there's like a stable asset, and this asset is borrowed against some collateral, say. And then there may be feedback effects in the system, but it's sort of on the collateral asset liquidity side, as opposed to on the actual stable asset side. And this is one of the key areas where noncustodial stablecoins are different, because this stable asset essentially has an endogenous price and participation. And this needs to be factored into these models. And so we sort of need expanded models that help us understand this.
00:26:19.110 - 00:27:18.648, Speaker A: And so as part of our work, we've been setting up sort of stochastic models to understand these sort of endogenous stablecoin prices as part of two papers. And this leads to sort of this effect we term as deleveraging spirals, which are essentially short squeeze like effects that amplify sort of collateral drawdown in liquidity crises. And this also leads to sort of like regions we can describe as stable, and other regions we can describe as unstable for these stable coins. So, to illustrate a little bit of what we mean by these models, although I won't go through the fine details, we set up sort of a system with two different types of agents. One is a stablecoin holder. And these are people who are seeking stability and have also like an imperfectly elastic demand for these stablecoins. And another type of agent that's a speculator, who is essentially deciding the supply behind these stablecoins secured by a collateral position.
00:27:18.648 - 00:28:08.468, Speaker A: And so this is essentially modeling the sort of leverage based stablecoins we were describing earlier. And then there are two types of assets in this system. There's the collateral asset, or ETH itself, which is a risky asset, which we're assuming has an exogenous price, although you can start to change these systems to build in an endogenous price as well, and sort of like map out what happens there. And then the other asset is the stablecoin with an endogenous price that's sort of determined through market interactions between these different types of agents. And this stablecoin is over collateralized in ETH, but again, its actual stability depends on this stablecoin market that's clearing sort of demand and supply. So, let's illustrate a little bit about what this speculator, how they're making decisions in this model. So they have a collateral constraint.
00:28:08.468 - 00:29:04.072, Speaker A: And the idea here is that the protocol is basically enforcing a degree of over collateralization within the protocol itself. And so this is sort of set up by this equation. But basically, the idea is that the amount of ETH that the speculator locks into the system, the value of that ETH has to be greater than or equal to some collateral factor times how many stablecoins they've actually generated through the system. And then they're making a decision that's deciding how much they want to change the stablecoin supply to sort of maximize their expected returns into the future, taking into account this constraint. And this is what we're calling sort of like the honest behavior, because this is how speculators are intended to behave in these systems. And so we set up an optimization problem that essentially does this. The important thing is that there's a value function that sort of defines how profitable this is into the future for these speculators.
00:29:04.072 - 00:29:47.610, Speaker A: And this has to take into account this liquidation effect, where basically either the speculator is self voluntarily liquidating to preemptively handle sort of like their leverage, or the protocol can also directly liquidate their positions if it breaches this threshold. And that comes with extra costs and market effects. And the speculator has to take this into account in their decision making. There are some other assumptions that also go into this to make it more attractable. And we'll touch on one of these later sort of in the discussion. And so then this model leads to some very interesting results. One of them is sort of in the area of sometimes we can really think of these systems as very stable, actually.
00:29:47.610 - 00:30:31.956, Speaker A: And so just kind of like at a high level, describe these results. The first result is that we can bound the probability of large deviations in these systems within a certain region. And this is sort of describing the stable region of these stable coins. And a technical idea, sort of how we get there is using Dube's inequality. But you don't have to focus on that. You can see the paper sort of for more details. The second result then is sort of bounding, in addition to sort of just like bounding large price deviations, we can bound actually this idea of large quadratic variation, or essentially describing how variable the process is, how much it moves around in this similar regime.
00:30:31.956 - 00:31:31.972, Speaker A: And so both of these sort of mean that the stablecoin has quite contained price ranges within this stable region. And the technical idea behind the second result is using Berkholter's inequality. Then sort of on the flip side, there's also another sort of distinct region where we can think of this as being an unstable system. And this is pretty important to sort of see the difference here. So in the first result here in this different region, we characterize how the stablecoin experiences essentially a short squeeze, or what we call a deleveraging spiral. Or very formally, the stablecoin has what we call submartingale prices that are sort of like increasing or expected to increase. And sort of the idea here, I can kind of illustrate it quickly, is that in equilibrium, the stablecoin sort of has demand equaling supply, and then there's this excess of collateral sort of backing the supply.
00:31:31.972 - 00:32:28.008, Speaker A: And now if there is a liquidation, essentially that means that some of the collateral is being used to reduce the supply, essentially by buying back on the open market. But this means that demand is now out of sync with supply, which means then that in an inelastic market for these stablecoins, the price of the stablecoin has to increase. And then that ends up sort of resetting demand and supply. But it also means that if there's a second round of liquidations, because there's a higher price to the stablecoin, there's this short squeeze type effect. More collateral actually has to be used in this second round of liquidations to do the same sort of decrease to the supply, which in turn makes the price actually increase further. So this is this short squeeze type effect, which brings the system back into balance, but sort of like this can keep happening. And it means that there's faster collateral drawdown, increasing prices.
00:32:28.008 - 00:33:58.148, Speaker A: But also, even though it's increasing prices, it's a drastically riskier system because of this sort of dynamic with collateral, we then sort of can characterize also, even though there's this short squeeze effect, this is actually distinctly higher variance that's happening in this setting as well. Compared to the stable setting. So in one result, we have sort of like, in this different regime. In this different regime, we can characterize a variance approximation, essentially telling how much the price is wiggling around, and that this approximation increases by quite a large amount as the ETH return sort of shock scales, or also as the initial collateralization decreases. So this means then that this variance approximation, the variance is much higher in this unstable region, as opposed to the stable region, which helps us solidify that, yes, this is actually less stable. And the technical idea behind this is using an implicit function theorem. And then we can go even further, as instead of using the variance approximation itself, we can actually use sort of like a forward looking idea of variance, and show that indeed, in the stable and unstable regimes, this is a good interpretation, because forward looking variance is much higher in the unstable regime as opposed to the stable regime.
00:33:58.148 - 00:35:02.156, Speaker A: And this builds on some technical ideas around inequalities, on variances of convex functions of random variables. We also can back this up with some simulations in a simpler agent based model that we constructed in a different paper. And essentially, this histogram is kind of showing this in certain regions, we can look at this orange sort of region. The returns of the stablecoin are much more constrained than in this unstable sort of region or blue region, where it's much greater variation in the returns that are realized. And then this is essentially what happened on Black Thursday in March 2020, when we had like a very big ETH price crash. And it led to essentially this short squeeze like effect that you can see in die on this plot in the right hand side, which is showing you sort of like liquidation. The prices of Dex trades as liquidations are happening over several days here.
00:35:02.156 - 00:36:01.600, Speaker A: And this sort of short squeeze effect persisted for quite a while. And actually several changes to the maker system had to be built in to sort of like, bring it back toward peg. And this sort of leads to some interesting complications, which we can also understand in the context of this model. So one interesting point is that one of the assumptions we had to make to get these nice results, nice analytic results, is that there are essentially like submartingale prices in the collateral asset, which is meaning that, in simpler terms, that speculators are thinking that this collateral asset, they're expecting it to increase in price, or at least stay the same. And intuitively, this makes sense, because no one's going to participate in these systems if they don't think they're going to make a profit. And they have to go levers long in these systems to participate. So they essentially have to bet on this happening.
00:36:01.600 - 00:37:18.200, Speaker A: And this means that there's no results about a stable regime if this sort of assumption falls apart, which realistically it does fall apart sometimes, and then an interesting sort of side effect of this is kind of a seeming contradiction in the design of these systems. So the idea here is that our goal with a noncustodial or decentralized stablecoin is that we want something that's fully decentralized, but we can only really fully stabilize it if we have many uncorrelated assets that are backing it, which today, realistically, those uncorrelated assets are currently custodial. And so we can't really do this without bringing in some sort of custodial asset or sort of like different designs into the mix. And there's been sort of several solutions to try to address this. So I'll give like a brief overview of this and sort of like ideas we have toward addressing it. Maker, since Black Thursday, has essentially tethered Dai to USDC, which imports custodial risks from USDC. And the idea here is that they set up this peg stability module, or PSM, where this PSM is maintaining direct exchange ability with USDC, and in the process essentially building up like a USDC sort of in these crisis situations.
00:37:18.200 - 00:38:21.630, Speaker A: And then there are other approaches, such as what Rye is doing, which is instituting negative rates during CrIs. But this leads to sort of a question of like, do people in equilibrium participate in these systems, given that they could experience negative rates? And this is sort of like, also depend on how long those negative rates have to happen. And then there are other sort of designs around, like liquidity buffers, which are essentially dedicated liquidity pools for sort of helping out in crises. And so we suggested a sort of form of vault insurance. And maker and liquidy today is also doing something rather similar in something like liquidity buffer to sort of handle liquidations as they come up. And then there's sort of a generalization of what maker was doing with the PSM, which is more general, reserved mechanisms to sort of help maintain exchangeability with not necessarily a dollar's worth of USDC, but a dollar's worth of assets. And this is like a generalization of what maker is doing.
00:38:21.630 - 00:39:55.710, Speaker A: So, so far, we've sort of addressed the second question around economic stability, and we'll sort of shift tack now to sort of think about the first question of incentive security. So again, the idea here was sort of like, how do we understand governance? Extractable value, minor extractable value in these systems, and given sort of the risks and sort of like different attacks that can happen, do people choose to participate in these systems compared to alternatives and to sort of motivate the thinking about these questions? There are several events over the last year, such as when there was pointed out, sort of like a flash attack that was possible in maker, where governance, if they wanted to, could have chosen to just upgrade the system and essentially be able to mint infinite die and sort of like exhaust the collateral in the system. And then also many instances of essentially rug pulls in these systems. So we think of governance extractable value as a more general case of just an explicit rug pull, where if you're rug pulling the system, this is governance just directly choosing, I want to steal the collateral in the system, but they could also do this indirectly. And it's sort of like hard to pick out what is the difference between a rug pull and sort of just like natural outcomes of the system. And this is where really thinking about governance extractable value is important. So we have then two types of models that help us think about these things.
00:39:55.710 - 00:40:56.300, Speaker A: And the first is helping to think about governance extractable value using what we call capital structure models. And these models were originally a type of model to describe IPO incentives in traditional finance. And we're essentially taking those models and expanding them to think about stablecoin incentives and attacks in these new types of noncustodial systems. And so here to set it up, we have three types of assets. A collateral asset like ETH before a stablecoin asset, and then a new governance token, which is sort of saying like, if you own this governance token, you have a voting power in changing the system through the governance process. And then there are three types of agents. There's, as before, a risk absorber, or sort of like the vault in maker, a stablecoin holder, and then an outside governance holder who is actually like determining the governance process and holding these governance tokens.
00:40:56.300 - 00:41:53.084, Speaker A: And then you can consider some further variations of this too. And we do that in the paper, but you can check that for full details. So we set up first a very simple case of this, where there are no attack vectors. And so this is essentially just like directly adapting these capital structure models to this setting. And I won't go through the details of the particular setup, but the general idea is that we have sort of a game theory problem that's set up where you have a governance optimization problem. And in this problem, governance is deciding an interest rate to sort of maximize their revenue, but taking into account how the vault is going to respond to this interest rate decision by deciding the issuance in the system. And then the vault on the flip side is deciding the issuance in the system to maximize their expected returns, subject to several constraints.
00:41:53.084 - 00:43:29.810, Speaker A: So the original collateral constraint, if we're considering the maker type system, a participation constraint, essentially saying like, is it profitable enough to participate in this compared to some alternative, and then the stablecoin market pricing, sort of like how that market works out itself, has another constraint. And then we sort of build from this very simple model into adding various governance attacks and modeling how this changes the system. And the idea here is that in this problem too, we might have a fraction of governors who can steal a fraction of collateral at some expense of their share of the governance tokens. Essentially like if governance tokens value went to zero plus some outside cost to attack alpha, which is kind of a parameter describing how much centralized recourse we have, sort of like through traditional legal means, so to say. And here now that the problems are changing a little bit, because in the governance problem they're deciding an interest rate, but now they're also deciding do they want to attack the system? And then the vault problem is changing by sort of factoring in this attack possibility. And we also set up even more complicated ones where there's more complicated sort of collusion attacks that could happen, but essentially agents could collude to restrict the exit of other agents and indirectly steal collateral. And then in this case, the other agents in the system may essentially want to bid up the price of the governance token or essentially issue like bribes to governors to make sure that this doesn't happen, that they don't choose to attack the system.
00:43:29.810 - 00:44:25.148, Speaker A: And so the problem changes in other sort of subtle ways and adds in sort of like a stablecoin holder optimization problem as well. So it becomes much more complicated. But there are several sort of interesting takeaways coming out of this, which I'll go over a little bit more detail. The idea is that the governance token fundamental value is kind of related to the future discounted fees that are coming into the system that they might hope to accrue. And this is sort of the idea of the honest governance fees, the value to honest governance. And if this is small relative to sort of like the actual value or collateral in the system, it's essentially guaranteed then that you need a high alpha parameter to actually have a secure system. And this leads to what we call as a price of anarchy, which is kind of this extra cost to secure a decentralized system compared to a centralized system, which is reflected in this high value of alpha.
00:44:25.148 - 00:45:34.324, Speaker A: So we, based on this conjecture that a lot of very flexible designs that are fully decentralized are actually impossible to realize, as in like nobody chooses to participate in the long run. And the idea behind this comes with an analogy. So basically, if there's a bank and it's unsecure, if equity is worth less than two times the actual deposits at the bank, it doesn't really make sense for depositors to participate in that system. And basically, up to this point, a lot of DeFi systems have been essentially arguing that their governance token ought to be worth this because of this attack potential. But that also has a flip side, as we're saying that who's going to choose to participate in such systems? We then also introduce a potential solution to this, and we're sort of further investigating this today, which we call optimistic approval. And the idea here is that we're essentially giving users the option to veto governance changes if there's like a malicious change that's proposed. And the idea is that this helps to sort of align the vision of governance with the actual vision of the actual users who are using stablecoins in these systems.
00:45:34.324 - 00:46:35.076, Speaker A: And so this is an area of sort of like ongoing research, but we're quite optimistic that this can help solve some of these challenges. This then leads to sort of like minor extractable value sort of concerns. And I see we're sort of coming up on time, so I'll sort of sort of cruise through this a little bit faster. But a basic idea is that there are several components that make attacking a stablecoin kind of different from attacking traditional currencies. And it's kind of about manipulating the interaction of the agents involved in these systems, as opposed to sort of like attacking the willingness of a central bank to sort of maintain whatever target it has in mind. And the primitives we're sort of developing previously in our research kind of leads to these new types of attacks. So the deleveraging spirals lead to sort of like arbitrage, like trades around liquidations and sort of more generally, liquidations basically automate these arbitrage opportunities and then sort of behind the scenes.
00:46:35.076 - 00:47:58.304, Speaker A: We have to keep in mind that miners can censor and reorder transactions, and as we'll see, that can sort of lead to extraction of value and sort of attacks to these systems. So we sketch out a few different attacks that could happen here. I'll leave the first one sort of like more to understanding in the paper and sort of sketch out what I mean about this second attack, because there are some visuals here. But basically, in one of these attacks, you could consider that the attacker sort of knows the past history, maybe the past several hours, and in this history, there's been a large price decline of the collateral assets, say, and this has led to sort of liquidation events that the attacker can see and say the attacker thinks that it might be profitable for them to capture these liquidation events. They can essentially try to make a new timeline by forking the blockchain, forking the last several hours, essentially of blocks, and they directly inherit the oracle price feed because those transactions are already signed. And then in this alternative timeline, they can inherit the current liquidations, but they can actually do worse. They can actually add liquidation events by changing the order of transactions or censoring sort of transactions.
00:47:58.304 - 00:49:09.084, Speaker A: And one concrete idea here is that if you are a vault and maker and you see a liquidation sort of coming up, you want to top up your position or sort of like, scale down your position to sort of avoid that liquidation. But if you're a miner, you can just censor that transaction or include it after you've actually realized the liquidation, and it's in your interest to do that. And so you can actually cause more liquidations if you're sort of forking the blockchain to try to do that. And we actually see sort of like, variations on this that actually occurred on Black Thursday. And this was sort of coming from liquidation auctions that were able to be carried out at zero die prices and sort of after the fact. Looking through forensic investigation of what happened on that day, it turned out that this was at least partially the result of mempool manipulation causing other orders to really not be able to get in and the attackers to be able to liquidate prices at very low prices, liquidate the options at very low prices. And so this is actually like a realistic concern as well.
00:49:09.084 - 00:50:12.930, Speaker A: So we also set up these forking models that will help us to sort of understand the incentives in these systems. But I think I'll sort of leave this to the paper to sort of fully explain. But very generally, we sort of try to do this in attractable way by considering two separate models, one for the base blockchain model, where the miners are deciding whether or not to fork, and then an application layer model that's basically building in our previous sorts of models, and then encoding a specific interaction between these models. That's sort of saying, like, there's this sort of success probability of an MEV bribe, which then sort of influences the level of MEV, which then feeds back into influencing kind of what's happening in these different models. And we think this can lead to a very tractable way of understanding these incentives, but in general it's quite difficult too. So that brings us to the end of the end of this talk. The papers are again available on archives if you've found this interesting.
00:50:12.930 - 00:51:15.860, Speaker A: And basically we've sort of, in the course of this research, seeded different stablecoin design questions and models, and have a couple of sort of main takeaways that are worth remembering. And one of these takeaways is that primary stablecoins today are primarily leverage based mechanisms like Dai. And these mechanisms we've seen, they need sort of add on mechanisms to help combat deleveraging spirals. And we talked a little bit about this and a few ideas toward this, but they can involve sort of importing custodial risks, which need to then be carefully controlled, or sort of like importing participation, different participation incentives in terms of including negative rates. And it'll sort of remain to be seen, like how these different things work out. And then as a second point, sort of there are amplified risks in these endogenous and implicit collateral type stablecoins. And we've seen these sort of like work out in practice in the past winter with the failure of several of these basis type stablecoins.
00:51:15.860 - 00:52:06.550, Speaker A: And then as a last point, these concerns about governance and minor extractable value are quite critical to sort of like the long term incentive security of these systems. And we sort of sketch out at least the first models of how to start addressing these and the right things to be starting to think about in those regards. And then this has led to what we see as a design gap around sort of like robust reserve backed stablecoins that are sort of designed with liquidity in mind and also have sort of like robust governance processes that help to maintain incentives. And this has led us to sort of design sort of our next project, which is the gyroscope stablecoin. So I'm not going to focus on that in this presentation, but if it's interesting, please do check that out. And then I think we have a few minutes for questions. So happy to open it up to that.
00:52:12.050 - 00:52:31.640, Speaker B: Thanks, Aria. So if anyone has questions, you can either raise your hand or unmute yourself. I can start off with one. So you mentioned that a lot of these protocols have updated after Black Thursday. So with those in mind, do you have a sense of what the perfect storm, I guess you'd call it, for stablecoin instability would be at this point?
00:52:32.810 - 00:53:35.980, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. It depends on which design path they chose for updating their designs. But for instance, if you're considering how maker chose to update their design, which is introducing this peg stability module, or exchangeability with USDC, this means that they're really tethered to sort of USDC risks. And if there's like a regulatory clampdown on USDC, that means that you're back to kind of like, in the best case, you're back to the old maker design, but in the worst case, the maker system itself is sort of under collateralized if USDC fails. So that's kind of like a primary concern with how maker is doing it, but then there are other attempts at it as well. So Rye is introducing negative rates, and then it comes down to how are users going to respond to that? And Rye has kind of just come out over the last couple of months, so there's not like a clear question to that answer, but it'll be very interesting to see how it unfolds over the next several months and how stable it can be.
00:53:43.240 - 00:53:51.050, Speaker B: Sure. And then I see a question in the chat about the dietac, so about whether it could have been prevented or how.
00:53:51.980 - 00:53:56.280, Speaker A: I don't see that in the chat, but can you read it out fully?
00:53:58.140 - 00:54:01.480, Speaker B: So it's just, how could the die attack have been prevented?
00:54:03.340 - 00:55:22.132, Speaker A: Okay, the die attack I'm taking to mean kind of this minor extractable value idea or mempool manipulation. And that is in general hard to completely mitigate. But it comes down to really making sort of like, can you make auction markets? I think it comes down to like, how do you design these auction markets and how do you increase the costs to essentially censoring transactions in the blockchain, affecting the mempool over a long period of time. But if you design these auctions, for instance, in a way where there's one way might be sort of like introducing a reserve price, as in a starting bid that's not too low, or sort of like grouping many auctions together so that there aren't sort of like thousands of different smaller auctions that liquidators have to be looking at at the same time, then you can make these auction markets much more efficient, potentially. And if that's stretched over long sorts of time periods, then it becomes much more costly to sort of manipulate the underlying blockchain or mempool. But it's not necessarily that. It doesn't make it impossible to do these attacks, though.
00:55:22.132 - 00:55:48.110, Speaker A: You can only sort of increase the costs. And there's also a lot of works on flashbots toward making the MeV sort of angle of these more efficient, and that could have interesting complications here as well. I don't think they've actually gotten to automating maker liquidation events yet, but it would be quite interesting to see how they handle that also.
00:55:54.660 - 00:56:01.570, Speaker B: And then I see a couple other questions in the chat. Jim or Frank, would either of you like to unmute yourself and ask your questions?
00:56:05.720 - 00:56:41.500, Speaker C: Sure, I can mute. Thanks for the talk. What do you think about the difference between the term stable coin versus pegged coin, I. E. Rye is designated around. It uses a PiD controller to kind of stable around this arbitrary value, which they started at PI 3.14, and then depending on the protocol, it deviates or fluctuates, while die is pegged to one dollars, like a dollar system.
00:56:41.500 - 00:56:45.520, Speaker C: What do you think about the difference in the terminology?
00:56:47.860 - 00:57:55.536, Speaker A: Yeah, that's an interesting question. When I think of Rye, I know they have this narrative about it being not pegged to the dollar, but I don't know, I kind of see it as pegged to the dollar. It's just like it's less short term pegged, as in you have this PiD controller, but it's kind of like over adapted in some sense. And so there's much more variation around the peg, but it does build in this discrete target of, well, it's not a dollar, it's 3.14 instead, but this discrete target of what the sort of long term value should be. And then it comes down to just like, what are the actual mechanics to moving around the peg? And I guess if you want to distinguish, it's a good thing to distinguish, I guess, between this one has more variation just because that's how the design is made, and this other one is meant to be quite tight. And then it'll come down to what people want to use as a product, I suppose.
00:57:55.536 - 00:59:13.310, Speaker A: And my guess is that RI will be evolving over time to sort of adapt what is the right form of the PiD controller? Although I'm quite optimistic on PiD controllers overall in terms of being useful. But I think the fundamental question then is, what is the target? Not just like, how much variation is there around the target in terms of what the trading price is, but what is the actual target of these systems? And right now, it seems like everybody wants the target to be essentially dollars, if not like being $1, being the arbitrary, like $3.15 instead, but touching on the value moving around the value of a dollar. But in the long term, you may not want to be actually targeting a dollar. You may want kind of like a crypto native currency, where it's targeting kind of like metrics about the cryptocurrency ecosystem itself. Kind of like targeting stability in the crypto economic sense, as opposed to just pushing that off to the US Federal Reserve to determine what economic stability means. And I would interpret that as changing then what are the targets of these systems? Does that make sense? Is that like how you might think of it?
00:59:14.640 - 00:59:19.090, Speaker C: Thanks. Thanks for. Yeah, totally makes sense. Appreciate it.
00:59:22.260 - 01:00:52.350, Speaker A: Yeah, we're kind of out of time, but I just wanted to get your input on how you see the current market now, which coins, if any, are best positioned to survive the current bull market. And I promise I won't go out and buy or sell whatever if you get specific, but really more interested in generally, what's your take on the current landscape? Yeah, great question. Preface it by not giving investment advice. Obviously, I find most interesting these non custodial designs, but that like, if you are from a good sort of jurisdiction and you have good sort of access to banking services, I think USDC, sort of like stablecoins. Custodial stablecoins can make sense. You should just be conscious of sort of like the risks that you're taking on, but it allows you to access some of these on chain lending markets, which are quite profitable, but you have to take into account kind of like the risks, these custodial risks and regulatory sort of risks. But kind of one idea of the worst case scenario for USDC would be the government comes in and says, this needs to be unwound, and there's a process to unwinding it, but as long as you are sort of well banked, you'll be able to unwind your position.
01:00:52.350 - 01:01:37.980, Speaker A: That's not guaranteed to happen, but that's kind of what I have in the back of my mind. But it also means that there's complications then, for people who are actually underbanked, which is kind of like the main target of cryptocurrencies and noncustodial stablecoins in the first place. And so it's kind of unfortunate that they would be left hanging, potentially in that situation. And so that's kind of why I'm most interested in noncustodial stablecoins. Just because the real promise of crypto, again, was like removing minimizing trust assumptions and counterparty risks. And if we can find sort of robust ways to do that, I find that quite exciting. And to be honest, I really like kind of like these leveraged based mechanisms.
01:01:37.980 - 01:02:52.660, Speaker A: It's just become apparent that they can't work in isolation. And so I really like Dai. That's why I've been doing this research, to try to make it stronger, basically. And they've been moving toward sort of integrating USDC. But I also kind of wonder, are there alternative ways that we could have solved the same sort of deleveraging problems, but still maintaining sort of like this independence from the traditional financial system? And that's led to kind of what I'm aiming to do after the PhD. So I'm finishing up the PhD right now, and the idea is sort of migrating into this gyroscope project, which is motivated by all of this research that I've been doing. And I kind of see the gyroscope mechanism as a way to help combat these deleveraging sort of effects while maintaining full decentralization and maybe even integrating with systems like maker to essentially provide that extra mechanism to handle these deleveraging events, but still being able to, there can be like a back and forth essentially, with the extra security of these leverage based over collateralized systems.
01:02:52.660 - 01:03:02.890, Speaker A: That's very exciting. Good luck in your research and launching that new coin. Thanks for the answer and thanks. Thank you.
01:03:06.540 - 01:03:24.456, Speaker C: Awesome. Well, thank you so much, Aria, for sharing your research. That was fascinating. And thank you everyone for the great questions as well, and for the participation. Without further ado, Arya, is there a place where maybe people in the audience or those that will listen later can find the slides to this presentation?
01:03:24.648 - 01:03:31.360, Speaker A: Yeah, I will put them up. Cool. And then I think this is also recorded maybe or will be available too.
01:03:31.430 - 01:03:38.880, Speaker C: I can grab those from Sarah and then we can just put them in the description of the YouTube video as well, and then we can share the video out later.
01:03:38.950 - 01:03:41.700, Speaker A: Sounds good. Yeah, I'll provide you a link.
01:03:41.850 - 01:04:00.790, Speaker C: Yeah. Well, good luck in the future and congratulations on all this research and really appreciate you taking the time. And Sarah, thank you so much for helping organize this and everything that all the research team and everyone at IC three is doing. It's really fascinating stuff and look forward to working together more in the future.
01:04:02.240 - 01:04:07.950, Speaker B: Thanks so much, Keenan. And thanks to Chainlink for hosting this webinar and for their continued involvement in IC three.
01:04:08.560 - 01:04:12.570, Speaker C: Cool. Well, thanks a lot, everyone, and have a good rest of your afternoons and days.
