00:00:00.240 - 00:00:33.342, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Deliberate Refuel, where I cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 9 November 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So some fresh ETF hype today out of James here, who I've highlighted on the refuel a bunch of times before. He works with Bloomberg, so he put out a tweet thread today saying, new research note, we still believe there's a 90% chance by January 10 for a spot BTC ETF approval. But if it comes earlier, we are entering a window where a wave of approval orders for all the current applicants could occur.
00:00:33.342 - 00:01:19.254, Speaker A: Now this window, I believe, is the next week, week and a half, two weeks. So if the ETF's are approved in that time, it seems that James and his colleagues would not be surprised by that. And honestly, I wouldn't be surprised by that either. I have said before that the ETF's could get approved anytime between now and, and Jan 10th. And it would make a lot of sense to probably approve them, I guess, over the next couple of weeks because just because they're approved doesn't mean that they're going to go live for trading. You know, I think there's like a minimum one month before they would go live for trading, but it's probably going be longer than that due to the holiday period. So maybe the ideal timeline is basically approved in the next couple of weeks, then wait until January where they actually start trading, you know, start trading in a fresh new year and everything just kind of begins smoothly like that.
00:01:19.254 - 00:02:25.734, Speaker A: At least that's kind of my, my hope, to be honest, because I remember, remember, I basically have been saying for a long time now that I would have loved an approval to happen in Q one of next year. But as I guess, like the approval is, is really, I mean, it doesn't really matter if it happens now or like in Q one. I don't, I don't think that these things would probably start trading before Q one or before January from the looks of things, even if they were approved in the next couple of weeks. But regardless of that, I think that the market generally has priced this in or almost priced this in at this point, you know, because what I could see happening, and this isn't like market or investment advice, what I can see happening is, is, is basically that they get approved and then the market rallies a bit and then we kind of like, I guess get people selling and taking profits into December, into the holiday period, and then when they actually start trading in January, the market starts moving up again because we, I think the open question right now for a lot of people is how much demand there is actually going to be for these products. Because I think a lot of people still have the wrong idea that futures ETF's are anything kind of similar to spot ETF's. And they may have looked at the ETH futures ETF's and been like, oh, that wasn't much of a launch. You know, there wasn't many inflows there.
00:02:25.734 - 00:03:03.174, Speaker A: But as I've discussed before on the refuel, plenty of times, actually, with the futures ETF's, they're just a vastly inferior. No one really wants them, but everyone wants to spot ETF. Like, I have multiple people that I've spoken to, and these are not small buyers. They are definitely whales that I've spoken to where they basically, and they're in the US, of course, where they basically said that they will be buying a spot BTC and spot ETH ETF day one. But they would never touch the futures products. And it makes sense, right? The futures products are just an inferior product. It's not worth it, especially if you're anticipating that a spot ETF is around the corner, which it seems like it is at this point for BTC, and then an 8th one, you know, not too long after that.
00:03:03.174 - 00:03:30.858, Speaker A: So that's what I could kind of foresee happening. Cause the market has really rallied a lot recently. And it's not just BTC, it's obviously everything else that has kind of rallied up. And usually when you see these moves based on narratives, people like to take profits, especially leading into holiday periods where obviously people are going to be buying presents, people are going to be traveling, people are going to be doing things that cost money. People tend to take profits in those environments. And, you know, I could be completely wrong here. Maybe we just rally the entire holiday period into January and we keep rallying and it's up only forever.
00:03:30.858 - 00:04:04.746, Speaker A: But from my experience, it doesn't usually work like that. But I guess for what I assume is most of you, given that you guys, I assume long term investors, this kind of stuff doesn't really play into anything. What really matters is the macro or crypto macro trend. Crypto macro, I guess that's a new term, crypto macro trend of if you believe we're actually beginning in the beginnings of a new crypto bull market. And I think we are, to be honest. I mean, I said a long time ago that I would tell you guys when I thought that we're in a crypto bull market again, or at least kind of like in the very early stages. I think we are in, like, the super early stages right now.
00:04:04.746 - 00:04:41.690, Speaker A: And what I mean by that is basically we're in the transition period from, like, the bear slash crab into the bull. Like, I think BTC has gone higher than I thought it would this year. I didn't think it would actually get above, you know, stay above or stay far above 30k, let alone be above 35k. Because at time of recording, it's at 30, almost 37k, which, yeah, it's kind of, like, not shocked me, but surprised me a little bit. But I think that it makes sense, given all the hype around the ETF staff. It kind of throws a wrench into things. And honestly, I think that if you look at it like that and you kind of accept that the cycle may be starting earlier than otherwise anticipated, it might end earlier than otherwise anticipated as well.
00:04:41.690 - 00:05:19.120, Speaker A: You might be going for, like a 3.5 year cycle instead of a four year cycle. And in that environment, it becomes actually harder to kind of pick where we're going to go from here. Like, if this is the early stages of the bull market right now, and BTC goes to all time high in, let's say, q two next year instead of Q three or Q four, then you could say that the cycle has been brought forward by at least three months and maybe three to six months. And then people say, okay, well, where's the top from there? Well, then the theoretical top of the market becomes a q four next year, Q 120 25. But it's hard to tell. I think the ETF's definitely throw a spanner in the works for things, especially when it comes to the actual asset that has the ETF.
00:05:19.120 - 00:05:48.752, Speaker A: Because I do think that the BTC ETF will have a dampening effect on BTC's volatility generally. And I mean, BTC is already at absolutely massive asset. It has over a $700 billion market cap. I think people often forget just how big of an asset it is. So when you're looking at it like that, there might be, you know, obviously the hype pump, the narrative pump, but then we'll have, like a crypto bear market again. And I'm really, really curious to see how BTC would fare given that there would still be inflows into the ETF's. It would still be passive inflows there.
00:05:48.752 - 00:06:14.390, Speaker A: That may have a strong dampening effect on BTC in the next bear market. And if the ETH is approved before the next bear market as well. You could expect something similar there. But usually with these ETF's, from what I've read there, they're very much backloaded in terms of volume, where essentially they start off slower than they would be in a couple of years in terms of inflows. Because, as you know, the product exists for longer. As it gets more Lindy, as more people hear about it, learn about it, allocate to it. Right.
00:06:14.390 - 00:06:46.912, Speaker A: Trade out of other things into it, the volume tends to be kind of like back weighted. It's not in the first year or so. It's more so in the latter years. And then you have like a passive kind of terminal inflow into these things as time goes on there. Because if you think about the amount of money that could flow into the ETF's, it's potentially, you know, tens, hundreds of billions, if not maybe one day trillions of dollars, depending on the timeframe that you're looking at. Because there's tens of trillions of dollars that flow into these, these things generally for, like, retirement accounts and stuff like that over time. Right? Over longer periods of time.
00:06:46.912 - 00:07:53.102, Speaker A: And if only 1% of that goes into crypto, generally BTC and spotty TFS, that's, that's a lot of money. But as I said, the market cap of BTC is already really high. And I think people kind of tend to forget about that. And, you know, it's funny, because I tried to explain this to someone recently, and I used this example of, if you look at BTC's market cap, and it's a bit over 700 billion right now, but let's just say for, I guess, like, argument's sake, it's 700 billion right? Now, if BTC does a two x, right? Just, just the two x, it adds another $700 billion to its market cap, which is bigger than the rest of the market combined, right? So it's bigger than the rest of the crypto market combined, and that's BTC only doing a two x. So this is the order of magnitude difference that you're dealing with, because people will often look at these smaller assets and be like, oh, my God, these smaller assets are outperforming BTC and ETH by so much. It's like, yes, because in a bull market, they are much, much easier to push up, but they also underperform in the bear market, right, for the same reasons. But in a bull market, let's just say you have an asset that has a $1 billion market cap, right, for that asset to go ten x it only gets it to a $10 billion cap.
00:07:53.102 - 00:08:21.252, Speaker A: For BTC to go ten X from here would be a $7 trillion cap. Right. So the orders of magnitude are just completely different here. It's just, it's such a difference that it's not even worth comparing. But the reason why over the longer term, through bears and bull cycles, BTC and ETH tend to outperform pretty much everything else is because that's the things that people actually want to hold for the long term that they take profits into. Those are the stores of value of crypto, and that's why you see that outperformance there. But you have to really just look at the market cap.
00:08:21.252 - 00:08:50.406, Speaker A: You can't necessarily look at the performance that these assets do in the bull market because, ethan, BTC are not going to do a ten x, right? I mean, BTC is not going to go to 360,000 this cycle. Maybe it does one time, one day, right? But it's not going to 360,000. Is ETH going to like twenty k? I. Not this cycle. I don't think so. As bullish as I am on ETH, that's a crazy amount because that would mean that ETH market cap would, you know, if we ten x it from here would be over $2 trillion in this cycle. Right.
00:08:50.406 - 00:09:29.306, Speaker A: So when you look at it like that and you look at it from a market cap perspective, the amount of money you need to move market caps like that is crazy high. So, so, yeah, that's, that's generally the way I look at these things. But overall, obviously, I still think that the ETF's are incredibly bullish. I do think that they will have a really long term positive effect on, on the assets that get them, like BTC and ETH, for example. And those assets will just continue to solidify as the stores of value, as maybe the only, the only stores of value, the only assets that achieve that status within the crypto asset ecosystem there. But anyway, moving on from that one, there was a tweet here that I saw today. Funny tweet.
00:09:29.306 - 00:10:18.516, Speaker A: So Gary Gensler was on some panel, and he basically said that something along the lines of, we live in a fully digital electronic age and not just in trading. We already, by the way, have digital money. It's called bank deposits, which obviously is an insane thing for anyone to say and an insane thing for anyone in crypto to hear because we don't have digital money with bank deposits. Like, that's not digital money. That's just an IOU, essentially. And Tong Violet here, who used to work at the SEC, quote, tweeted this and said, last I checked, you can't self custody bank deposits nor transfer them near instantation, instantaneous. Instantaneously to a total stranger without the need for a bank or any other intermediary 24, 7365 days a year, nor are they programmable, which obviously is kind of like the whole point of what we're building with, with on chain products.
00:10:18.516 - 00:10:46.518, Speaker A: Right. And I think that these are, these are the very, you know, some of the best points you can bring up with is that, like, you can self custody your assets, your crypto assets, because they are truly digital assets. They're digital first. They're not just ad sets that have been kind of printed onto some, either printed physically or they've been printed in some centralized database. And they're maybe digital, but they're not actually digitally native and decentralized, which means you can't self custody these things. Right. You can self custody cash.
00:10:46.518 - 00:11:21.590, Speaker A: Right. And. But the thing is that you can't actually self custody digital money. To turn your cash into digital money, you have to go through a centralized intermediary, like a bank. Right. And banks are extremely inferior compared to what we have within crypto on the front of obviously, um, transfers, you know, being able to do transfers, being able to verify those transfers, uh, being able to do it, uh, without intermediaries, being able to do it 24, 7365 days a year, and being able to program those assets to do any number of things. And obviously, I'm preaching to the quality here, but Gary Gans are saying these things is just like a symptom of the.
00:11:21.590 - 00:11:49.850, Speaker A: Of the old world. The old world thinking that we already have digital money, which we don't. All we have is a digital representation of a. Of. Of the fiat kind of like currency, which is either, you know, printed physically, obviously, as cash and coins and stuff like that, or issued on a centralized database as just a kind of sell in a spreadsheet, which is not digital money. Digital money is crypto money. It is money that is issued on a decentralized, programmable blockchain.
00:11:49.850 - 00:12:09.700, Speaker A: And to me, really, the only true forms of digital money that we have today that would be considered, to me, to be decentralized and secure would be BTC and ETH. The stable coins are basically the same thing as well. Okay. Stable coin, centralized. Stable coins are very similar to bank deposits in that. Like, they're just an IOU on cash in a bank account. Yes.
00:12:09.700 - 00:12:59.400, Speaker A: These assets are more programmable because they're on a blockchain. And they're able to take advantage of like near instant transfers and stuff like that. And you can self custody them. But really, it's, in my mind, it's not like true self custody because at the end of the day, at any moment, circle could freeze the USDC in your account, tether could freeze the USDT in your account, and you didn't have true self custody over it. All you really had was an IOU that can be zeroed out at any moment. So if you want to have true self custody of a digitally native asset and for it to be secure and decent, centralized and basically near impossible for it to be seized or for it to be stolen or anything like that would be BTC and ETH in my, in my mind here. But yeah, just something that I feared was worth highlighting because it is a symptom of just the old world thinking here, thinking that we have digital money with bank deposits.
00:12:59.400 - 00:13:29.108, Speaker A: We don't. They are just so inferior and definitely not something that we want to be striving towards. We want to keep building what we're building with crypto systems and blockchains. All right, moving on here to some staking related chat. So rocket pools main a second mainnet birthday was today, and they've released a blog post here outlining basically the roadmap for rocker pool for I guess like the next twelve to 18 months or something like that. And this includes all the upgrades that I've talked about before. And the two major ones are Houston.
00:13:29.108 - 00:13:50.022, Speaker A: And I believe Saturn is the other upgrade that they talked about here. If I scroll down to the bottom, there is another upgrade that they talk about. I think it is Saturn. Saturn. I'm just looking here. Yeah, Saturn release. So Houston is currently going to be undergoing audits, and I think it is aimed for like a main net release in Q one, Saturn in Q two of next year.
00:13:50.022 - 00:14:38.796, Speaker A: And these bring with them upgrades such as like the mega pools that I've been talking about on the, on the refill before, growing the overall protocol, growing the RA supply, redirecting the RPL rewards from the ODAO to the PDA, and then paying them out to basically increase the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the rocker pool protocol and all that good stuff there. But this is a pretty lengthy blog post. I suggest giving it a read if you're at all interested in what's happening in the rocker pool ecosystem over the next few months, which I am definitely very interested in, especially when it comes to, like, the scaling of rocker pool. Because as I've mentioned, plenty of times in the past. The main issue Rockerpool faces is scaling the re supply, basically like it's got plenty of node operators. You know, it's thousands of node operators, but scaling that re supply so that it can be competitive with other liquid staking solutions out there. So if we look@raider.net
00:14:38.796 - 00:15:02.236, Speaker A: work here, which is the web, one of my favorite websites for looking at what the stake distribution looks like, you can see where rocket pool is. Rocketpool is about 2.84% of the network. I think it spiked at about 3%. But you know, it's still the top five and it is still the second largest liquid staking protocol. But it is severely limited in scalability right now compared to something like Lido. Right? Like Lido is at 31.68%
00:15:02.236 - 00:16:09.066, Speaker A: and later is much more scalable because it has the fact that you can basically just send ETH, or kind of like deposit ETH into the lido contracts, and then that ETH goes to 36 entities instead of thousands of node operators, just those 36 node operators emince Steth. And there's no requirements for like for node operators to collateralize with the native token, that being LDO, whereas in Rockapool there is with Areth. So it's just generally a lot less scalable. But in return for that less scalability, you get more decentralization. That was the trade off that was made, is that we have, as I said, thousands of node operators for rocker pool compared to Lido's 36 node operators. And that was the trade off that was made. Now, the plan in the, I guess as part of the Rocker pool roadmap, but generally what they want to do is essentially hit that Goldilocks zone of still being as decentralized as possible with as many node operators as possible, but also being, you know, scalable enough to compete with the bigger LST protocols out there, like Lido, for example, and any others that may be coming online that may not be as decentralized but be more scalable, that could potentially rival rival rocker pool here.
00:16:09.066 - 00:16:54.346, Speaker A: And there are others out there. Mean, you guys know there's plenty of them out there right now. But in terms of how far along these things are, Rockerpool is the furthest along by far. And Rockerpool, I think I saw a stat recently, accounts for 30% of the nodes, like full nodes on the Ethereum network, which is a crazy number, right? 30% of all full nodes on the ethereum network are actually part of the rocker pool network here, which is, I think is really positive. Yes, it's a high number but it's really positive, because when you think about, let's just put an example here. So if Coinbase was running 30% of the full nodes on the Ethereum network, that in my mind would be quite bearish, because Coinbase is one entity, but rocket pool is not one entity. Rocker pool is a community of node operators, thousands of them, all running these full nodes as pretty much like individuals for most of the time.
00:16:54.346 - 00:17:50.618, Speaker A: There are some node operators in there that are companies and bigger entities, but for the most part, it's individuals. And those individuals running those full nodes are worth a lot more than just like one entity running those full nodes, right? I think that's actually really bullish for the decentralization of Ethereum and obviously of Rocketpool as well. But anyway, you can check out Rocketpool's blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, swell put out a tweet today talking about their plans with restaking. So they said here swell is set to enter liquid restaking very soon, and they're actually part of the LST contest for Eigen layer right now that I've talked about in the past, the one that I've talked about on the refuel a couple of times there, you can check that out. But in this tweet, swell details exactly how they're going to be getting involved in the, I guess, liquid restaking game here, because you can see what this looks like, you know, restaking LST and then you restake your SWF and you get like a staked LST yards.
00:17:50.618 - 00:18:16.414, Speaker A: It's pretty wild when you, when you kind of look at this token is called restaked sweat. So it's like a restaked LST. So restaked swell Earth is an LRT, a liquid restaking token that unlocks liquidity for restaked LSD's. And there's some graphics here basically showing what this looks like. But yeah, this is, this is actually pretty crazy when you think about all the stuff that can be done here. Yes, it adds more risk. I mean, the, the compounding of the risk here.
00:18:16.414 - 00:19:11.798, Speaker A: I mean, is something to, I guess like take pause and, and realize could be a potential, potential, I wouldn't say a bad thing, but potential kind of a risk to maybe swell, but also eigen layer and ultimately ethereum. But it depends on the size of these things. Like it depends on what happens with them, it depends where the assets sit, depends what people use them for. Because at the end of the day, this stuff's going to happen no matter what we do. Like, I think this is where people kind of get the wrong idea, where they say, oh, we could just do, you know, this on the protocol level, this on the protocol level, and it would fix these, these potential issues. It's like, no, it wouldn't, because anyone can issue a derivative, which is basically what these things are, they're derivatives, right? Anyone can issue a derivative for anything, any asset. Like you can issue any derivative you want, and as long as you have the liquidity there and as long as you're able to grow it, people are going to use it, they're going to use it as collateral, they're going to use it as a quick way to enter exit and enter different positions.
00:19:11.798 - 00:19:54.354, Speaker A: So I think that rather than focusing on ways to prevent this stuff from happening, what we should be focusing on, what I think we're generally focusing on is ways to accept that this is going to happen and then see what the worst case scenarios are and try to architect these different ways around recovering from them in case they were to happen. And I think Ethereum already has most, if not almost all the defenses it needs to recover from or protect itself against things like this and against increasing risk at the liquid staking level and at the restaking level. But we won't know for sure until these things are actually tested. And that's the whole point of these things growing and being able to see them play out in the while. But yeah, you can go read swell's tweets. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, just a quick shout out here.
00:19:54.354 - 00:20:17.442, Speaker A: Super fizz. Put out a reminder for us all that Ethereum is strongest when individuals run nodes and validators from home. And there are lots of pretty easy ways to do this. And he links a bunch of them here, such as nice node and obviously rocket pool and dap node and all that good stuff there. You can check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And there's also ETH wizard as well from Remy Roy, which I've highlighted on the refuel as well for you guys.
00:20:17.442 - 00:21:18.706, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, it honestly has never been easier to run an Ethereum full node and validators. Not only is it easy to do from a hardware perspective, perspective where you don't need the, you know, powerful hardware to do it, it's really easy to do from a software perspective now, especially with tools like DaP node and nice node, where essentially they give you a nice user interface that you can just run with, and then you can just run a node and it's all handled from this user interface. There's no need to go into the command line and everything like that, so you're not scared away from doing that there. And it's also giving you a nice interface to handle things like upgrades and monitoring the health of your, your full nerd's, which is, I think the two most involved you have to be is handling upgrades. So whenever there's a new Ethereum network upgrade to go live, you need to make sure that your box is upgraded and also handling anything that goes wrong with this, such as, you know, going offline or hardware becoming corrupted or something like that, because those things are inevitably going to happen, but it's just a fact of life and there's no real way around that. Like you can't make it, you can't make that go away. Like hardware is always going to fail at some point.
00:21:18.706 - 00:22:09.744, Speaker A: Um, you know, maybe you run into issues where your SSD isn't big enough and you have to upgrade your SSD because if you've used up all the space, or maybe you run into issues where you're, you're trying to diagnose why your full node went offline, but then it's really because for some reason it lost network connectivity. So all of these sorts of things are not things that can be necessarily abstracted away. But what we can do is make it easier people to, to monetize the health of these things and then give them guides on how to actually diagn, troubleshoot these things and fix it for themselves. Because I think that we don't want to get to a point where people have like such little patience to try and rectify things because they get frustrated with them, that they just go offline and stay offline. We want people to run the full notes and then if anything happens, we want them to be able to fix that themselves, troubleshoot that themselves. And the only way to do that is provide ways for them to do that, whether that be guides or easy to use tools or anything like that there. But as I said, you can check out superfizz tweets.
00:22:09.744 - 00:22:59.508, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, interesting announcement out of the polygon ecosystem today, and I guess like the NIA ecosystem as well. So for those of you who don't know, Nia is a layer one blockchain that's been around for quite a while now. I think their claim to fame was claiming that they were going to be able to do execution sharding, which is something that Ethereum abandoned a little while ago. And they have done it, to be fair. But as a layer one, they haven't really seen too much usage over the years, but they have teamed up with Polygon to basically build a ZK wasm prover, which will allow any wasm or web assembly chain to prove on Ethereum and have Ethereum layer to security. And Sandeep says here, you know, why is this important? Well, apparently, according to the announcement, near Mainnet will be fully proven to Ethereum using this ZK wasm prover.
00:22:59.508 - 00:23:56.788, Speaker A: This is huge, because Nier Mainnet is able to prove its entire state and execution to Ethereum, almost like a sovereign validium. This creates a trustless Zk bridge from near to Ethereum, so the liquidity can move to and fro from between Nia and the ethereum ecosystem. So it's not technically, I guess, a, it's not a roll up, right. It is technically a L2, but it's, it's not even like a validity. I'm like I've talked about before, it's a sovereign validium where essentially you'd still be relying on the near validator set for the security here, but you have a fully trustless ZK bridge between near and ethereum, which when you really think about what makes a layer to the most secure it can be, or I guess like the most trustless it can be, it really comes down to the bridges here. So that's very, very cool. And then the second point is that poly, the Polygon ecosystem gets webassembly app chains, perhaps even with the near main net code base, where devs can build a sharded smart contracts platform, where app devs can build smart contracts using any programming language of their choice, like C Rust and many others.
00:23:56.788 - 00:24:28.828, Speaker A: So obviously we know that arbitram is building their web assembly stuff with, um, with their arbitra. Man. I've gotten the name right now, but there's a specific name for it that's just eluding me right now. They've been doing that, a stylus, arbitrary stylist. They've been doing that for quite a while. Other ecosystems are working on this. I think this is really the end game, right? Just being, just making it so that anyone can build and write smart contracts in languages other than solidity and be able to compile them down to Webassembly and then obviously to EVM, and then go beyond that, because the EVM is going to get upgraded over the next few years especially at L2s.
00:24:28.828 - 00:25:34.208, Speaker A: I believe the EVM is going to become paralyzed at L2s. Right now there is a project called Monad, which is a layer one, not a L2, but they're working on improvements to the EVM, such as parallelization, which is something that the Solana virtual machine or the SVM has, which is very powerful, and also working on things like local fee markets and stuff like that. But all of that stuff's going to come to L2s and that's just going to improve the L2 ecosystem along with these web assembly upgrades and technology that's coming into the Ethereum ecosystem with Polygon and near teaming up here. So very cool to see this today. And I guess like just more evidence of layer ones not turning into a L2, but basically coming into the ethereum ecosystem and saying, how can we, you know, better align ourselves with the ethereum network and do it in a trustless and secure way, and then, and then give value back to the Ethereum network via, via the L2 ecosystem, which is just very, very cool to see. Anyway, I'll link this announcement in the YouTube description below and you can go check it out for yourself. All right, last up here, just an announcement that the another Ethereum scaling startup called Stacker has raised $5.5
00:25:34.208 - 00:26:25.500, Speaker A: million in a seed round. So the, what Stacker is trying to develop is something called micro roll ups. So basically, I think Stacker is a roll up as a service. Yeah, so they're basically a roll up as a service infrastructure provider where they want to create micro roll ups or app specific roll ups, which are aimed at helping developers launch scalable web3 applications using web two programming languages. And they said here, Stacker said that its modular framework will let developers focus solely on the application specific logic while it manages the underlying roll up infrastructure. So I guess just another one of these teams that are entering the fray of making it as easy as possible to launch your own roll up on Ethereum launch your own L2 network on Ethereum without any of the additional complexity of having to worry about the, you know, the code base, having to worry about all the other stuff that goes with it, like spinning up infrastructure from scratch and writing things from scratch. And as I've said before, there are plenty of these things now.
00:26:25.500 - 00:26:59.002, Speaker A: You know, there's Stacker, there's eclipse, there's sovereign, there's obviously the bigger ones like the op stack, the Polygon, CDK, ZK sync's working on stuff, arbitram, orbit. There is so many. I mean, I think we have too many at this stage. Right? But, and this goes back to a blog post that actually Paul and I published today on Warpcast, not on Twitter. They've talked about the fact that the application layer is still being neglected. We're just building so much of the, the block space layer, the infrastructure layer with L2s and layer ones, that we've just ignored the application layer still. And I think that that is true.
00:26:59.002 - 00:27:22.660, Speaker A: And I, to an extent, but I think that it's getting better over time. But still, like, we have so much block space, guys. We have so much. Like, it's not just that L2 that we have this block space. The layer ones have had this block space for ages, but we're not filling it because we're not building the applications that we should be building to get the demand there. And you know, I actually talked about this in further detail on the podcast I did that I, that I highlighted yesterday. That'll be out on Tuesday.
00:27:22.660 - 00:27:50.240, Speaker A: But yeah, if you want to read Paul and I, his blog post is actually on warpcast. I don't know if I have the link handy right now, but it's on, I should say Farcaster. You can go check out their profile and check out the blog post. There was also linked in the, in the Delaware Discord channel. But yeah, I mean, I think that they definitely needs to be more focused on the app layer than infrastructure layer going forward, but still cool to see stack up, be able to raise this money to develop more infrastructure generally. Yeah. You can read more about them in this post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:27:50.240 - 00:28:02.624, Speaker A: But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
