00:00:04.160 - 00:01:07.384, Speaker A: And we finished last hour this computation of contribution to this sum. So this is the sum for this strange weighted partition function weighted by rotation partition. And we showed that contributions of two curves which end at v, if they coupled correctly, would be zero. And now let's look at all other curves which go through v. And what we do is the following. If we have a curve which goes from a and n z p to each of this curve, we create. For each of this curve we create two curves, gamma two and gamma three.
00:01:07.384 - 00:02:51.984, Speaker A: By very simple operation, gamma two is created by adding an extra edge here so it goes to q. Gamma three is added by adding an extra edge here so that it goes to r and vice versa. If you have a curve which goes through two of the vertices like two of the edges rather p and q, then you can cut it at p and then create this curve gamma one and then reflect it and create this curve gamma three, so we can separate all curves which are not, in case one into these triplets. So gamma one, gamma two, gamma three and one. Observation of course is that that would actually help us create compute axie is that length of gamma two is the same as length of gamma three, but it's one more than length of gamma one. So what was the feature of the previous case of case one? That the contribution of x was just constant multiple. Here the multiple would be different for gamma one and gamma two and gamma three, but different by just a factor of xc in this case.
00:02:51.984 - 00:04:02.106, Speaker A: Now an easy computation that of course, what is the rotation of gamma two from a to q? The contribution, the heart of the contribution of gamma two. That's the rotation from a to p plus the rotation from p to q. And if you look at the picture, it's just, well, rotation minus PI over three, you know, we turn right, so subtract PI over three. And here rotation from a to r, similar with on left we add PI over three. And now let's sum up the contributions. So contribution of gamma one is at p, and now I already took it out of the bracket, so, so this is just contribution of gamma one. Let's see what happens with contribution of gamma two first.
00:04:02.106 - 00:04:59.774, Speaker A: Well, there is a misprint here. I promise you that gamma two and gamma three are longer than gamma one. So there will be a factor of x C inverse. So there is a factor of xc inverse. Then of course there is a factor as before of q minus v over p minus v. And then the rotation, this rotation from p to q which is minus PI over three. So you plug everything in you get this same way you get the contribution of gamma three.
00:04:59.774 - 00:06:30.254, Speaker A: And so this is equal to this factor, which is not important. And what is important is that this is one minus two cosine PI over eight x inverse. And this thing is actually equal to zero because our X C was specifically selected to be one over two cosine PI weight. Because again, it's an easy computation that this is cosine of PI over eight. Again, if you look carefully at this computation, what you notice that this is just an equation for the critical x. So you can always in such computations find first sigma from case one and then x from case two. By the way, we are done because we showed that in all cases we can group the curves going from boundary vertex a to vertex v and passing through one of the neighboring edges.
00:06:30.254 - 00:07:24.514, Speaker A: And the contributions would sum up to zero. So we proved our kilima. Let me try to explain to you now why it is an analytic or sort of glimpse at analyticity. Sorry for loss of terminology, but we also need a dual lattice now. So this is different from medial lattice. This is the lattice which creates, is created the following way. You look at the faces of your original lighters, your hexagonal or Heinecomp lattice, and this would be your new vertices, but edges would be the same.
00:07:24.514 - 00:08:21.094, Speaker A: So two faces are connected by dual edge if and only if there was an edge between these two faces. So you kind of took an edge here and you just rotated and changed the length. So what you get is triangle like. So dual to hexagonal lattice is the triangle lattice. Now let's try to look at a function which is defined on medial lattice. So beauty of dual lattices and that it has, as you can see, exactly the same medial lattice. And you look at the discrete integral over the dual lattice, which is the following.
00:08:21.094 - 00:09:56.554, Speaker A: Suppose that you have a path from z zero to some zn which is the same as z zero. So a closed loop and f is a function defined on edges. Then integral over gamma of f is equal to the value of f multiplied by zj minus zj minus one. So you take the edge and you multiply the value of the function by the direction of the edge. So the way to make it into a continuous integral, you simply can extend function f from edges to be locally constant on the whole domain. And then this is simply normal contour integral of this function f. Now let's see what is the restatement of the kilima that for any closed curve, gamma for any closed descript loop, this integral, which I just discussed of f is equal to zero, but well, again, for very specific values for x equal to xc and sigma is equal to five eight.
00:09:56.554 - 00:11:14.224, Speaker A: So what we just proved, I claim, is that there is sort of kind of discrete analog of Mariara result. Remember, Mariara theorem tells that if your integral is equal to zero over any closed loop, then your function is analytical. Here, this is exactly the same result or any integral over loop in a dual lattice. Unfortunately, only in the dual lattice is equal to zero. And for the proof, this is much easier than to proving our well known continuous cache element cascading. Because basically, what is enough to prove, you take every closed contour, you can separate it interior into triangles, into faces of dual lattice. And if you show that integral over such triangle is zero, then to obtain your integral over the curve, you just sum up these little integrals over the faces.
00:11:14.224 - 00:11:45.334, Speaker A: So, in the sense, this theory is again simple. And what is the integral of f over this triangle? Well, the one minus z zero f of p. So, if we try to recall this z zero z one z two. So z one minus z zero f of p z two minus z one f of q z naught minus z two f of r. This is just up to a factor of square root of three over two. I our sum from the fundamental lemma from the klemma. So it's zero.
00:11:45.334 - 00:12:31.914, Speaker A: So this is great. So key Lima allows us to now how I would envision the proof. After that, you say, okay, so we have certain function, which is, which satisfies Mary Rose area. If I can show that this function converge has limit, this limit would also satisfy my reverse theorem. So it would be analytic. And then you would talk about boundary values. And eventually, eventually, maybe you'll get that the limit exists when the latter shrinks to zero.
00:12:31.914 - 00:13:19.604, Speaker A: Wouldn't it be great? The problem is that unfortunately, this is not enough. This just cannot be enough. You see, to prove any sort of convergence like this, you need to be able to say that boundary conditions for f, whatever you want to define boundary conditions for f, uniquely defines the function f. And here, it's simply not the case. Suppose that you have a configuration with n edges. It's very easy to see that you have only two third of n equations. You are missing linear equations to define f at every point, right? So, around every triangle, you have an equation.
00:13:19.604 - 00:14:10.324, Speaker A: So, for every three edges, you have one equation. But each edge participates in just two equations. So, two sordid equations for n edges. So that's why you need to know more, to be able to say that to even start talking about convergence to the limit. But again, for what I would discuss next, convergence to the limit is not important. What would be important is just this kilyama. Well, in restated form that the discrete integral over every contour enclosed curve is equal to zero.
00:14:10.324 - 00:14:58.684, Speaker A: Okay, so for what I do next. So now let me describe the proof of Duminiil Smirnov theorem. And well, there will be some combinatories there, but it will be very fairly light. So what we do, we want a domain, and domain would be very specific. It's a light trapezoid which is outlined here in red. So it's here. And on this trapezoid, well it has t cells in weeds and l cells in height on short side.
00:14:58.684 - 00:15:48.374, Speaker A: So l cells here, l cells here, then t cells in widths and well, whatever you get on the other side. So the boundary of it is a curve on the dual lights. So again, in the future there would be a huge discussion how would approximate a normal domain by decreasing lightest domains. But here it's not important, we just fix a domain. We would not rescale the lattice. Here it's a fixed lattice of size one. And on this fixed lattice we have this exciting domain and gamma would be the boundary of this domain.
00:15:48.374 - 00:16:43.450, Speaker A: Point a is the point here on the boundary. And we know by our great computation before that the integral of our parafirmionic absorbable f. For specific values of x and sigma, this is equal to zero over this gamma. And let me now say what it would be. Well, least after dividing by minus I, it gives us the following. First, you integrate f of Z over this part, which I denote by a plus and a minus. Rotation is clear here.
00:16:43.450 - 00:17:35.930, Speaker A: So this is just f of z. Then you integrate over things that belong here. So again, direction of this thing is I. So it's again f of z because I'll divide the divide by minus I. Sorry, direction is minus. We go down here and then you can see that for things on the side, on e and e plus, the direction is either e to the two PI over three or e to the minus two PI over three. And so again this is e to the two PI over three times f of z to the minus two PI over three times f of z minus f of a.
00:17:35.930 - 00:18:31.444, Speaker A: So this is also very important because f of a, well needs to be also taken into account. But let us see now. Notice that on each side of this trapezoid, on alpha plus e, beta, e bar and alpha minus on each of them. Argument of f of z, which is just minus sigma two gamma times v gamma. Sorry, w gamma is the same. So, for example, to get from here to any point here, you don't rotate at all. Right? So remember, it doesn't matter by which curve you go from one boundary point to the other.
00:18:31.444 - 00:19:25.490, Speaker A: For each curve which is inside this stl, which goes from a to any point on this side, on side beta, the rotation would be zero. For each point which goes to a point here, your rotation would be PI positive rotation. For any point which goes down here, the rotation is minus PI. Finally, to get here, you need to rotate by two PI over three. And to get to the bottom part, you need to rotate by minus two PI over three. Now, let's multiply it by sigma, and we get that on alpha pluses minus five eight PI. Five eight PI.
00:19:25.490 - 00:20:46.824, Speaker A: On the top it's minus 512 PI, and on the bottom it's 512 PI. Okay? And so now let us look at what I would call concatenated partition functions. So this is a misprint. Minus. You kind of look at the partition function to define this axtl, but you only look at the curves inside of this trapezoid, which are self avoiding, and add either here or here, and you sum up elements of partition function the same for b, but you are supposed to end now at beta. And finally, for e xtl, you are supposed to end on the top or bottom of the trapezoid. Okay, so that's the setup.
00:20:46.824 - 00:21:42.104, Speaker A: Okay, so this is not yet our original partition function. Remember, regional partition function is much bigger and better thing. It involves all the curves going from a to anywhere. And here we consider just part of it. But it will be enough to prove success. Now, by symmetry of stl, f of z bar is of course, f bar of z, right? Every curve which goes to a point z from a to it corresponds reflected curve which goes to z bar. So the value and rotation of reflected curves is of course, minus rotation of original curve.
00:21:42.104 - 00:22:29.434, Speaker A: So when all the dust settles, f of z bar is just conjugate of f of z. So let's look at the integral of alpha f of the valid f of a. Again, I'm missing a factor of I minus a plus the sum of f of z over z in alpha plus and alpha minus. But they're symmetric. So if it's f of a plus one half sum of f of z at z and z bar. And again, we take it over all alpha plus alpha minus. And now f of z.
00:22:29.434 - 00:23:15.734, Speaker A: It's weighted, guys. But the weight is the same. You multiply by the same thing, you multiply by the same weight. So this is one f of a is one plus this thing. So this is e to the I PI eight. This is the phase on alpha minus, this is the face on alpha plus divided by two of ax tl. So you look at all the curves which go from a to say the top, because it's enough to define everything.
00:23:15.734 - 00:24:01.254, Speaker A: You know, their face, the face is written here, and you multiply by this face, and you do the same with the curves going to the bottom. And the number of them, the weight of them, is a lie. And so this is minus cosine of three PI weight. That would be convenient for me to write it. So of course this is cosine of PI over eight. So this is one minus cosine of three PI over eight x tail. Now integral of f over beta is just b because there is no phase there.
00:24:01.254 - 00:25:31.814, Speaker A: Remember, you don't rotate, so you just bextel, okay, so we just see here the partition function from for these guys. And finally, the same trick works for the sum of integral here and the integral here at the top and at the bottom. So it's extl by multiplied by these factors, first direction, then rotation, first direction, then rotation. And after the dust settles, this is just cosine PI over four, Axel. And now you sum it up and what you get is this identity. That again, the partition function, of course, going from a to left side, plus partition function going here to the right side, plus partition function going to the top. With these coefficients, it's equal to one.
00:25:31.814 - 00:26:21.654, Speaker A: So this is already a glimpse. Well, essentially from this identity, the proof is just combinatorics. And, well, I will show you this combinatorics in the remaining 25 minutes. Just wanted to bring this thing to your attention. This is just a computation of discrete integral for our paraphernalia. Again, because we specifically selected the sites so that all the edges have the same orientations on each side. Okay, now of course there are a few other non trivial observations.
00:26:21.654 - 00:27:42.250, Speaker A: Well, first of all, axtl and bxtl are increasing canal. And this means that, well, why is it true? Because let's remember the definition. We look at all self avoiding paths from stl inside stl, which go to the alpha plus and alpha minus. When you increase l. When you add extra vertices, you, you simply consider more passes, so your sum increases. Okay, and now another thing, when x, okay, so here's in the sprint. When x is bigger equal than xc, you know this function, if you look at it, it's decreasing in x.
00:27:42.250 - 00:28:39.104, Speaker A: So when x is less, bigger equals an xc, x t l is bounded by I xc of tl, which is bounded by one over cosine, three PI over eight, and the same with bxtl. It's bounded by bxctl, which is bounded by one. So for all x which are bigger equals an xc. You have this limit when l goes to infinity. So let me dwell for a second on this limit. So what is a x tier? These are all passes which start at a and go either to the top or to the bottom without reaching with steel. But they can go to the top or to the bottom anywhere on this line.
00:28:39.104 - 00:29:17.408, Speaker A: So on this line they go to the top or to the bottom. Similar bxt. This is the limit of bx tl. And it also just represents the curves going from a up to the width t. But now look at the main relation. This is increasing canal. This is increasing canal.
00:29:17.408 - 00:29:57.744, Speaker A: So this should be decreasing canal. Okay, so this is yet another observation that this is decreasing canal. The partition function for guys going to the sides, you would say, okay, this is trivial, right? These guys are supposed to get longer and longer, and they're supposed to get to the farther and farther parts without reaching this and this side. So of course partition function would decrease. But this is a non trivial statement. I, for example, don't know if it's true for x less than x. And the reason is that there are more of them.
00:29:57.744 - 00:30:34.434, Speaker A: So technically speaking, well, anything could happen. Okay, and to prove the theorem, well, we need two statements. So the first statement is that partition function at x is plus infinity. So probably by now everybody forgot what we are trying to prove. We are trying to prove that z of x is bounded if and only if you are bigger than x C. But if z of x C is infinite, it means that connectivity constant is at least square root of two plus square root of two. Again by root test.
00:30:34.434 - 00:31:40.024, Speaker A: And here to prove it, we consider two cases. So again, our guiding identity is this. And we consider first the case when e of xc, this limit of all the partition functions for going to the top and the bottom is positive for some, for some t, and for every l you have this exe tl is bounded by exe t. Then z of xc. Remember, it's partition function of all possible curves which go from a anywhere. So of course, this partition function consists in particular partition functions of curves going to the top and the bottom and the top and the bottom change with l. So for each of them counts distinguished curves.
00:31:40.024 - 00:32:36.004, Speaker A: So z of x is bounded by the sum of all ex etl each of them is bounded below by exet, which we assumed was positive. So the sum is infinite. Okay, so that was case one. We don't know which one of them falls actually. But suppose that for all t e of xct is equal to zero. Then what happens by main identity? By main identity we have that axct times cosine three PI over eight plus B of XCT is equal to one. So that's, so we have a relation between them, right? So we just look at the main and then send path to l equal to infinite.
00:32:36.004 - 00:33:37.884, Speaker A: And now to use it, we need a very simple statement, and this is the following lemma that, you know, this is supposed to be bigger than this, more curves, but not much more. So it's bounded by the curves going from a to this side of as this well squared. Again, okay, so this is another remark, why this is bigger than this, why this is non negative. You see a x t. This is the curves which go from here to here or to here without touching this side. And t plus one, they could be longer. So you count markers.
00:33:37.884 - 00:34:32.054, Speaker A: But again, not all. What you would need is that you have this identity. And the reason is the following. So this is just some geometry. So if you have a walk from a to this top or bottom, and it's in St plus one but not in St, what does it mean? It means that in included some point which is adjacent to the boundary of St plus one. So it almost reached the boundary of St plus one, almost reached the boundary of this strip, but never touched it, of course, because otherwise it's what you it better, but it has to almost reach it because otherwise it would be mst. And let us take first such point.
00:34:32.054 - 00:35:47.194, Speaker A: And let's look at the curve gamma from a to p. And then let's look at the work from p to alpha plus to alpha minus. This is to work which are almost crossing St plus one, right? So you went from a to the boundary, almost reached the boundary of St plus one. So you cross the boundary of St, but you didn't reach boundary of St plus one. And then you went back, and then you just add one little vertex. So you just add corresponding vertex of beta, and it creates, or corresponding catch of beta, it creates two walks from which are counted in this partition function t plus one partition function which are one step longer together than gamma, because you kind of cut them here and you add last step. And that's why each curve can be parameterized by two curves from B.
00:35:47.194 - 00:37:01.698, Speaker A: And then just record keeping, there is a factor of one over xc because the total length increased by one, which helped. Okay, so now let's start a simple computation. So we know that this expression minus this expression for t plus one and plus t is zero. So this is just bounded by our lemma, by this guy cosine three PI over eight over xi b t plus one squared plus bt plus one x c minus btx. Okay, so from this we see that bt is bounded by this strange expression. But remember that all these guys are bounded by one from above. So this is actually good.
00:37:01.698 - 00:37:34.984, Speaker A: The square is actually our friend. So by induction on t, you can show that bxct is bounded by one over t minimum of b one and c over cosine three PI over eight. So this is just induction. So now again, different bts, they encode different objects, right? So you go from here to this. Then you go to the further guy. Further guy. Further guy.
00:37:34.984 - 00:38:41.434, Speaker A: So, partition function at xc is bounded below by the sum of bxat, which are now bounded below by some constant. So in second case, it's all synthesized. Okay, so sorry, this was some combinatorics, which I done pretty quickly, but hopefully you can reconstruct it from my nodes. That again, the main idea is that from this life is great. So now let's do the second statement. When x is bigger than xc, z of x is infinite. So it's the same as mu is bigger, equal than xc, and that finishes the curve.
00:38:41.434 - 00:39:42.794, Speaker A: So for this we need a bridge of length T. So by definition, this would be horizontal crossing of St. So this is a crossing from a to some point on this side at the distance table. But we think about it as well. So it's convenient to think about it as not to start a tape, just a crossing of this strip partition function for them is b of x t. So that's not changing, because again, they defined up to translation. So we can just say, okay, it's up to translation.
00:39:42.794 - 00:40:17.490, Speaker A: Now let's do a trivial observation. For any t bridge we have, length of it is at least maybe much more. Maybe it winds down, up and down till it hits the boundary. But the length should be at least here. So b x t. Remember, it's sum of x to the minus l of gamma, and l of gamma is at least two. So we can factor it out like this.
00:40:17.490 - 00:41:21.974, Speaker A: This is xc over x to the power t times bxc, which is, we know, bounded by one. So b x t the sum of all x to the. So let me actually write it down, because otherwise it's probably incomprehensible so this is sum of x minus l to the minus gamma over all t bridges. So the sum is bounded by x c over x to the t. So from this, well, we trivially see that the product is converted. And now we need to address this thing. So we want to show that the whole big partition function is bound.
00:41:21.974 - 00:42:08.194, Speaker A: All we estimated so far, all the glimpsed at so far, are at passes which just go one way from this side to this side. How about passes which go back and forth? There is this decomposition which is due to these two people, John Heimersley and Dominique Welch. I apologize for the picture of Dominic. I couldn't find a good picture of him. This is the only one I could find online. Sorry. So, chimeric welfare decomposition says that each solve avoiding walk path can be canonically decomposed into a sequence of bridges.
00:42:08.194 - 00:43:00.464, Speaker A: It's two sided sequence. First, there are bridges of increasing length from t minus one I up to ti, and then there are up to t minus one. And then there are bridges of increasing length from t naught to tj, and vice versa. If you have a sequence of bridges like this, and you fix a starting point, then there is unique path. Well, okay, let me clarify the statement. Not for all sequences of bridges, you would have a pass, but there is at most one pass. So let me actually write it more carefully.
00:43:00.464 - 00:43:36.228, Speaker A: Most one. Okay, so this is the statement. Okay. Okay, so I have a few minutes. Let me prove this. But before, again, before we prove it, why this decomposition gives everything, because the partition function is the sum of x to the l minus gamma. This is the same as the sum of the products of b of x tk.
00:43:36.228 - 00:44:20.734, Speaker A: So you look at all the sequences, all the possible sequences, and then you just multiply by this. So what do I mean by choice of first edge? You always start at a right, but you can go either here or here. So you can either go here or go here. And then you would get, of course, two different works with the same decomposition longer in the bridges. And if you now look at this sum, it's exactly the sum of. It's exactly the product of one plus b x t squared. So if you open the brackets here, you get exactly this sum.
00:44:20.734 - 00:45:05.064, Speaker A: So chimeric develops decomposition. Well, that's a standard combinatorial trick here. It gives you from the fact that this product converges for fixed x, it gives you that the whole partition function is actually less than infinity. And that would finish the profit. Let me quickly explain the heimmers levels. Derivation, the remaining five minutes. So, first, let us assume that gamma, this path in naught up to n, and assume that a is its leftmost point.
00:45:05.064 - 00:45:47.604, Speaker A: So you start at point a and then you keep going. So gamma is kind of in the right half plane. And let we note up to vn, one be the vertices of gamma. And well, assume that real part of v one is equal to zero. Just shift everything and define t naught, width of gamma. B is the maximum real part of j, real part of the vertices. And let k would be the last j such that the real part of j is equal to t naught.
00:45:47.604 - 00:46:50.364, Speaker A: Then let us consider the path gamma node, which is a up to this e k minus one, and then the edge t with which, which would be. You see the thing, never touch the boundary of st naught. And then we are just added t to make it touch the boundary of astronaut. And this would create a breach in astronaut. And then what remains is the work of width, which is less than t naught, because again we took the last point which was t naught away from a. So on the remaining path, what is left has short of it. And then we can use induction.
00:46:50.364 - 00:48:12.644, Speaker A: And the same is true if gamma is the reverse half plane block. So if the last vertex has the minimum real part, then we can do the decomposition, the same decomposition, but in the opposite direction. Because remember, one thing about self avoiding work is that it's the direction of it doesn't matter. And then if we start with any walk, then we take the vertex with the minimum value of real part and just look at two forks and there reverse and direct self avoiding fork in the half plane, right? Because here this one reaches the minimum at the last part and this is reaches the minimum at the first vertex. And so we can decompose them into two such objects. That's why you have this bridges here and this sequence of bridges here. So this is for invert one and this is for direct one.
00:48:12.644 - 00:49:19.652, Speaker A: And then for uniqueness, well, you simply, the moment you know where you go after a. So you start at a, you know that for example, you go left and then you start doing your bridge, then the other bridge should go back. And there is only one way to do it. And so you get the uniqueness here also. And well, to, to see it, you just attach them actually consequently, and then start reflecting along the path to get the only. Well, the unique path which is defined by them. Okay, so that finishes Hammersley Wallace decomposition and that finishes this particular story.
00:49:19.652 - 00:50:08.264, Speaker A: So we just, so for the record, we just proved this exciting theorem of Dumino Kapm and Smirnov that for hexagonal lattice connectivity constant is square root of two plus square root of two. And let me finish the recording here. Actually, before I finish the recording, next lecture will start with looking at some generalization of this, and I will try to explain more rigorously what the limit of this function f of z is supposed to be. But now let me end the recording in earnest.
