00:00:00.680 - 00:00:14.670, Speaker A: You. It looks like we are also famous. This is what I call but yeah, it looks like a lot of people have joined us.
00:00:15.040 - 00:00:29.412, Speaker B: Yeah, this is going to be a great workshop. Very excited here. Give us one moment. Welcome to everyone who just joined us. US. I just want to say a quick thank you for joining us. I know you guys are hacking right now.
00:00:29.412 - 00:00:50.760, Speaker B: We've got a really great workshop lined up for you. I'm joined by Prashant from SPHERON protocol. Prashant, I'm sure you can give yourself a better introduction than I can, but I wanted to kick it off by saying we will be taking questions throughout the workshop. Please put your questions into the chat using zoom below and we'll try and take them throughout the session. Prashant, the floor is yours.
00:00:52.460 - 00:02:03.584, Speaker A: Thank you so much Luke for the warm introduction. Hey guys, thank you so much for joining in and showing interest into SPHERON as such like going and hosting your web application on a decentralized ecosystem. I do not wanted to waste most of your time in making you understand why use Feron but rather I would love to go and directly jump into showing exactly in how many steps you can start launching your DApps on a decentized ecosystem which is nothing but an IPFS and filecoin and how you can basically help yourself in accelerating your web applications. Today, whatever you might be building today, you might be building NFTs. You might be having multiple use cases around DeFi data dows or whatever you are planning to build. Most likely you are going to be using web application to interact with the user, interface with the user. If so, then most likely SPHERON will come into the picture and we will be more than happy to support you in taking your DApp to a truly decentralized world which is nothing but IPFS and filecoin and how you can basically make that happen.
00:02:03.584 - 00:02:53.964, Speaker A: So at like I'm also a builder and I believe my journey also started from ETH Global as well like initial days of Gitcoin and then after that ETH Global. So most of you who are sitting here, most likely all the very best going forward also whatever your bounties you guys are participating in, just participate and also keep your motivations up. This is what I also wanted to just share before I dive into. There are a few things which you have to understand how you are going to use the SPHERON. The first thing is like it's very straightforward. You might have been into web two and if you have used anything apart from SPHERON earlier in web two like Versaille, Litlify, DigitalOcean Heroku or whatever, you are going to have the same experience here as well. There won't be any experience differences.
00:02:53.964 - 00:03:30.830, Speaker A: The only difference which you are going to see instead of using AWS, your data will be sitting on filecoin on IPFS or S Three object. It will be on IPFS or filecoin. If you are using the compute for any reasons, you most likely will be making your compute launch on a cache network rather than on AWS. So these are the common things which you are going to look into. But yeah, I'll directly dive into the demo now. Luke, just confirm me if my screen is visible. If so, then I'll go ahead with the demo.
00:03:30.830 - 00:04:01.608, Speaker A: Anyone can confirm if my screen is visible? Yes. Okay. Yes it is. Thank you. So basically to log in into Spiron, it's very straightforward, just go to Esperanter network. Once you are at Spheronda network there will be a page called deploy app deploy. Now you can click on that or you can directly go to app isferon network mitrashi.
00:04:01.608 - 00:04:39.080, Speaker A: If you are here, you can just paste those link here so that people can easily find us out and then go and click on GitHub. So most likely you might be using GitHub or you might be using GitLab or Bitbucket, whatever is your favorite. You can go ahead and do that. So let's say I want to go with GitHub, continue logging with the GitHub. Once you log in with the GitHub, there is straightforward. There will be dashboard which you are going to see. This dashboard has couple of things which I just wanted to walk you guys through so that you have a clear understanding what this dashboard basically means and how exactly you can utilize it at a full potential.
00:04:39.080 - 00:05:20.680, Speaker A: The first and the foremost thing you have to do is go and build your own project. You don't even have to do anything, you don't even need to connect your wallet as well. The reason, because we want to give you the feel of web two first to understand, okay, everything is looking smooth and everything. Then you go and start connecting your wallet and then start moving forward from there. So the first thing which you can do is go to the new project, go to your GitHub, and connect your once you connect your GitHub, most likely, if you have not installed Esperance app into your GitHub, it will ask you to install. You just have to install that app, give the specific access of your repository which you are looking forward to give it. And once you are done with that, you will be able to see these repositories.
00:05:20.680 - 00:05:55.910, Speaker A: If by any chance you are not getting your repository here, we all are building the product. Sometimes we also face some bugs. So that is not an issue you can do one thing is like come over here, there's a refresh icon, you can hit on this refresh icon and most likely you will get your repositories here. Even in that case you are not but I'm just assuming most of all the cases so that you guys should not panic like hey, you know what, this is not working out. It will work for sure. 100% should work. What I'm saying here, but sometimes it might happen because of the bandwidth and multiple issues.
00:05:55.910 - 00:06:34.464, Speaker A: So what you can do is to do that. And then let's say if I have to launch my, let's say View app today, if I'm building a View app so I go and click on that particular app now for me, if you see there are three storage providers are Open, RV, Filecoin and IPFS most likely for you. If you'll be in the free tier, you will not be getting RV. But if you want, please feel free to DM us. We'll be more than happy to give you that. But we'll highly recommend to go and use IPFS and Filecoin at this point of time because that will be more than enough for you guys to take a deeper dive. So go and click on Filecoin here.
00:06:34.464 - 00:07:14.072, Speaker A: Once you have click the File coin. What it does, it basically preselect your framework. For me, all of these commands are something which I have already configured and it's going to be the same for you guys. You can also use the same command. You don't have like whatever command you use for building your repositories. You can go ahead and use those commands and then once you are done with that, please make sure you select your node engine properly. Because what we have seen during our previous experiences is like most of the times developers like people who are going for deployment, they forget to select the right node module.
00:07:14.072 - 00:07:52.664, Speaker A: So please make sure like whatever you are using, if it is node 12, 14, 16, please make sure you select that. And once you are selected, you don't have to do anything. And if you have any environment variables, please feel free to go ahead and add environment variables by clicking on new variables and then passing on the variables into here. Once you are done with that, there is nothing else you have to do. You just have to click on Deploy and this is how easy it is to go ahead, use SPHERON today. And what it does, it basically starts deploying your web application now till the time it is getting deployed. It hardly takes depending on your size of application and all of those things, it totally depends how much time it takes.
00:07:52.664 - 00:08:52.430, Speaker A: But generally our average time duration of any app, let's say to build which is like good app, it lies between 1 minute to three minutes. This is what hardly it takes. And let's say if it is a very big user interface like Uniswap or something, then it might take seven to eight minutes. But even if lower end, it can do in one to three minutes max, sometimes even faster if it is a pure JS application. Once you are done doing this, there are a few things which I also wanted to point you guys out to show you. There are a few things which you have to do in order to make sure you are also participating in the bounty and you are not just using this Feron for your deployment only. So what you can do is you have to come here if you have a domain most likely we'll be looking forward you should be a CS builder who want to take the entire things forward and that is where we want to come and provide you the support in whatever way it is possible.
00:08:52.430 - 00:09:31.672, Speaker A: So the first thing which you have to do is to attach your domain. You can go here, you can enter let's say I want to attach my XYZ.com I'll go that go there I have to basically provide in which environment we want to attach. So generally at isferon we have two environments which we give by default to developers to start working on. We call one as a production and the development. So let's say if my environment is development, I'll select development and then I can go to select to domain point to where exactly my domain wants to, which particular transaction has my domain has to be get pointed to. And this is how I have to do it.
00:09:31.672 - 00:10:18.244, Speaker A: And this point will only happen only if we go and click on add and verify our domain. Once domains are verified then you can add your transaction has which you want to point to. So this is what you can do at this point of time. So let's say if I want to add both production and development this is what you can do. Apart from that, let's say if you have an ENS with you and you want to use Brave, like, for example, we currently support ETH Link and ETH Limo with us. So you can go and point your ENS domain here and basically point your whatever hash you have deployed so far, and it just resolves it, and it just maps that particular thing to that ENS domain, whichever you have. So it's that easy and it's that simple.
00:10:18.244 - 00:11:06.032, Speaker A: You don't even have to now worry about going and doing lot of multiple transactions just to make that happen. It is very straightforward. Now, once you are done with all of those things, there are a few things also let's say if you see here it is still showing me printing but it is three minutes ago by Israel. Now what happens? Like as I said, we are not maintaining the real time state rather it is asynchronous state which means you have to async every time you are out. So if you see this particular application is deployed once it is deployed you will get two functions here the one function is called CIDs. This is a transaction you guys must be knowing it is a CID which has been generated after the build and it took around 1 minute 33 seconds which is much more lesser for me. Now go and preview deployment.
00:11:06.032 - 00:11:53.204, Speaker A: Most likely you'll be able to see my deployed version of IPFS deployment here. You can use this hash to pin whatever you want to. These are the couple of things which you have done access the application. Apart from that, there are a few more things which you can also start seeing at Spiron which is called the domain. By default we give you two things. The one which is called transaction hash like hash for your CID and then we also bind that CID hash with our domain which is SPHERON app. So what happens is like we have SPHERON app which is using our own CDN which we have built over the time and it serves your application much more faster than direct gateway call.
00:11:53.204 - 00:13:06.456, Speaker A: So if you are looking to, let's say, go and give this domain to your stakeholders who are sitting into different regions, I would highly recommend to go and give it to them this particular link, rather than the direct gateway link because direct gateway link don't have a CDN attached to it, which might be little slow, but it will be like faster only in terms of any other gateway out there. So these are the things which you have to just keep in mind. Apart from that, if let's say you have some team members you want to go ahead and invite, one of the coolest feature of SPHERON is feel free to go ahead and invite the team members. If you guys need any help or you need to upgrade your subscription, please ping us on Discord in our ETH Global channel itself and we'll make sure we'll allocate you certain coupon code which you can use to open up your team invitation feature here. Now, just to give you certain more outputs around how exactly you can upgrade to the pro once you ask for us with the coupon code you can go to the billing. There is a coupon section here. If you can see like I have already attached these coupons.
00:13:06.456 - 00:13:50.792, Speaker A: So you just have to go and attach the coupon code here and the moment you will do that you will be able to see like you are good to go and start inviting your team members. So this is straightforwardly like this. You can just go ahead and do it immediately. It will be much more easier. Apart from that, if you are a company and if you are willing to take it things more forward we have a lot of other things into it which is built in features like if you are on optimism arbitrary even in the future. If you want to take this feron forward with your own journey, you don't even have to off ramp your money from crypto to Fiat, you can still go ahead and use any chain like polygon ethereum. Once Fem is also live, we'll also be there all of these chains.
00:13:50.792 - 00:14:31.880, Speaker A: You can go ahead today and start paying from there. You don't even have to go and off ramp any of the cryptocurrencies there so these are the couple of high level features which I wanted to point it out. I'll pause here for two to three minutes just to hear if you guys have any questions. If not, then I'll also show you one more part of it, which is also very interesting. Most of the people who might be running MongoDB postgres or any kind of IPFS node or want to run your own personal IPFS gateways and everything, you can use this feature. But yeah, if you guys have any questions, I'd love to hear this out. Thanks.
00:14:31.880 - 00:15:17.012, Speaker A: Okay, I believe, Mitrashi, you are already taking the questions there. Anyone has any questions till now? Any concerns, any questions? We'll be more than happy to take it forward. Now, I got a question. Yeah, please. Yeah. About the CDN. Is that like you're hosting that from cloudflare or something? Or how is that working? How is that getting deployed? Yeah, so basically what we actually have done is instead of going and using, because we have been building this particular baby for a very long time.
00:15:17.012 - 00:15:48.640, Speaker A: So what we have done is instead of going and relying on any of the cloud flare, we have our own in house CDN which we have built, which we are also planning to open source it soon for everyone to start, because there are a lot of security testing which we are currently going through. But once that is done, most likely will also open it up for community to start running it up. So that is what that CDN is. It is in house, no cloudflare, nothing. Thank you. Yeah. And then it is battle tested.
00:15:48.640 - 00:16:19.660, Speaker A: You guys can go and start doing your DDoS attack or whatever attack you want to. It is very well battle tested, security tested and everything. But the only thing which we are looking for going forward is like once the CDN is kind of going live into the market or these nodes, once we make it live, most likely will come back again in the ETH global. And most likely, who knows, next time you guys will be using the CDN to build something else. So that is something. Famous last words. Yeah.
00:16:19.660 - 00:16:52.244, Speaker A: So looking forward to that. And yeah, guys, any other questions? Hope that answered your question. No. All right. Which means I'm kind of good at explaining people like what we are building. Any plans on support for DNS link? Mitrashi, you can answer that. It is we have our DNS connect.
00:16:52.244 - 00:18:01.516, Speaker A: Yeah, we already have, actually. So we don't need DNS link or any but yeah, in the future, let's say if our community comes and says, hey, you know what, why can't we have multiple gateways at one place? We'll be more than happy to do that because we are ultimately we are the aggregator. We'll be more than happy to aggregate them as well at one place and expose them via our user interface. Yeah. Now, coming back to demo again, let's say if you guys have compute need then you can go to this particular switch here the moment you log in, basically it just pops it up out here but again, if you forgot you can always go to this Compute. The moment you get into this Compute you are going to find this like for me this is a dashboard but let's say you want to launch your own IPFS cluster or you want to want to launch your own IPFS gateway for yourself. What you can do is you can go to instead of going you have multiple options either you go and use the IPFS docker container and basically customize it and then launch it or you can go to our Compute Template Marketplace and what you can do is like let me go and see if IPFS is here.
00:18:01.516 - 00:19:17.270, Speaker A: Yeah, it is right so which means you can go to and click on this IPFS and what you can do is depending on what you are looking for, just go and select whatever you want. Let's say if I want to select this package, I'll go and do that and then I'll just have to only click on Deploy and I'll not do the deploy or else my AKT will be gone from my wallet but let me just do that. But let's say if you want to deploy you can just go ahead and click on Deploy. The moment you deploy it, what will happen is again, just to give you guys an information here, since we are the web3 infra aggregation layer we try not to use any underlying. So when I say underlying it is basically means like we might use our middle layer in somewhere in a centralized ecosystem but all the end goal offers goes to decentralized ecosystem and that is where Akash comes into the picture. So if you want to spin up your IPFS own gateway you by default get certain AKTS from our sites which means you don't even have to worry about carrying Akash token on Cosmos or any such sort of a thing. You can just directly go to SPHERON today I've just deployed my IPFS node it should work once the link is available.
00:19:17.270 - 00:20:14.506, Speaker A: So you can go to this IPFS and then it takes a couple of minutes or time or you can say little bit of a time to warm it up because it's a docker image which takes some time to up and then you can use that port, the UI port to basically start accessing your IPFS gateway itself. So that is how exactly you can do it is my screen is visible? Which window is visible? Mitra is my IPFS one is visible? Yes. Okay, it is the IPFS deployment. Okay? So if you see here you can use any of these ports to basically go and open your GUI and that is how easy it is. Now, second thing is let's say my IPFS node is not working out. I want to see certain logs, I want to see what happened if that deployment worked or not. You can always go and check it out here.
00:20:14.506 - 00:20:52.662, Speaker A: What we do is we create a lease on Akash. There is nothing which we hide here. It is very open if any activities there, all these activities and all those things can be checked. Now let's imagine you want to close this note because you just spin data by mistake, okay? So UJ can click here and go to close instance and say continue. The moment you do it, what happens is the AKT which was deducted from your account will be reverted back to you which you can go and take a look. Now since I said like it is an asynchronous system, either you can wait here till the closing instance thing comes back or you can go back as well. It's up to you.
00:20:52.662 - 00:21:30.210, Speaker A: But you have to just keep an eye on a notification which comes here which says your instance is closed. Till the time you are not receiving that notification, your instance might be learning. So please make sure you take a look into that because we query the blockchain on Cosmos to get the status and then give it back to you. So it might take certain delay and time to make that happen. So that is how exactly it works. So for example for me it is not yet coming up but once it is closed I'll able to see my closed notification here. So these are the couple of things and then let's say if you want to go ahead and attach your domain, you can go and do that.
00:21:30.210 - 00:22:09.266, Speaker A: That domain attachment is also possible today and lot more things. So we'll be here to support you guys in whatever way we can. We'll be more than happy to provide and even today so today only we have started the support of many different nodes wherever you are building. So for example, we are also working on providing the FPM support soon. Once that comes into the picture, you'll also be able to spin up that as well. So this is what the SPHERON is all about at this point of a time. And yeah, I'll pause myself here and if you guys have any further question, you can unmute your mic and we'll be more than happy to take it forward.
00:22:09.266 - 00:22:58.442, Speaker A: Your question. All right, so there's a question we have are you running on all your infrastructure or are you using Azure Google to host and spin up these resources? So there are two things which we are doing currently. We are using the mixer of the hybrid system. The hybrid system involves both our own as well as decentralized versions. The intention here is to let's say if I want to run an IPFS today, how exactly? So there are a lot of things which are still not available in decentralized ecosystem. So for example, messaging queue, right? So if you have to build a kafka queue and all those things, it is not yet available and that is the reason you have to use centralized system at certain points to make sure that queues and everything is in the place. So if you see so my instance just got closed successfully and I have received my notification.
00:22:58.442 - 00:23:44.186, Speaker A: So yeah, Patrick, just to answer your question, this is the answer. But ultimately if you are running any kind of a node, once it is spinned up, it does not spin up in AWS and GCP, it's spinned up on Akash in the Compute side and for the web hosting side it goes to filecoin and IPFS directly so there is no mediator. So at the end you will get the decentralized version of it. I hope that answered your question. If not, you can ask. Furthermore, yeah, so I believe that is it from my side. Just to give you guys I'll stop sharing my screen, I believe I'm on time, I have five minutes left so I'll try to cover it that as well point which is very cool point around the bounty.
00:23:44.186 - 00:24:49.214, Speaker A: So on the bounty side, what we are looking for, it's very straightforward. We are looking for anyone who has a web application if you are using Domain, if you're using Compute, if you're using anything around this feron. But the thing which we are looking forward is like you are using your own domain to access any of the resources rather than just submitting this Feron's domain which we give or using this feron gateway. I have clearly mentioned out our prizes on the price channel but feel free to yeah, ENS and unstoppable anything will work. Like whatever you have. The reason we wanted to put it forward because a lot of times what happens is people just try to exploit the system by not putting their domains and we end up in not choosing the right people who have been building the product for the right reasons. So this is how we came up with the Filtration process is to put that filter and we have top ten projects so most likely quarter of like one by third of you will be the winners.
00:24:49.214 - 00:25:28.734, Speaker A: Most likely like how many people have joined here so we'll be more than happy to provide whatever support you guys need. Our discord is always open. One more thing I have not shown you guys, there is also support channel inside the app itself which means like if you face any issues, ping us there directly. Most likely it will get resolved within next six to seven or 8 hours max. If it is because most of the teams are India and Asia, we are in Serbia, in India and Dubai based. So most likely there will be certain issues. For the Et time zone people, we might resolve it in the next five to 6 hours.
00:25:28.734 - 00:26:00.474, Speaker A: But for anyone closer to our time zone, it will get resolved immediately. And if it is not, then you can always come to our Discord Channel, which is already on our Eid Global as well. And then we also have our own personal you can come over, create a ticket, and we'll be more than happy to resolve those issues. So, Jaluk, I believe I have covered most of the things we'll be looking forward, like most of this project. Accelerating their domain, accelerating their web application via filecoin and IPFS using esperan. Right on. Well.
00:26:00.512 - 00:26:14.120, Speaker B: Thank you, Prashant. That was an incredible workshop. I think everyone had a really great time in here today. I know we have some workshops coming up next, so we're going to probably keep it moving, but if everyone can move their conversations over to the discord, now would be a great time to do so.
