00:00:00.200 - 00:00:44.442, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news, the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Sasano, and today's the 18 November 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So apparently, the Bahamas government ordered SPF to hack FTX's system and transfer asses assets to the Bahamas government account due to a court filing here. Now, this is a pretty wild twist in, I guess, like the FTX story. And just to recap here, you remember as the FTX, I guess, Saga was unfolding, SBF claimed that there was a hack, or I think someone at FTX claimed that there was a hack and funds were being stolen and funds were being withdrawn, which then went into die and then bought ETH with it.
00:00:44.442 - 00:01:17.210, Speaker A: And the entity that stopped, quote unquote, stole these funds has become one of the largest ETH holders, which you can see on either scan here. It is the 30th largest ETH holder with 241,000 ETH. And you can click into the address here and see what else they've got. They've got a bit of Paxos gold here as well, worth about $14.3 million, but they have almost $300 million worth of ETH right now. How do I wish that was me? Right? So you can see the analytics on the balance here, how it all just basically came in over the last five days. And.
00:01:17.210 - 00:01:51.650, Speaker A: Yeah, that. That's really all it's done. I don't think there's been any other kind of transactions out from this, from this since they basically swapped all their die for ETH on cow swap here or cow protocol. But yeah, I mean, I don't know how true this is that the Bahamas government did this. I haven't really kind of seen any, I guess, truthful sources myself, but I'm sure they're out there. But I think it's quite, quite funny that this kind of news came out, I guess, a few days after it happened, because it's really hard to believe anything right now. I mean, there's so much misinformation floating around.
00:01:51.650 - 00:02:28.442, Speaker A: There's so many rumors floating around. You know, it was funny today I was talking to a friend and we came to the conclusion that pretty much every rumor that can be spread is being spread right now. So it's kind of, I guess, like an information overload where you have absolutely no idea what's true and what's not, right. We've seen rumors about Gemini being insolvent, you know, digital currency group being insolvent, Silvergate which is one of the main crypto banks, like actual banks being insolvent and all these sorts of things, and we don't know what's true and what's not. And then I think also some more news came out today about the not Gemini, what is it? Genesis. Genesis, that's the name. Genesis.
00:02:28.442 - 00:03:14.786, Speaker A: That before they announced that they were pausing withdrawals or before they had their, their call, they were seeking up to a billion dollars in emergency funding to meet liquidity needs. So some of this stuff is true and real, but I think a lot of it really is just rumors. And as I said yesterday, we're not going to know the, what's true and what's not, and the full fallout of things for sure, for months to come and potentially years to come. There is one big thing that's actually going to play out, I think, over, over time, and that's because of the fact that it's time restricted and that's funded. So a lot of these funds and VC's, they have investors themselves that can redeem, but those redemptions are usually on a, on a, on a, on a lock, basically. So you can't redeem it like all, but you can't basically go to the fund right now and say, hey, I want to redeem all, all at once. Right.
00:03:14.786 - 00:03:52.676, Speaker A: You have to basically wait monthly, quarterly, yearly to redeem it. And I think that a lot of investors in these funds are going to be redeeming, and who knows what they're going to be doing with those assets if they're going to be selling them. Sometimes the fund has to sell them as part of the structure and then give the investors back their original investment, whether that was in cash or ETH or something else. Right. So that's a lot of stuff that's going to be coming out over the next year, and then we're going to see which funds can meet those liquidity needs, which ones got blown up. Multi coin capital lost a lot. Actually, I saw a news article saying that their funds down 55%, they lost 10% of their fund on FTX.
00:03:52.676 - 00:04:28.846, Speaker A: They go, they're definitely going to see a lot of redemptions, and I think they do quarterly redemptions. And so this sort of stuff's going to take time to, to definitely play out here. And as I said, like you, you don't know exactly what's true and what's not true until more information comes out, until things are verified. As I said, I'm not 100% sure about this. Bahamas government ordering SPF to hack the FTX system to transfer assets to them. But honestly, with all the crazy stuff that's happened over the last, I guess, week and a half now, it really wouldn't surprise me too much just because other things have come out that have surprised me more. Honestly, as I said, like, I didn't think FTX was insolvent.
00:04:28.846 - 00:05:11.304, Speaker A: I knew SPF was a bad actor and an egomaniac, but I didn't think that FTX was actually insolvent. And then I didn't think that the company was run like, it was like, as we've seen all the information come out, it really looks like the worst run company in history in terms of that size. Obviously, there are smaller companies that have probably been run worse. But in terms of billion dollar, you know, tens of billion dollar companies, it seems that FTX is definitely up there with one of the worst, that's worst run ever, if not the worst. And that's crazy when you think about it. There was something that the, the person that's in charge of, of handling FTX's bankruptcy said in, in his first court filing. He basically said that he's never seen something like this.
00:05:11.304 - 00:05:52.656, Speaker A: And this is the guy who handled the Enron bankruptcy process or the, or the fallout of Enron. So when you put that all together, yeah, things are pretty crazy right now. And as I've said before, I'm so surprised that crypto prices aren't lower than what they are right now. And that's not to say that they can't go lower in the future, but the fact that ETH is still where it is, it hasn't tested its low, you know, from the, the June, the June low there, it could still go there, but the fact that it's not there yet, I don't know. I like, I'm feeling kind of positive, but I, you know, I don't want this to be a thing where I've cursed that now if jinxed and Neath is going to go to like $200 or something like that, I think that it's good to be cautiously optimistic now. Good to have your own sort of plan. No one knows what's going to happen from here, where things go from here.
00:05:52.656 - 00:06:30.348, Speaker A: I think, and maybe I'm, it's cursed of me to say this, but I really do think that we're through the worst of it. I mean, I can't think of many other things that would be as bad as FTX blowing up, or I should say as bad as a centralized exchange, like fully blowing up. I think that's one of the worst things that can happen in crypto. If I had to guess of something that is worse than that, it's probably just like an outright ban of crypto in the US, which I don't see happening. Right. I give that a very, very small chance of happening for a multitude of different reasons. Maybe if binance or Coinbase or some other bigger exchange was to blow up, which again, I don't think is going to be the case.
00:06:30.348 - 00:06:54.616, Speaker A: But as I said, there's still going to be fallout from all the FTX stuff, but probably not as big. And who knows if the market's already priced that in. As you know, as I've said before, we're already in a deep bear market. Like if this had happened at like the top of the, the bull market, it would have crashed prices. I mean, it probably would have been one of the biggest crashes in crypto history. Right, but because, especially because of all the leverage built up. But it's happened in a deep bear market where we've wiped out a lot of the leverage.
00:06:54.616 - 00:07:15.896, Speaker A: We've also already had many collapses. Right. Terra 3 hours capital celsius. And this is just kind of, I guess happened when we were already hungover, so to speak. Right. It's kind of like an, the second wave of the hangover hitting you and you're like, uh, you know, you're all over, um, all over the house, just sleeping wherever you can find a seat. I think that's what's, what's kind of happening now.
00:07:15.896 - 00:07:57.308, Speaker A: Where we're used to it. The market seems to be used to it. I know BTC went to a new low, but, eh, I mean, it wasn't really that convincing. And it seems like it wants to, to kind of like bottom around here, but I don't know. I mean, when it comes to prices, I am as blind as all of you are, but I think there are many different heuristics and metrics you can use to basically have more confidence that something is a bottom range, so to speak, than it is a kind of, you know, a warning sign that we're going to go lower than here. But there are still people calling for much lower than here. There are people calling for a $400 ETH, you know, I don't think that's going to happen, but they do and they have their reasons and I honestly think that they're basically just being greedy bears, but who knows going forward.
00:07:57.308 - 00:09:07.334, Speaker A: But anyway, I don't want to talk too much about price. I think obviously talking about the FTX stuff and general fallout is always going to relate back to price, but generally, I don't know, I feel like the market is already in such deep, such deep shit territory, so to speak, that anything else that comes out will just not really shock the market at this stage. All right, so I've been talking about the Shanghai upgrade for Ethereum for quite a while now, and the main things I focus on in the Shanghai upgrade are the withdrawals being enabled for the beacon chain and ERP 4844. But there's something that gets talked about that doesn't get talked about very much, and lite clients put a thread out about this today, basically saying that Ethereum has recently seen substantial changes, such as the move to proof of stake and EIP 1559. However, the EVM looks mostly the same. This may finally change with the Ethereum object format or EOF, or EOF for short, which is likely going into Shanghai. It will be the EVM's biggest change since Genesis, and this thread basically goes through why that is and how the EOF change is actually comprised of multiple EIPs, which you can see here.
00:09:07.334 - 00:09:39.762, Speaker A: But this is for the more technical folks among us and people who basically are interested in the EVM or understand the EVM. But this is something I didn't know. I didn't know that it was this big of an upgrade. Like basically saying it's the biggest upgrade since biggest EVM change since Genesis means that it's the biggest change in over seven years, which is quite crazy when you think about it. But that is akin to AIP 1559, which was the biggest change to the Ethereum fee market. And I guess you could argue monetary policy since Genesis, and proof of stake, which was the biggest change to Ethereum ever. Right? The merge was the biggest change to Ethereum ever.
00:09:39.762 - 00:10:19.738, Speaker A: Well, it seems that we're in the mood to keep doing these big changes, and EOF isn't the only one, obviously, 48 44 is one of those big changes, and dank shining in general. That has been a long time coming. But if you're interested in learning more about EOF and some some of the more technical stuff potentially coming in Shanghai, you can give this thread a read from lite clients. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, an announcement out of consensus today where they said two months ago the core debs behind the merge eliminated 99.992% of Ethereum's carbon footprint. Today, COP 27 consensus and partners from across web3 are launching the Ethereum client platform, or ECP, to build on their achievement.
00:10:19.738 - 00:11:20.528, Speaker A: So what does this mean, basically consensus is partnering with all of these different entities here to launch this, this ECP or Ethereum client platform in order to be built for the Ethereum ecosystem with the intention to serve as a model for the global tech and business community to address their own historic carbon footprint. So consensus has been quite involved with these, I guess, climate looking, climate forward, sorry, climate change forward looking kind of initiatives here. And this is just another one that they've been doing. And you know what's funny? Whenever I say something like this, I know that there are going to be people out there who fudd it and say, oh look, it's consensus getting into bed with the climate change people and the, the weft, the World Economic Forum, look at them. You know, Ethereum's a scam, Vitalik's a scam, blah blah. And it's always bizarre to me when I see that because it doesn't really make much sense to me. I know that the WEF hasn't got a great reputation and it's probably deserved at this point, just given a lot of the stuff that they've put out, they're responsible for that.
00:11:20.528 - 00:12:03.150, Speaker A: You'll own nothing and you'd be happy meme, I believe. But I think anything that encourages lowering, you know, our carbon footprint as a species and basically keeping on theme with helping out with climate change and all that sorts of stuff is a welcome thing because I think the Ethereum community especially cares a lot about this. Obviously the move to proof of stake was, was driven by this. Not, I mean, it depends who you ask, but like, it was definitely driven by this. But I don't know if that was the main thing. In the end, I think the main thing became we need to get off proof of work because it's basically very, very expensive as a mechanism to secure Ethereum, and proof of stake gives us a much better bank for your buck. And proof of stake also enables things like sharding and finality and all that good stuff there.
00:12:03.150 - 00:12:58.836, Speaker A: But the climate impact of proof of work was definitely a big driver and the original driver behind the move to proof of stake. So I'm glad to see consensus carry the torch here with what they're doing with this ECP platform. If you want to learn more about this, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below. All right, so something that caught my eye today from Coinbase wallet, they have added a feature that now simulates the outcome of your Dapp transactions before you hit confirm, letting you explore web3 with greater confidence. Now, I've talked about fhir that extension that is like a sister extension, the metamask that comes up and shows you exactly what's going on when you interact with various on chain contracts. Well, Coinbase Wallet has added something similar natively to their app, which I think is really cool. And the, the reason why I think it's really cool is because obviously Coinbase wallet is probably going to be used more by quote unquote normies or more by the mainstream than something like a metamask would be or some other kind of wallet out there.
00:12:58.836 - 00:13:20.458, Speaker A: Because Coinbase wallet looks nice. It's connected to Coinbase, Coinbase points. They're users towards Coinbase wallet. They have all these really nice to use features. They have things explained in such a way that's really nice on a UI UX perspective. And I think this is just a huge feature ad for them. And I think that Coinbase, if they keep doing this, they're really going to capture a lot of that mainstream audience, which is what we want to see.
00:13:20.458 - 00:13:47.094, Speaker A: I really want the mainstream audience not to have to use metamask. I love metamask, but it is not a wallet that's built for mainstream audiences, and we're not going to get mass adoption if Metamask is our, is our best option. Now, Metamask Mobile is, I believe. I mean, it's similar to the browser extension, but it is better on the UI UX front. But as I said, I love metamask. I use it all the time. It is still my main wallet, but I feel like it's more for power users than it is for the masses.
00:13:47.094 - 00:14:19.816, Speaker A: Like, I wouldn't, I wouldn't kind of set my mom up with a metamask wallet. Right. I would definitely set her up with something like a coinbase wallet because it's a lot easier to use and it's a lot more friendly, but it's not there yet either. I think the winning wallets, probably long term, are going to be the ones that just abstract away absolutely everything. Like you can see in this screenshot that Coinbase is still showing things like network fee, right, and the network you're on and the address, and obviously the asset changes for their transaction preview and things like that. That's all well and good, and that's what we're used to. But again, I don't think that's how mass adoption is going to happen.
00:14:19.816 - 00:14:58.760, Speaker A: Mass adoption is going to happen through abstracting away every single thing that you can while still giving the user enough information to feel safe in what they're doing. And to understand what they're doing. I think that eventually the fees are just going to be eaten by the wallet providers there either going to take their own fee and then just pay the gas fee, which will be very, very low because they'll be on L2s and layer threes, and then not show that the user that at all. Because by showing the user a network fee, then you have to have a little explanation about what that is. And as you can see in the screenshot, they do have a tooltip that you would hover over, and that would explain what the network fee is. You're already going to lose people like that. You're already going to confuse people like that.
00:14:58.760 - 00:15:56.498, Speaker A: That's not how mass adoption happens. So if we can get the wallet experience down to literally one to two clicks to do basically most things, then I think that's, that's a better way of doing it. And I'm not against these wallets being centralized, or being more like a centralized exchange, just tapping into these things and acting as a kind of vehicle for users. But the holy grail to me is really having, you know, these centralized services, but allowing users to still have a non custodial experience where they still have their assets, you know, controlled under their own, under their own control, and they still retain full custody of them. There's no risk of them losing them to something like the FTX blowout. But at the same time, like, we can't expect everyone to download metamask and custody things on there and custody things in there in their ledger hardware wallet or lattice one hardware wallet, that's all well and good, and I think there's people, a lot of people are going to do that. But mass adoption is different.
00:15:56.498 - 00:16:49.340, Speaker A: Mass adoption is like billions of users, guys, I think what I just spoke about appeals to maybe tens of millions and not, maybe not even that. Because if you really look at the amount of active users that Metamask had, I think at the peak of the bull market, across all of the change that they support, which is obviously pretty much every EVM chain, you can get the scope of basically the active users, and I believe at peak, Metamask had 15 or 20 million monthly active users. And that's potentially not unique either. You could discount that by a few million at least, because people will have multiple wallets, whether they're on multiple browsers, or maybe they have a mobile wallet and a, sorry, mobile metamask wallet and a desktop one. So, you know, at most, if you really want to be generous, you could say that we had like ten to 15 million monthly active users at peak using metamask. And pretty much everyone had metamask at that point. But these days I would say it's much, much lower than that.
00:16:49.340 - 00:17:06.540, Speaker A: Like, definitely much lower than that. At least 90% down from that, I would say. Right. Um, and there are other wallets coming onto the scene. There's wallets that optimize for things like nfts. Well, they're optimized for things like Defi. But I do think the winning wallets are going to be those ones that basically abstract everything away and make it dead simple.
00:17:06.540 - 00:17:49.312, Speaker A: Allow users to do what they want, you know, custody of their assets, be able to send their assets across addresses if they want to interact with all the stuff that they, that they want to in a seamless experience where they don't have to ever do something like contact customer support, for example. But I hope that it's a smart contract wallet as well. Something like an argent or one of these other up and coming ones, because smart contract wallets offer a bunch of functionality that non smart contract wallets don't. And I think that's what we're going to be moving towards as time goes on. All right, so Uniswap has a big announcement today. So they've said Uniswap builds public infrastructure that pushes crypto forward. Today we are excited to introduce permit two and universal router new smart contracts that increase the flexibility of token approvals.
00:17:49.312 - 00:18:16.106, Speaker A: Token approvals and aggregate arc twenties and NFT swaps in into one. So remember, I think last week or the week before, Hayden teased that there were three things coming to three big announcements coming from Uniswap. This is one of them. And I did say that I thought that one of them would have to do with nfts. Well, this seems to be that one and I think the other two. One was Uniswap V four and the other one was me just purely speculating that it was going to be like uni chain or something like that. But love to see.
00:18:16.106 - 00:18:55.722, Speaker A: I'm sure they'll announce those in the near future. But what is this? You know, what is permit to a universal router? Well, Uniswap explains it here. They say permit two improves the security, user experience and flexibility of ERC 20 token approvals with features like shared approval management across applications. Universal permits for any token time bound token approvals, batch approvals and revokes for tokens. So basically bring in house a lot of the things that you've needed third party tools to do before, which is really cool. And universal router aggregates ERC 20 and NFT trades into a highly flexible and gas optimized swapped router. Universal router allows you to swap multiple tokens on Uniswap and buy nfts across marketplaces all in one transaction.
00:18:55.722 - 00:19:18.474, Speaker A: Again, this goes back to what I was saying before. Abstracting away as much of this experience as possible for users is the way to mass adoption. And Uniswap, I think, definitely understands this. So this is very, very cool. So, you know, and they say, as always, these new contracts are not upgradable, unowned, fully audited and open sourced. They will be released following a two week bug bug bounty period with more details to come. And you can find the source code here.
00:19:18.474 - 00:19:43.194, Speaker A: I believe the bug bounty for this is up to $3 million. That's. That's probably the biggest bug bounty, I believe, in crypto history. I think I remember $2 million was from optimism, but $3 million here from Uniswap Labs for these new contracts is. Contracts is massive. So if you think you can break these contracts, if you think you can find a bug, well, there's up to $3 million up for grabs. So be my guest.
00:19:43.194 - 00:20:15.360, Speaker A: Be Uniswap's guest. Go check this out. But awesome to see that Uniswap is continuing here on making it easier for users to do things on using Uniswap without having to go to third party tools, especially like the native revokes, revokes for tokens inbuilt here, because that's something that you've needed third party tools to do. And that's something that, that has actually stung a lot of users in terms of scams and things like that. So very, very cool to see this released by Uniswap. All right, another update out of aztec today. They've said constitution.
00:20:15.360 - 00:20:46.936, Speaker A: Dao attempted to purchase a copy of the US constitution. They educated millions on the power of web3. It fell short partly because of one small problem, privacy. Now, for those of you who don't remember, the reason why the constitution, Dow didn't win the bid was because their bid was publicly known. And I believe Ken Griffith from Citadel, which, which is a huge trad five player, basically won because he could see how much money the constitution, Dow had to bid on it. And he was like, well, I can just bid higher than that. And they're out of money now.
00:20:46.936 - 00:21:15.052, Speaker A: Right? So how do we fix this? Well, with privacy. So this year, the people down and juice box are trying again in partnership with a go nuclear and aztec to bid on. I don't, I don't know if it's the constitution themselves, but the constitution itself. But they're bidding on something here. I'm going to go scroll down this, this thread. So, you know, how does this all work? If you're ready to buy the constitution again, you can contribute publicly. Okay, so they are trying to buy the constitution again here.
00:21:15.052 - 00:21:40.064, Speaker A: You can contribute publicly using juice box or privately using nucleos. Private multi seq integration with Aztec. Users of Aztec and send funds confidentially. Confidentially to nuclear multi seq, which then controls this disbursement to the l one treasury. Private contributions mean no one knows who bid, no one knows the maximum bid, and the constitution gets another chance to land in the hands of the people. Again, this is very cool. This is just another use case, obviously, of privacy here.
00:21:40.064 - 00:22:06.062, Speaker A: This is something that was brought up at the time. I remember people being like, we're idiots. We just literally showed our hand in this, in this auction. Of course the person is going to be like, well, all I need to do is beat this dollar sum that I know that these people have, and then I win. So, as I said, how do you protect against this? Well, with privacy. I mean, it's a pretty simple solution, right? Uh, and Aztec is taking a step here to do this. Now, I I believe at the time they raised over $40 million for this.
00:22:06.062 - 00:22:24.686, Speaker A: That's not going to happen. Now. That was at the peak of the bull market in November of 2021. 40 million. I mean, we're not, we're not even going to get close to that, I don't think. But still, being able to contribute privately and showing the power of the privacy tech that we've built on ethereum through Aztec is still very worthwhile. And I really like that Aztec is doing this.
00:22:24.686 - 00:22:53.582, Speaker A: So you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so a new project, or a project that has been around for a while has released something new today called Party Protocol. So Partydao released party protocol, which is an open protocol for on chain group coordination. So while trustless protocols have enabled new kinds of services and financial primitives, we believe there's an opportunity for a protocol that enables new social behaviors, a protocol for group coordination. And you can read the full announcement in this blog post. Training.
00:22:53.582 - 00:24:00.352, Speaker A: And so what does the party protocol aim to do? Well, it aims to enable a multiplayer future, providing functionality for core group behaviors such as formation, assembling a group, and combining resources, coordination, making decisions, and taking actions. Together and distribution, sharing resources with group members. Partic protocol has been audited, deployed to mainnet, and open sourced, which you can view here. And yeah, I mean, you can read the rest of the thread, I'll link in the YouTube description. But I think this is really cool because I've talked about coordination issues before in Ethereum in, you know, real life, and how, I guess Ethereum and apps built on top of it can help with this. Git Coin has been looking into this a lot, and, and Gitcoin grants, ClL, CLR matching rounds have been a tool that we've used to coordinate capital in order to get people to donate to various public goods and then get their donations matched quadratically, which has led to a pretty big boon in public goods funding. So what if we can extend this to basically everything? What if we can create protocols and tools and that allow humans to coordinate in a much more scalable and healthier way online and in a decentralized and trustless way as well? Well, that's what party protocol aims to do here.
00:24:00.352 - 00:24:36.970, Speaker A: And this has been something that I've been very interested in for quite a while, just this coordination, because really, when you think about it, it all comes down to coordination. Like how do the Ethereum core devs work together to ship upgrades for Ethereum? How do they work together to ship the emerge? Well, it was all coordination. You know, they had to coordinate to do that. There was no way they were going to be able to do that if they all just worked on it in their own silos. No, they had to come together, they had to coordinate. And it was one of the biggest software undertakings of software coordination in history, I believe, in terms of the scope of it, in terms of the fact that they were doing it live, and it was a fine, there was a lot of money at stake. That all happened.
00:24:36.970 - 00:25:25.990, Speaker A: And the fact that it happened so seamlessly speaks to the epic amount of coordination that was needed and that actually happened to make the merge happen. So what if we can harness this energy, harness this coordination and apply that to so many things within crypto, within the, within the world with, you know, for things like social goods and public goods and things like that? Well, we can make a very big difference here. Obviously, it's not a silver bullet. Obviously. It doesn't mean that, that we're going to save the world and we're going to fix all the world's problems, but I think it's another tool that we have in our tool belt to make the world a better place, which I obviously, obviously am very, very supportive of it's the main reason why I'm in ethereum, to increase freedom for the world and make the world a better place. But I think it's always worth keeping grounded with these things as well and realizing that they're just tools. And tools can be used for good, tools can be used for bad, tools can be used for nothing.
00:25:25.990 - 00:26:23.164, Speaker A: I mean, there are tools out there that, that are seemingly really cool, but no one really uses them correctly and they don't really go anywhere. Right? But still cool to see party protocol live today. You can read the thread, check out the little teaser video here, and obviously the blog post as well, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here we have a thread from Laconic network, which is behind the new mobi mask feature or movie mask product that I talked about the other day, which is basically a way to help people or prevent people from getting phished when interacting with web3 and on chain things in the ethereum and wider ecosystem. So they've put out a thread today diving deeper into what movie mask is and how laconic is powering it. So I just wanted to highlight this for you guys, because I did talk about movie Mask the other day, and maybe I didn't explain it well enough where you were confused about what it is and what it does and why why it's needed. Well, you can read this thread to get a grasp of that, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:26:23.164 - 00:26:51.900, Speaker A: But yeah, that's the last update. But I do want to spend the last couple of minutes here talking about something else that has really annoyed me over the last couple days. Now, I know that people have that I talked about this yesterday and maybe even the day before about all this fud around beacon chain withdrawals. But what's really annoyed me is the fact that people fudded the merge for a very long time. They said that it was never going to happen. They said that it was a scam. They said it was, it was too big of an undertaking, that it was going to fail.
00:26:51.900 - 00:27:35.978, Speaker A: And then it happened. And it happened seamlessly and perfectly. And instead of people changing their tune or not bringing up, you know, not making up more stories around things, sorry, more bullshit stories around similar things, they've doubled down. And as I said, they've doubled down by bringing up things like the beacon chain withdrawals. It's like all these people suddenly discovered that you couldn't withdraw your, your staked ETH, right? And it's like they all discovered that at time of the merge, because they had to quickly pivot to a new thing that to fight Ethereum about. And the most hilarious thing to me is that anyone who's staking and staking via a non LSD knows that they're not going to have liquidity on that ETH. They're not going to be able to withdraw that ETH until withdrawals are enabled.
00:27:35.978 - 00:28:21.956, Speaker A: No one is forced to stake their ETH right there. Literally no one is even forced to buy ETH. So what exactly are these people concerned trolling about? Like what? What exactly are they concerned about? Because it is concerned trolling. Like are you concerned that people can't access their ETH? They voluntarily put their ethnic in, right? And if they wanted liquidity on their ETH, if they didn't want to be locked in, they could have gone with a LSD such as Rocketpool, such as Lido, such as a centralized exchange as Coinbase and Binance. They didn't have to solo stake, they didn't have to stake with someone where they didn't have liquidity on their ETH. So I really think that this fud that we've seen around withdrawals is just something that the people who were fighting the merge pivoted to in order to cope with the fact that they were so utterly wrong about the merge. Now what's going to be hilarious to see is, is to see what they pivot to next.
00:28:21.956 - 00:28:46.140, Speaker A: And it's going to be a long list of things that they're going to go through and they're like, let's pick on this, let's pick on that. And the reason why I bring this up is it's not just some small trolls saying this sorts of stuff. It really is these big accounts spreading this stuff. They're getting a ton of engagement on it. And they're not only fighting withdrawals, they're also making false equivalences between SPF and FTX and metallic and ethereum. It's just so bizarre. It's pure cope.
00:28:46.140 - 00:29:08.018, Speaker A: It's pure concern trolling. I just wanted to bring it up because I hope that you guys aren't taking any of it seriously and not listening to any of it for sure. Do your own research. Make sure you know what's true and what's not. But seriously, like when you see stuff, people spewing stuff like that and people calling Ethereum a scam and Vitalik a scammer, you can safely ignore those people. You can literally just mute them on Twitter. They provide no value if they think like that.
00:29:08.018 - 00:29:27.294, Speaker A: At least in my opinion. But anyway, I don't want to rant too long there. I'll turn into Alex Jones or something, right? I've said this in this call before. I said I tried to limit my ranting because I don't want to become like the Alex Jones of Crypto, become like bit boy, just ranting. And someone will clip it and share it on Twitter. So, yeah, I'm gonna leave that at that. Thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:27.294 - 00:29:33.654, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
