00:00:00.160 - 00:00:23.358, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the delegate refuel where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the Nissano, and today's the 22 February 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So the official Sapolia Shapala announcement was posted on Twitter today from timbiko. So as you guys know, the shapala. Oh, sorry. The sapolia testnet will be forked over to Shapala on February 28 at 04:00 a.m..
00:00:23.358 - 00:00:58.228, Speaker A: UTC in this official blog post that goes through the upgrade specification, client release links to client releases and an faq here. So yeah, if you're interested in that, you can go check it out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. But I think I've talked Chappelle to death at this point, so I'm not going to to spend too much time here, but I feel like I'm slowly turning into the it's happening guy. Like what's his name? I can't remember his name. I think he was a us politician. You guys know the gif I'm talking about where it's like it's happening, right? I feel like I'm turning into that guy with, with Chappelle going live here, or we're going live relatively soon here.
00:00:58.228 - 00:01:43.222, Speaker A: And I was actually looking at the beacon chain today and looking at the metrics around it and the validators. There's so many validators still coming online. And what I find funny is that I've gone through this so many times before about what the implications of withdrawals are going to be for, I guess, validate account for how much eat this stake, what the ETH price is, blah, blah, all that stuff there, the fact that more and more validators just keep going online and the fact that, as I've said before, most of the network can already exit staking if they want to, via the secondary market, via LSD's. I just feel like the withdrawal event is going to be a non event. I don't think there's going to be any kind of fanfare around it besides narrative. I feel like the underlying actual fundamentals is going to be fine. I don't think we're going to see a mass exodus of ETH or anything like that.
00:01:43.222 - 00:02:34.718, Speaker A: I think we're going to see a mass amount of eat staked over the following months following the, the upgrade here. And I was actually talking to someone in the delegated Discord channel about this and I mentioned something where I said that I feel like people stake ETH, no matter if it's a bull or bear market. And I've also gone through these before, but basically, the number one reason why I think that and why, and the evidence that supports that is the fact that we had pretty much half the network worth of validators go live just last year. I think it was 220,000 validators go live last year. I think there was 250 or 260,000 that had gone live since December 1, 2020. So during the bull market, we had roughly the same, I guess, like a bit more the amount of validators that went live than went live during the bear market. So I think that eats takers seem to be quite agnostic to the USD price.
00:02:34.718 - 00:03:05.570, Speaker A: And really, why wouldn't they be? They only have to worry about the USD price for running costs. I don't. I mean, I don't know how many ETH stakers are actually living off of their stake. It's actually quite hard to do because you do require a lot, like if you wanted to make, say, a full time salary from staking ethnic. And, I mean, it's going to vary depending where you are in the world. Obviously, the cost of living will vary, but let's just say you want to make $100,000 a year. That's going to be hard to consistently make because obviously the ETH price fluctuates up and down.
00:03:05.570 - 00:03:34.210, Speaker A: But also to make $100,000 a year, you would have to be staking a lot of ETH to do that. So you would already be wealthy. So I think from a passive income standpoint, I think that matters much less to individuals. I think maybe to institutions and capital allocators, it probably matters more to them. But from a individual perspective, I feel like a lot of people stake because they have ETH. They obviously think it's going to go up in value over time against the US dollar, and they want to stack more ETH. So, because the staking rewards are denominated in ETH.
00:03:34.210 - 00:04:07.310, Speaker A: So I think that's the reason why you see that no matter if it's a bull or bear market, people are going to stake their ETH. And that's another reason why I think we're not going to see this mass kind of exodus of, of ETH after withdrawals that's going to get sold and everyone's taking profits or selling at a loss because they want to get out of Ethan. I just don't see that happening. For a massive amount of reasons that I've gone through before, I'm not going to rant on about that again, but I think it's always worth reiterating that. And I don't know what's going to happen to the USD price of ETH, of course, like, no one knows what's going to happen. And correlation does not equal causation, or correlation does not equal correlation. Right.
00:04:07.310 - 00:04:40.074, Speaker A: So you might see the price go down a bit after withdrawals. Well, did it go down a bit because of the withdrawals, or was it the narrative? Or was it people front running each other, or did it just go down because it was going to go down? That sort of stuff is just so much, so noisy. It's stuff that I don't really focus on too much, but I think it's well worth being aware of that and being aware of the fact that narratives can influence price, but price can also influence narratives. And it's not just for withdrawals, it's for any kind of narrative. I think it's always good to remember that. But anyway, you can go check out the upgrade post for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:04:40.074 - 00:05:26.690, Speaker A: All right, a little bit of drama today around the girly testnet. So layer Zero Labs here announced that they are launching a testnet bridge between Ethereum, Mainnet and Girlie, which basically allows you to trade girly ETH for Mainnet ETH. And they basically funded this with their own liquidity. And they said the initial price of girly ETH is set to pool, is seeded with 12,500 girly ETH. Now, the reason why there's drama behind this is because, I mean, one layer zero is calling this a public good, which it definitely is not a public good. And Greg here, who's the co founder and cto at Chainsafe, the team that builds a lodestar, a consensus layer client, said, this is not a public good, this is harmful. Ethereum does not have a canary network, and you're creating value on a network that hasn't had thoughtful economics.
00:05:26.690 - 00:05:59.476, Speaker A: The largest holders of girly, Greg included, have been against markets for a reason. Testing should be free. I generally agree with this. I know that it's been generally hard for people to get access to girly ETH, and there's actually no function in. In the EVM that would allow the, I guess, node operators to mint an infinite amount of it. And there's been trouble before with people hogging all the girly Ethan, the developers, not being able to get. Get their hands on it, and trouble with sibyls and people doing airdrops on girly, which means people were hoarding the girly ETH even more.
00:05:59.476 - 00:06:37.176, Speaker A: And that's what initially gave it value. But I don't think this is the solution, and I don't think there's any good solution here to just being able to distribute testnet. Ethan, putting a value to it just, I mean, doesn't really make much sense. It feels like it's going to lead to a lot of harm for users because if it gets bad enough, what could end up happening is that those, the people running the girly test nets, because it is a centralized test and it's not trying to be decentralized because it's a testnet, right. It's not like a kusuma, which was what's called a quote unquote canary network for Polkadot, that would basically want it to be its own network and assist the network. It didn't want to be regarded as a testnet, even though, I mean, it was a testnet. And we're not going to go into the details about that.
00:06:37.176 - 00:07:07.690, Speaker A: But that's, that's what the canary network terminology is being used to reference here. That's not what girlie is, that's not what superior is. They're both just pure centralized testnets that are built there and I put out there for developers to use. And they're supposed to be as close to mainnet as possible. But as I said, if it gets really bad, I'm sure the code could be changed on girlie in order to mint an infinite amount of go 8th, which would just nuke the price, obviously, and people would get hurt from that. So yeah, as Greg said, this is not a public good, this is harmful. This is not something that we should be encouraging.
00:07:07.690 - 00:07:48.422, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, these things, even though they're centralized, these testnets, they are permissionless still, you can build pretty much whatever you want on them. Yes, there may be a chance that it gets stopped because of the centralized nature of the test net, but generally it's kind of hard to coordinate that. And generally things are left alone because you want these testnets to be as close to main net as possible. And if you start changing anything, if you start doing hard forks and if you start doing irregular state transitions, you can potentially screw something up and then you have to restart the testnet, which is a coordination effort in of itself. It just gets very messy. So yeah, I think I most just take issue with the fact that layer zero labs called this a public good, when that's just, it's not a public good at all. It's just speculative stuff that's going on here.
00:07:48.422 - 00:08:18.860, Speaker A: It's not even regenerative finance, because the people speculating on Goethe are not developers. And the fact that they're putting a price on it and they're selling it to the open market means that developers may have to potentially pay in real ETH to get their hands on this sort of stuff because people would be hoarding it as a speculative vehicle. So. So, yeah, that. That's my main issue here with that. But I guess generally there are different opinions on this. There are some opinions that say that, well, if we can't solve the issue of getting go eat into people's hands for free, well, let the market sort it out.
00:08:18.860 - 00:08:45.048, Speaker A: And, I mean, I can kind of understand that, I guess, like, argument, but even though I don't agree with it, and I feel like this is something that's been discussed over the years, um, when it comes to testnets, generally, it's always been an issue. And I don't think adding value to the testnet ETH, no matter what testnet it is, actually solved this issue, solves this issue. Maybe it's a case of. I mean, in some world, it solves the issue, but then creates more issues. So it wasn't even worth it. Right. The q is worse than the disease, so to speak.
00:08:45.048 - 00:09:11.496, Speaker A: We'll have to see how this plays out. I mean, generally, if you do have goeth and you want to speculate on it and trade around with that, that you're free to do so. I had a bunch of girly ETH. Actually, I think I had, like, 20 or 30,000 of the things. But when I wiped one of my PCs, I forgot to back up that address because I had metamask on there. But I knew that there wasn't any real ETH on there, so I just wiped it. And I didn't, obviously, keep the seed phrase or anything like that.
00:09:11.496 - 00:09:32.084, Speaker A: And then I remembered I'm like, oh, damn, I actually have a lot of goeth on there. Now. I wouldn't have sold it. I would have, of course, donated it to the core devs or to it, maybe not even the core devs, to whoever wanted to use girly, but I don't have access to that anymore. But, I mean, if you do, I would encourage you. I mean, it's totally up to you what you want to do with it. You could sell it into this, this pool if you have some.
00:09:32.084 - 00:09:58.394, Speaker A: But, I mean, I don't even know what the conversion rate is right now. As I said, like, they started off at $0.10 so one girly ETH got you $0.10 worth of real ETH, which is obviously a massive reduction on what really is worth. So yeah, it just depends how much you have there. So you're free to do whatever you want with it. But obviously I would encourage you to give it back to the community, give and actually make your girly ETH a public good rather than selling it into but stacking more ETH.
00:09:58.394 - 00:10:27.964, Speaker A: I get it, I get it. But yeah, anyway, you can go read both of these threads, the layer zero labs thread and Greg's thread. I'll link them in the YouTube description below. All right, so speaking of getting your hands on testnet ETH, Coinbase wallet announced today that you can now get free testnet, ETH, matic, avax, bnb and ftm all in one place. So they have a faucet here which allows you to get 0.1 girly ETH per day. So obviously it's not worth it to, to.
00:10:27.964 - 00:10:55.476, Speaker A: I guess I get, get the. Get the girly ETH from these four set and then sell it. It's not very scalable. You're not going to get much out of it, but it is worth it for people who want to use the girly ETH testnet, of course. And then they've got like a testnet for polygon, Mumbai for sepolia as well, for optimism and any other networks like avalanche, Phantom, BNB. Pretty cool that coinbase is doing this. And I think it's very timely as well that it came just as all this drama was bubbling to the surface here.
00:10:55.476 - 00:11:29.238, Speaker A: But this is a public good, right? As I said before, what layer zero did isn't a public good. What Coinbase is doing here is a public good. Like they're just basically spinning up this service. It is free to use, obviously it's limited to prevent the forces from running dry, but it's providing a free public goods service to Ethereum developers or other, you know, other EVM developers generally. Who, who wants to get their hands on Testnet ETH in order, or Testnet other, these other tokens in order to test their apps on the testnet. So kudos to Coinbase for doing this. Just another goal that Coinbase has kicked lately.
00:11:29.238 - 00:12:18.842, Speaker A: Man, I feel like I'm talking about them all the time these days. But yeah, good on them for doing this. All right, so the Beacon chain service here have said on Twitter, as promised, the option to broadcast voluntary exits has been added to the Jejung Beacon chain website here. So they said that we are confident that it will facilitate a smooth transition for most users. P's added some withdrawal stats at the top. So basically from what I can see here is essentially what you want to do is broadcast a voluntary exit and you can have obviously your request job done here, status completed, type voluntary exit created time submitted to no time and then it will list out the affected validator. So basically what this allows you to do is exit staking like that.
00:12:18.842 - 00:12:57.258, Speaker A: In layman's terms, it allows you to withdraw your stake from the validator, sorry, from your validator and then exit it out and obviously get your ETH back or get your 32 ETH back if you're a solo validator here. Rocker pool I believe is going to have their own version of this because obviously they have their own system where, you know, as a node operator you're not staking 32 ETH, you're staking 16 ETH. And then 10% of that is is RPL tokens as well. So. Yeah, and I think that's coming with the upgrade shortly after the the week withdrawals go live as well. But yeah, cool to see this from Beacon chain live on the jejung testnet. Obviously this will be live on Mainnet when Mainnet hits and you can go play around with it on Jejung.
00:12:57.258 - 00:13:21.786, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, so the ultrasound money account highlighted that over the last seven days, 99.7% of all Ethereum blocks were above the ultrasound barrier. This is huge. Obviously it's not 100%, but it's pretty close to 100%. But this is absolutely massive because the ultrasound barrier is currently at 16.6 way, right.
00:13:21.786 - 00:14:18.296, Speaker A: And, and as more eat get staked, this goes up. But the fact that it's a bear market and we've been above this ultrasound barrier for pretty much the entirety of, of a week, which is, you know, obviously not a long period of time, but a pretty, a pretty decent period of time there speaks to the fact that the Ethereum network is still adding so much value to people. It's still generating so much value for itself, obviously, generally generating a lot of value that gets burnt, sorry, a lot of value for ETH holders via the burn and things like that. And this is with the back of the backdrop of L2, is continuing to grow a lot as well. I did highlight yesterday how arbitram is growing and I'm going to talk about that in a sec as well. But I mean, it just seems that a demand for Ethereum block space is insatiable at the end of the day, Ethereum is still processing millions and millions of dollars worth of fear for you. I mean, I checked, I think it's seven or $8 million over the last 24 hours, most of which gets burned.
00:14:18.296 - 00:14:48.526, Speaker A: There is just incredible demand to use the Ethereum network, incredible demand to use the L2s as well. And the fact that it's still a bear market just speaks to the sustainable demand that I've been talking about a lot lately, which we've seen kind of proliferate over the last six or so months. So just very, very cool to see this. Obviously, we don't expect to be above the ultrasound barrier. If the ultrasound barrier goes, goes a lot higher, we don't expect to be above it 100% of the time. We don't. Even when it's relatively low, we don't expect to be above it 100% of the time.
00:14:48.526 - 00:15:22.202, Speaker A: And it's always good to, I guess, stay grounded and not extrapolate things out. Just, I mean, in the bull market, we got a bit ahead of ourselves. People being like, oh, you know, 100 way gas fees, we're going to burn so much ETH, you know, and then extrapolating out the yields that stakers would get from that. But I guess a lot of people failed to account for the fact that those fees weren't going to last in a bear market. We weren't going to have 100 wave fees in the bear market. But in saying that, I think the fact that we've been above the ultrasound barrier at 16 GwEi plus has surprised a lot of people because of the fact that the market is still relatively quiet. And it's honestly surprised me, to be honest.
00:15:22.202 - 00:16:00.112, Speaker A: I actually thought that we would be below ten g until demand really came back. But yeah, it seems that demand for Ethereum block space is definitely insatiable here. Uh, but yeah, anyway, um, I just wanted to highlight that one. I will move and on and talk about the arbitram stuff that I wanted to talk about. So as I said yesterday, or as I showed yesterday, the chart from Arbiscan that Arbitrum was doing a lot of transactions per day. Uh, Stephen Goldfeder, the co founder of Option Labs here, put out a tweet where he said, for the first time ever, arbitrum one processed more transactions than Ethereum over the last 24 hours. We're witnessing history as Ethereum's roll up centric roadmap becomes a reality.
00:16:00.112 - 00:16:38.480, Speaker A: Congrats, arbnauts. You did this now? I did check on this, actually, after yesterday's refuel the RB scan charts for daily transactions is not counting system messages. I remember I mentioned yesterday how depending on what data source they're using, it can count system messages. Well, it's not. So these are actual transactions happening on the arbitrum one network, which is just incredible. I mean, when you really think about the implications of this, I think it, and the implications of this in a bear market, it gets really exciting. And Hunter here from the, from the off chain labs team also contextualized this for us.
00:16:38.480 - 00:17:18.936, Speaker A: He said ethereum scaling is here, and it's called arbitrum. Take a look at this efficiency. So on Feb of last year, pre nitro arbitrum one network, there are about 100,000 transactions over a period of a day, and $165,000 in fees were paid. But a year later, right post nitro, they did almost a million transactions on the day with only $155,000 in fees. So that's a 8.7 times increase in capacity with $10,000 saved in fee. So more transactions per day, less fees, thanks to nitro, thanks to all the upgrades that came with nitro and of course the batching that they do for arbitram one.
00:17:18.936 - 00:17:36.236, Speaker A: This is how a theorem scales. Guys like this is what I've been talking about for years now. This is a theorem scaling. This is an extension of Ethereum's block space. Yes, I know these things are still relatively centralized. I know that arbitrum ones fraud proofs are permissioned. Yes, I know that.
00:17:36.236 - 00:18:11.118, Speaker A: Optimism doesn't, doesn't have fraud proofs yet. Yes, the ZKVM's aren't even live yet. Right. And pretty much all the l two s are generally centralized or have training wheels on them. But I don't think that's the point when you really kind of, when you really think about it, these things are actually using the technology that. Well, the same technology that they're going to be using in their mature state. Really the only major difference for, I guess, arbitrum is the fact that their fraud proof is permissioned, but at the end of the day, it's still using the same fraud proof system that they would use if it was permissionless and with optimism.
00:18:11.118 - 00:18:44.974, Speaker A: Their fraud proofs aren't live yet, so it's a little bit different, but they will be live relatively soon. So the actual technology powering the roll up itself, powering the scalability, is, from what I understand, going to be the same whether it's centralized or decentralized. So I don't think that that really matters because of that. But I understand people's reservations here, and as I've said before, I wouldn't be trusting all of your money on these networks just yet. There are real concerns here. But the technology itself is real. It's working as advertised, and it's scaling Ethereum, which is obviously something that we can all get excited about.
00:18:44.974 - 00:19:22.660, Speaker A: All right, moving on. So ETH Global has announced that they're going to be hosting a scaling Ethereum hackathon on March 10 to March 29, where they said, join hundreds of developers worldwide in shaping the future of our ecosystem to win over $125,000 worth of prizes. And in this thread, they go over basically what this all entails, how you can get involved, how you can potentially win some of those prizes there. So this isn't too far away, actually. I mean, March 10 is 18 days away, and then you have 19 days worth of this hackathon. I think this is online. I don't think this is a in person hackathon.
00:19:22.660 - 00:19:39.828, Speaker A: So anyone in the world obviously can participate from the comfort of their home. I believe if you go to ETH global.com slash scaling, I think, yeah, it's a virtual hackathon. There we go. And you can apply to hack here as well if that's something that you're interested in there. But yeah, I guess ETH global always does these sorts of things. They do in person.
00:19:39.828 - 00:20:14.164, Speaker A: They do virtual hackathons. I've judged a bunch of them. They're probably one of the best, if not the best, places to get your start as a developer within Ethereum. If you feel comfortable enough to do that, because what you, what happens is that typically a lot of the judges and a lot of the people paying attention to these hackathons are VC's, right? Are funds that are looking to invest in interesting ideas. So if you think you've got something interesting around scaling Ethereum here for this hackathon in particular, and you think that you've got what it takes to build something that can attract investment, well, go for it. Like, this is one of the best shots that you can have. So definitely go apply.
00:20:14.164 - 00:20:55.404, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so an announcement out of superfluid. So they've introduced something called superfluid vesting, which is an open, liquid and composable vesting solution. So essentially they say here, we believe that frictionless, composable nature of superfluid streams make them a perfect fit for token vesting, which is why we developed the superfluid vesting suite. It includes a sleek, no code vesting solution for projects, plus a smart contract vesting framework. Superfluid vesting offers a multitude of benefits, such as a simple, beautiful UI, full liquidity, unrivaled composability, reduced volatility, and enhanced security. So, and then they go on and saying, you know how simple it is to set up a vesting.
00:20:55.404 - 00:21:33.074, Speaker A: I kind of stream and some more information about that here, as well as the Twitter spaces that they'll be hosting. I mean, that's probably already gone past by the time you've watched the refuel, but you can check out the link to that, obviously, in the YouTube description below. And just to disclose you here, I am an investor in superfluid. Now, when you see vesting, I think a lot of people's minds go to vesting of like VC's and private investments and angel investors. And that's true, obviously, for a lot of, a lot of people. But vesting generally gets done in crypto for things like airdrops, liquidity mining, I mean, curved investing for their airdrop, right. That's one of the first examples of it.
00:21:33.074 - 00:21:57.334, Speaker A: And these things are usually done by, by building custom contracts, right. Or custom built in house contracts. So to be able to, to do that via another solution, well, that's what superfluid is doing here. That's what they want to do, and that's their goal here. There is another team that I'm also invested in that's been working on this as well that I've talked about on the, on the refuel called liquify. But it's great that, that superfluity is doing this as well. I mean, obviously, I say it all the time.
00:21:57.334 - 00:22:28.066, Speaker A: Competition breeds innovation, and competition is good for everyone. But yeah, if you want to check this out for yourself, you can. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, some sobering news out of the polygon ecosystem yesterday. So Sandeep, one of the co founders of Polygon, put out a tweet thread. But any started off by saying polygon has grown exponentially. To continue on this path of stupendous growth, we have crystallized our strategy for the next five years to drive mass adoption of web3 by scaling Ethereum.
00:22:28.066 - 00:23:08.368, Speaker A: Our treasury remains healthy with a balance of over $250 million and over 1.9 billion matic, which is a lot of matic. I mean, at current prices, that is, what, two and a half, $3 billion worth of Matic. So definitely, obviously a lot of matic. Now, the sobering part here is the second tweet where he says, a big part of this strategy includes unifying all our teams under Polygon labs to drive more growth. As part of this consolidation process, we've made a difficult decision to reduce our team by 20%, impacting multiple teams and about 100 positions. So this was, this was, this was a kind of interesting thing to pay attention to because I read through some of the quote tweets, some of the replies, and people were confused.
00:23:08.368 - 00:23:41.860, Speaker A: I think that some of the replies said, you know, you raised $450 million a year ago. Does that mean you've spent $200 million already? And then Sundeep replied by saying, you know, we have $100 million venture fund as well, which they use to fund projects in the ecosystem. Now, I'm not, I obviously don't know what they're spending the money on. I don't know kind of what their accounting looks like. I don't know what their book looks like or anything like that. All I know is the information that's been presented here. But what I do know is that in bull markets, teams, no matter who they are, over hire.
00:23:41.860 - 00:24:22.458, Speaker A: Right. I remember seeing Coinbase actually over hire like crazy in the bull market and then have to cut pretty much every team or every project, no matter what it is, has cut stuff or has cut positions as cut team members simply based on the fact that, yes, they have money, but they need to preserve that money. We don't know how long the bear market is going to last. You can't always rely on, on the market to save you and, you know, you don't know what the, what the environment's going to be like two years from now, let alone five years from now. So you always have to be prudent. And when you over hire like that as well, you tend to hire for positions that become redundant very quickly, positions that were just really not needed. But, but you are hiring because you had so much money flowing and there was so much excitement, there was so much to do.
00:24:22.458 - 00:25:13.546, Speaker A: So it's, it's kind of the same thing. I mean, this is, this is the, the, this is something that happens throughout all market cycles, of course, but it's really prominent where over hiring in bull market, cutting the fat in bear market now, obviously people losing their jobs is not a good thing. It's, it's really sad for those people. But at the end of the day, if they were in jobs that were considered something that wasn't valuable to the company or something that was going to just get cut regardless, doesn't matter if it's now or in a few months, then it's probably better to just to rip the band aid off and those people to go find roles elsewhere. And, and I totally understand if those people get burnt, bent, burnt out from crypto, maybe they don't work in the ecosystem anymore. That's up to them. I'm not saying that it's a good thing this happened, but what I am saying is that for the long term health of a lot of these projects, they can't operate in bull market mode during a bear market.
00:25:13.546 - 00:25:31.386, Speaker A: And we saw this happen last cycle and the cycle before that. This and that doesn't just happen in crypto. It's happened all over web two as well. It's happened all over the traditional system generally. But what you want to look at is the growth trend over the long term. If these teams keep growing. Right, over the longer term, but I.
00:25:31.386 - 00:26:10.096, Speaker A: More of a slow and steady pace. It means that their project has been growing, it means that it's sustainable, it means that it is adding a lot of value to the world generally, and it's okay. But then also, not all teams are created equal, right? Not all projects are created equal. Some projects require a lot of, a lot of people as part of the staff, some projects don't. For example, a centralized exchange requires a lot of staff to do both customer support and compliance, right. Whereas something like Uniswap, for example, decentralized exchange, they don't need customer support, right. They probably do have compliance, but it's a much smaller team because they're not, they don't take custody of assets.
00:26:10.096 - 00:26:51.990, Speaker A: They have lawyers, but again, much smaller amount of lawyers than something like a coinbase would have. And then everything that goes into, obviously, managing custody of a centralized exchange, all the infrastructure stuff like that, whereas Uniswap doesn't have to worry about that stuff. Obviously, they have to worry about infrastructure to an extent, but it's on a much kind of smaller scale because as I said, they don't custody funds. So it's totally normal for this to happen here, even to teams that raised a lot of money. At the end of the day, as Sandeep said here, $100 million is going towards funding projects within the ecosystem. And that can go relatively quickly because there are a lot of projects building on polygon. They used a bunch of money to acquire those Ek teams as well, which was a pretty substantial amount of money.
00:26:51.990 - 00:27:21.526, Speaker A: And they want to make sure that their treasury is, it can last as long as possible. And I'm sure they did. The they look at their books and they looked at their team headcount and it's, okay, well, if we keep paying this much every month after x amount of months, we're going to run out of money. And, you know, maybe they don't want to raise again because they don't want to sell their, their medic. Maybe they want to hold the money because they feel like if they sell now, they're selling it at a price that maybe they believe is, is too cheap. So, yeah, that's the decision that they've got made and gone with. Now, you guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon.
00:27:21.526 - 00:27:55.862, Speaker A: I'm not trying to sugarcoat this or anything like that. And obviously there is a bias here from me. But I think when you look at the space generally and you just look at how things work generally in cycles, there's always an over hiring, crazy kind of period. Then there is a cutting the fat period during a bear market or cutting, you know, what you have to during a bear market in order to guarantee sustainability for, as Sandeep said here, five years, ten years sort of thing, in order to make sure the project not only survives but also thrives. But, yeah, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:27:55.862 - 00:28:02.654, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
