00:00:00.170 - 00:00:50.480, Speaker A: I'm David. You guys might know me as HitterA from the Uniswap discord. I've been in the space of Uniswap for quite a while. I'm really passionate about it, as the people that have seen me probably know. And I really have the predication that a lot of this is going to change the world. So I'm going to pull up my slides here really quick and we'll kind of start going through that one moment here. All right, so Penguin Party is a meta governance Dao that participates as a governance delegate on the Uniswap and compound protocols.
00:00:50.480 - 00:01:50.392, Speaker A: We operate Penguin Swap, which is an open source community run interface for Uniswap and Penguin Analytics, which is pretty much just a nice little community run fork of Uniswap info from the V. Two days of Uniswap. Penguin Party was created with the mission of returning value to the Uni holders who delegate to it. With our Uniswap grant request, we receive funding to further develop in app analytics, automatic arbitrage manual pathing and a network topology visualization. So like a visual network graph of Uniswap where we want you to be able to see the liquidity pools and the connections between these liquidity pools and get a more intuitive feel for what these liquidity pools are doing and how the money is moving around. So we have three values that I've tried to stick with throughout my journey in running Penguin Party and it's really simple. We want to return value to the holders of Uni.
00:01:50.392 - 00:02:43.448, Speaker A: We want to incentivize decentralization, make sure no one particular group has a lot of ownership over the Dow in any kind of way that would be bad. And I was around for the original Dao, which kind of failed. And so it's really important that we stay true to these decentralized values and prevent things like that. And lastly, we want to fund protocol development. And so what that looks a lot like is like the Uniswap grants program, which we've been really passionate about and we think has really allowed a lot of different applications to thrive. So our team is kind of made up of a diverse group of people from all around the world who have all come together to help build the most cutting edge financial applications on open source software. We have an ethos of freeing and empowering people from all walks of life.
00:02:43.448 - 00:03:15.152, Speaker A: We want to democratize access to these products and governance protocols for everybody in the Third World. The First World, whether you're rich or poor, we want you to be a part of this revolution in the way that we do things. So all of us on our team can be found in our discord. You can get involved with us directly. We're always available in this screenshot right here is directly from that. You can see our discord names. Everybody here is somebody you can PM and they're all super friendly.
00:03:15.152 - 00:03:52.000, Speaker A: So you can always be free to say hi to us we're friendly people. So what we currently do is develop open source software and public goods to improve the world. We're very mission focused on that. We want to ensure the composability of protocols we operate in and metagovern for the best interests of the little guy. We're focused on several products which are in active development and so we talked a little bit about penguinswap and penguin analytics. We're also working on something we call ETH Limo. So ETH Limo is an open source ENS gateway as an alternative to cloudflare's link gateway.
00:03:52.000 - 00:04:26.216, Speaker A: And as well, we are finishing up in close to deploying an on chain governance dow that we call Castle. So it's going to be an open source Dao deployment and governance token standard. And it draws from a lot of different primitives that are kind of currently available in this space. So it draws from everything from the sushi bar to compound governance standards. It's very neat. So we have a couple of different tokens that we've launched as part of our ecosystem. So we have the Fish token and it's the main token of Penguin Party.
00:04:26.216 - 00:04:53.776, Speaker A: It represents voting power in the Penguin Party. We have tori which is wrapped adi. The Tory contract redirects the underlying ADAI's interest to the Penguin Party treasury. We have Crab and it's wrapped comp. So the crab contract delegates the underlying comp to Penguin Party. We have shrimp which are wrapped uni. So the shrimp contract delegates all of the Uni held in the contract to Penguin Party.
00:04:53.776 - 00:05:48.070, Speaker A: So part of the benefit of that is that you can liquidity pool and use your governance power at the same time, which is very cool. And lastly, we have this upcoming Castle Token and so that's really exciting and we're getting close to launching it. So our current roadmap kind of looks a little bit like this. We've finished up this Castle dow which we've been hard at work on the last couple of months. And our ETH Limo is kind of entering into a testing base with our partners. So we want to provide an ENS gateway that is kind of a competitor to cloudflare solution in this space and we're super duper excited about that. And lastly, we have the UGP grant stuff that we're working on for Penguin Swap and that we want to kind of commit back improvements to the Uniswap interface and we've been hard at work on that as well.
00:05:48.070 - 00:06:34.660, Speaker A: And so that kind of has four main deliverables. So we want to put analytics directly into the application. We believe users should have enough information about the tokens they are swapping and pooling in app to make somewhat informed decisions without leaving the app. So if you've used Uniswap, you're probably very familiar with having multiple windows open to try to get graphs and look at the performance of different pools and that sort of thing. And we want to do our best to simplify that. So we've gotten done with graphs for our tokens and swap modals. We're working on stuff like the API estimations shown in the pool pages, fee earnings and token price changes in the token list component.
00:06:34.660 - 00:07:27.412, Speaker A: We've finished automatic arbitrage, so users should have all the same capabilities as our bots and should be able to route from any token back to that same token and look for opportunities to profit. The app should have a feature to report arbitrage opportunities to users in some way. So penguin swap does that. Currently you can route any token back to itself, say swap USD coin for USDCoin or ETH to ETH and the app will automatically look for arbitrage opportunities so that you can swap one token for more of itself. And it's very cool. We call it Roulette as well. We want to work on manual pathing which comes with things like user customizable routing, token lists, user defined max hops ad hop weights and manual route selection, which will kind of get combined into the last thing on here.
00:07:27.412 - 00:08:26.564, Speaker A: Which is the more difficult project that we've had on the back burner for a while, which is a visual network graph of uniswap's liquidity pool network. So that'll be pretty easy to conceptualize if you're familiar with network graphs at all. Basically it'll be like a map of Uniswap. So you'll be able to see the liquidity pools, see how big they are, you'll be able to see the connections between these different tokens and it'll kind of give you really easy instant feedback about which tokens are big, which ones are getting a lot of volume and those sort of things. And I think that will help people understand the kind of complexity of the connections between these tokens. So I practice something I call uniswap as a philosophy. So arbitrage creates volume for liquidity pools and it's the core mechanism for price synchronization that's happening on the blockchain.
00:08:26.564 - 00:09:07.792, Speaker A: It's keeping all of these tokens aligned to correct market demand. Arbitrage in and of itself through barter and trade is one of the core economic functions of society. And this, I believe, is going to revolutionize one of these aspects of our society. So Uniswap represents a fundamental change in the design of markets because it enables a global audience to create new markets in a permissionless way. And that's super important. More profitable trading opportunities arise from highly connected nodes in a network graph. And so users need better and more visual data on this network graph, which is extremely complex.
00:09:07.792 - 00:09:56.256, Speaker A: We want to get better analytics data to traders and blues using Uniswap. But this goes further. We envision a world where Microsoft shares and cans of Coca Cola could be directly liquidity pooled without involving a fiat currency, where all commodities have fair prices determined by globally accessible markets, without exposing every single nation to the risk of any particular nation's sovereign currency. And this should be the highest priority goal of our ecosystem of ethereum in general. We want to make the old traditional world of banking irrelevant by creating something better. We're able to add value to our users trades by providing more intelligence directly in the app. Our more advanced routing explores more opportunities passing arbitrage profits to front end users instead of bots.
00:09:56.256 - 00:10:35.344, Speaker A: We help users feel comfortable with their true trades and stay true to our values of democratizing access to these tools. Our goal is to make trading and pooling so simple anyone could do it. Because the future of labor is an ideation and speculation. Nobody should be excluded from financial or governance systems due to ease of use barriers. And that's super important. We want to make these things easy so that we can onboard the next million users into DeFi. And so our monetization strategy is really simple, and I try and stick with this as a quote in a way that we run Penguin Party, right? We make money when you make money.
00:10:35.344 - 00:11:34.768, Speaker A: We want to keep our incentives aligned with the customers that are using our products. And by adding value to their experience, they will add value to our experience. And we're cooperative, right? And that kind of comes down to the last point, which is that we collaborate with and add value to and love Uniswap instead of competing with it. Like something like SushiSwap would do. By being a delegate of Uniswap with a vested interest, and by routing trades through Uniswap instead of our own liquidity factory, we honor the people who created the open source software we use, right? And that allows us to be a part of Uniswap. Instead of trying to compete with it, we're trying to add value to Uniswap and to the traders and to govern Uniswap in a way that returns real value to the holders of Uni. And so sometimes that value isn't necessarily financial value, sometimes that value is in software.
00:11:34.768 - 00:12:20.076, Speaker A: And so that is the biggest, most important thing that we can do for Uniswap and that the Uniswap Grants program has achieved is creating software that adds to the experience of the traders and liquidity poolers and the holders of guinea. And so this is a slide that kind of details how Roulette works. And so this is super important for everybody in the system to understand. And it's really simple. It's called Triangle Arbitrage. So let's say that we have 1000 fish that we can change for 860 of Token X. So 860 token X is 590 token Y's and 590 token Y's is 1001 fish.
00:12:20.076 - 00:12:54.328, Speaker A: So you started with 1000 fish, you ended with 1001. And here is a screenshot on the other side of a trade through King One swap where a user is swapping ten Tori for 11.2 Tori. So that's $10 for $11. Not the most profitable trade anyone's ever seen, but it is impressive from a technical perspective. So you can see that there's some interesting look to the route down there. So that's because each one of those things on Penguinswap is clickable.
00:12:54.328 - 00:13:52.624, Speaker A: You can go to the Uniswap info page for that particular token or by clicking the arrows between to the pair page. And that's part of what we're trying to do here, about getting people better info about these trades and about the US dollar values and things like that. And we think that providing the right opportunities to people is super important. So I'm going to get more into the philosophical aim of Penguins Party and what we really care about because we're a mission oriented organization. So this is about the fourth Industrial revolution and I am going to kind of humorously call this Universal Republica. So you can almost imagine like a global governance system. So as the 21st century comes into full swing, the internet, ethereum starlink, space colonization and other emergent technologies take hold.
00:13:52.624 - 00:14:26.900, Speaker A: A new industrial revolution comes into focus. A new political philosophy takes shape. One centered on transparency, openness, composability and open source software. One centered on the abundance of resources that will be available to mankind in this final industrialized phase of society. From private space exploration, global cooperation and the imminent realization that we must take better care of our Earth and its inhabitants. Something that more equitably distributes value and aligns participants to common goals. Something between libertarianism and socialism with regard to human rights and the prosperity of entrepreneurs.
00:14:26.900 - 00:15:02.592, Speaker A: A Penguin Party, if you will, a political philosophy of code as law as we move to deploy the Castle Dow. I do so with these ideas that I believe will transform mankind and society in mind and as long term goals of the Dao. Firstly, I want to see a basic income for every person on earth. We want to put crypto in the hands of every person on earth and onboard the next billion users into the ethereum ecosystem and incentivize them to invest, develop and participate. We want to create jobs in the new Web 3.0 economy. We want to see products as tokens.
00:15:02.592 - 00:15:44.752, Speaker A: We want every commodity on Earth to become wrapped tokenized and placed in uniswap liquidity pools. That's a pretty hefty goal. But as a long term goal, that is what I want to see happen. With governance protocols to control the distribution and production of these goods, unisox Imturc, Kickstarter and others proved this was not only possible, but profitable. And the Coronavirus has shown us that we must embrace a new normal in the way that we produce and consume goods. We want all goods to become public goods. And what I mean by that is that the internet is a public good, right? There are corporations that provide various types of infrastructure.
00:15:44.752 - 00:16:31.280, Speaker A: There's ISPs there's cable companies, there's a lot of different corporations involved and of course those corporations want to make money. But the internet is a public good that really benefits everybody in a very equal way. It benefits poor people, middle class people and rich people. And so I refer to that as a common good, it's a public good. And we also care about quadratic decision making. So every economic function should become governable and consumers of products should have more say in the products they consume. People are more important than wealth, power should be more equitably distributed, and quadratic decision making is an innovation that prevents governance protocols from being strictly plutocratic.
00:16:31.280 - 00:17:14.636, Speaker A: I think that's super important. So Fiddlelic wrote a great paper about quadratic voting and I really recommend everybody read it. It's super great. And if you're familiar with civil resistance or bright ID and things like that, you should be familiar with the concept. So, on the subject of capsules, as an experienced protocol politician, I've been pondering governance as it relates to protocols for some time. And I have increasingly seen the promise that what we are building in the ethereum ecosystem is going to transform governments and economies. Cryptography will be used to secure elections, blockchains will be used to record results for auditors to mathematically prove the validity of elections.
00:17:14.636 - 00:17:52.312, Speaker A: And there will be no need for people to wander to polls or register to vote, because participation will be an inherent part of the Web Three economy. Castle is my vision for how optimum governance of a community of people should operate through incentive alignment. Participants are engaged to communicate and develop products together. It's modeled after the tried and true republic system. Castle represents the digitization of the idea of a nation state. It's organized on its base level by holders of the token, which we call Castle. The power of the passive token holders is to delegate votes to candidates or themselves and to vote on proposals periodically.
00:17:52.312 - 00:18:39.420, Speaker A: A function is available to be called on the contract, which enables the top X collection of senators to claim seats. Senators with valid seats are able to suggest proposals. They vote internally on whether to create a proposal that passes to the general public to affect the treasury, expend money, mint new tokens, et cetera. Periodically, an executive is also elected by general vote who can create proposals without having admin senators. The senators and the executive both have the power to veto each other's proposals, prevent bad actors from gaming the system. This should sound very familiar to you if you live in a western country. Most of our countries are structured as republics and I think that that is the best way to prevent takeovers or incidents like the Dow from happening.
00:18:39.420 - 00:19:49.692, Speaker A: And so Castle is kind of built on the compound governance system. It basically uses multi level deployment of governance tokens to achieve what is more hierarchical and similar to a republic. So you have something more like an executive at the top and that would be me as the founder and leader. And eventually I would be replaced by a vote. Then we have a group of senators who are kind of elected by the common people and the power of the Dow is coming through the bottom here you can see that we have various tokens like shrimp and crab that are kind of giving us governance power on other protocols. And so we want to focus on creating a lot of those kinds of grab tokens and accruing power in a variety of places and then making sure that we distribute that power equitably through fish. So Castle as I mentioned just a moment ago, is a meta deployment and flight modification of compound's governance system which Uniswap shares.
00:19:49.692 - 00:21:00.970, Speaker A: This makes it compatible and composable with many of the applications that currently integrate access to governance as well. We plan to publish the contracts and deployment instructions for Castle as open source code so that anyone can build their own castle. It's of course built out of a lot of open source primitives. It has a republic like structure that we believe will prevent incidents like the Dao from recurring while enabling fluid democracy. The Dao for Penguin Party will control all of the DApps that we have created through ENS directly. It has the power to mint fish, control the transaction taxes on Penguin swap, shrimp, crab and Tori to do buybacks, to liquidity pool assets and to metagover other protocols such as placing votes or voting yes or no on a Uniswap proposal. So that's kind of the idea of Castle and that gets into how Fish, our current token kind of escalates into a routing token and it goes through something I humorously referred to as the Fish site.
00:21:00.970 - 00:22:03.550, Speaker A: And so basically Fish is planned to begin a minting phase after the Dow becomes functional and online. By voting on Minting a Fish, holders of Castle are able to inflate Fish within certain limitations. It's range restricted to a percentage. The percentage is somewhere between zero and 4% is the most that it's allowed to inflate per year. And the reason that the Dow has this power, much like a nation state, is to fund internal projects and make strategic investments in other projects. I humorously refer to it as the Fish Cycle, like I said, and it's pretty simple. So Fish are minted by the Dao and used to reward participants in the ecosystem that might look like a variety of things such as a basic income pilot program that we're kind of working on as well as things like paying out Bounties to open source developers that jump in and start working with us.
00:22:03.550 - 00:23:44.156, Speaker A: And the idea is that eventually those guys that are receiving those rewards are going to expend them, they're going to pull them or they'll wrap them in the Castle to increase their governance power in Kingwood Party. And as that happens, we're kind of continuously through smart contracts going to be buying back the fish with product revenues much like SushiSwap and sending them to the castle wrap and unwrap contract which again operates very similar to the sushi swap sushi bar and kind of functions as a way to reward participants in the staking, the governance staking contract and that kind of fulfills a natural cycle of these fish entering and exiting circulation. And I believe that kind of having that be a continuous process is really important. Basically it keeps things level and makes sure that it's not just a token, it's more of an ecosystem and it's more of a functional economy. Right? So this is kind of a slide about ETH Limo, which is something we haven't talked too much to the general public about, so I'm going to kind of briefly explain what it is and why you should care. ETH Limo is meant to solve a problem, and that problem is that names are not being resolved very well by Cloudflare, who is currently running the ETH Link service. And if you go to a variety of ETH Links, you'll see that they don't resolve super well.
00:23:44.156 - 00:24:21.092, Speaker A: And so we embarked on a mission to try and solve that and offer an alternative. So we offer a decentralized alternative to existing centralized solutions for accessing ENS IPFS content. Currently, the ability to publicly resolve and interact with ENS resources is contingent upon the cris of big tech. We're not big fans of that stylish and performant ride in Web Three. We use interregional infrastructure to ensure best name resolution. We have a lot of meme potential, everybody loves riding in a limo. We have a security first design, so there's a lot of strong domain isolation.
00:24:21.092 - 00:24:58.292, Speaker A: We have great encryption we're trying to give back. So the tech stack is being developed with open source and self hosting interests in mind. We aim to provide an out of the box cloud native solution for building public self healing Web 2.0 to Web 3.0 gateway infrastructure. So we have complete feature parity with East Link gateway services. Users will be able to request valid subdomain certificates like SSL certificates for their ENS projects, which is something if you've been hosting a ETH Link you're probably familiar with as well.
00:24:58.292 - 00:25:50.132, Speaker A: We're looking for seamless migrations for existing ETH Link projects. It's super simple. All you have to do is update your links to ETH Limo instead of ETH Link and you'll resolve through us once it's finished up employed, so it's not dependent upon infura. In the later stages. We will be using our own Ethereum client and RPC endpoint infrastructure to provide this service. We want to provide public ENS resolution over DNS, DNS over TLS and DNS over Https and we want to be the champions of ENS. We really strongly believe in building a more decentralized world and we think that providing E Limo as a public service helps facilitate the transition to a Web 3.0
00:25:50.132 - 00:26:35.188, Speaker A: world and allows these Dows and Smart contracts to trustlessly update IPFS content in a very secure way, in a very public and auditable way. So it aligns with all of our goals. It's a nice bit of tech that I think people have been sleeping on, so I promised a tale of penguins and who we are and how we got here. And it's a lot like a bedtime story or a really good dream. So once upon a time, there was a Uniswap AirDrop. It was a pretty legendary event. I'm sure a lot of you remember it.
00:26:35.188 - 00:27:06.424, Speaker A: It did an amazing thing. It redistributed wealth, and it changed the lives of everyone who had been involved with Uniswap. In version one, some bought new PS, five s, some bought new GPUs. Some saved their uni, but all were touched by the magic of the unicorn. There were many people from across the world who gathered together in celebration of this most magical event, and they congregated in a most magical place, as unicorns are known to do. The uniswap discord. A penguin named David received this AirDrop at a time in his life when it really mattered.
00:27:06.424 - 00:27:25.764, Speaker A: And this is his story. When I received the airdrop, I was just a regular guy working in a call center to credit bureau. I've been buying E since it crashed in early 2018. I've been in Bitcoin since 2012. I really saw the promise that Ethereum held. I taught myself solidity in 2017. I worked on some pet projects, but I never really had time.
00:27:25.764 - 00:28:04.784, Speaker A: What I wanted to do, which was web development, and that's what I studied for in college as a full time focus. It was near the time of the AirDrop when the lockdowns first started. I'm sure everyone's intimately familiar with them, and I'm sure you remember exactly what you were doing when it happened. For me, I lost my job, I lived off my savings, and I wondered how I would fit into a new normal. I was scared, just like everyone was right? I was really interested in DeFi, but never really actively involved. From time to time, I'd pop into compound Finance's discord. I'd bother Robert Leschner with some questions about implementation, who turned out to be a huge inspiration to me.
00:28:04.784 - 00:28:18.784, Speaker A: So. Thank you, Robert. Leschner. I love the way that he deals with the public. If any of you have ever been in his discord, I'm sure you know exactly what I'm talking about. Silently, I began making small investments. I learned solidity more fully.
00:28:18.784 - 00:28:48.460, Speaker A: It wasn't until the Uniswap AirDrop and the lockdown started that I decided I wanted to make a move. When Uni launched, I joined the discord. I got involved. A particular guy that you all might be familiar with, known as Borfor or Bora in the Uniswap discord really quickly picked me out, gave me the Friend of Uniswap title. I started answering people's questions about the AirDrop. It was a really busy time for Uniswap when governance began. I decided to throw in my hat.
00:28:48.460 - 00:29:13.904, Speaker A: Before I knew it, I had a million or so union votes. It was, like, incredible. There's a little news story over here on the side about it. That's when I realized that we needed a way to decentralize delegates and inward Party was born. We embarked on a mission to change the world. From that point on, I created a multi SIG through Gnosis to get people to delegate the votes to instead of me. I created the Queenland Party fish.
00:29:13.904 - 00:29:37.872, Speaker A: I threw them out to everybody that was voting for me. I set up a snapshot page to pass proposals through. We continued to expand. Not long after creating Fish, a group of magical friends came into the Uniswap discord and they told us they had a problem. They were one of our partners now Ethos, or previously known as Defo Hub. They had the idea they could create liquidity pools such as Biddlearte, RT, Unifi, et cetera. Only there was one problem.
00:29:37.872 - 00:30:06.970, Speaker A: Uniswap's interface was only programmed to use specific routing tokens. It's called preferred routing token list kind of big problem. And so after a lot of debate, I realized, hey, I can create penguin swap. This will fix this problem for this customer, I'll add Biddle as a preferred token. And that worked. It really solved that problem for them. So then I learned React Native and got penguinswap kind of production ready and we went from there.
00:30:06.970 - 00:30:50.020, Speaker A: And I think I'm coming towards the end of my lot of time. So I'll try and brush through, just get the last deets here and drop right out. I apologize for running over a little bit, but basically from there on, we created all these tokens and then we supported the Uniswap grants program. And we really strongly believe that Uniswap is going to change the world, right? And we've been really involved in it from the beginning. Our team has expanded from just being me to like ten people are working here now. I went from being really poor to being pretty middle class and well taken care of by the community and Uniswap team. And it really changed my life.
00:30:50.020 - 00:31:33.728, Speaker A: I think that for all you developers out there, things like these grants programs can really change your life. And so if you just get involved, you're in participating in these hackathons, those sort of things. There's a lot of valuable stuff happening in this ecosystem that actually is meaningfully changing the world and it's not just buzwords and things like that. So I'd like to take a moment just to thank all the voters who supported me, who helped nudge me in the right direction, people like Quora and the Uniswap grants program in general. It's been an absolute honor to be here for it. I wish I could have gotten more into the tale of the penguins, but I don't want to go over my time too much. Thank you.
00:31:33.728 - 00:31:49.030, Speaker A: Were there any questions or anything like that? David, thank you so much for that amazing talk and going over how you got into this space. This was super inspiring and it's been an awesome reception on the audience front.
