00:00:08.600 - 00:01:10.204, Speaker A: Okay, the recording has started and welcome everyone, and we continue with the mini course of Professor Nicolaou, please. Thanks. Thanks a lot. So let me remind you last result of yesterday, which was the that if imagine that you have an inner function with an interior fixed point. So this means that the draw wall fixed point is inside the disk. Then what we show is that harmonic measure is invariant. So this means that the harmonic measure from the point p of the perimeter of a set is the same as the harmonic measure of the set.
00:01:10.204 - 00:02:28.284, Speaker A: And this holds for any set for, say, any measurable set in the unit circle. So, in particular, if p is the origin, so for example, if p is the origin, so if s is inner and fixed is the origin, then of course, harmonic measure is just Lebec measured. Then what we showed was that Lebec measure is invariant. So the premature of a set is precisely the measure of the set. Okay? So for instance, just to have a picture, so assume that, for instance, if f is just a power of the identity, so f of z, imagine that f of z is z to the n, right? With an integer n, say, bigger than one. Then what happens is that when you have this mapping right, you have z to the n. So imagine the pre image of an arc.
00:02:28.284 - 00:03:23.078, Speaker A: So, for instance, this arc e. Well, the pre image of this arc is, of course, from the topological point of view, it's much more complicated. It's just a union of n de joint arcs. And the length of this disjoint arc of each of these disjoint arcs is just the measure of e divided by n. This is what I was meaning that topologically, the preimage can be very complicated, but still the measure is preserved. Next step is to show that actually not only harmonic measure or preserved by inner functions with an interior fixed point, but also that the corresponding, say, dynamical system is ergodic. So, let me recall the definition of ergodic.
00:03:23.078 - 00:04:36.234, Speaker A: So if you have, say, a mapping from, say, x to x, and you have a measure, you have a probability measure, or you have a measure on x, a positive measure on x, then we say that t is ergodic. We say that t mu is ergodic. If the following holes, if, whenever I mean the only sets which are preserved, we call this mu, are the sets of mu measure zero or one. So if this holds, then mu must be zero or one. So this means that the only sets which are invariant under the mapping t are precisely the sets of zero measure or total mass. So, I'm sorry. Here, mu is a probability measure, right? A probability measure on x.
00:04:36.234 - 00:05:25.914, Speaker A: This identity here means that these two sets coincide in, in the sense of the measure mu. So this means that these two sets, t minus one of v equal to v holds, except for sets of mu major equal to z. So these two sets could be different, but they could differ at most on a set of mu major equal to zero. Okay, so now here is the theorem that you have an inner function which is not an optomorphism, and who, which has an interior fixed point. You have an interior fixed point. Then we already showed that harmonic measure is invariant. But in this theorem, what we are going to show is that the harmonic measure is actually ergotic.
00:05:25.914 - 00:06:29.134, Speaker A: So it has this property that the only sets which are completely invariant are the trivial ones. So let me give you the proof of that. In the case where p is equal to zero. Well, when the function fixes the origin, actually, this is essentially all you need to prove, because if not, what you would do is to replace f by the composition of f with Mobius transformations in such a way that the composition fixes the origin. Okay? So in other words, without loss of generality, we can assume that fixes the origin. Okay? So let's show that then is our public. So, assume that you have a set e in the circle such that the preimage such that the set is completely invariant with respect to Lebec measure.
00:06:29.134 - 00:07:45.528, Speaker A: So, as I said, this means that these two sets, e and f minus one of e, can differ at most on a set of Lebec measure zero. Okay, then what? Recall that we know, we know that this important property, this is by Lefner's Lehman, right that we know this. Right that. Let me try this. We know that if we look to, let me say it that way, this was lef nerf lemma. Okay? So now we are assuming that f minus one of e is equal to e almost everywhere. So this means that this is precisely harmonic measure from the point z of e.
00:07:45.528 - 00:08:40.709, Speaker A: Okay? So now when you have this identity, when you have this identity from here to here, you can of course, iterate this argument. So now what we are going to do is we just iterate. And then iterating. What we get is that the nth iterate, remember that f to the n is the nth iterate, is equal to this. Okay? But now also remember that f was fixing the origin. So the origin was the dendro wall fixed point. So this implies that by the dendro wall fixed point theorem that the iterates, these iterates here converge uniformly on complex to the individual fixed point, which in this case is the origin.
00:08:40.709 - 00:10:08.708, Speaker A: So this means that this tends to zero, but of course, if this tends to zero, then this harmonic measure tends to the big measure of e when n tends to infinity. Well, so at the end, what we have proved is that this harmonic measure, the harmonic measure here, is a constant function, and the constant is precisely the measure of e. So then this handwinding measure is constant, and this is the measure of e for any z in the disk. But remember, the boundary values of the harmonic measure is precisely the indicator function of the set b. So then what we get is that the indicator function of the set e is the measure of e at almost every point. But the only way this could happen is that the set e has measured zero or one, right? So, sets of Flebec measure zero satisfy that and sets of Lebek major one, but these are the only ones. So this implies that e has to have, needs to have the leg measure zero or one.
00:10:08.708 - 00:11:30.406, Speaker A: And this proves that the mapping is ergodic. Okay? So at the end, what this theorem says is that when you have an interior fixed point, if you have an inner function with an interior fixed point, you can apply the ergodic theorem. And Bilkofer classical ergodic theorem tells that the temporal means of the iterates converge almost everywhere to the special mean of the mapping. So, this is the content of my next slide. If you have an inner function, which is not a rotation, which, say, fixes the origin, then this first part is the ergodic theorem. So, it says that when, whenever you look at the iterates and you take, well, g is going to be an interval function in the unit circle. And when you compute the spatial, I'm sorry, the temporal means of the iterates, then this converge to the mean of the function g at almost every point in the circle.
00:11:30.406 - 00:12:14.086, Speaker A: Okay, so this is ergodic theorem. So here I have just mentioned two easy consequences of the first part. So, assume, for instance, that you take g being the identity. Well, of course, if g is the identity, these temporal means are just the sum of the iterates. And of course, in that case, these integral. So this second part falls from the first part applied to this function g. But this already has a nice geometrical meaning.
00:12:14.086 - 00:13:51.224, Speaker A: It means the following, right, at almost every point. Remember that whenever you have a linear function, the boundary, the function defined at almost every, the function defined in the circle is only defined at almost every point. So you look at a point where this function and all the iterates are defined, and when you look, what you do here is you look to the orbit of this point, right? So you look to f of psi, f square of phi. These will be points in the circle and so on, okay? And what happens is that the mean of this orbit, so the mean of the orbit tends to the origin, okay? So this means that the orbit is, in a certain sense, well, well spread out all over the circle, so that the sum of all these values tend to the origin. Okay? So this is the first application, say, of theorem, the first example, and here is another example. Okay? So the second example is, assume that you have as g, the characteristic function of a set e. Okay? Then of course, in that case, this integral is precisely normalized Lebeque measure of e.
00:13:51.224 - 00:15:32.810, Speaker A: And what about this? Right? In that case, well, it's obvious that when, whenever you have the characteristics, the indicator function of e composed with fk, this is precisely the characteristic function of f minus k of e. Let me write it here. So this is what I mean that the characteristic function of e composed with f k is the characteristic function of f minus k of e. So this means that in here, in theorem, when you are computing that you are just adding characteristic functions of the pray images. So then this means that this sum counts precisely the amount of times up to time n, where the iterates lie in the cell e. So in this case, the ergodic theorem tells you that this mean, I mean, the proportion of the amount of times the orbit visits the set e, tends to normalize Lebec measure of E. Okay, so this is very nice, right? It says, for instance, that for almost every point, arcs of double length are visited, say, in proportion the double number of times than arcs of a fixed length.
00:15:32.810 - 00:16:28.932, Speaker A: Okay? So this gives you a good and nice understanding of how the orbits behave. In that case, when you have an interior fixed point, when f zero is equal to zero, if you have an interior fixed point which is not the origin, the same result holds. You just need to replace Lebec measure by harmonic measure from the fixed point. I have just stated it for simplicity in the case of functions fixed in the origin. So this is very nice. And also, I guess, opens the path to explore other situations. In particular, what happens when the dual wall fix point is not inside the unidisk, but it's on the boundary.
00:16:28.932 - 00:17:07.524, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the container of my next few slides. So what we now, the main goal is to understand well the behavior of the iterates when you have the wall fixed point in the boundary. Okay? So this is what we want to do. Right. You have an inner function with a fixed point in the boundary. You want to understand how the iterates behave. Well, first, a definition.
00:17:07.524 - 00:17:55.384, Speaker A: A mapping, say, from the circle into itself, is called recurrent. If for almost every point in the circle, when you look to the orbit, you approach infinitely often the initial point. So this means the following, right, that you have here the unit circle, you start with a point psi. Then the orbit, of course, visits, well, many other points. But it happens that infinitely often you are close to the point psi. Well, and here is the nice result by rancher. So it says the following.
00:17:55.384 - 00:19:04.562, Speaker A: You have an inner function which is not an optimal fist, and with the fixed point which is in the closed unit disk, as always, has to be, then you have two alternatives. You look to the sequence of iterates of the origin. Then this sequence of iterates satisfy the blascker condition. If this holes, if the iterates of the origin, satisfy the blascular condition, then it turns out that the durable fixed point is in the boundary. And moreover, it also attracts to any other point in the boundary. So this means that for almost every psi in the circle, the iterates, the whole orbit converges to this fixed point p. Okay, so remember that we already knew that if you have the durable fixed point, then the iterates converge to this dendritic wall, fixed point, uniformly and compacts inside the unidisc.
00:19:04.562 - 00:20:00.540, Speaker A: So this tells you that it converges. In that case, if this holds, this does not only hold on well in context of the unit disk, but also at almost every point in the boundary. Okay, so it's, so, first part is telling you that under this condition, the point p, the fixed point p, acts as an attractor even in the boundary. However, if the sum of, I'm sorry. If the orbit of the origin does not satisfy the Vlasque condition, then the map is recurrent. So this means that whenever you, you can, if you look to an orbit and you start in a given point, then the orbit visits this well, any neighborhood of this point, infinitely often. Okay, so it's like, this is a very nice result.
00:20:00.540 - 00:20:33.152, Speaker A: I like it a lot. And it's extremely, it describes well perfectly well, I guess, the behavior of the orbits. Under this condition, the orbit is attracted to the fixed point. Under this condition, the mapping is recurrent. So you visit your starting point infinitely often. So let me give the proof of that. Okay, so here is the result.
00:20:33.152 - 00:21:13.904, Speaker A: So assume that. So this is, will be a and this will be b. Okay? So let's look a. Okay, so we are assuming that the, the orbit of the origin satisfies the blascker condition. But remember that the orbit of the origin has to tend to the fixed point. Then of course, this implies that the modulus of p is equal to one. And then so p is in the boundary.
00:21:13.904 - 00:22:25.354, Speaker A: So the first part is trivial, right? The point is to show the second part that p acts as an attractor even in the boundary. Okay, so here is what we need to do. We have here the point p, the drawable fixed point. Let's consider an arc. So let I be an open arc. And we know to show, we need to show that the orbit of almost every point visits the arc I infinitely often. Okay, so this means that we need to show that the measure of this set is one, right? Because this tells that after a certain number of iterations, you always lie.
00:22:25.354 - 00:23:35.170, Speaker A: After a certain number, say n big n iterations, the orbit always lie on the arc I. Okay, so instead of showing that this has major one, what we are going to show is that the complement, the complement has major zero. So we need to show that the complement, which is this has measured equal to zero. And for this it is sufficient to show. This is a borrel can tell you argument. So, it is sufficient to show that the sum of the measures of f minus one of I is finite. Okay, so this is our goal to show this.
00:23:35.170 - 00:24:52.844, Speaker A: Okay, so let's do that. So we start with the sum of the measures and we write it as harmonic measures. This is the harmonic measure from the origin of the same set. And let me write the same set in this way. Well, now we use the invariant of harmonic measure. So this is precisely here we use Lefner's lemma, right? Okay, so we have this, and now we just use the definition of harmonic measure as a Poisson integral. So this is just the sum over n of the integral outside I of one minus fn, zero square divided by psi minus f zero squared dn.
00:24:52.844 - 00:25:45.874, Speaker A: But remember, p was the juggle fixed point. So this means that this iterates converged to p. On the other hand, the arc I is centered at the point p. So this means that here you are always far away. So this is bounded below. So this quantity is bounded below by a fixed constant, which would depend only on the measure of the arc I. So then what you get is that this is bounded by one over c squared, the sum of the numerator, right? And this is finite by assumption.
00:25:45.874 - 00:26:44.754, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the assumption, right, that the orbit was blast sequence. So this proves part a, okay, it's very simple, right? Usually we are just using left hand. So now let's look to part b. In part b, we are assuming that the orbit of the origin does not satisfy the vlasc condition. And in that case, we need to show that the mapping is recurrent. So this means that for almost every point, if you look to the orbit, then you return close to this point infinitely often. Okay, so for that it is sufficient to show, it is sufficient to show the following.
00:26:44.754 - 00:27:42.188, Speaker A: That for any arc, the measure of the set of points in the arc such that the iterates lie in the arc infinitely often. So for infinitely many n. Let me write infinitely often that this is precisely the measure of I. And this should hold for any arc I of the unit circle. Okay, so this is our goal, right? To show that at almost every point of an arc I, the orbit visits this arc infinitely often. Okay, so then consider the following set. Consider something like the complementary.
00:27:42.188 - 00:28:26.824, Speaker A: So consider the set f of points in the arc such that the iterates do not lie in the arc for any end. So this is the bad set, right? It's the set where you lie. You start in I, but the orbit does not visit I during, I mean, at any time. And note that if you look to the complement. So we need to show that these two sets have the same measure. Okay, so let's look to the difference of these sets. So let's look to these.
00:28:26.824 - 00:29:25.058, Speaker A: The points in. I said that the orbit visits the arc infinitely often. Okay, so the plan is to show that this set has Lebec measure zero. Okay, but this can be written in this nice form. This is just the union of I intersected with f minus k of f. This is clear, right? Because these are points. These are points which, I mean, I'm sorry, these are points where are in the arc eye, but such that the orbit does not visit the archive infinitely often.
00:29:25.058 - 00:30:39.750, Speaker A: So this means that there is an index in such a way that after this index, the orbit does not visit the arch eye. So this is precisely what is written here, right? That there is an orbit, there is an index k says that after k iterates, you are in the set f. Okay, so remember we need to show that this has Lebenc measure zero. So for that, is this sufficient to show that this has Lebenc measure zero. So we need to show that the measure of this set zero for any k. Okay, so to show that, observe that these pre images are rejoined if k is different from j. This is very clear, right? Because this tells you that after k iterates, you lie in the set f.
00:30:39.750 - 00:31:44.694, Speaker A: So this means that after k iterates, you never, the orbit does not visit the set I anymore. So if you have two different indexes, one would be bigger than the other, and then this would imply that if you are in the set, you cannot be in that other set. Okay, so, okay, so we have a collection of disjoint sets. And so it is clear, since they are disjoint, that the sum of harmonic measures from the origin will be finite. Okay? But of course, again, by Levner's lemma, this is just the sum harmonic measures of the iterates. Okay, this is just Lesner slab. And now what we are going to do is we just write this as the Poisson integral.
00:31:44.694 - 00:32:47.042, Speaker A: I mean, the denominator is bounded by a fixed constant. Okay? So then what you get is something like that. The sum over k of one minus f, k of zero times the measure of f. Okay, so we have this estimate. But remember, the assumption was that the iterates of the orbit do not satisfy the blasche condition. So the assumption is that this sum is infinite. So the only way this could be finite is that the measure of f was equal to zero, okay? Because this is infinite, right? So by assumption, this is infinite.
00:32:47.042 - 00:33:42.194, Speaker A: So this implies the measure of f zero. So now if the measure of f is equal to zero, now we need to show that the measure of the pre image of f is equal to zero. But now the rest is easy, right? Then the measure of the pre image, this is, again, well, I'm going to use Lefner's lemma again. This is harmonic measure from the origin of f minus k of f. And this is, well, by Lesner's lemma, harmonic measure from f k of zero of f. But now f has Lebec measure zero. So if it has Lebec measure zero, since harmonic measure is absolutely continuous with respect back measure, this implies that this has to be zero.
00:33:42.194 - 00:34:37.522, Speaker A: And this is what we wanted to prove, right? That this is equal to zero for Nk. So this finishes the proof. Okay, so you have, I mean, for inner functions, which have, which has, for inner functions, which has, which have the drug wall fixed point, say, well, in general will be in the disc. You have this dichotomy, right? Either the orbits of the origin satisfies the blasphemy condition, or it does not satisfy it if it satisfies the blasphemy condition. The dendrite wall fixed point acts as an attractive fixed point even in the boundary. If the fixed point I'm sorry. If the orbit of the origin does not satisfy the blastic condition.
00:34:37.522 - 00:35:03.846, Speaker A: Then the mapping is recovered. So, and these two things could happen. I mean, there are. You can build examples where these condition holes and others were this condition holes. And here is a nice refinement by Dering and mani. So this refinement says the following. Assume that you have an inner function with a rendezvous wall fixed point in the boundary.
00:35:03.846 - 00:35:28.774, Speaker A: Okay, so we are now in the critical case, right. When the individual fixed point is in the boundary. Then you look to the. You take an arc containing this dendritic wall fixed point. So here is. Then you have a fixed point in the boundary. You look to an arc.
00:35:28.774 - 00:36:08.234, Speaker A: And now you do the following. You count the number of times the orbit lies in I. Among the first n, e among the first n elements of the orbit. And you count which proportion of time the orbit lies in I. And what happens is that for almost every psi, this proportion tends to one. So I like to think on this theorem in the following way. So you may, you may have.
00:36:08.234 - 00:36:26.082, Speaker A: It's something like that. You may have. Here is the dendrite wall fixed point. Okay, so here is p. Here is the arc I. And you start with a point psi. So if the mapping.
00:36:26.082 - 00:36:56.894, Speaker A: I mean, if p acts as an attractive fixed point, of course, after a certain number of iterates, you lie inside the arc I. And you will approach the point p. And this is not very surprising. However, remember that the mapping can be also recurrent. If the mapping is recurrent. This means that for you start at almost every point psi. The orbit visits any neighborhood of psi infinitely often.
00:36:56.894 - 00:37:30.424, Speaker A: So the orbit must visit. So this would be f of psi and so on. The orbit should visit any. Well, should visit Sai infinitely often. Or any neighborhood of Sai infinitely often. However, what the ring and manier result tells you is that even if it has to be close to psi infinitely often. The orbit spends most of its time close to the dendritic fixed point.
00:37:30.424 - 00:38:04.184, Speaker A: So this means that even if the dendrite wall fixed point, when it's in the boundary. May not be attracting in the boundary. It is attracting in the mean, right? Most of the time, you lie inside a neighborhood of the diagonal fixed point. So let me tell you how this is proved. And, well, here is, this proof is a little bit more sophisticated. And there are two steps you can assume. Without loss of generality.
00:38:04.184 - 00:38:47.918, Speaker A: You can assume that the mapping is recurrent. Because remember, you only had two possibilities. Either the mapping is recurrent. Or the intravel fixed point acts as an attractor and in that case, this result is trivial. Right? If p acts as an attractor, then of course the orbit lies close to p for any indexes k. So you can assume that the function fiscal is recurrent. In that case, what dering Amania showed was that in that case you have an invariant measure.
00:38:47.918 - 00:39:53.184, Speaker A: And since you have an invariant measure, then what happens is that for almost every side this limit exists. So the first part is to show that the limit exists. So I'm going to skip this part because it would take, I mean, it's, again, the argument is elementary, but it would take me some time to do it, and I prefer to move to another topic. So this is the first step that the limit exists, but the second is very easy. So let me, let me, let me complete the second step. So now in the second step, you need to show that this limit, which exists at almost every point, is precisely one. So what you do is the following.
00:39:53.184 - 00:41:32.406, Speaker A: Let's look to the integral of this limit. So this limit depends on the function on the point side, right? So it's a function of side. So you look to this and you integrate with respect to Lebec measure. Okay? So then by dominated convergence, this is the limits of the integrals, right? And remember that this is just, this is just the characteristic, the sum of the characteristic up to n. This is just the sum up to n of the characteristic functions of f minus k of I. Okay? So what you have here is the limit of the integral well of these measures, right, which I already write as the harmonic measure from the origin. These are just, these are just the measures of the normalized Lebec measure of fifth minus cardio five.
00:41:32.406 - 00:42:19.904, Speaker A: Now we apply again Lefner's lemma, and this is the harmonic measure of fk of zero of the arc I. But remember, fk of zero. P was the levec, was the intravel fixed point. So f k of zero tends to p, okay? So this is the harmonic, this an I was an arc containing the integral fixed point. So this means that f k of zero are very close, are here very close to p. And in that case, of course, this quantity tends to one. So this quantity here tends to one.
00:42:19.904 - 00:43:16.364, Speaker A: And then you are just averaging numbers which tend to one. And of course this limit is one. Okay? So the second part is very easy. So what we have learned is that even if the mapping is recurrent, so even if p is not an attractor in the unit circle in the mean acts as an attractor. Okay, here is another result I wanted to mention, which is again a very nice result by Alanson and Pomerinke, which explains, tells you when the mapping is ergodic. Okay, with respect to Lebec measure and these holes, as you see the mapping, you have an inner function, then the mapping is ergodic with respect to Lebec measure. If and only if the pseudohyperbolic distances between two different orbits always tend to zero.
00:43:16.364 - 00:43:58.636, Speaker A: So this means that the orbit of any two points become closer and closer. Okay, so for instance, if the mapping f heta the wall fixed point inside the unit disk, then we know that the orbit tends to this. Then you have fixed point. So then of course this would hold, right? We already showed that in that case the mapping is ergotic, but it could still happen that the inner function has Benjava wall fixed point in the boundary. And still this condition could hold or not hold. Okay. Okay.
00:43:58.636 - 00:44:42.204, Speaker A: So this is again a nice criteria about dynamical properties of the inner function. Okay, so now this was the first part of the, of the talk today, and in the last five minutes I want to introduce a tool which will be used in the last talk. And this, while this tool has. Well, it's really important and very nice. It's what's called Alexander of Clark measures. Let me say that Alexander of Clark measures are a topic which was in an ocean which was introduced by Clark in the seventies in relation with problems in operator theory. And.
00:44:42.204 - 00:45:37.884, Speaker A: Well, the main properties of Alexander Clark measures were proved by Akhen Clark, Saratson and many others. And it they are collected in a couple of nice surveys, by one survey by Paul Torasky and Saracen, another nice survey by erosaxman. And most of their properties are also collected in several textbooks. For instance in the Nice book by Sima Mattinson and Ross, and in many other places. So let me start giving you the well definition. So, if you have an analytic mapping from the disk into itself, and you have a point alpha in the unit circle, what you do is you consider this composition. So you have this mapping from the disk into itself.
00:45:37.884 - 00:46:31.084, Speaker A: And then what you do is you just compose it with this Mobius transformation which maps the unit disk into the right half plane. Then of course you have an analytic map. I mean, the composition is. The composition is an analytic mapping from the disk which has positive real part. So it can be written as the herglithin, the composition which can be written of a herbal genealogy of a positive measure. And this measure is what's known as the Alexandrov Klartmen, sometimes called Clark measure, sometimes called Alexander Flark measure. Measure of f at the point alpha.
00:46:31.084 - 00:47:24.224, Speaker A: Alpha is a point inside the unit circle. Okay, well, if you take real parts, then, well, this, the real part of this is the headquarters kernel. And it's very easy, just a computation, to show that the real part of this kernel is precisely the Poisson kernel. So you get here, the Poisson kernel at the point f of z, and you get here the Poisson kernel at the point z. Okay? So here is what I have just said. Okay, so let me give you a few, well, some, some of the standard properties of these Alexander Clark measures. Well, the first one is that the function is inner.
00:47:24.224 - 00:48:11.014, Speaker A: So the function, I'm sorry, the function being inner means that the modulus tends to zero. I'm sorry, the modulus tends to one when you approach the circle at almost every point. When you approach non tangentially, the circle at almost every point. So this means that the function is inert if and only if distance to zero when z approaches non tangentially, any point in the unit circle. So this means that f is inner. This is, of course, the Poisson. This is, of course, the Poisson integral, only if the Poisson integral of mu alpha tends to zero at almost every point in the circle.
00:48:11.014 - 00:49:05.524, Speaker A: But, of course, we know that the Poisson integral tends to the derivative of the measure with respect to Lebec measure, at least at almost every point. So this should be equal to zero at almost every point in the circle. So this means that the function is inert if and only if mu alpha is singular with respect to Lebec measure. This holds even only if mu alpha is singular. So inner functions are precisely the ones which have whose Alexandrov measures are singular. One more. Well, the next thing is that mu alpha is concentrated precisely on the set where the function f is equal to alpha.
00:49:05.524 - 00:50:22.854, Speaker A: And this is, again, easy to show, actually, mu alpha, since it's singular, mu alpha is concentrated on the set where of point psi, where this derivative with respect to Lebeque measure is equal to plus infinity. So these are places where the Poisson integral tends to infinity, right. So these are places where this Poisson integral tends to infinity. But of course, this happens. I mean, if this Poisson integral has to tend to infinity, the only way it can be tending to infinity is that this denominator tends to zero. So f of z tends to alpha. So this is contained in the set where f of psi is equal to alpha.
00:50:22.854 - 00:51:08.594, Speaker A: So, I guess my time is over. So I guess I prefer to stop here and to start next tomorrow. Just recalling the definition of Alexandrov Clark measures and continuing with the main properties. So, thanks a lot. Thank you. We have time for questions. Oh, if not, then thank our speaker again and we will continue in eight minutes.
