00:00:00.160 - 00:00:40.750, Speaker A: We have our second talk of Afternoon session today. So let me introduce the next speaker. We have Jonathan Chiu, who is director of banking and payments research at bank of Canada, presenting his research. His main research interests are about monetary theory, banking payments and financial infrastructures. And he's also the organizer of central bank and digital currency virtual seminar series. He was hosting an event earlier today. I know he's gonna present his paper on the inherent fragility of DeFi lending.
00:00:40.750 - 00:00:46.766, Speaker A: So you have 15 minutes, plus ten more minutes with the questions.
00:00:46.910 - 00:00:59.574, Speaker B: Thank you, Katrina. Let me first share the slides. Okay. Can you see the screen?
00:01:02.394 - 00:01:03.706, Speaker A: Yes, all is good.
00:01:03.890 - 00:01:26.430, Speaker B: Thank you. Well, so thank you very much for the opportunity for me to present this paper today. And this is still an ongoing work. First time that we present this paper. I'm from the bank of Canada, so the usual disclaimer applies. This is a joint work with my co authors Emery Cathy and Shen Singh. I believe some of them are in the audience.
00:01:26.430 - 00:02:21.964, Speaker B: And this paper in the topic is kind of related to what Alfred presented earlier is on DeFi lending. But we are looking from a different perspective, as you will see. As we know, Defi aims to offer financial services by using autonomous smart contracts to replace traditional intermediaries. And since 2020 summer, the so called Defi summer, there has been a tremendous growth rate in terms of both its scale and also the scope. This graph basically shows how the total value of tokens locked into DeFi contracts has increased over time. And within two years now, it has reached $230 billion. In terms of scope, there are many different DeFi services provided today.
00:02:21.964 - 00:03:27.394, Speaker B: And today we'll focus on one segment, the Defi lending segment, which accounts for about 20%, one fifth of the total value log. As Alfred has mentioned, Defi lending is a major component of Defi now. And there are some popular platforms such as Aave and compound, both running on Ethereum and also Venus, which runs on PSC. And then one feature of DeFi lending is about its volatility. Where for example, here we put one statistic, which is the volatility of this total value of RB loans right over 2021. As we can see, this volatility is much more volatile than standard loans. It's ten times more volatile in terms of the measure, weekly measure of coefficient of variation compared to standard USM loans.
00:03:27.394 - 00:04:44.852, Speaker B: And recently, policymakers have raised concerns about the financial stability implications of these DeFi arrangements. But despite this, formal economic analysis on this issue is relatively limited. So you get seeing Alvarez paper, and this is another one looking from a different perspective. So exactly what we try to do here is to help us think about this question from a theoretical angle. In particular, what is special, intrinsically special, about DeFi landing relative to traditional centralized arrangement that going through banks and financial intermediaries? And to what extent is DeFi lending inherently unstable? Right. And how is it related to the crypto price, crypto asset pricing dynamics? How does it contribute, for example, to the volatility of the underlying, the prices of the underlying collateral assets? And as you know. Right, so there is this young but fast growing literature on DeFi protocols.
00:04:44.852 - 00:05:56.318, Speaker B: Most of them so far focus on two areas, right? Decentralized exchanges and decentralized stablecoins. And until recently, there are very, very little work studying DeFi lending. So, Alfred's paper and our paper, I believe, two of the first studies on this topic. But as I mentioned, this is a really young and growing field, right? So if I have missed any citation, please do let me know. And while it's empirical study of the liquidation externality here, we're trying to contribute to literature by developing a dynamic model of defi lending and crypto pricing. In particular, what we try to do here is to use our dynamic defi lending model. We want to study a particular dynamic feedback loop which is different from the liquidation extend externality loop that, a feedback loop that Alfred considered.
00:05:56.318 - 00:07:14.244, Speaker B: So our channel is the following. So basically, today's lending activity, both in terms of its quantity and quality, depends on the price market value of collateral, because all these loans are collateralized loans, which in turn, the value of this collateral, in turn would depend on expected activities of DeFi lending tomorrow. And this dynamic linkage is going to generate a dynamic price liquidity feedback. What are the implications? Well, firstly, it's going to make crypto prices more sensitive to fundamental shocks. Secondly, we show that this linkage can generate multiple equilibria driven by some non fundamental market sentiments. And interestingly, having frequent and flexible smart contract update, indeed could help restore the uniqueness of equilibrium. However, as we will discuss later, this could prove to be difficult, in particular in a decentralized environment.
00:07:14.244 - 00:08:18.254, Speaker B: Okay, before we go to the model, maybe it's worthwhile to think a little bit about how we think that DeFi landing special. A good way is to compare it with traditional centralized arrangement, because c five, this table compares to different aspects of c five and DeFi, right. First of all, as we know, c five is heavily regulated, right? Subject to reserve requirement, liquidity requirement, capital requirement, right. Like disclosure or deposit insurance, for example, the borrowers, right. Typically this registered account, right? So they are all identified third, standard assets available, right. For use as collateral in c five. And finally, human judgment is involved in the writing and the implementation of contracts.
00:08:18.254 - 00:09:24.464, Speaker B: So all these feature, certain extent help to improve loan quality and help enforce loan repayment in c five. However, this feature are not applicable, right. Some of these features are not applicable, applicable in the DeFi environment, in DeFi lending, which is based on public blockchain, whereas, you know, there's essentially no regulations, right? And then in a DeFi environment, agents are anonymous or called pseudonymous. What does it mean? It means that, well, first of all, we cannot do any credit checks, right, because it's not feasible. And some reputational schemes will also become much less effective, right. Because individuals can walk away from a contract without future consequences, except for losing their collateral. And then on top of that, it is another thing is that it could be hard to implement certain nonlinear contract.
00:09:24.464 - 00:10:45.558, Speaker B: Why? Because borrowers can always choose to submit multiple transactions from different addresses, and you can not tell whether or not they belong to the same person. So if the contract is nonlinear, it may be subject to this type of arbitrage, right? So because of this, often what we see is that, oh, sorry. And then the third feature is that only tokenized asset can be used as collateral. Because you need to lock into a smart contract, that asset has to be tokenized. And this asset typically are very highly volatile. So I can show you a simple table that compare, that compares the volatility of different things, stablecoin and other type of crypto assets that are commonly used as a collateral, for example, on the AaVE platform, and then compare them also with more standard financial asset that could be used as collateral. And you see that within one day, even so, the price of this crypto asset can drop by up to 30%.
00:10:45.558 - 00:11:38.284, Speaker B: So it's very volatile. On top of that, as we'll see later, that they are often bundled together into an opaque and opaque asset pool. So that means the quality of this collateral pool becomes even more uncertain. And finally, an important feature of Defi is the reliance on smart contract to replace human judgment. Hence, all terms rate and haircut determination will be pre programmed. Okay? So as a result of that, typically there generates certain features of those defi landing. First is that DeFi lending typically involves a linear, non recalled debt contract.
00:11:38.284 - 00:12:24.544, Speaker B: And the only risk control is basically, uh, over collateralization. And that means the haircut, right of the, of the post imposed on the loan on the collateral will become a critical parameter that control for risk control. Secondly, right, as I mentioned, the contract terms tend to be quite rigid, because they have to be pre programmed, right. And also, they cannot be contingent on, you know, off chain information. All the terms have to be contingent. Small set of on chain quantifiable information. Soft information cannot be fit into the contract.
00:12:24.544 - 00:13:15.906, Speaker B: And updating this contract is sometimes slow because it is more of a decentralized governance process. And on top of that, there's also trading is often subject to information imperfection. As I described earlier, loans are typically collateralized on a pool of crypto assets. In particular, while the borrower can choose to pledge any acceptable collateral in the list, on the list, landers cannot control or even observe the underlying collateral pool. I'll give you an example of aave. This is to illustrate an example. So this is, let's say the pool.
00:13:15.906 - 00:14:38.074, Speaker B: Aave lending pool for USDT tether. So, lender, if you want to deposit, right, basically, you deposit your tether to this landing pool, and in return you will get basically an IOU, what they call atop that represent your deposit. And for the borrower, if you want to borrow tether, you need to pledge collateral, subject to haircut and. But you can choose to pledge one of over 20 different collateral assets, right? And some more stable, like Dai or USDC, but some can be quite volatile, like SNX or sushi, right. The issue is that from the lander point of view, there's no way that they can observe or the composition of the landing pool that's backing this landing pool. That basically is generating a standard kind of adverse selection problem. And as mentioned in the last talk, it is indeed, even for researchers, almost impossible for us to figure out the composition of the collateral pool that's supporting a set of loans.
00:14:38.074 - 00:15:55.326, Speaker B: Indeed, the only, almost the only time that we can see that what collateral is backing what loan is when the liquidation event happens. Okay, so this is kind of the information asymmetry between the borrower and lender. So basically, lenders cannot perform any monitoring over the collateral pool, and they have to rely on the smart contract. But smart contracts are passive too, right? So the contract itself can be subject to informational problem. For example, as I said, they does not have access to off chain information, and they often need to rely on oracles, which are sometimes not reliable or not updated frequently enough. One problem that happens is that when the collateral prices provided, the price feed that provided by the oracle are inflated, then borrowers can take advantage and borrow by pledging this inflated asset. And if they default later, that will lead to large bad loans.
00:15:55.326 - 00:16:35.664, Speaker B: And that happened. There's a few episodes that happen of large bad loans on different DeFi lending platforms. So basically here. So what we try to do in this talk is to present a model that captures these three features that contract based on over collateralization. So the contract terms is rigid in certain sense, and then there's potentially some informational imperfection. Okay. And I'm going to do it in two steps.
00:16:35.664 - 00:17:28.164, Speaker B: First, I will present a simple model, a static model, just to give you the intuition to how we generate this dynamic price liquidity feedback. And then I will present the full dynamic model. In particular, I want to highlight three results. One is how defi lending can generate this multiplying effect that magnify fundamental shocks to crypto prices. And secondly, I want to show how multiple equilibria can arise in this setting and driven by sentiment. And finally, I also want to talk about how having flexible and frequent update of contract terms could help to restore uniqueness. Okay, so this is the plan for my talk.
00:17:28.164 - 00:18:27.524, Speaker B: So if there are no questions, I will go to the basic simple model first. And as you will see, the model is very stylized intentionally, because we don't want to capture all the details of different DeFi lending platforms. Instead, we want to incorporate the main components that are essential for our mechanism. So in this world, there are borrowers and lenders. Borrowers, they own a risky crypto asset with some random payoffs, while the lenders are competitive and they have funding to loan out. So typically in this platform, many loans are basically people pledging risky crypto assets as a collateral to borrow stable coins. That happened quite often, at least in AAVE and compound platform.
00:18:27.524 - 00:19:30.860, Speaker B: This gains from trade is because the borrower, the marginal valuation of the borrower regarding the funding is higher than the lender's marginal valuation. So we use that to denote the marginal valuation of the borrower. Now, the fundamental friction in our environment that gives rise to DeFi lending is the lack of commitment. Basically, agents cannot commit to future actions. First of all, borrowers, because they cannot commit, they cannot borrow an unsecured loan because they would not repay in future. And then at the same time, they may not want to borrow a secured loan from a lender because the lender may not want to return the collateral. Because the lender cannot commit to, they can potentially rely on the middleman right to to provide custodial service of the collateral.
00:19:30.860 - 00:20:38.254, Speaker B: But again, this guy, this middleman can also is also subject to lack of commitment, so that they can say epsilon with the collateral. So because of that, all this lack of commitment is really the friction that's behind the role of defi lending, particularly in this, you know, decentralized, anonymous environment. So this is how the smart contract works, right? So basically borrowers can borrow a loan collateralizing on their crypto asset. The collateral will be locked into the smart contract and it is not released until the loan is repaid. Right. If the loan is not repaid, then the collateral will be passed to the, the lender. Right? So of course there's, as mentioned, there's a lot of details, right? How, who's their keeper? That what they call keeper or liquidator, they're going to take the collateral and we pay the loan on behalf of the, on behalf of the borrower.
00:20:38.254 - 00:21:28.322, Speaker B: But we can add those details. But the basic, basically gains from trade and the incentive problem is basically, is captured here. So we abstract from all those details, including like the governance holder, governance token holder, for example. And the key thing that what makes a smart contract works is that the contract terms are pre specified, right. This deterministic program, so that there's no incentive problem involved. Okay, so let me tell you a little bit formal details of the model. So the crypto asset we model in a very stylized way, let's think of it as an asset, durable asset, and each period it has a random payoff.
00:21:28.322 - 00:22:03.744, Speaker B: We can think of this payoff as could be monetary, such as you get returns from staking, or could, could be dormitories. Use value of a token. It's coming drawing from a distribution f of S. And then you can also resell the collateral. Right. We sell the asset at a price five, which is determined at the end of the period. So interpretation here is that we have borrowers, they're holding different crypto assets with IID payoffs.
00:22:03.744 - 00:23:19.094, Speaker B: Having the IID assumption is just for simplification. So we could extend it to have persistent shocks the way we modeled smart contract. So in this static, simple setting, we can think of the smart contract which has specifying two terms. One is QSD, Q is how much you can borrow, and d is how much you can repay, right? So basically, if you have one unit of collateral, you can borrow up to q units, right? And then, but then you have to repay the face value of the debt, which is d, so that the d is also the kind of the debt limit, the maximum amount that you can promise to repay. So at the end of the period when the borrower decides whether or not to repay, right, he can either repay or to default and then lose the collateral. So from the lenders point of view, right, the payoff is of a value of the debt contract is really given by this minimum of the two, right? So if there's repayment, then you get the d. If there's no repayment, you get the value of the collateral.
00:23:19.094 - 00:24:03.604, Speaker B: Okay. And then the key thing is that information friction, right? So sometimes the borrower may observe some private signal, q, where it can be high or low with probably lambda. It's a low signal with probably one mass lambda. It's a high signal. So when it's low signal, that the payoff will be drawn from a distribution fl, which will be dominated by the a distribution, which is having a high signal. Okay, so the time timeline within this single period is the following. First you observe the contract terms, and then.
00:24:03.604 - 00:24:04.344, Speaker B: Yes.
00:24:05.684 - 00:24:09.064, Speaker A: Hi, could you please repeat what you said, like in the previous slide?
00:24:10.044 - 00:24:10.444, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:24:10.484 - 00:24:18.384, Speaker A: Which about the, about the asymmetric information. And also like, just to confirm what exactly is f.
00:24:20.164 - 00:25:02.334, Speaker B: Right. So s is the current period payoff, right. Say, think of if it's less, it's a dividend, right? But this is random. No one knows exact realization, so it's joined from a distribution. But the borrower may have some better information, right, about that payoff. So if you receive a low signal, he still don't know the exact realization, but he knows that a value will join from a distribution that with, on average, will be stochastically dominated by the distribution when the signal is high.
00:25:02.994 - 00:25:04.814, Speaker A: What exactly is the signal?
00:25:06.114 - 00:25:10.826, Speaker B: This is just capturing this private information. It can be anything. Okay.
00:25:10.850 - 00:25:12.524, Speaker A: Okay, that makes sense. Thank you.
00:25:12.674 - 00:26:25.642, Speaker B: Right. So given the terms, the borrower observes the signal and then they decide whether or not to borrow and how much to borrow at the end of period, right? So the realize, the payoff realize, and then they decide whether or not to repay or to default. And asset price will also be SRB price at that point. So here, let me tell you the key mechanism here is the information problem that generates adverse selection. So basically, a borrower, they, after they observe the signal, l or d or hire low, they can choose how much to borrow. So they know that if they borrow, each unit of assets allow them to borrow up to q unit of loan, and that generate a marginal valuation of debt, but they have to repay d. And the key thing is that there is a default option, right? So you can always choose to default if the face value of the debt is higher than the value of the collateral, the realized value of the collateral captured by this diagram.
00:26:25.642 - 00:27:50.354, Speaker B: This is the density, let's say, of the f of f, right? So of different valuation, the collateral and d, the vertical line, you know, the face value of the debt. So if the value of the collateral is lower than the face value, of course you choose to default. So the value of the default option is given by the red region, right. And interestingly right as you expect probably that the low time, knowing that the, the payoff will likely be lower, they would have high incentive to borrow because this default option is higher, the low type, than the high type, right? So since the type with, with poorer expected value of the collateral, we choose to borrow, who have high incentive to borrow, that generate kind of a selection problem. Also, it means that if by both types borrow, but they are borrowed subject to the same terms, then the high tax essentially cross subsidizing the low tag. If they cross subsidized too much, the high tag will say, okay, I don't want to pool with you because the terms are too unfavorable. So this is typical adverse election problem will arise.
00:27:50.354 - 00:28:50.676, Speaker B: And what is interesting here is to effect of the asset price fee right at the end of the period as a price, how that affect the incentive? This is as you can see, as the price goes up, it will tend to reduce the default option because you will have more to lose if you default loan. In particular, when the, as the price goes up, the distribution will move to the right. That means the default option goes down. So since now the high types do not need to cross subsidize so much, they may want to pull with the low type. So this is how crypto asset price can help to mitigate the adverse selection problem. By inducing the high type to pool with the low type. And when the high type is willing to pull the low type, then of course that will be more favorable for the lender.
00:28:50.676 - 00:29:49.630, Speaker B: Since the lender, they don't know exactly who they are lending to, they just make a rational expectation. If they know that there's a pooling outcome, the client loan will pull together, they will be willing to lend more, while which is a queue, the amount of loan will be higher. While if they know that it's a separating outcome, only the loan type is borrowing, then they will land less. Right? So this is basically the kind of the first leg, this right hand side of this relationship between the asset price and the lending activities. So when you have higher price, it helps to mitigate a risk selection and that helps to induce more lending. And now I talk about the left hand side of the loop, which is how lending affect the asset price. Basically, how is asset price determined? Right.
00:29:49.630 - 00:31:03.544, Speaker B: Think about a dynamic durable asset. So in a dynamic setting, this asset price will depend of course, on its fundamental value, but also depends on the collateral value, right? Basically, if you know that tomorrow this asset can be used to borrow more loans as a collateral, then this asset will have a higher value, right? What we call liquidity value component of the asset pricing. So by, so that means when the more lending activity is expected tomorrow, liquidity value will be higher and that will induce higher asset price. So that generates complete this self enforcing loop. Okay, so this is basically how the price equity feedback loop works in a simple model. And let me show you the dynamic setting and more formally the result. Okay, so in a dynamic setting, we capture, it's basically repeated, repeating this static model with two changes.
00:31:03.544 - 00:32:12.674, Speaker B: One is that, well, maybe the borrower does not always have private information or information advantage. Maybe they have this informational advantage only with probability chi. So basically we use this parameter chi to capture the degree of information friction in this world. And the second change is that the contract can be updated over time. The q and d can be updated following a haircut rule, which is the haircut rule typically used in a landing platform such as Aave, where specified that, well, you can only borrow only a fraction, right, of the value of your collateral rate with the haircut parameter egg, which is predetermined. Okay, so this is the fixed egg. The haircut parameter will capturing kind of the rigidity of the contrast.
00:32:12.674 - 00:33:41.624, Speaker B: Okay, now let me formally illustrate how the feedback loop works, right? So basically, in this world, the quantity and quality of loans is determined by the degree of information insensitivity of the debt contract, which is measured by this variable theta, which is the ratio between the value of a debt contract in the for bad type relative to that for the high type, right? So this is say, that would be a number between zero and one, right? If say there's one, that means the value of the debt contract is not sensitive to information. State. When, say there's zero, it is very sensitive. So as you imagine, right, when, when the theta is very small. So that means it's very sensitive to information, then the high type would not want to cross subsidize the low type because the cross organization is too large, so that we will have a separating outcome. Only the load type will borrow, the high type will not borrow, and the loan size for each collateral will be low. While if the parameter, this theta value is higher than a certain threshold, then we have a pooling equilibrium.
00:33:41.624 - 00:34:29.913, Speaker B: When you have a pooling outcome, then both of them will borrow and the lender is willing to lend more. So as you can see, this is a critical value that determines whether the outcome is separating and pooling. And this in turn is affected by two things. One is the asset price, the future, the expected kind of asset price of the, of the collateral, right. When the price is high, right. So as you can see here, so the debt contract will become less informationally sensitive, so that it's easier to support pooling outcome. Another variables, right, that will affect the sensitivity of the debt contract is d.
00:34:29.913 - 00:35:18.813, Speaker B: Right, which is the debt limit, which ultimately is pinned down by the haircut parameter. Basically, if you impose the very high haircut, right. So the debt limit will be very low and then the value of the debt contract will not be very sensitive to the information. And that is going to make also can support the pulling outcome. The problem of having a very deep haircut, of course, is that when you set a high haircut, you will also reduce the loan size. As a result, that will also distort efficiency. This is basically to show you how price is going to affect quantity of loans.
00:35:18.813 - 00:36:13.656, Speaker B: And then of course, price itself is also would depend on whether or not it's pooling or separating outcome. So in the pooling outcome, everyone borrows. That means all the collateral will be used optimally to generate this return set. So that will support a high asset price, while in a separating outcome, it's different, right? So some of the informed high type will choose not to borrow. As a result, in a separating outcome, the asset price will be lower. Okay? But in both cases, right, having more lending, a higher Q is going to support a higher asset price. So this is formally to show you that how that feedback loop works.
00:36:13.656 - 00:37:21.176, Speaker B: So how fee, having higher asset price will mitigate risk, election and support more lending and more lending will increase the collateral value of the asset. And that in turn support higher price. Okay, so let me use the remaining time to present three key results of the paper. Okay, the first one is about sensitivity to shocks, right? How DeFi lending will make the asset prices more sensitive to shocks, right? So here we list three collateral prices. First one is that suppose there were no DeFi lending. So of course, as a price is just equal to its fundamental value, pin down by its dividend. But when there are lending now depending on its pooling or separating the asset prices, we can write asset prices as multiples of the fundamental value.
00:37:21.176 - 00:38:36.364, Speaker B: And we can show that this coefficient, psi p and psi s, they are both of them bigger than one. And basically telling you that with Defi lending, it will raise the price of the collateral value, but also because this coefficient bigger than one also means that the collateral prices with Defi lending will be more sensitive to shocks, because. And now with divi lending, it will magnify the impact of any shocks to the fundamental value of the asset to the 50. And secondly, it will also introduce some new lending specific shocks. Any changes in z, which is the return to a long or h with the haircut, or the private information parameter, anything changes in this parameter will also lead to a fluctuation in the collateral price. And this is true with or without private information. We still have this kind of magnification effect.
00:38:36.364 - 00:39:26.946, Speaker B: Now, when there's private information, on top of that, there could also be additional volatility due to a multiplicity. We can show that under certain condition, we have a pool and separating equilibrium coexist, right? And when they coexist, they will. In particular, what we need is two things. One is that the private information problem needs to be not too low, right? So chi has to be high. And secondly, the contract need to be informationally sensitive, sufficiently informationally sensitive, so the haircut cannot be too high. Why? As I explained earlier. Right? So you can always set a haircut very high, so that the contract is not too informationally sensitive.
00:39:26.946 - 00:40:07.156, Speaker B: As a result, the separating equilibrium can be killed. But if there's proper information and the haircut is not too high, then we will have multiple equilibrium. And look, that this is purely. Right. It's purely driven by belief, not by anything fundamental. So if agents believe that tomorrow the lending is going to be very active, then the asset will have a high price today. When the asset is high price, it will help to support more lending today.
00:40:07.156 - 00:40:51.666, Speaker B: So it's kind of self fulfilling. And this is what we call strategic complementarity. But this is kind of special type of strategic imperiality, because it is dynamic in nature, right? Because my lending decision depends on future agents lending decision. And given this strategic complementarity, then we can indeed construct sentiment equilibrium, which is kind of fluctuations of asset prices and. And landing activities together. According to sunspots. Basically we introduce some non fundamental, what we call sentiment sunspots, that coordinate people's belief.
00:40:51.666 - 00:42:03.564, Speaker B: So when the sunspot changes, people's belief about future lending will switch. As a result, prices and landing will also fluctuate. So how can we prevent this fluctuation, non fundamental fluctuations? Well, one way, as I mentioned from this proposition, is that one way to do it is to set a very high hair cut. Right? By setting a very high haircut, you can cure the separating equilibrium. But it comes with a cost, which is when you have a very high hair cut, you will reduce the surplus from landing. So what is the optimal thing to do? So this is the result, the last result I want to show is that we, instead of using haircut rule that I introduced earlier, we solve for the optimal contract terms, right? State dependent contract term. Basically, this contract term will maximize the surplus and it can also indeed will eliminate multiplicity.
00:42:03.564 - 00:42:47.462, Speaker B: The idea is that what you want to do is that when the sentiment is bad, you know that the price is low, sentiment is bad. What you want to do is to set a higher haircut, that limit lower. So that will help to induce pooling and avoid separating equilibrium. But when the sentiment is high, as the price is high, can now relax the haircut, right, to allow to maximize the trace surplus. So basically, this is the idea of the optimal that limit. But this is turned out to be a nonlinear function. It is not captured by that simple haircut rule.
00:42:47.462 - 00:43:29.774, Speaker B: And this rule in particular can depend on some off chain information. So you need to get information, say the update, according to changes in these parameters. So this is exactly why that pre programming, it may become challenging in a decentralized setting. Okay, so to conclude, I have two more minutes. So basically in this paper, we try to talk about some fundamental issues in DeFi lending. One is that the collaterals are risky and also have uncertain quality. Second, there's some overcoat problem, right.
00:43:29.774 - 00:44:35.614, Speaker B: And you cannot get real time, always get real time information from the real world. And third, the contract terms can be rigid, you cannot modify these terms very flexible or frequently due to the governance issue, right. And then because of these features, it will give rise to instability of defi lending for two reasons. One is the price liquidity feedback loop that I talked about, and the information of fractional accessibility instability. Now, to show that, right, to restore stability, to kill the multiplicity, what you want to do is to have flexible, stay contingent, smart contract terms. But how to do it? One is that you need to have very reliable oracle, maybe a complex contract term. Another possibility is that, well, you may need to reintroduce some human intervention, so someone do risk assessment continuously.
00:44:35.614 - 00:44:49.084, Speaker B: But that will, again, we introduce some trusted third party that may defeat the purpose of having this defi arrangement. Okay, so thank you. So that's all.
00:44:52.784 - 00:46:11.754, Speaker A: Okay, thank you, Jonathan, for the talk. And we have now some time for questions and yeah, maybe in case I would like start with one question and it's maybe also a bit related to some comments that were in the chat and Cathy Yuan was already answering, but maybe in terms of linking your model with motivations that you gave at the beginning, maybe you could comment more of the potential sources of information asymmetry and why there could be different yields. And one thing that I'm particularly wondering about, that if it comes from the fact that I know myself what assets I use as a collateral. So in your model, it is kind of sort of good types and bad types. But perhaps it's a situation that if I have all the possible choices, I will always put as a collateral things that I think has this nature of failing with high probability, but maybe having a high return. So that's extreme. If I could use it, maybe I would want to take very risky NFT, which probably doesn't have any value, but at some point gives me value, in which case I repay the loan, otherwise I go to the default.
00:46:11.754 - 00:46:24.090, Speaker A: So when linking your model and the fact that potentially I could endogenously choose what assets I would put as a collateral, how to think about this in the context of your analysis?
00:46:24.122 - 00:46:52.774, Speaker B: Yeah, I think this is a very good suggestion, and indeed I believe that we can easily write a different version of the model. Right here we just have continued agent and each of them is holding one particular collateral instead, we could have a representative agent holding a kind of diversified portfolio, and then they can switch to collateral continuously. So I think this is very doable.
00:46:56.734 - 00:47:42.790, Speaker A: Okay. And more questions maybe, and also, I mean, okay, maybe related to that question and for the practical implementations that you showed at the beginning, you said that there can be many different assets that can be used as a collateral. But what are the real world limitations of what crypto assets can be used in these cases as a collateral, because I would imagine that my example of a valueless NFT would not be something that is allowed. So comment more on that.
00:47:42.942 - 00:48:23.454, Speaker B: Yes. So it depends on platforms, right. So in a way, for example, they now, I think they, you can deposit up to 30 different or 32 different crypto assets, but only I think about 20 of them can be used as collateral. So basically all this in the diagram, but still. Right. So some of them are riskier than others. So this is VAR, but for some other more kind of ambitious platform, they accept more, you know, they accept more wider list of collateral.
00:48:25.754 - 00:48:27.374, Speaker A: Okay, thank you.
00:48:29.314 - 00:48:51.714, Speaker B: Of course, it's also that there are, you know, trend that some of these lending platforms will start to accept and real world collateral, like mortgage loans or things like that. So that would be another application of a model. Right. Because naturally in those case, informational problem will become even more severe.
00:48:56.454 - 00:49:13.154, Speaker A: Okay, thank you. Yeah, thank you for the interesting talk. If there are no more questions. So we can still have short ten minute break before the last presentation. So we'll resume at 430.
00:49:13.494 - 00:49:14.394, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:49:14.694 - 00:49:15.134, Speaker A: Thank you.
