00:00:00.240 - 00:01:09.864, Speaker A: Our second speaker this morning is Chang Ying ding. So he's going to be talking about bi exact von Neumannage bris. Great, thank you, Matt, for the introduction, and thanks the organizer for the invitation. So today I'd like to discuss a joint work with Jesse Peterson on bikes at venom algebra. So I'd like to start the discussion by, we call you the notion of prime two on factors. So this one factor, n is prime if you cannot write m as a tensile product of two tone factors. And in general, you say a bonomoug bar is prime if it cannot be displayed as a tensor product of diffuse bonded malgephants.
00:01:09.864 - 00:02:14.802, Speaker A: So this is a natural structure question you can ask about any one of algebras. And the motivating question would be find examples of prime two m factors or just prime monomialography general. And I think Greg will talk more on the prime later this afternoon. But okay, so what are the examples? So the first example is utopa in 83. So he showed that a free group with uncommonly many generators is prime. So s is a and convo set. So this is an example.
00:02:14.802 - 00:03:40.534, Speaker A: But this will not be a separable to one factor. So it takes quite a bit of time to have the first separable example that due to Ge in 98. So go show that another thing you would accept, expect that its frequent factors are prime. So I should mention that Goe uses void Klauscus free entropy theory to show that frequent factors are cannot be split as a tensor product. So in this paper of Goh, he asked the following question. In the very end of the paper, Soko asks, is it true for every diffuse. So if we take any diffuse subalgebra in inside a frequent factor, its relative commutant is a minimum.
00:03:40.534 - 00:05:00.304, Speaker A: So, he asked this question. And the thing to notice is that. So we call this in this case. So girl asked if whether it is true that for any diffuse subalge by the relative commutant is amenable. And let's just say this property is called solidity. We'll see the frequency factor is solid if we satisfy this property. And so, the thing to notice is that solidity passes through sub algebras, and also solidity implies primeness.
00:05:00.304 - 00:06:28.114, Speaker A: So essentially what he is asking is that if whether solidity plus non amenability implies primary. So essentially what God was asking is that whether every non minimal sub factor of the frequency factor is prime. And then after that comes to comes the Lamarck theorem of Ozawa, is that it shows that frequent factors are exactly solid. Exactly satisfy this property that if you have something diffuse in the thing that commutes the relative comet on has to be amenable. So you cannot have two large pieces inside frequent factor that commute large, meaning non minimal. And so I should mention what are the techniques goes into the proof. So the proof is this is based on c style brick techniques.
00:06:28.114 - 00:08:07.444, Speaker A: So there are two main ingredients goes into the proof. So the first one is that first one is due to a result of Ekman 75 where they compute the norm of free group, the cis algebra of free group very explicitly, but it comes down to the following fact. That is if you look at the reduced group cis algebra given by the left regular representation and the so here gamma is the figure. So if we look at the reduced group c stands progenitor by the left and right regular orientation and we look at the following map, I just send a tends to b to a times b. Of course we're not mapping this into b of h because otherwise that would imply the group gamma is minimal if we have the mean continuity of this map. But instead we're mapping into the calcium algebra. So the result of Ackerman and Austran, their explicit computation comes down to that this map is continuous.
00:08:07.444 - 00:08:53.564, Speaker A: So it basically says that the free groups are not amenable. But when you are looking at the maps into the calcan algebra, it is some somehow resembles a minimbility. And so, but this is a result of the reduced group cis algebra. But the result of psych is about free group factors. So there is another ingredient that comes into the, comes into play is that the passage from the group cis algebra to the group autumn algebra. So another one is that this is group C's algebra is exact. So it is locally reflexive.
00:08:53.564 - 00:11:01.204, Speaker A: And you can use this property to pass to the why do and especially pass to the group on an algebra? So maybe, let me just quickly mention the ideas of the proof is that, so let's say we have a diffuse subalgebra A inside the frequent factor, then we can produce a sequence of unitaries that goes to zero weakly. And the thing is, if we now apply those unitary by conjugations on b of L two, and because that sequence of unitary goes to zero weekly, that will kill the compact. So essentially you will get a map from bfl two to b of L two that you can restrict to the Calkin algebra. And now you compose that you compose the unitary conjugation by this map here. And because we're taking a, then this map will not interfere with the thing that commutes with a inside here. And now essentially we're going to get is a map from, let's suppose this is a bonum algebra here, because that uses the examiners to pass the bottom algebra. So essentially what we're getting is that you have a map from a tensor L gamma to b of L two, and now you use the trick is that because we're mapping a tensor m, so you just do the Arpes and extension that gives you a map from b of L two tensor, from b of L two of gamma to a prime, that gives you the amenability of the relative commutant.
00:11:01.204 - 00:12:39.564, Speaker A: So essentially, it's, the thing is that this doesn't really matter is because you're taking the diffuse sub algebra, and that gives you a sequence unitary, that kills the compact. And so, in this theorem of Ozawa, he didn't only just show that frequency factors are solid, and what some more is true is that, um, so the class of exact groups satisfy properties one and two. So this class of groups is introduced by Taka, and all of them will satisfy those two properties. And that means that his proof goes through, and they show that he showed that all of them are all of their volume algebra solid. So before, well, you can take, this is mean continuous together with a group is exact as the definition of bisect groups. And I will introduce another perspective on this class of groups. But before getting into the other definition, I'll just give you some examples.
00:12:39.564 - 00:13:57.104, Speaker A: So, not only just free groups satisfy those two properties, but also hyperbolic groups, they all satisfy these properties. So in particular, you will have some probability factors that are solid. Another example would be sl two z cross z two. This is also an example of bisect group. And also you can look at writhe product. So if you take a minimal group and take the risk product with some biaxac group, and the risk product will stay bi exact. So, as you can see that we have a much larger class of groups that gives us solid factors just beyond the frequency factors.
00:13:57.104 - 00:15:16.844, Speaker A: And there are some more recent examples, including, also, so all of three examples are due to taka, and there are some recent examples due to Yakawa, relative hyperbolic groups with bisect peripheral subgroups, and also some, many small cancellation groups. Are there all bixact. So there are more examples. So let me just, so, this perspective on Bizac group is, you know, somewhat more algebraic operator algebraic. And there is another way to think about bizac groups. So, and so, let me describe an alternative description that is, will be more relative to what we're going to be doing next. So now let's look at a sub algebra of all boundary functions on group gamma.
00:15:16.844 - 00:16:07.174, Speaker A: So this is inside our infinity. This is a c star sub algebra. So what we're looking at is the collection of functions that under the right translation. So here, rt just means that rt of f g is just f g. So this is the right translation action. So what we're looking at is that the functions that are almost invariant under the right translation by almost, I mean modulo the functions that vanishes at infinity. So, so we have a, so you can check very easily that this is a CSA subalgebra.
00:16:07.174 - 00:17:47.256, Speaker A: And so, well, you may ask, why do we want to look at this uh, sub algebra? So if we look at, um, if we think this as um, as continuous function on a comparification of gamma, so we take the Galphin dual of this, then this ga, then this gamma, this type of complexification, we can describe this in a universal way. So this is the universal compactification of gamma such that if we look at the right action of gamma, so we first, so we have a natural extension of the left action of right action of gamma on itself to this comparison. And if we look at the right action on this boundary of the comparification, then this is trivial. So the terminology is that this is the small at infinity complexion. Small exactly means that the right action becomes a trivial action. And here s denotes small. So, okay, so, so this, this is somewhat a universal object we can look at.
00:17:47.256 - 00:19:08.908, Speaker A: And then how is this related to by exactness? And so gamma is y exact if the action, the left action. So this is, we have the left action on our infinity of gamma. And you can check that this is actually going to be invariant under the left action. So we can restrict the left action to this subalge bar here. So the thing is that we can recognize by examining, by looking at the left action of gamma on the system algebra. So another equivalent definition would be gamma is by exactly if only if the left action here is a topological topologically amenable action. So, so we actually do have a, you know, a more, a more topological dynamic characterization of the notion of like xen is.
00:19:08.908 - 00:20:44.354, Speaker A: Or you can think that this is a topological dynamic characterization of these two properties together. Maybe I should mention that what I mean by topological or minimal action, that just means that this is, this just means that because we have the action, so we can form the reduced group, reduce reduced cross product. And this is nuclear as a cis algebra. And this is also equivalent just by looking at, so we have a copy of the reduced group cis algebra inside this cross product. And we can just look at the inclusion map of this group cis algebra into the cross product. And it's the same as this inclusion collusion is a nuclear map, meaning that we can, we can find some UCP maps that factor through matrix algebras. So we can find something that some UCP maps that factors through matrix algebra into the cross product that converges to the inclusion in the point norm topology.
00:20:44.354 - 00:22:13.784, Speaker A: So essentially the by exam is a mouse to look at, to looking at the inclusion of the reduced group cis algebra into the cross product of the small and infinity boundary across the group itself. Okay, so, and remember, this would just exactly mean those two properties. The group is exact and this map is main continuous. Okay, so, oh, I should mention that, you know, since the very, just right after the theorem of taka, then this, these lines of ideas and methods are combined, then combined with Popo's deformation rigidity and use many structural result of grouponoma algebras. So this notion of back then is widely applied to many situations. But we're not going through that in details here, right? Yes. So now we see that we have this topological dynamic characterization of bi sadness.
00:22:13.784 - 00:24:45.398, Speaker A: So you may think it's somewhat topological in nature, but a result of sacchol shows that 2009 shows that, um, if, if we have two groups that are measure equivalent, and so if we're given two groups that are measure equivalent, then gamma is by exact, if and only if lambda is not exact. So indeed, this property, this somewhat topological property, can be recognized through measure equivalence. So this is somewhat interesting because this is measure equivalence. And then there is another question you can ask, given the, you know, the close relation between measure equivalence and the isomorphism of the corresponding group on a malgebras. So the question would be if just replace the measure equivalence with asomorphism of the corresponding bond algebras, does this imply that the other one is also bisexual? So the question will be, if you have two groups that have isomorphic monomials, bursts, and one of them is by exact, and you recognize by exact of the other group through the isomorphism of a vulnerable. And this is the question I want to discuss today. So, just like many other group properties that are also invariants like amenability and the property t, what you usually do is just you try to introduce the corresponding notion for the bond algebra and show that it actually coincides with the group notion when you restrict to gurvonum algebras.
00:24:45.398 - 00:26:48.544, Speaker A: So that's what we're going to do here is that we're going to spike Thanos for, let's just say for torment vectors, and shall it with a group notion. So that's what we're going to do next, is that we're going to define blackness for twelve factors and show that it's exactly the same as the group notion when the form factor is, uh, is a group on a malspa. Okay, so what are the things that goes into the definition of byexec groups? So we're going to take this perspective, that is, we have this systole algebra, s gamma, or you can think we have this small at infinity quantification of the group, and we're going to look at the action, the left action of the group on this systole. So the first thing is, we have this s gamma here, so it written there. And the second thing is that, so this small at infinity compact location. So that's the first thing that goes into definition. And the second thing is that the left action is a minimal.
00:26:48.544 - 00:28:04.924, Speaker A: So, to define the corresponding notion for vonamelage Preston, we need to find analogs of those two properties. So we will need to find what is the small at infinity classification of a tone factor. And also what does it mean for ton factor two x, and amenably on some complexification of the torn factor. So probably, now let's look at the first thing. So what is the corresponding sigma four factor. So we're in the commutative case, we're just looking at a function space. And so there is, you can follow the standard dictionary that if we have m, m is a form factor and can just try to look at, just replace l infinity of gamma by bonded operators l two.
00:28:04.924 - 00:29:42.586, Speaker A: And the right action will then be replaced by the commitment of m inside the b of l two, right? So that would be a direct translation from the commutative case to the non commutative case. So we replace this l infinity with b of l two, replace c zero with compact, and replace the reaction with m prime, and replace the, you know, the conjugation by the commutator. This seems to be fine, but it turns out that this is not the correct thing to look at, because this is exactly just m plus the compact by a result of 70, 75, I guess, or also just pop out by 83 or 87, I can't remember exactly. So, so that means that this, you know, if you just do the direct translation, then there's nothing to look at. You're just looking at n plus the compound. It's not interesting at all. So that means there has to be something to be modified if this approach would work at all.
00:29:42.586 - 00:30:37.674, Speaker A: So what we're going to look at is exactly the same thing, but just do one modification. So this is not the right thing. But so what we do is that we don't take the compact, but we slightly enlarge the compact by taking the infinity one norm closure of the compact in bfl two. So what is the infinity one closure infinity one norm. That is just so. Usually when you take the norm, you take the sup over all vectors in L two. But now we just look at all vectors that are in unit ball of n.
00:30:37.674 - 00:31:52.514, Speaker A: So this will be the unit infinity one norm. And we're taking that closure of the compact and taking that into our definition of this minus infinity boundary. So why, why does this help? And there are several considerations for taking this closure. The one consideration is that if we just take the compact and there's nothing to look at, because it's a trivial, this is a trivial thing. Um, another consideration is that, another consideration is that, you know, we are defining the non cumulative small and infinity complexification of m. So we want to relate that to the commutative one, which is s gamma here. And we know that, you know, if we, all those functions f will commute with our groups element module of a compact.
00:31:52.514 - 00:33:56.550, Speaker A: But you know, how are we going to check, this is true for every single element in a bottom algebra. So here is the second reason is that, so if we have some t inside b of L two, such that dx is in the compact for x in set x is a generating set, and then t will be inside, inside this. So you see that this is somewhat a density thing or some kind of closure thing. That is, if we know some orbiter that commutes the computator with things in a genuine set is compact, then taking this closure automatically gives us that this relation passes to the closure of the, or passes to the whole bottom algebra. So you can think this as some kind of, you know, this is kind of some taking closure, we can pass to the, pass to the closure of the generating set. So in particular, we have our, the cumulative one. If we look at all the functions and we look at as we have those as multipliers, the diagonal multipliers on b of L two, then this will be inside s of l gamma.
00:33:56.550 - 00:35:40.390, Speaker A: That's just because by definition our f will almost commute with the right regular representation and those generates the r gamma. So, so this, this taking this closure is essential because that allows us to show that we do have a embedding of the commutative boundary into the non commutative boundary just through the multiple multiplier map. And another consideration would be another thing is that if we just take the conditional expectation from B of L two of gamma to the diagonal l infinity, then this will restrict to a map from the non commutative boundary to the commutative boundary. So that's how you relate the commutative one with non commutative one, is that one embeds into the other and the projection takes the non committed one to the committed one. And so that is the first part, that's the part one about the spawn infinity compatriation. And the second part will be looking at the corresponding analog of minimal actions. So we're taking the perspective of the group c algebra inside the cross product.
00:35:40.390 - 00:36:40.980, Speaker A: So if we think the cross product as the non committed boundary, then we're just looking at the inclusion of the algebra into the cross product. And here this S of M, you can see that it clearly contains m. And so what we'll be looking at will be the inclusion of M into S of M. So I should mention that this S of M is not a systole algebra, just because we're taking this infinity one closure and the infinite one closure will not, will not be a Sys algebra. So, but this will still be an operator system. Or we can look at the inclusion of M into this operator system that contains M. So in the group case we have that we're looking at the inclusion of s gamma, sorry, system of gamma into the closure of, into the cross product.
00:36:40.980 - 00:37:40.590, Speaker A: And we know that this is characterized by, exactly, characterized by the factorization of this map through matrix algebras. And now how do we make sense of amenable actions in the volume algebra setting? That will be, we're looking at the inclusion map of M into this boundary S of M. And to say that this, this is nuclear in some sense, some appropriate sense. So there are some natural candidate that would be you look at the neuron topology, or you think this is norm nuclear, but that would be too strong for vulnerabilities. And there is a natural, another one would be look at point Wake SAR convergence. That seems natural for bonom out breast. But the thing is that, and you know, this is not a wix star closed subspace of BFL two because it contains the compact end.
00:37:40.590 - 00:39:11.924, Speaker A: If it's closed, then you're just looking at into the BFH. So you know, there has to be some, in some sense there has to be in between the norm nuclearity and the wickstart neutrality. So some kind of Norman wix or hybrid thing that's going on here. So we're going to look at is the following space of functionals, because you know, the norm neutrality can be characterized by looking at all the state, all the functionals on this CC algebra. So we can look at the following space here. So we'll just be looking at a subspace of functionals on our opera system or our boundary of m such that this is, so we're not looking at things that are normal, normal on the whole thing, but we're looking at things that are normal. So if we have x and y inside m, then we can look at x times t times y.
00:39:11.924 - 00:41:15.424, Speaker A: When t is in our s of m, then we're just looking at all the functionals that are normal. When you fix a t and fix a y then it is normal for x. So you can think this as a normal normality condition on the bimodule structure of M because they're normal. When you look at things multiply on the left and things multiply on the right. But it will be the normal topology on the thing that from the boundary here and now the nuclear table would just be, that is exactly the same thing, but we just modify the topology. And the appropriate sense is that, so the ci UCP maps such that if you look at phi of. So it just means that we have the composition of phi ci goes to the inclusion map or identity map on M in the, in the point, in point sigma s of m and s of m sharp topology.
00:41:15.424 - 00:42:27.614, Speaker A: Right? So if we replace the sharp with everything replace sharp with star, now it would just be the same as point norm convergence. But now we just do a little bit of a restriction to say that we only look at functionals that are placed well with quantum algebras. And the definition will exactly be that m is by exact if the inclusion is m nuclear. And the m nuclear just means that we have nuclear maps, we have maps factor through matrix algebra. But the convergence is in the sharp space and we call this m nuclear because the sharp space depends, you can see the definition of the sharp here depends exactly on the normal topology of m. This convergence depends on which monomialge bar you choose. For example, if you choose m to be the scalar, then that will exactly be the norm nuclearity.
00:42:27.614 - 00:43:46.684, Speaker A: So it's an m dependent definition. Um, so, so if this, and you can see the, the analogy here is that, um, let me just go back to the very quick again, the group case we have that this is, this is the cis algebra into the cross product. This is nuclear in the norm sense or in the weaked model distance. So this is same as gamma is by exact. So what we're doing here is just replace the group cis algebra with, you know, the group on algebra, and replace this cross product with the boundary. We just construct and replace the new clarity that factor through matrix algebra with this. Not, not just looking at all functionals, but looking at functionals that are, in a respect, the Wixar topology on the bond algebra.
00:43:46.684 - 00:45:09.346, Speaker A: This is nuclear. So hopefully, I hope that by looking at, you know, the group case and the group on a matrix case, I hope the analogy is clear. So they're essentially the same thing, but you just do the modification that, you know, essentially you want to react, respect the norm, the normal structure around the bonnet algebra. And let me just quickly justify the terminology here. That is why it's, why it's sensible to call such a boundary management by. Exactly. So we're going to give you a sketch that the group is backset, if only if the group on an algebra is backset.
00:45:09.346 - 00:46:06.744, Speaker A: So one direction. So if you know, the group is by exact. So, our characterization here is that this inclusion is nuclear map. And the thing is that we know that this s gamma contains inside the non cumulative s of l gamma, and the containment is a gamma equivariant inclusion. So this will give us an inclusion of the reduced cross product into the non committed boundary. So what we have is that we have a nuclear map from the group cis algebra to the boundary we just construct. And now you can use local reflexivity to pass it to the Bonneman algebra into s.
00:46:06.744 - 00:47:08.684, Speaker A: But you know, you have to change the topology. So this is l gamma nuclear. So one direction just comes from the construction of the boundary, and we have the cross product inside the boundary. So, and we also use new local reflectivity to pass from cs algebra to bond algebra. So one direction, that's one direction, what about the other direction? So the other direction is also not very hard once we have the correct notion in hand. So let's suppose we have, so the other direction is that, suppose we have the I factor three matrix algebras. And now back to the boundary for one algebra.
00:47:08.684 - 00:48:09.174, Speaker A: Remember that we mentioned that if you took the diagonal map from b of l two to l infinity, that will gives us a map from the commutative boundary to the non commutative boundary to the commutative boundary. So we just compose with this diagonal map, that gives us a map from l gamma to the small and infinite boundary. For the group. And now you can just restrict this, you know, you can just restrict this map to well not exactly this map but now you can define a map from the group gamma to the Cc algebra s gamma just given by this map here. So hi of t will just be um e of ci composed with phi. And you just have, this is lambda t lambda t star. So what we're doing is that we just take lambda t inside of our gamma and factor through matrix algebras and then project that down to the cumulative function space.
00:48:09.174 - 00:49:12.560, Speaker A: And in the process we times we multiply by a lambda t star. So this will be a map from gamma to the function space. So this is positive definite because you know all the maps are ucp and this is finitely supported because we're factors for matrix algebras. And hi goes to the identity endpoint or quant. So this, this NATO functions goes to the identity function because this if ci theta applied to lambda t is really close to lambda t then this is just one. So uh, so by, by this this converges to the inclusion map we have that uh, this is uh, this goes to identity function. And this is exactly the fauna type characterization of amenable actions of a gamma on a primitive cis algebra.
00:49:12.560 - 00:50:14.904, Speaker A: So that shows that gamma x on this is minimal. So that shows that gamma is bi exact. So that would be a sketch that why this notion makes sense. So let me just quickly mention one consequence is that um, is that uh, you can show that this notion of bi xanthomon algebras passes through subalgebras quite easily. And then a quick consequence would be that if, if l gamma if, if you can, if you can embed a group factor into a full group factor and then gamma is a bisector. Okay so I think I was just stopped here. Thank you.
