00:00:00.280 - 00:02:00.270, Speaker A: If you remember, we had defined this notion of a canonical doctor plan. And the idea is that by giving a structural property of the doctor plan, and first of all, maybe you don't remember what a doctor plan is, I talked about it in my workshop talk and also before, but we can just quickly go over it. So a doctor plan, if you remember, is motivated by giving a combinatorial plan for how to recursively decompose a graph into rigid subgraphs in order to, in reverse solve the polynomial system that corresponds to the original distance constraint system. So we're primarily restricting ourselves to distance constraint systems at this time. But the notion of doctor plan is in general applicable to any kind of constraint system where there's some underlying abstract rigidity meteoroid that you can define, and notion of rigidity as corresponding to having finitely many solutions to the corresponding polynomial system. And the idea is that we are simulating this notion of triangularization of a polynomial system, where at any given time of the solution process, you have finitely many solutions so that you can pick one of them, let's say, for each one of the subsystems, and solve the larger system by substituting those values and thereby getting a smaller algebraic system. So, and the goal is to minimize the size of the algebraic system, some algebraic complexity measures, including degree, number of variables, and so on, of the algebraic system that you solve at any given time.
00:02:00.270 - 00:02:55.074, Speaker A: And a rough measure of that is what we call the fan in of this doctor plan, which is, which is something that is defined just on the graph. Okay, so that's the introduction to the motivation for doctor plan recollection. So now we define, the doctor plan is of any constraint graph. And as I said, we're going to just talk about distance constraint graphs at this time. And it's a forest where each node is a rigid subgraph of g. A root node is a maximal rigid subgraph, an internal node is a union of its children, and a leaf node is a single constraint and the involved primitives. We are also going to assume, with almost no exceptions, that when we say subgraph, we mean induced subgraph, right? Vertex induced subgraph.
00:02:55.074 - 00:03:45.174, Speaker A: So the definition of a canonical. So this is a very general thing. It doesn't say much about, much about whether these rigid subgraphs are in any way maximal, proper maximum rigid subgraphs of the graph or anything like that. Now, there's a definition of a complete doctor plan that's sort of in between this and the canonical doctor plan, which actually forces these rigid subgraphs to actually be maximal, what we call rumps or rigid vertex maximal proper subgraphs. But we can skip that and just directly include that into the definition of the doctor plant. I mean, canonical doctor. So canonical doctor plan is one in which the children are rigid vertex maximal proper subgraphs of the parent graph.
00:03:45.174 - 00:04:40.854, Speaker A: Besides being having the properties of a doctor plan, it has these two additional properties. If all pairs of rumps intersect trivially, then all of them are children. Otherwise, exactly two that intersect non trivial earth children. So in other words, if you think about the doctor plan itself, and you look at a node and you look at its children, there are only two cases. This is written in a funny way, but there are only two cases, either all of them pairwise, intersect trivially, or there are exactly two and they intersect non trivially. And if you remember, non trivially simply means that the size of the intersection is actually. So there's an underlying abstract rigidity matriarch, let's say, of dimension d, and their intersection is at least d plus one that's non trivial.
00:04:40.854 - 00:06:06.072, Speaker A: So in the case of d equals two, for example, the trivial intersection means the intersect on a vertex. And in the case of d equals three, trivial intersection would be that they intersect either on a vertex or on an edge, so, or on a pair of vertices, right? So, canonical. So the theorem that we're going to prove, start proving today, is basically that a canonical doctor plan exists for any graph. First of all, because, you know, it's not quite clear that you can actually find a canonical diagram that, especially the property two, seems like, you know, why should that be the case? You know, why should it be that one? It's almost like a statement rather than a part of a definition, but it turns out to be essentially some well defined, you know, so show that it exists for a graph, and any canonical doctor plan is optimal if the graph is independent, and again, independent in the abstract rigidity, Metroid. Okay, so the proof is uses two simple sort of, we call it observations and lemma. And you know, the lemma happens to have a lot of cases. But probably there's a simpler proof of dilemma.
00:06:06.072 - 00:06:46.194, Speaker A: But the way it's written right now in, by the way, I put the references somewhere. If you look through the slides, which is posted on Piazza, always make a copy of the slides that I'm presenting and post them on Piazza. The link to the copy will keep changing. So if you have a browser on a particular link, you might have to refresh that. So this was the list of papers, and I think I collected a set of links, which I will update this with the links, but we are primarily talking about this paper right now. Sorry, shouldn't have done that. So this optimal decomposition paper, which is by three of my grad students and myself from 2015.
00:06:46.194 - 00:07:31.504, Speaker A: Okay, so where are we? Yeah. Okay, so it relies on two simple observations. Remember, I'm using the word isostatic here. The isostatic is used in that proof, because some applications to materials is given, but isostatic just means minimally rigid. So there are two, there's a simple observation and a simple lemma on which the proof of the theorem is based. And it's a good homework exercise to actually prove these things. But I will actually, maybe for today, since we are just warming up back into the system, I can just try to prove this.
00:07:31.504 - 00:08:01.100, Speaker A: So the first is this observation. I think the next one, slide, actually has the observation there. Okay, good. So if two subgraphs are minimally rigid. Sorry, I think something is missing, an assumption that was made. Okay, so yeah, there was an assumption in the paper which is missing. I should have put it there.
00:08:01.100 - 00:08:46.356, Speaker A: So, we assume that the graph is independent throughout the paper. The original graph that we're starting out is independent, because this theorem only holds if the graph is independent. So we're going to assume that the graph is independent. And although it's not stated explicitly in the observation in the lemma, it's that graph that we are thinking about always. So these are all part of the proof of the theorem. So it's not explicitly stated that the graph is independent except in the statement of the theorem. So in this observation, you should include in it that we know that the graph that we're starting out with is in fact independent and whatever the de rigidity metroid is.
00:08:46.356 - 00:09:46.968, Speaker A: So we sometimes write it. I mean, at least this may be written as though the dimension is two. But you will see that most of this simply relates to counting and nothing else, really, because we are starting out with an assumption of independence. And so good chunk of it actually goes through. Almost all of it goes through for any, the result goes through, but the proofs also go through the way they are written for other dimensions. So this is saying, and it's a good homework to think about this, because this is, we're making certain assumptions that allow us to deal with things using just counting. So we're assuming that the graph is independent in the rigidity metroid, and that the fi and fj are non empty, minimally rigid subgraphs off that graph.
00:09:46.968 - 00:10:40.604, Speaker A: Right. So from that we're going to conclude that the union of the two graphs. So I guess we're also, because if you have a trivial graph. So, for example, in, in the case of d equals two, a trivial graph is a single vertex. And the single vertex is, you know, by count, by the counting thing, it would be over constrained because it's got two degrees of freedom. But you need at least three degrees of freedom for it to be minimally rigid, so to speak. Okay, so we can assume, we can essentially conclude that if they're non empty isostatic graphs, and by minimally rigid, we say that it's independent.
00:10:40.604 - 00:11:14.864, Speaker A: And for it to be meaningful, even, we just can assume that fi union fj is not trivial. Under constraint simply means that it is. Everything is independent. So we never think about any dependent edges at all. So under constraint here simply means that there are fewer edges than are necessary to make it, make it rigid. Okay, so fi union Fj is under constraint. If and only if fi intersect Fj is trivial.
00:11:14.864 - 00:11:55.612, Speaker A: And Fi union Fj is, is minimally rigid. If and only if fi intersect Fj is minimally rigid. And finally, that we can conclude that fi intersect FJ is not under constrained. I mean, is not the, it is not the case that it has few fewer edges than is required to be minimally rigid. The reason being that if it were, then their union, the number of degrees of freedom, of the union, would contradict the fact that the original graph is independent. Okay, so you can look. So for the first one.
00:11:55.612 - 00:12:31.844, Speaker A: So the proof, we can simply go through the proof. Note that if fi union Fj are trivial, then fi and FJ must also be trivial. And we have, as I said in the rest of the paper, sort of ruled out an isostatic graph from being trivial, simply from the counts. So if you look at an edge in two dimensions, three dimensions, for example, it's got three plus three minus one, which appears to indicate that it is over constrained. Because it's got five degrees of freedom, it should have six. So we're just ruling those things up. So, for the next.
00:12:31.844 - 00:13:16.080, Speaker A: So the first statement is actually simply, in a way, ruling things out from being called, from calling them ISO minimally rigid because they're trivial. Okay, for the next part, we simply use. So fi union Fj is under constrained, which means it doesn't have enough edges to be rigid if and only if the intersection is trivial. Because we know that the intersection cannot be over constrained. So it cannot have more edges than what is required to be rigid, because then it would have been dependent. And we know it's not. There's no dependent edge here.
00:13:16.080 - 00:13:57.294, Speaker A: So the only other option would be that it is trivial. So that's the second part. So we don't need this 2 volts and all this two v. I mean, because the rest of the paper I just cut and paste on the paper and the paper is sort of assuming certain things, and then fi, union fj is minimally rigid if and only if the intersection is minimally rigid. Again, you can conclude that the intersection, if we know that the intersection is not, doesn't have more edges than required. So it must have, and there are no dependent edges whatsoever. So the only option is for it to be exactly minimally rigid.
00:13:57.294 - 00:14:57.128, Speaker A: So just do an inclusion exclusion count of the degrees of freedom, this plus this minus that, to get the degrees of freedom of the whole thing. And then the last thing is, it is not, their intersection cannot be under constraint. As I said, if it had been, again from the exclusion count, it would follow that the, it would contradict the fact that the whole thing is not, doesn't have any over constraints. So this fall, so the observation is a simple exercise of just counting with the assumption that we know that the graph is independent. And then the lemma has, as I said, quite a few more cases and depends on the fact of, depends on certain properties of the canonical doctor plan. So we will look at that. It's good to remember the lemma, because we're going to be using it in the proof, but the proof of it, proof of the lemma we'll put aside for later, if at all.
00:14:57.128 - 00:16:46.940, Speaker A: Okay, so, but you can look at the paper, it's in the appendix, the proof, because it's got all these cases. Okay, so if it is that, if it is, dilemma is saying that if a node is a, I mean, it is, I don't have to necessarily say here that it's isostatic node of the canonical doctor plan, because there is no other possibility, because we're assuming that the graph is independent. So if it's a minute and we know that the nodes have to be rigid, so it automatically means it's minimally rigid of canonical doctor plant and canonical dial plan. Remember, has these two properties, two extra properties of having rumps as children at every node, and either all pairs of children have trivial intersections, or there are exactly two of them, the non trivial intersection. So if it has these distinct children, and then we can say some things to some extent following from these properties of maximality with vertex maximality, and to some extent from this observation that the pair the union is isostatic if and only if the pair the union is everything, right? And if you have, if something is isostatic, then for every. So if any pair of them, the union of any pair of them is isostatic, then for every sort of other possible pairing with I, that's also isostatic. So alternatively, if a pair is isostatic, then all of them will be.
00:16:46.940 - 00:17:41.284, Speaker A: So every union, every pairwise union also turns out to be the whole thing. And then if so, in a way, one, two, and three two sort of is used in the proof of one. But we're just stating it as three different things, so that because we use them independently in the proof. So, and if the intersection is trivial, then for if the intersection of any pair is trivial, then for every pair intersection is trivial. So, okay, so this is, in a way, saying that the definition of the doctor plan is, well, canonical doctor plan is well defined. Or in other words, is saying that such a canonical doctor plan exists, right? So for the graph. So now we can sort of proceed to the proof of the theorem.
00:17:41.284 - 00:18:27.162, Speaker A: It's 1052. Yeah, I think I can give the overall pattern of the proof or how the proof goes, and then we can go into the details of the different claims and so forth after a recap on Tuesday. Okay, so we can show the existence of a canonical doctor plan by constructing it in this way. So you begin with the complete doctor plan of G. And remember, the complete doctor plan doesn't have this extra condition, which the second condition of the canonical dia plan, it just has the first one and it doesn't. And therefore, you know, existence of it is not something to be actually shown. So this is, it always exists.
00:18:27.162 - 00:19:13.354, Speaker A: So right now, we're primarily talking about the second part. So this is saying that if you start with the complete doctor plan of giving, and what you do is you modify the complete doctor plan to make it canonical. So complete doctor plan already always exists. And complete doctor plan, like I said, is just the first part, not the second, and it always exists. And for every node with children c one through cn, you retain only those nodes according to the following rules. If their intersection is trivial, then retain all of them. Right.
00:19:13.354 - 00:19:45.302, Speaker A: If the intersection is rigid, then select any two out of its children and retain them. Okay, so. And then we can show that this satisfies properties two and three of the canonical doctor plan, you know, so. Oh, what is three? I think this was two and three. Okay. Because all of the nodes in the complete doctor plan are rigid. Vertex maximum, proper subgraph.
00:19:45.302 - 00:20:22.024, Speaker A: And instead of saying rumps, we're starting to use clusters. And to show that property, one holds that this is a doctor plan at all. So I guess this was written as one and two, but in fact, one is the fact that it's a doctor plan at all. For the first case, which is that if their intersection is trivial, then retain all as children, we can start with a complete, because we are starting with a complete doctor plan. If we preserve all the children, it is still a doctor plan, because their union gives the whole thing. That's one of the property the union of the children gives the parent. That's one of the properties in the doctor plan.
00:20:22.024 - 00:21:57.590, Speaker A: And in the second case, we know that the union must be rigid as well. And since it cannot be anything other than the sea itself from the lemma, we would have from the lemma. So this would mean that we would have found a larger rigid, proper subgraph of c contradicting the vertex maximality. So essentially, the existence, or the second property follows from the vertex maximality of the first, because if you cannot find something, you know, if their union cannot be anything other than c, then, you know, this would, they would have to be, you know, you cannot have yet another one. So in other words, the just a pair of them should be sufficient, because otherwise you would have found a larger proper subgraph of c, which would contradict vertex maximality. So now if we begin with a minimally rigid graph, you can then, everywhere, when we talk about rigid, we can only sort of relax it or just instead replace it by just minimally rigid throughout the construction and then observe all of these properties. Essentially, this just says that because of the vertex maximality and because of the lemma, we can essentially conclude.
00:21:57.590 - 00:22:46.814, Speaker A: And the key part of the lemma that we care about is that, in fact, this is isostatic if and only if the union of them is all of the graph, right? So that's the part of the lemma that we're actually using. So because of that, and because of the rigid vertex maximality, we can use this way of taking a complete doctor plan, which means it satisfies the first property of having vertex maximum rigid subgraphs and then ensure the second property. Start with this and ensure the second. Okay, so that's the first part to show that it exists. The second part is to show that it's optimal, that a canonical Dr. Plan is optimal. By optimal, what do we mean? We mean that it.
00:22:46.814 - 00:23:36.180, Speaker A: It has the best fan in, or the smallest maximum fan in among all doctor plans. So we're maximizing over all the nodes of the doctor plan and any doctor plan, not necessarily complete, not necessarily canonical, nothing, right? So canonical doctor plan is the optimal one as far as minimizing the maximum fan in over all the airplanes. So that's what we're trying to show. So the way we show this is by induction. Well, there are a few notes here, but since we have, we're almost three minutes. Okay, let's quickly go through it. So, first, to note that any doctor plan r without the property two of a canonical doctor plan can always be modified by introducing intermediate nodes to satisfy property two.
00:23:36.180 - 00:24:37.062, Speaker A: This is simply saying that you can always get a complete doctor plan without increasing the maximum fan. And since any, you know, so do putting maximal ones there will only decrease the fan in, not increase the fan, especially because we have this property that if there is any non trivial intersection, you only put exactly two of them. So since any rigid proper sub graph of C is the sub graph of some rigid proper sub graph of C. Okay, so this is kind of obvious if you think about it. So then we can, without loss of generality, assume that the optimal doctor plan satisfies the completeness condition, which is that all the subset, I mean, subgraphs, are in fact grumps. So the proof of the optimality, so one direction. So in other words, every optimal doctor plan must satisfy one of the properties of the canonical doctor plan.
00:24:37.062 - 00:25:11.290, Speaker A: So the proof of optimality of the canonical doctor plan is by induction on the height. So we're going to look at the height of this doctor plan, and the base case is when the height is zero for single edges. The induction hypothesis. The canonical Dr. Plans of height t are optimal for the root node. And then for the induction step, we consider a canonical doctor plan of height t plus one rooted at a given node. And you assume that the canonical doctor plans for all the children, I mean for all the descendant nodes, in fact.
00:25:11.290 - 00:26:20.426, Speaker A: So then from the induction hypothesis, we know that RCI would then be optimal for CI. So it's sufficient to demonstrate that a set of nodes must represent s that must be present in any doctor plan r for c that satisfies the, you know, the second property, including a known optimal one. So in other words, we sort of construct or show or illustrate a set of nodes that must be present in every doctor plan that satisfies the second property. And secondly, for any such doctor plan that contains such a set of nodes that sort of important, or that set that's always present s must be the set of children of c or for all the ancestors a of S R has the minimum possible fan in two. Okay, so you can never get better than fan in of two. So because you can't get better than fan in of two. Adding a node into the doctor plan with Fanon of two is not going to change anything.
00:26:20.426 - 00:27:18.094, Speaker A: Right? So that's the overall plan of the proof. So the rest of the proof, I mean it's an interesting kind of proof to me. Took a while for us to come up with this idea of this important set of nodes that must be present in every doctor plan that has these basic properties. Right? So and that sort of was the key because for a while we were scratching our head how on earth do we show that this, this particular doctor plan is optimal and and this sort of ensured that, you know, you didn't have crazy doctor plans that you would have to compare against. This is ensuring that every doctor plan has to have this set of nodes and so now we can concentrate only on those doctor plans. So that was the plan and then we can continue with the proof in the next. On Tuesday.
