00:00:00.090 - 00:00:31.762, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. You everyone, we've got a great episode here, but before we do, I just wanted to give a quick shout out to permissionless.
00:00:31.762 - 00:00:55.290, Speaker A: This is the biggest and best conference in all of DFI. It's the one that we do with Bankless, who's a great partner for us. Last year we had almost 7000 people there in west palm beach. We are moving this year to Austin, Texas from September 11 through the 13th. And if you are a listener of Bell curve, any of these last five seasons, this conference is basically custom made for you. We're going to be talking about liquid staking, the theme of this season. We've got a bunch of great panels on mev.
00:00:55.290 - 00:01:21.142, Speaker A: If you listen to the app chain thesis, we've got a bunch of Cosmos folks out there in full force. We're talking about the converging architecture of Salana, the roll up space in ETH and cosmos. So I would love to see all of you there and to reward you for being such great listeners to Bell curve. You get a special 30% off code. It's bell curve 30 that'll get you 30% off tickets. Click the link in the show notes and then head over to the permissionless site and make sure that you get your ticket today. Again, that is Bell curve 30.
00:01:21.142 - 00:01:31.790, Speaker A: Click the link in the show notes. All right, everyone, welcome back to another roundup edition of Bell Curve today. You've got me and the homie, miles, just the two of us holding down the fort here. Miles, welcome back to the show, budy.
00:01:31.890 - 00:01:38.266, Speaker B: Oh, it's good to be back. Two EPS in one week. I'm feeling deeply appreciated over here.
00:01:38.368 - 00:02:31.114, Speaker A: Well, we have a really good episode for you. It's probably going to come as a surprise, but it's been a busy week in crypto so far. We had some high drama in the form of exploits. We had a resurgen degeneracy on base and we also had for more of the folks on the right side of the bell curve. On this podcast we had Barnaby of the Ethereum Foundation has provided some more details on pepsi, and I thought we could segue and just discuss some of the new details that Barnabay came out with, but also just talk about it in the context of the discussion that we started to have at the end of the Sriram episode. And it was great to see barnaby also connected it to some of the other ideas that we had connected it with as well, such as some of the vote extensions and ABCI plus plus and Cosmos and Eigen layer and yeah, there's a lot of really interesting stuff to dig into there.
00:02:31.232 - 00:02:45.038, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it's shocking to hear that the know actually listens to us, but I thought it was great and actually clarified a lot of questions that I had about PEPC. So excited to get into that a little bit later.
00:02:45.124 - 00:03:23.738, Speaker A: All right, let's start by talking about Curve. And I just want to do the caveat here. We're recording this on August 3, this Thursday. So many of you have probably already gotten to the nitty gritty kind of gory details of the Curve exploit. So we're just going to do a very high level on that. And then Miles, where I want to spend our time, is going into the second and third order implications of this and just try to riff on that a little. You know, the high level is that it's been pretty public news that the Curve founder michael Egorov, has a very large outstanding loan, which is collateralized with CRV, and that's done primarily on Ave, but also on some other platforms as well, abracadabra, et cetera.
00:03:23.738 - 00:04:11.500, Speaker A: And the problem got kicked off when there was an exploit in one of the I think several, actually, of the Curve pools. The way that the exploit happened was actually pretty discouraging for folks that hold their assets in DeFi. It was actually a sort of day one bug in the contracting language, which is Viper. So there was just sort of this day one bug that has actually been around for a very long period of time. It unfortunately led to Michael losing some more of his Curve holdings. That led the market to kind of start to price in where he was going to get liquidated. As soon as that stuff goes out into the open, the sharks start circling, and people are basically trying to snipe off his position.
00:04:11.500 - 00:04:57.930, Speaker A: It looks like what Michael's been able to do thus far is to sell some CRV OTC and raise up enough funds to top off his positions again, the largest one being on Ave, but some other platforms as well. He was also scrambling, kind of selling off LDO in these sort of $10,000 chunks. And it looks like at the time of this recording that he's scrambled off enough cash to save himself. But sort of a tough week in a black eye for DeFi, I would say. It certainly makes you question if there's been a day one bug in the programming language of Curve for this long, if you can't trust one of the majors like Curve, just makes it that much harder to custody your assets on chain. And what do you find yourself thinking about all this?
00:04:58.080 - 00:06:35.130, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, just on that security point, I think we like to say that there are a small handful of protocols that have battle hardened contracts, right, Lindy? Yeah, exactly. DeFi is extremely antagonistic environment for protocols and when one doesn't get hacked for a few years among tons of other hacks, then the confidence basically compounds and it's incredibly important. So when we have an incident like this where we thought one of the very few battle hardened protocols that stood the test of time actually has a critical vulnerability that was there from the day one, it makes you nervous about, I guess, just the scope of attack surface that these DeFi protocols have to deal with. And so I think there's been a lot of talk about circuit breaker security services in the past, but the concern has always been if you add something like a circuit breaker that pauses the protocol whenever a hack is detected, you lose composability with the rest of the DeFi ecosystem that is relying on your protocol for certain functions. And that's really the role that Curve does play with a lot of DeFi. Right? It is a Lego block that tons of protocols link into. And I do think that if we can break through those trade offs, it would be a huge boost to the DeFi ecosystem.
00:06:35.130 - 00:07:38.160, Speaker B: So that's maybe the first take, we need circuit breakers that don't break composability or at least give trade offs that are a lot more acceptable. And then the second takeaway, which has been kind of a take of mine for a while, might be a hot take, might be lukewarm, but I really don't think it's healthy when the functionality or utility of your protocol can be impacted by the price of your token. And I just use this analogy. What if there was a market event that impacted Hood and then all of a sudden Robinhood, the value prop was degraded. Either it was less secure or services that were relied upon could no longer be relied upon. I don't think that's a healthy thing. And so this concept of Ve tokens has been in discussion for a very long time.
00:07:38.160 - 00:08:01.698, Speaker B: And essentially Curve's role is to be a critical piece of DeFi infrastructure, right? And many of these DeFi protocols use Curve pools. They rely on Curve emission incentives basically to offset what would be otherwise pretty unprofitable LP positions.
00:08:01.794 - 00:09:17.226, Speaker A: Let me just insert just for folks who aren't familiar with the Tokenomics of Curve, but the way the Tokenomics of Curve works is that you are incentivized. Basically the structure of the token works that you're taxed if you're just a regular CRV holder, what you are incentivized to do is to lock up your Token into a vote Escrow model anywhere from one to four years. That however long you lock your CRV tokens up, will give you disproportionate power to direct the emissions of CRV into different liquidity pools. So the way it's supposed to work is if you're a stablecoin and Curve is the premier menu for stablecoin liquidity, what you can do is buy a bunch of CRV, lock it up, direct CRV emissions to your pool, and farmers will essentially want to LP there because the rewards will be greater. So that's what you mean, right, when you say the price of the token matters a lot to the actual functioning of the product. And last thing I'll say it's actually sort of bitcoin ish in a way, because the tokenomics very similar to bitcoin they actually shoot. Our analyst Dan is rolling over in his grave right now, but there's a splitting, there's a kind of having event that happens, I'm pretty sure, at the frequency of might be every year, might be four years for a curve.
00:09:17.226 - 00:09:21.354, Speaker A: But yeah, there are less emissions that get emitted over time similarly to bitcoin.
00:09:21.482 - 00:10:37.686, Speaker B: Right. And I think that's all well and good, but I guess my point is if your protocol relies on incentives to keep all this scaffolding intact and the incentives are at risk of going to zero, then at any given point right. I just think that that's one more risk that protocols really don't need to introduce to build a successful product. And I think that this is very well known to the team, and I think it's probably part of why the co founder took out enormous credit lines on his CRV positions rather than diversifying and selling that CRV position on dumping it on the open market, which I think is great to not dump on all of your holders. But now that his position is very well known and the implications of a liquidation are very well known, people are going to hunt that position. And if half of the circulating market cap of CRV is liquidated, I'm guessing that drives the price of CRV close to zero and then all of the scaffolding kind of comes apart. Right.
00:10:37.686 - 00:11:31.098, Speaker B: And so Uniswap has taken kind of the opposite route, doesn't have the token play any role in the protocol and instead relies upon this assumption that there is a sophisticated supply side that will come in and actively manage their liquidity to be profitable. There are definitely questions of whether or not they're actually profitable or not, but I would rather have this assumption and figure out ways to make them profitable rather than just relying on everybody holding this token and holding some value in this token. Yeah. So I think that this probably doesn't completely put the ve token discussion to bed, but I haven't heard a lot of people kind of connecting this back to maybe this is not a great idea, maybe we should have the token play less of a role in the functioning of a product.
00:11:31.184 - 00:12:28.742, Speaker A: Yeah. Let me just correct what I said before. So the inflation schedule gets reduced by about 15% every year, so that emissions will actually stop in 2040. Let me push back a little bit, Miles, and just say I'm torn on that I don't have as much of a strong opinion as you do here. Because in the one sense, it's very compelling to me to just say these protocols should basically be treated as companies and these tokens are a claim on cash flow, et cetera, et cetera. But then I sort of remind myself that maybe I'm being a little bit too looking at the world as it exists today and not being optimistic enough that we've started to do something new here. And I would remind you also that the major successes that we've had thus far in crypto also are these sort of circular reflexive mechanisms.
00:12:28.742 - 00:13:18.522, Speaker A: So bitcoin is one. Ethereum is one. And whenever someone says we haven't found the killer use case yet for crypto, I mean, haven't know an open smart contracting platform that anyone can build anything on. I mean, these are not nothing use cases. And Curve reminds me of that a little bit. And while, you know, in the Robinhood example, maybe the best example would be if Robinhood was incentivizing its market makers with hood and then once the stock went down low enough, then all the liquidity fled the platform or something. I understand that that would be bad, but I can't help but be optimistic about these sorts of models and maybe someone will crack the code and make this reflexive flywheel is powerful when it's pumping in the right direction too.
00:13:18.522 - 00:13:23.162, Speaker A: So I see where you're coming from, but I'm in the undecided camp on this personally.
00:13:23.226 - 00:14:29.810, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's fine. I guess I would say that I think some of the most successful apps that we've had today have no Token functionality whatsoever. Just point to OpenSea and Uniswap as two of them. And people use these products because they offer those value props that you were talking about, right? Basically the ability to transact and participate in financial markets, permissionlessly to transfer value permissionlessly. And I think that the teams building on Ethereum are not building on Ethereum because of say, EIP 1559 or something like that is tokenomics related. If anything, I would say that's like a detractor. So yeah, maybe it's just this point of the bear market where everybody's foo fooing on Tokenomics and whatnot and I sound like a boomer, but I also just don't feel like it's healthy that anytime there could be a market scare of your token price, people are liquidity is leaving or something like that.
00:14:29.960 - 00:14:31.906, Speaker A: Yeah, I do agree with that.
00:14:32.008 - 00:14:37.942, Speaker B: But I will stay open minded, I will. Because if you don't in this space, then you get left behind.
00:14:38.076 - 00:15:17.490, Speaker A: You do. And actually one time I forget it might have been on an Empire podcast with Jason, but Jason and I went on and did predictions, like six, seven predictions for the new year or something. This was at the peak of the bull market. And I went back and I listened a year after and I was like, oh boy, god, I can't believe I said some of those things. And the mistake that I made was assuming that the last twelve months were indicative of the next twelve months. And it's really easy to make that mistake of this period of time as well. It's been this great unraveling and sort of period of disillusionment that bear markets always are that provide clarity, but it has the chance, it can make you go too far in one direction.
00:15:17.490 - 00:16:23.910, Speaker A: I agree with you also that protocols should be more probably conservative in the beginning around launching a token. I would say OpenSea is in a little bit of a different category. They're a more traditional company and Uniswap is a little bit of an enigma to me because those LPs that looking at Uniswap from the outside, it's kind of unclear why the business works actually or why the protocol works. The LPs, first of all, it's very concentrated bunch of LPs that stand that protocol up and they're surrendering on the order of hundreds of millions of dollars per year in Il to ethereum. And I don't think it's you know, usually if you're a very large if you have those sorts of funds, you tend to be a pretty sophisticated actor. I don't think it's too far to say that the folks that are Lping in those sort of situations might have an ulterior or secondary financial arrangement that make it worth it for them to do that. But as much as I'm a fan of everything going on at Uniswap, I'm not sure if anyone has fully cracked the answer here.
00:16:24.060 - 00:16:38.650, Speaker B: Totally, I agree. I think maybe just two quick points. I think there's a difference between launching a token and not launching a token versus launching a token and making your token required to use in the product itself.
00:16:38.720 - 00:16:39.194, Speaker A: I get that.
00:16:39.232 - 00:17:37.742, Speaker B: Yeah, that's small difference. And then obviously launching a token has implications on the operating and governance structure and that needs to be thought through a lot as well. You could argue it's a head scratcher, but that's because Uniswap has really prioritized the demand side and so as long as flow is there, there is going to be potential to make profits. I think the data has been showing that if you are not in the top 1% of the 1% of LPs, of the smartest LPs, then you're not going to make money. But the capital base of that very small end is very big. And yeah, I think if anything, curve has maybe aligned itself more with the supply side of liquidity providers because that supply side is not just individuals. That supply side is DeFi protocols that build on it.
00:17:37.742 - 00:17:43.338, Speaker B: Right. And those are kind of customers in a way. So from that side, from that perspective, it's understandable.
00:17:43.434 - 00:18:38.030, Speaker A: Dex architecture is pretty interesting to me. You have three large sets of stakeholders. You could expand that out a little bit and say there are actually four, maybe even five. But what you have is the protocol itself. You've got makers and you've got takers, you've got swappers and LPs. And a lot of the interesting lines of research around DEXes have to do with getting different stakeholders to pay the appropriate amount or make sure that value is distributed appropriately. And if you imagine this bar, which is the amount of revenue that the protocol can generate kind of based on transaction costs, there's actually a very interesting line of research and why uniswap I would guess is switching to a singleton contract is gas is actually cutting into their own margins, right? Because that's less that you could charge if swappers already have to pay a gas fee.
00:18:38.030 - 00:19:36.494, Speaker A: Then there's this pretty interesting research around Arbitragers and how much they should get paid. Right now they're probably getting paid too much and there are ways to quantify and sort of segment off some of the more toxic flow. So you can kind of think about reducing the cost structure for the protocol in the form of gas and then you could also think about maybe introducing new ways of monetizing so you grow this bar and that could be uniswap is kind of crushing it right now. Actually. They've got the wallet layer, they've got their front end and then their retail facing wallet which who knows, maybe they end up deciding to monetize order flow. Then they've got the aggregation layer in the uniswap X and they're kind of Rfqing that and that's the demand side and then they've got the liquidity layer in the form of V four. The only question is, is there going to be a settlement layer and are we going to get UniChain? And that would really truly fix the cost that they're paying in rent to ethereum the protocol.
00:19:36.494 - 00:19:39.538, Speaker A: But man, it's pretty cool what they're doing.
00:19:39.624 - 00:20:41.142, Speaker B: They are further and further aligning themselves with the most sophisticated actors on the supply side, right? Because uniswap X just says sorry LPs, a lot of these orders are not going to get routed to you and the ones that are, are not going to be the ones that you want to see. They're going to be a lot of the toxic flow, but that gives the users on the demand side the best possible experience. And so I think that they've been very strategic in aligning themselves with both the users and basically the product that they get and then this very small class of sophisticated supply side actors and we'll see if I'm less confident in the prospects of there being uni chain just because you don't necessarily need to operate a full chain. If you can basically abstract away the chain with the aggregator and the wallet level and still give users exactly what they want, they don't need to give a shit which chain it's on, right? So I think maybe that's more of the bet that they're making.
00:20:41.196 - 00:21:25.430, Speaker A: Just to bookend that whole conversation is in general, I tend to root for the whole space when stuff like this happens and you never love to see a chain get exploited. I do though think that the designs that ultimately win in DeFi. This is a lesson that I think we're ignoring from TradFi that I think we should be paying more heed to. Simplicity design, simplicity, risk great, risk management, long game. It's very exciting because we're all crypto is a young industry and we love to see cool stuff who doesn't like to see innovation happen. But I do think the reason TradFi tends to be so risk averse is because they've seen it go wrong in a million different ways. And probably the ones who've stuck around and built enduring businesses over there do a great job of risk management.
00:21:25.430 - 00:21:34.460, Speaker A: And it's become a defining set of principles that I'm starting to look at most DeFi protocols through.
00:21:35.150 - 00:22:49.458, Speaker B: I spent the first part of my career at Fidelity and that was really we were selling trust, right? And the idea was long term greedy. That is the mindset to get into. But long term greedy typically means saying no to a lot of really exciting potential short term opportunities and then playing your cards right to know, okay, what is actually real and what is synergistic with our existing products to then go expand into but not typically being the first to do it, not typically being the most aggressive. And I think keeping to those principles is going to benefit a lot of DeFi protocols. I mean, we spent a lot of time on this season talking about Lido and should they expand into restaking? Should they expand into XYZ right? Or should they just do one thing and do it great and win the entire market and not open themselves up to all these additional attack vectors. I think we'll see interesting trade offs as teams look to expand horizontally or vertically and think about the risks around that. Potentially everybody thinks about the revenue opportunity.
00:22:49.544 - 00:23:42.014, Speaker A: Obviously there is this very simple kind of diagram, I repeat this a lot internally at blockworks to the point where people are definitely sick of hearing. If you look at this industry, what it is is it's this line that's going like this aggressive ups and aggressive downs. And if you imagine mentally drawing a line through this series of upward trending curves, be the line. What that means is be more cautious and conservative in bull markets and it'll look like you're losing for a little bit, which is really mentally taxing. But then also be the line during bear markets and don't throw your hands up in despair and say none of this stuff works. Just keep your head down and keep expanding in a way that's consistent. And then you'll ride the payoff for being that line through the squiggle is that the slope of the line is much higher than an average industry.
00:23:42.014 - 00:24:32.590, Speaker A: And if you can just put your head down and build through this over a long period of time, you'll get paid off. All right, I want to talk to you a little bit about Base because we had Base launched this week. This is the long awaited this is the first major I think op stack chain. There's obviously a chain that is launched and operated by Coinbase. Twitter users found out that there's a one way bridge that opened up to base this week and I think the numbers were at least as of earlier one of our reporters Andrew Thurman wrote about this but there were about 98,000 addresses that bridged over to Base. 75,000 of those have also bridged over to Polygon phantom or finance smart chain. So you can make your own assumptions but I'd consider these sort of degen crypto power users.
00:24:32.590 - 00:24:52.886, Speaker A: There were a couple of base DEXes that popped up very quickly. Elite swap and rocket swap. It was $230,000,000 worth of volume 24 hours volume at 1.7 hundred thousand trades. I mean pretty crazy. And there was of course in true crypto fashion a meme coin. The Meme coin was bald.
00:24:52.886 - 00:25:15.300, Speaker A: Which objectively is funny. It's objectively funny. So we got to give that credit. Best thing for the industry. I don't know, but objectively funny. And there was $100 million worth of reach 100 million dollar market cap in just two days. And then someone, the dev who made that, essentially they were providing liquidity and then they just rugged it and it basically went to zero.
00:25:15.300 - 00:25:48.794, Speaker A: I'm not ultra surprised about how any of this has played out. It's been actually a revenue generator for Coinbase thus far. So let me present this here. One of our analysts Westy put this together. In just three days Coinbase base has accrued over $700,000 in profit. So that is net of the cost of posting that data to the L one which on an annual basis is 85 million. So not too shabby for the first.
00:25:48.832 - 00:27:30.022, Speaker B: Three days of the I think we should not maybe extend out this extraordinarily DJ explosion of activity out to what will be like the average daily profits but it still gives you a sense of what this could be nonetheless if it really blows mean yeah I think it's all fascinating. One of the themes that I was surprised not to hear a lot about in Paris is how Base and Mantle as well, from Bitdao and Bybit are kind of laying out this blueprint for how enterprises can finally build enterprise blockchains without having to say this is a private blockchain in a walled garden. Completely. And all of the negative sentiment that goes with that. This is actually a way to build products on chain and have retain some of those benefits of a private blockchain, retain the benefits of control and compliance and things like that that they care about. And so what's interesting to me is we're starting to see what kind of works and what doesn't work with this plan and I think we've talked about this a lot but the trade offs around curation versus completely permissionless when you're building out a platform and we see here how that can impact the end user experience. Right now, Base being the first, was not likely going to come out and know we're going to have permission smart contract deployment.
00:27:30.022 - 00:28:58.002, Speaker B: We're going to at least have, if not permissioned, smart contract deployment, maybe something like the Apple Store where you have to meet a certain set of standards like hey, I have a real product. This is not a scam to actually deploy on our roll up. And I think if you go back in time to when optimism and Arbitrum launched, optimism fell way behind because Arbitrum didn't have this whitelist for deploying. And I think Base probably looked at that and said we don't want to lag behind, we don't want to come off as super opinionated and we don't want to have a private blockchain. But I do think that other enterprises that are kind of watching these pioneers launch these, I would say enterprise roll ups, let's just call it, are looking at this and saying maybe we should be a little bit more opinionated or at least have some sort of standard for deploying that you have to meet in order to deploy on our roll up. And how do we strike that balance when it's such a competitive space? Right now every roll up is competing to get apps to launch on their chain and some apps like would love to associate their brand with Base, but does Base really want to associate their brand with them? So I just think it's interesting. We'll see.
00:28:58.002 - 00:29:16.906, Speaker B: I think Base and Mantle will be the first of many companies launching roll ups as platforms and building first class apps on those platforms. And we'll revisit this conversation of curation for the benefits of users versus permissionless.
00:29:17.018 - 00:29:27.410, Speaker A: So let me ask you this. Do you think Bald and that whole explosion of activity, albeit meme Coin speculation, was good or bad for Base's launch?
00:29:32.230 - 00:30:08.526, Speaker B: Definitely my inclination was bad. I think more of the same here is not necessarily what we need. Something that is differentiated and really clean and gets through to a larger class of users is more of what we need. But at the same time, I'm not trying to discount the power of speculation and how it's boosted the crypto space broadly. Right?
00:30:08.628 - 00:30:50.566, Speaker A: I think it's good. I thought this was good. And the argument that I'll make is so Coinbase is one of the everyone kind of owes Coinbase. I sort of feel like a debt of gratitude being in crypto. They are the blue chip, they're a public company, they are not perfect, but they've done it about as right as you could possibly have wanted to do it. And this move of Base chain was a really big one and what would have kind of sucked is if they had made it this corporate KYC thing from day one. I understand why, but my soul would have been a little bit crushed and do I think Bald is great? No, I don't.
00:30:50.566 - 00:30:54.586, Speaker A: But at least I was kind of like, all right, Coinbase, like, way to let your hair down.
00:30:54.688 - 00:30:55.340, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:30:56.930 - 00:31:36.970, Speaker A: And the other thing that it's all very well and good to say, hey, we'd like a more sophisticated class of users. Great, who wouldn't? But these are the users that we have today right now. I don't think it's some UI decision or product choice or something. I think as a crypto protocol right now have two choices. You can build for your degen audience today, or you can build for no one. Because there aren't these normie people out there that are watching base saying, man, if only there wasn't a meme coin here, I'd go in and I'd start Lping on this stuff. You have two choices.
00:31:36.970 - 00:32:05.730, Speaker A: And this is where I think really great visionary product designers. This is the art that complements the science of product design, which is meeting the market that exists today while also threading that into a longer term vision, which is because crypto is just a graveyard littered with people that were building for what they thought the market should be. Yeah, there are just so many companies that have died doing that.
00:32:05.800 - 00:33:18.940, Speaker B: I think that's totally fair. I think that's totally fair. I think the crypto native community and myself included also would have been like, yeah, that's not great. If they made every single user that connects KYC and they had some sort of highly, highly curated, impossible to get through deployment process. Do I think that there's a portion of these future customers? And when I say customers, I don't mean end users, but companies that are going to develop roll ups and applications that look at this and say, okay, I like the spirit of it, but maybe we've gone like there's a little bit full extreme permissionless. Maybe there's like and then on the other side is fully curated and just very stiff and corporate and maybe there's some balance to strike there or maybe there's just better tools that we could add to help protect users while not actually being opinionated on the deployment level. There's a lot missing and it's unclear exactly how you could strike that balance, but I do think, like, plays an enormous role in all of this.
00:33:18.940 - 00:33:59.366, Speaker B: And Coinbase has been really thoughtful about how to build trust with both the crypto native community as well as the more traditional side. The face that they put on when they walk into BlackRock is probably different than the face that they put on when they announce base on Twitter spaces and they're threading that needle to be both what the market wants today, as well as positioning itself to be the go to provider for everybody tomorrow. And yeah, I think this is one example where they're probably looking at it like, how do we handle this? But yeah, we'll see.
00:33:59.548 - 00:34:41.894, Speaker A: We'll see. Yeah, tough my heart's out there for people that try to create products in Crypto because it's difficult the end state market is certainly not the market that you have today. But you can't just ignore the market that you have today. You got to do something. The other question that I found myself asking, especially looking at those profit figures that Coinbase is going to generate, albeit likely you're absolutely right, Miles. We shouldn't just extrapolate the first three day meme Coin bonanza out into the future. But what portion of this is optimism seeing and how is value going to accrue? And this, I think, is an unanswered question in terms of these stack architectures that I'm actually a big fan of.
00:34:41.894 - 00:35:07.514, Speaker A: I really like the Op stack and Arbitrum Orbit has a little bit of a different one. They have L three S that actually point you to settle on Arbitrum first, which maybe is their answer for how they're going to accrue value. But settlement, as I had a great conversation with Neil. I mean that's Neil. Somani this week at Eclipse, shout out for explaining to me like I'm five, the cost structure here. Settlement is very cheap. Settlement is not the major cost for roll ups.
00:35:07.514 - 00:35:29.734, Speaker A: Yeah, not at all. I think optimism is paying something like $5 a day to Ethereum. Correct me if I'm way off there, but I'm pretty sure it's a very negligible amount. So all of this revenue that it was a huge win from a BD perspective when Base was launching on the Op stack. But how are they going to accrue value?
00:35:29.852 - 00:37:15.890, Speaker B: Yeah, we've talked about this in the past a little bit and the position that somewhat tough position that Op and optimism is in. I look at this roll up value accrual kind of competition and I think that there's a couple of big stakeholders here. There's the Op, I'm sorry, like the roll up frameworks, there's the roll up as a service providers and then of course there are the applications and the roll up teams that are building using the stack, right? But they're not using it on Op mainnet, which accrues value directly or Arbitrum one, which accrues value directly to Arbitrum and Op and the tokens. So the short answer is if you use the Op stack or the Arbitrum stack and you use a roll up as a service provider to help you launch, the two people that are seeing revenue are the roll up team and the roll up as a service provider. The stakeholder not seeing any revenue is the Op framework and the token behind that that helped launch and build all this infrastructure. Right? And if you look at on the Cosmos side where we have similar sort of dynamics with Adam, right? Adam was ICO that funded out the development of the Cosmos SDK IBC and all of these components are now used for different app chains. And now Adam is basically trying to reverse engineer a way to accrue value back to its token without really levying too hard of attacks on the app chains that it has helped made successful.
00:37:15.890 - 00:37:31.130, Speaker B: Right. And those two things are kind of at odds. I could see Op. I think they're now trying to pull some influence and value capture back in by putting out this law of chains.
00:37:31.870 - 00:37:35.822, Speaker A: Tell us, Miles, what is the law of change? Give us the idea on that.
00:37:35.956 - 00:38:52.950, Speaker B: My understanding is that anybody is free to use the Op stack fork, know, customize it however they want, but there's a difference between an Op stack chain and an Op stack chain that is part of the super chain. And what that means is that they basically have this set of standards, both technical and social, that is kind of like, I would say what you're accepting to like the conditions you're accepting as a user to call yourself part of this super chain. This is kind of like if there, again, maybe just going back to Cosmos because there's so much history here, if there was a requirement from Adam, let's say Adam owned, governed the Cosmos SDK and IBC, and they would vote on upgrades and every chain that used it had to upgrade at the exact same time. Right now, that's not the case. Everybody uses these components, but they're using different versions and it's kind of a shit show, honestly. It makes things very challenging. I think Op learned from that and they said, we're actually going to take a more active role in enforcing the standards that make up the Op stack.
00:38:52.950 - 00:39:36.210, Speaker B: So, sorry, no, you're not going to be able to customize however you want to the Nth degree. If you want to be part of the super chain, you're willing to do that, feel free to do that. But you're no longer part of the super chain. And I think what they're hoping for is that the network effects associated with sharing these standards are powerful enough that people will be motivated to join the super chain. These are things like infrastructure services that can easily plug in as soon as you stand up your chain, because they already support this exact same stack with every other super chain roll up. Or let's say interoperability. Maybe there's something along the lines of like a shared sequencer that really only works well with super chains.
00:39:36.210 - 00:40:11.774, Speaker B: And I think that there's definitely some merit to that. But it also puts them in a position where they can then levy maybe more of a tax on the super chains as well. Like, hey, by the way, kick back like 1% of all sequencer revenue if you want to remain part of the super chain. And that way the roll up framework actually has some value associated with it right now, like the Cosmos SDK. There is no value associated with the Cosmos SDK. The only people that are profiting off of the development of the Cosmos SDK are those that are using it for their application. Right.
00:40:11.774 - 00:40:54.686, Speaker B: And all that value accrues to the application's token in the same way that AVO right, the Ribbon roll up will use the Op stack and its sequencer revenues and application revenues will go to both Ribbon, AVO and maybe the Rasp provider it's using to help host those sequencers. So it's a really interesting cooperation between these Rasp providers and the frameworks themselves because they need it. Everybody is in this grow mode, but in the back of their head it feels like people are starting to realize there's actually going to be a lot of competition and tension for value accrual and starting to position themselves to capitalize on that.
00:40:54.868 - 00:41:57.714, Speaker A: Yeah, I am reminded of this quote. Some podcasts I've heard a while ago, probably invest like the best where this guy was describing some of the greatest battles that happen in technology are not between competitors, but actually people that are different parts of the same stack and they start competing for value accrual and margin. And that's probably what is happening now. And just to put some more concrete examples, the roll up provider would be optimism. In this case, conduit would be the Ras, the roll up as a service and then there would be various chains that use that infrastructure. And part of this is it is yet to be determined at what level execution, data availability or settlement, the network effects accrue. And I'm just going to go ahead and say many people in this space assume that it's going to be at the settlement layer when I think you're starting to see pretty compelling evidence that that's not necessarily the case.
00:41:57.714 - 00:42:52.834, Speaker A: And there is let me make an argument that I only kind of believe in here and then you can tell me why I'm wrong. But these roll ups have done a very good job. You and I have talked about alignment and this sort of marketing magic that goes along with alignment and these people that kind of believe that these roll ups are expanding Ethereum. And I'm not really sure that's actually the case if the lock in and the network effect tends to be at the execution layer, which is kind of this role of sequencing. And so there's a bunch of off chain cheaper computation that gets done at the roll up layer. Transactions are sequenced up here. There's a set of standards that these maybe it's the law of chains or some Ras provider kind of nails it and there's this stack that ends up taking off here that works.
00:42:52.834 - 00:43:58.550, Speaker A: Then you could sort of imagine a world where, well, data availability on Ethereum is really expensive, so we're going to route that through Celestia and then we'll probably settle to Ethereum, but maybe we'll get cheaper settlements somewhere else. And ultimately there's a probably important question is do you think in these roll ups heads they're going to stay permanently on Ethereum? I don't know. I believe in people's economics. So it really depends on if the incentives of the token holders on optimism or Arbitrum or Zksync or any of these app chains if they end up differing greatly from the token holders on Ethereum. And it is not a one battle about. And the other thing I'll say to defend Cosmos a little bit is you and I did that whole appchain thesis on cosmos, and we talked about a spectrum of different possibilities of you launching as a DAP on ethereum to you having your own roll. App is the terminology that we used.
00:43:58.550 - 00:44:39.330, Speaker A: Or doing your full stack app chain. And we laid out a sequencing which is you most likely start as a DAP on Ethereum, then you become a roll app and then you go to Cosmos. There's a very good possibility we are in the second part of that sequencing and it looks like it's like, why would you ever not want to sit where all these users are in Ethereum, et cetera, et cetera. There's not really a logical reason why Ethereum should have distribution. To me. We might just be at this part of the sequencing where most roll ups are like, we want to still want to stay within the fold here and not go too far out. But all it would take is two or three DApps with real product market.
00:44:39.330 - 00:44:52.490, Speaker A: Fit to say. Yeah, it's a no brainer for me to own this full stack myself. And I don't need distribution, I've got a ton of distribution. What I need is perfect granularity over my app space and then you could see Cosmos. That could be a real boon.
00:44:52.830 - 00:45:28.834, Speaker B: Yeah, it's interesting. Yeah, I think maybe just touching on the alignment point, I think it's an effective GTM strategy. Op has piggybacked on alignment with Ethereum to get support from all the Ethereum leaders and positive sentiment. And then optimism is known as scaling for Ethereum. And then you have a player like Conduit who is the role up as a service provider that has aligned itself with optimism. Right. But at the end of the day, both like, if so conduit says, I'm op and by default, I am ethereum oriented.
00:45:28.834 - 00:46:36.650, Speaker B: And then they also could, at a certain point, be the top of the funnel for these roll up frameworks and then break alignment by saying, okay, we're going to give you the stack that makes the most sense for your application. And to your point, maybe you don't need premium DA. So we're going to actually point your DA solution to Celestia. Maybe you want something that is extraordinarily high throughput, maybe we'll give you use this ZK framework or something like that. And so the alignment thing I think is more of kind of a Trojan horse strategy which allows you to get the distribution. It's unclear who's going to get that, whether it's the roll up frameworks right, because then they can do the same thing as like Op is agnostic to the DA layer even though it's very aligned with Ethereum. And so, yeah, I think that's one potential outcome alignment is really just powerful for early go to market purposes.
00:46:36.650 - 00:47:26.298, Speaker B: And then once you own the distribution, then you can decide, basically use your own brand as a shilling point instead of piggybacking on something else and then just to touch on the spectrum piece. Yeah, I think that's right. I've always thought about that spectrum. And then I wouldn't say that we're in a certain stage of it. I would say that the spectrum will always exist and it's going to be more of a sequencing thing where, yes, the cheapest way to stand up your app when you have an MVP is on a general purpose roll up. Right? And then if you get lots of users, you find product market fit and you figure out we can make a better product and get even more users by owning more of the stack. So let's move to our own roll up.
00:47:26.298 - 00:47:52.050, Speaker B: Right? Then at that point I have enough users that they come with us to our own roll up. We try to make that migration as frictionless as possible. And then once you get to the very top of the pyramid, there's probably could see one outcome where it's only really the largest apps that have the leverage and the desire to move to their full stack app chain.
00:47:52.470 - 00:47:55.540, Speaker A: Well, what is the largest? I mean, largely today?
00:47:56.390 - 00:47:57.262, Speaker B: Dydx.
00:47:57.326 - 00:47:57.878, Speaker A: Right, right.
00:47:58.044 - 00:48:33.810, Speaker B: Dydx says, okay, I have a ton of users already. These users are coming to use dYdX not because of Ethereum, but because of our app. Right. So the shilling point is dYdX. Now, what do I need to do to make dYdX a finished product or a better product? Well, the way that we do our order book matching system right now is extraordinarily centralized and that is not what we look at as the end game for dYdX. Okay, how do we do that? We got to have own the whole stack. Right? But how many actually get up to that top of the pyramid?
00:48:34.230 - 00:48:59.894, Speaker A: Well, largest is a relative term. dYdX has a lot of users compared to other apps in crypto, but it actually might be an absolute number, instead of it being, oh, only the couple largest will do this. Okay, there might be hey, after we have 5 million users, which Lord hope we get to a point where there are many crypto apps with that many users.
00:48:59.942 - 00:49:00.154, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:49:00.192 - 00:49:49.294, Speaker A: Right. So stuff that would be considered large today, but in the future might be relatively small. I think we're agreeing, by the way. I also think, and you've seen different apps start as just DApps. Some have gone right to full stack app chain from the beginning, like Osmosis, and some have opted for this roll app sort of architecture. But I do think there's a natural sequencing of you start here, maybe your DAP for twelve to 18 months before you get your product market fit, then you get your own block space and then you go do your real, you own the whole stack. The other thing, the last thing, because I do want to get into PEPC here is I've started to maybe think you and I used to talk about the premium on app specific block space, but maybe there's another shade.
00:49:49.294 - 00:51:10.066, Speaker A: In between general block space and app specific block space, which is sort of sector specific block space and this whole law of chains thing and even talking to some of the roll up as a service providers is you probably aren't going to have infinite different blockchains all with tiny little different customizations. There is definitely from the business model of a Ras provider, you want to standardize some stuff and maybe what you say is there are ten different parameters for different chains. Maybe block size is a really big one and let's say 80% of DFI use cases want for instance, shorter block times, something like that. And you kind of create this standard off the shelf thing which will fill most of the use cases for 80% of the chains. And the economics end up looking a lot better. So maybe there's kind of totally generalized block space like Solana or Ethereum sector know, Ras designed, hey, this is sort of what our out of the box DeFi sequencer looks like and block time that we recommend and all of that stuff. And then maybe there's again for the apps with PMF or Cosmos full stacks, completely customizable, where you get to the Facebook level of different shades of blue for the icon it touches on.
00:51:10.168 - 00:53:00.342, Speaker B: Just how abundant can we make block space? I think there's a prevailing kind of belief today that if your application does not involve transferring value, then it's probably not worth having it on your own chain or even worth being on chain in the first place, because transacting on blockchains today is just inherently expensive. But how do we basically drive down that cost of block space as much as possible to open up more non financial applications where it actually makes sense to launch on a blockchain. So that's one is how cheap can we get block space for non financial applications versus what applications will actually want some sort of valuable block space because the value being transferred there is significant and a decentralized block space is usually more expensive that's one piece. And then yeah, I think just quickly I've been thinking a lot of I guess I came from the mindset that as much customization as possible is why the hell wouldn't you want that? This is great, you can optimize every little bit and piece for the application. I've started to come around on the idea that there are significant network effects to standardization of maybe more than just like IBC that we see in Cosmos that relates to just all of the infrastructure services that a blockchain needs to be production ready. It's a real pain in the ass when you have something very customized. And you go to a service provider and they say, well, this is going to be a significant investment for us, rather than you just doing some sort of self serve checkout, basically, because you're already something that they support.
00:53:00.342 - 00:53:18.154, Speaker B: So, yeah, I think we'll start to see and like Op Law of chains, the super chain, I think that's one end of the spectrum. I think the amount of sovereignty and customization in Cosmos is the other end of the spectrum and it's just something to pay attention to.
00:53:18.272 - 00:54:17.326, Speaker A: Yeah, and also just to defend Ethereum a little bit here because I feel like I've been being a little bit harsh about the roll ups know, when people attack the fees on Ethereum, I tend to be in the camp that high fees mean there's demand on this space and it's kind of like New York. New York's expensive and the rent is high and everyone's been complaining about it from the dawn of time and they're going to be complaining about it till the end of time when everyone still lives here. So I don't know. I'm empathetic to the idea that lowering the cost of transactions will open entirely new things you can do on chain that are impossible today. If you're designing it on Ethereum, you're coming from a very constrained perspective. But on the other hand, there's a reason it's the king part of the reason. Also sometimes I try to poke at Ethereum is can't help but root for the underdogs too.
00:54:17.326 - 00:54:19.280, Speaker A: Everyone loves an underdog story.
00:54:20.450 - 00:54:21.962, Speaker B: Non consensus bets.
00:54:22.026 - 00:55:07.946, Speaker A: All right, let's talk a little bit about PEPC barnabay put together. So he's been talking about this for a little while and I was really glad to hear the way that he was discussing it because he explicitly, in this outline for PEPC, talked about it within the context of Miles. Some of the stuff that you and I brought up the other day, which was its relation to Eigen layer and ABCI plus. And he talked about it within the context of Suave as well and how it sort of relates there. But the idea at a very high level is PEPC stands for protocol enforced proposer commitments. And it kind of is what it sound like. It's the ability for proposers to make credible commitments on chain.
00:55:07.946 - 00:56:43.514, Speaker A: So there would be some sort of enshrined mechanism which would allow proposers to extend, especially within the context of the PBS part of PEPC, it would allow proposers to make more credible commitments ahead of time to builders that if the validity conditions weren't satisfied, then the block would ultimately not be valid. And again, to really zoom out at a high level. The way that I think about this is even when you kind of look at different blockchains, most of the big differences between Ethereum and Solana and Cosmos is variations on what you think the role of the validator should be like what you think a validator should ultimately look like? How many of them are there? How expensive are they to run and what should their responsibilities be? And each blockchain has a very different idea to be very broad and over general. Ethereum has taken the perspective of trying to make validators dumb and commoditized, which as a design decision, I find pretty elegant. Because you've separated, you can then kind of have these very cheap, kind of dumb, unsophisticated validators, which means you can have more of them and they can be individuals instead of professional corporations, which is great. And then you've separated out the more complex role of the builder, which is actually building the blocks. Then on Salana, they come at it from the perspective that it's unlikely that we're going to have 10 million people out there running a Raspberry pi in the woods.
00:56:43.514 - 00:57:34.682, Speaker A: And it's probably actually fine for there to be 10,000 slightly more expensive validators that are run out of data centers. And then Cosmos comes from the perspective of it's the opposite. Right? So it's what can your validator do for you? They should do more than just consensus level stuff. They should run the code of the application because the implied idea is that they're app specific block space. So that's kind of where we're going to get into ABCI Plus Plus. But now I think that folks in Ethereum are roughly contending with the idea that there are going to be big centralized builders, that's the reason why proposer builder separation has been settled out. Say, well, maybe actually it wouldn't be the worst thing in the world if proposers had a little bit more power here and they could commit to things in advance.
00:57:34.682 - 00:58:01.000, Speaker A: That if those conditions aren't satisfied, then it won't be. Maybe they should be able to do a little bit more. Right? This is the way it's similar to Eigen layer, which is, all right, validators are these dumb commoditized things. But what Eigen layer says if you opt into additional slashing conditions, you should be able to do more stuff. And PEPC is sort of a version of that. As.
00:58:03.850 - 00:59:02.870, Speaker B: Know, I think to your point, ethereum has really prioritized making the role of the validator as accessible as possible and as dumb as possible. And the trade off associated with that is that you end up pushing a lot of the most complex but critical functions. This is like hosting Mev boost auctions. This is liquid staking, this is restaking. You push it out of the protocol and it does not give you any ability to be opinionated about what's healthy and what's not healthy. And that is understandable because Ethereum is the most general purpose based layer you can imagine, right? It's supposed to be able to host and stay completely neutral to whatever is being built on top. In Cosmos.
00:59:02.870 - 00:59:55.306, Speaker B: It's very straightforward. You have 150, say 200 max validators. All of them are securing and operating the chain that hosts a single application. And so if you have the ability to do additional work in the consensus process that makes the application better or allows the application to accrue more value, it's kind of easy to get everybody aligned and say, okay, today you've got a very vanilla job. You're just proposing blocks and everybody else is signing off on it. But hey, the application relies on this. Really? I would say maybe you have a critical dependency on an external Oracle, and we don't like that.
00:59:55.306 - 01:00:31.474, Speaker B: Regardless of everything going well at the consensus level, the application can break because we're relying on this third party Oracle. So let's have all the validators, apart from just doing what they were already doing, also submit Oracle prices that the application will use. That way our Oracle is as secure as the chain itself. Right? Or let's submit an Oracle price. Let's host a top of block auction. We can do that all on chain, and let's rearrange some transactions. So maybe like the Oracle transaction comes first so it's fresh for every block.
01:00:31.474 - 01:02:06.654, Speaker B: It's very easy when it's all everybody's aligning around one application. On Ethereum, I think it's the polar opposite situation, but they have now come around on this idea of we do need to be a little bit more opinionated at the protocol level, but how do we do this in an elegant way? How do we make it so that we're not being opinionated about any one application and we're not forcing every single validator to do this work? We want it still to know if you want to not opt into any of this additional work and run a Raspberry pi with limited complexity, that's still possible. Right? And so PEPC is trying to say, okay, what are a few jobs that Validators could host or opt into these commitments that are so generalized and so utilized by so many applications that it would make financial sense for them to opt in? And this is not things like we're going to stand up a side node to validate Cosmos chain, which is like what Eigen layer could enable. This is not things that are specific to any one application. And I think that's where Eigen layer comes in. But it's saying, how do we make some of the most critical functions that is either facilitated by off chain agreements like PPS today or facilitated by Eigen layer today, more controlled and done in a safer way because it's being pulled into the protocol. And so, yeah, I was just really interested because I've been thinking about PEPC and thinking about ABCI Plus plus a lot on Cosmos.
01:02:06.654 - 01:02:34.990, Speaker B: And finally now seeing this list of bullets that kind of gives me a much better idea around the certain use cases that fit those parameters and those constraints of additional work that it would make sense to give validators the choice to opt into. And you can see why these they're so generalized and would be used by so many applications. That it could be similar to mev boost where all of these things are just no brainers to opt into.
01:02:35.060 - 01:03:12.874, Speaker A: Right. So the reason there have been sort of two different discussions here. So PEPC relates to PBS because it's kind of a generalized implementation of PBS, which is we were discussing before that the implementation that the spec of EPBs matters. And like a really good example of that is in mevboost you cannot do partial block construction because the entire mechanism depends on builders sending along the block header, just the block header across a relay. And then that gets connected to a proposer, they sign it and then the payload gets released. Right. Slightly simplified version there.
01:03:12.874 - 01:04:12.398, Speaker A: So because you're only sending along the header, fundamental to the design is you can't actually do partial block building where one builder builds a little bit of a block, the other builder builds a little bit like the other part of the block and then a validator collects it. So really it's a more general sort of implementation of this idea that proposers can make commitments. And then what Barnaby advocated for is that kind of this incremental implementation of something like PEPC where full on PEPC looks something like Eigen layer. Maybe in the meantime we can just try this as a sort of a hook that will allow proposers only to make commitments to builders around kind of the block building sort of activity. So you're taking something that was totally off chain before and Ethereum didn't really have an opinion on and actually enshrining it within the protocol. And yeah, I found this list very useful of some of the use cases. So you can still do a full block auction, like is the case right now.
01:04:12.398 - 01:04:47.222, Speaker A: You can do partial block auctions, you can do parallel block auctions. And actually this is where you could maybe divide up. So you could imagine a case where a proposer divides up. You could segment the block space into top of block option and then the rest of the block. Now we know that top of block option is actually a very valuable there's a lot of mev that can get extracted that way. So this is probably a more efficient and granular way to price different mev opportunities, which I find pretty interesting. There was some other stuff here that I hadn't even necessarily thought about.
01:04:47.222 - 01:05:24.958, Speaker A: So future slot auctions. So again, something I just didn't know. But you can look up the schedule of different proposers, I guess two epochs away. So what you could eventually end up doing is selling your future block space so you could kind of create this new financial architecture. And it's what essentially the way I kind of think about it is PEPC is putting more explicit rules around the marketplace. Whenever you do that, first of all, you're actually strengthening trust so you can kind of lower costs. But then because people trust these mechanisms, you can do things that would have been impossible before.
01:05:24.958 - 01:06:59.742, Speaker A: So there's kind of this Cambrian explosion of different things that you can do around mev. So maybe it's the creation of new financial instruments, maybe whatever it is, or different types of auctions that you can run or different pricing structures that simply wouldn't have been possible before. The other thing that you could do, the way I could see this being sort of a useful check against large centralized builders as well, is Proposers would have the ability to commit either to a specific hash so the amount that a builder is offering them and then that actually gives the builder more optionality because they're only committing to amount. So in the time after they've had that header committed to them, they can wait a little bit and aggregate a little bit more information and as long as the state output is the same, they can potentially craft an even more valuable block. But the other thing that proposers are capable of doing is they can commit to a certain builder without knowing the contents of the block. So let's say there was a situation where we let these builder games just play out very centralizing, right? So the big hedge funds of the world are making two hedge funds are making 70% of the blocks. The Proposers could take some sort of stance and say, I actually really want to use a decentralized block builder like Suave or something like that, where we're less worried about these centralization concerns and I'm just going to commit to only building validating blocks that are proposed by Suave the builder.
01:06:59.806 - 01:08:39.266, Speaker B: That's fascinating. I mean, I definitely thought of the intense space and Suave, whether you want to call it building in the intense space or not, as a big part of this, because it gives builders who are going to be the solvers for a lot of these intense applications, more guarantees around the fact that they can commit, basically solve whatever the user wants and also be profitable on the other end because their transaction is going to get included under XYZ conditions. I think this idea of buying futures block space is also super interesting. This is an idea that first came out of, I think, the Atom 2.0 White Paper when thinking about it's not an auction that's being held for this specific block, but it's saying in N blocks, right, I want to basically buy the right to have top of block or the full block now. And that way I can kind of guarantee that whatever risk I've taken on for some sort of aggregation play can be settled on chain or you could even think about it even more, I guess, straightforward. It's like an NFT mint, right? Some of these things get absolutely insane and you could have a team that buys block know for the top of block to aggregate all of these transactions that have been made, or like one big mint transaction or something like that.
01:08:39.266 - 01:09:39.874, Speaker B: So there are definitely some interesting ways that this will play into the product side and how products can now potentially do some more interesting things in their back end in order because they have these guarantees and this flexibility with block building. But yeah, I think it's super interesting, especially this Ven diagram of what falls into something that should be an eigen layer job that the protocol is not really aware of what makes sense for PEPC and what makes sense for pure PBS. And yeah, I think the big question is how much demand is there going to be on the more exotic stuff that is more application specific? How many validators are going to want to run and do additional work that is more application specific rather than just something that's like block building is so generalized. Right. And you can understand why the opt in percentage would be extremely high.
01:09:39.912 - 01:10:19.506, Speaker A: There one question that I have is even in terms of pricing mev, so proposers now have the ability to segment out block space into top of block versus rest of block. Thing is, I would imagine there's an asymmetry in between the amount of knowledge that builders have versus what your average self staker has in terms of pricing for a top of block versus rest of block kind of opportunities. Do you see what I'm saying? The builders would be the ones who are aware of what that block space is worth as opposed to this kind of divided set of distributed validators. So I actually sort of walked away wondering how they're going to solve that issue here.
01:10:19.688 - 01:10:27.220, Speaker B: Seems like the opportunity for a service provider to come in all of all this complexity for them.
01:10:27.670 - 01:10:44.934, Speaker A: It might actually be something that could just be solved with transparency. All this stuff is happening on chain, right? I mean, you should be able to see, unless I'm totally mistaken in terms of how this would actually work, what the sort of price discrepancies in between top of block versus rest of block, maybe opportunities.
01:10:45.062 - 01:10:46.010, Speaker B: Yeah, right.
01:10:46.080 - 01:10:47.580, Speaker A: Shouldn't you be able to get that?
01:10:49.630 - 01:11:48.350, Speaker B: A lot of sophisticated tools, I think, but not anything that's at the disposal of a solo self staker. They could get paid ten ETH and be very happy, even though turns out like that block could have been worth 100 ETH and still profitable to the builders, right? Yeah, I haven't actually thought about that side too much, but yeah, I think there's definitely a lot of open questions here about what this would look like and just how incremental they want to go with this. Right. Because do you just open up the floodgates after you do the initial PBS pilot and make the fully generalizable piece open to any sort of commitment? Yeah, I'm not exactly sure how that plays with EIPS and actual chain upgrades and how they intend to roll this out.
01:11:48.500 - 01:12:25.882, Speaker A: Yeah, on the Xerox Research podcast, actually did a little recap from ECC. And one of the big things I kind of noticed was that enshrining is coming back in vogue and it wasn't a genius observation from me. It was vitalik, actually led with that on a slide, on account abstraction. Because there's going to need to be some amount of enshrining and probably it's easy to follow the logical train of thought. Right. Which is part of the value. A huge part of the value of ethereum is being a credibly neutral layer and they wanting to avoid making these sorts of decisions that you would have to make.
01:12:25.882 - 01:12:51.554, Speaker A: For instance, if you enshrined something like delegated proof of stake, right? Because then they would have to have an opinion on which validators to use, et cetera, that feels pretty bad. So they outsourced a whole bunch of very critical functions to the protocol and now maybe the pendulum swung a little bit too far in that direction and they're swinging it back, which is, I feel like a totally reasonable set of decisions to make.
01:12:51.592 - 01:13:00.680, Speaker B: Right, but they have to make it opt in, right? Because you don't want to screw over the little guy that has no idea what's going on or how to run this additional stuff.
01:13:01.130 - 01:13:04.966, Speaker A: That kind of feels fine to me. Allow people to do this stuff, make.
01:13:04.988 - 01:13:09.338, Speaker B: It opt in, give it the tooling, make it easy, right?
01:13:09.424 - 01:13:09.914, Speaker A: Yeah.
01:13:10.032 - 01:13:42.660, Speaker B: But I also think that's why there's probably still a huge need for these marketplaces like eigen layer that make a lot of this setting up a lot easier, make the ability to create new commitments that validators could end up opting into. I think there's a lot of opportunity for actually getting this out to both the users, the demand side, people that would want these jobs done and make it easy for validators to opt in and out.
01:13:44.550 - 01:14:12.014, Speaker A: I think coinbase earnings might have just come out. Beat earning expectations report adjusted revenue of 708,000,000 loss per share of $0.42. Subscription revenue clocked in at 335,000,000. That's down 7% on the quarter. Transaction revenue came in at 327. Looking for their EBITDA loss because they were guiding towards, I think, something like negative 550 on the year.
01:14:12.212 - 01:14:17.386, Speaker B: So you're saying the base revenues have not been reflected?
01:14:17.498 - 01:14:51.020, Speaker A: Miles I don't think they've been kicked in yet. But God, if I had one wish, just one I just want one of these analysts to ask Brian Armstrong about Bald token on the earnings call. If I could only ask for one thing, that would be pretty excellent. Total transaction revenues down quarter over quarter from 352 to 310. That's on the consumer side of things. Institutionals down a little bit from 22.3 to 17.1.
01:14:51.020 - 01:15:19.554, Speaker A: So overall transaction revenue is down. Subscription and services we're again a little bit of a drop. So from 361.7 million last quarter to 355 this quarter. Interestingly, the interest income is down. It looks like that is almost purely a reflection of interest income. Blockchain rewards is up from 73.7
01:15:19.554 - 01:15:40.710, Speaker A: to 87.6. That makes sense. I think that's mostly staking rewards, so that would be largely exposed to the price of ETH. But yeah, that's kind of interesting about the interest income. I would have thought that that would continue to be up bad. Not a bad result for Coinbase.
01:15:40.790 - 01:16:05.634, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd have to think about why that might be the case. Maybe it's the revenue share with Maker finally kicking in on some of the deposits. But I think it'll be interesting to see also where they bucket the base revenues. Are those transaction revenues? Is that some sort of subscription revenue? Unclear to me, but yeah, I think.
01:16:05.752 - 01:16:08.994, Speaker A: You'D probably be blockchain rewards, I would have to guess, don't you think?
01:16:09.032 - 01:16:09.954, Speaker B: I guess so.
01:16:10.072 - 01:16:11.426, Speaker A: That's where I would put it.
01:16:11.528 - 01:16:37.494, Speaker B: Yeah. No, that's interesting. So I think we'll see just how quickly some of the analysts pick up on the new product lines and what we're paying attention to. Honestly, it's usually quite a lag, but there will be numbers that people are going to ask, what are those next quarter? Yeah, we'll see when we get there.
01:16:37.532 - 01:16:40.590, Speaker A: All right, buddy, this has been a really fun one here.
01:16:40.740 - 01:16:41.246, Speaker B: Love it.
01:16:41.268 - 01:16:48.890, Speaker A: Yeah. Thanks for coming on Chat next weekend.
