00:00:04.810 - 00:00:40.330, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Before we dive in, I just wanted to urge you to check out four articles that I published this week on Medium. I wrote about the Graph protocol, which is basically a decentralized Google, as well as why one of its potential competitors decided to instead help support the Graph and become one of its core dev teams. On Facebook bulletin, explain the tokenomics of both bitcoin and ethereum. If you need a refresher on how to value BTC or ETH, or know a friend that is just falling down the crypto rabbit hole, go check out these primers on my bulletin page. All four links will be in the show. Notes for this episode.
00:00:40.330 - 00:01:53.054, Speaker A: First Story A Badger Dow hack left one user -906 BTC Badger Dow a DFI protocol built to provide yield on bitcoin fell victim to an attack on Wednesday night. Badger Dow tweeted Badger has received reports of unauthorized withdrawals of user funds. As Badger engineers investigate this, all smart contracts have been paused to prevent further withdrawals. According to Pexield, the total loss is over $120,000,000. Based on Pexield data, it appears roughly 85% of the $120,000,000 came from four large bitcoin addresses, which lost 906, 491, 203, and 184 BTC, respectively, equating to losses approximating $51 million as of press time Thursday afternoon. The cause of the exploit has yet to be confirmed. However, Tritium or Tritium or some pronunciation like that a badge core contributor speculated in the Discord that it could be a front end issue with the Badger.com
00:01:53.054 - 00:02:49.214, Speaker A: user interface. Tritium wrote There is no problem with the smart contracts. It looks like a bunch of users had approvals set for the exploit addresses, allowing them to operate on their vault funds, and that was exploited. Once we noticed, we froze all the vaults so nothing can move, and are trying to figure out where the approvals came from, how many people have them, and what next steps are. Such an attack, which targets the front end of Badger Dao rather than the decentralized protocol itself, raises many questions, which a Badger Dao discord member named Guy laid out in the main Discord chat. This hack has really opened up a can of worms for questions for me. One how can we make sure what we approve in MetaMask is legit? Two how can funds be moved even with a rogue approval from a ledger secured wallet e g If I swap a coin on Uniswap, I must manually hit the buttons on my ledger twice once for the approval and once for the actual swap.
00:02:49.214 - 00:04:11.978, Speaker A: How is this hack possible? Three how the heck does a front end attack happen? Does this mean he hacked the server and uploaded a modified contract so when users click claim, they get his? While Badger devs have yet to release any answers to the above questions. Egrel Capital's CRYPTOCAP VC pointed out on Twitter that front end exploits can be avoided through proper MetaMask approval hygiene. Practicing proper wallet approval techniques can save users from giving DeFi unlimited allowances on certain tokens, a feature deployed by DApps where users only have to approve the Wallet DAP connection once rather than for every token deposit. While convenient, this setup leaves users'funds at risk, as hackers have shown the ability to drain users'wallets giving unlimited allowance to DeFi protocols to allow this CRYPTOCAP, VC explained, don't trust the site's UI? Take the address manually from the MetaMask data and look at that contract on Etherscan. She added, Never approve more than you plan to use. You can always approve more in the future. Yes, it costs a few more dollars, so it's psychological help once you will get rugged square Rebrands to Block Square, the Jack Dorsey led payments firm, is rebranding its corporate identity to Block, according to a press release on Wednesday.
00:04:11.978 - 00:05:29.734, Speaker A: Since launching in 2009, Square has expanded its scope to include a variety of crypto linked services, including Square Crypto, a Square offshoot focused on Bitcoin development Cash App, a mobile payment service turned Bitcoin Exchange Title, a music streaming service with NFT aspirations, and TBD 5456-6975, a yet to be built decentralized crypto exchange. In addition to building out services for crypto assets, Square also purchased roughly $170,000,000 of BTC back in February. The rebrand acknowledges that Square is no longer just a payments company specializing in commerce solutions, software and banking services for seller businesses, says the company. We built a Square brand for our seller business, which is where it belongs, said Jack Dorsey, co founder and CEO of Block. Block is a new name, but our purpose of economic empowerment remains the same, much like how Facebook's rebrand to Meta did not alter the name of Facebook, the social media app. Disclosure I write a newsletter for Facebook meta. Block explained that its name change only distinguishes the corporate identity from the other parts of the company, like Square Cash App, Title and TBD 5456-6975, and each of those entities will keep its name.
00:05:29.734 - 00:06:35.258, Speaker A: Square Crypto, however, is rebranding to spiral, a term the company thinks reflects on the nature of bitcoin as it continues to grow like a spiral from a single point, encompassing more and more space until it touches everything. The news comes just on the heels of Block CEO Jack Dorsey. Stepping down from the CEO position at Twitter, the social media app he co founded in June, Dorsey famously explained, If I were not at Square or Twitter, I'd be working on bitcoin. If it needed more help than Square and Twitter, I will leave them for Bitcoin, Dorsey told the crowd at Bitcoin 2021. With his time at Twitter over and Square's rebrand a block, it appears that Dorsey is making his summer statement reality Metaverse land is going fast. Metaverse real estate is getting hot. Data from DAP Radar shows that out of the top ten most expensive land purchases on the Sandbox, a virtual Metaverse game, eight of them happened within the last two weeks, with each plot of land selling between $81,000 and $191,000 on Decentraland, a similar Metaverse game.
00:06:35.258 - 00:07:48.100, Speaker A: Five of the top ten most expensive land purchases happened in the past 14 days, with eyepopping value stretching from four hundred and fifteen thousand dollars to two point forty two million dollars. The latter purchase, for 618,000 mana, was claimed by the Metaverse Group, which announced the largest Metaverse land acquisition in history, a 116 parcel estate in the heart of Decentral Land's Fashion Street district. Notably, the Metaverse Group purchase outed an anonymous Thanksgiving Eve acquisition of Genesis land in Axio Infinity for 550 ETH, or roughly $2.3 million, which marked the largest sale ever for a single plot of digital land at the time, according to Axio Infinity's Twitter account. In total, DAP Radar shows that over $100 million worth of digital real estate traded hands over the seven days ending November 30, according to digital asset manager Grayscale. Such buzzy numbers from the Metaverse are to be expected going forward. The Metaverse is estimated to be a trillion dollar revenue opportunity across advertising, social, commerce, digital events, hardware and developer creator Monetization, wrote Grayscale in a recent report.
00:07:48.100 - 00:08:34.578, Speaker A: Banks want to get into bitcoin without getting into bitcoin. A report from CoinDesk's Ian Allison says that Goldman Sachs is among a group of us Banks attempting to figure out how to use Bitcoin as collateral for cash loans. Allison cites three sources familiar with the plans Goldman was working on getting approved for lending against collateral and triparty repo, said one source. And if they had a liquidation agent, then they were just doing secured lending without ever having Bitcoin touch their balance sheet. Coinbase and Fidelity Digital assets were mentioned as potential candidates with whom the US. Banks are in discussion. Goldman and a handful of other big banks are attempting to follow in the footsteps of digital asset friendly banks like Silvergate and Signature, both of which already released a Bitcoin backed cash loan program.
00:08:34.578 - 00:09:01.846, Speaker A: Earlier this year, $31 million was lost in a DFI hack spanning ethereum and polygon. Approximately $31 million in cryptocurrencies were stolen from Monox in a hack. On November 30. Monox, a DFI platform specializing in liquidity pools, saw about $18.2 million in wrapped ETH stolen, along with $10.5 million in Maddox. Other tokens were taken as well.
00:09:01.846 - 00:09:51.190, Speaker A: According to security researcher Muddit Gupta, the exploit was caused by a smart contract bug that led to incorrect price updates when doing token swaps, he added, the attacker did a bunch of swaps from monox token to monox token to pump the price of monox token in the system. Once the price was obscenely high, they swapped their monox tokens for all the other assets in the system. In a postmortem, Monox noted that it has a $1 million insurance pool, which it is working on distributing. Monox also hinted that more compensation could be coming for affected users. Please know that fixing the issue is at the forefront of our thoughts and most importantly, how we can restore what was lost by our community. Be on the lookout for a compensation plan in the near future. Congress plans to host major crypto players next Wednesday.
00:09:51.190 - 00:11:08.110, Speaker A: An upcoming congressional hearing titled Digital Assets in the Future of Finance understanding the challenges and benefits of financial innovation in the United States is going to be chock full of crypto industry heavyweights, according to Maxine Waters, the House Financial Services Committee chair. Witnesses include Circle's, jeremy Alair, FTX's sam Binkman Fried, bitfury's brian Brooks Paxos's chad Cascarilla, Stellar's Danelle Dixon and Coinbase's, alicia Haas. Notably, Coinbase's Alicia Haas is the only witness not to hold the title of CEO and is appearing in place of Brian Armstrong, who has been very outspoken in his displeasure with how regulators have handled the crypto industry. The hearing will take place next Wednesday, December eigth. Time for fun bits roundup big time Brands go crypto, cipherpunks and techies no longer dominate the crypto industry. Every day, Web Three crypto, blockchain, technology, whatever you want to call it seems to move another step towards the mainstream, as evidenced by three big time companies making crypto based moves. This week Adidas Times Coinbase Probably Nothing last week, Adidas unveiled a partnership with Coinbase, humorously saying that it was probably nothing in its announcement on Twitter.
00:11:08.110 - 00:11:50.266, Speaker A: Since then, the fashion company has been all over the metaverse. On November 22, Adidas showed off a plot of land labeled Adidas Originals inside the sandbox. On Thursday, Adidas also announced official partnerships with Board, Ape Yacht Club, NFT Collector, Gmoney and NFT Collection. Punks comic Beer ETH was just the beginning. Budweiser launched an NFT collection this week, dropping 1936 unique digital cans referencing the year of the first Budweiser can. The pricing of the NFTs, which sold out in under an hour, depended on scarcity. As of press time, the so called Budverse cans held a price floor of 00:24 ETH.
00:11:50.266 - 00:12:38.174, Speaker A: This is not a company's first crypto foray. Budweiser recently purchased the Ethereum Domain Beer ETH, which it now proudly displays on Twitter. Buy Tickets get an NFT AMC and Sony are collaborating to drop a special collection of NFTs to customers who prepurchase tickets for the upcoming Spiderman movie. According to AMC's Twitter account, the first 86,000 members who buy tickets and attend the Showtime will receive a link to download a Spiderman NFT. Notably, the NFTs are based on Wax, a blockchain that states it is carbon neutral, a point that AMC prominently displays throughout its marketing touting the spidey NFT drop as eco friendly. Alright, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Ryan and Human One, be sure to check out the links in the show.
00:12:38.174 - 00:12:59.540, Speaker A: Notes unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening with the door close.
