00:00:00.250 - 00:00:35.794, Speaker A: So first, what is Mev? MeV stands for maximum extractable value. And how MeV expressed in the blockchain world is because sometimes transactions hit the block at different times. And by ordering these transactions differently, there could be value to be extracted. And this is a very, well, this may sound very boring. This is a big problem from two aspects. First, value perspective. I think since the merge, about $600 million of MeV has been extracted from users LP providers, which is simple arbitrage bots.
00:00:35.794 - 00:01:30.038, Speaker A: That's one big reason it's a very, very big value leakage from the entire ecosystem. The second reason, which is I think what a lot of people focus on nowadays is because MeV, it's a highly centralizing thing, because if you do it well, you will make more money, you can invest into it, you can do it well, even more. And because the nature of decentralizing force, it put a lot of centralization pressure onto the Ethereum validator sets. So these are the two main reasons MeV is really important and why you should care about it. It's a big, big problem. With hundreds of million dollars at stake, it put a lot of centralization pressure onto the Ethereum validator set. And now what has people been doing about this issue? Ethereum foundation has been focusing a lot and leading a lot of effort around PBS, which stands for proposer builder separation, try to separate the centralization force outside the Ethereum validator set.
00:01:30.038 - 00:02:02.220, Speaker A: And what we're trying to focus on is on the builder network. Right now, builder network is very, very centralized, and we have proposed two designs that try to alleviate this centralization on the builder and the builder. Basically they are people who are trying to order transactions and build the final block for the proposer to propose. And if you're interested in our design, they're called Metboost plus and Metboost plus Plus. And I think right now people are actually implementing these designs in process and we think we're going to see implementation in production very soon, in the next few months as well.
