00:00:00.280 - 00:00:24.758, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Zosano, and today's the 14 February 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a big day today, very exciting day today. A lot of things to get through. We have ETH going up in price, which I mean, I'm not going to talk about that today, I spoke about that yesterday. And you guys will obviously be listening in or tuning into the podcast I did with Eric when I released it on Saturday.
00:00:24.758 - 00:01:15.660, Speaker A: But we also had Starkware announced the Stark net or Stark token Airdrop, to which I'll be talking about, and just a bunch of other things as well. So I guess, like without further ado, let's get into it. So the first thing I want to talk about was just a cast that I put out on Farcaster today that I've spoken about on the refill before, but it's all about, I guess, ETH staking generally and ETH node operating generally. So I put out this cast where I said, increasing the decentralization of the Ethereum network means increasing the number of node operators on the network. This means having individuals or groups running a full node with one plus validators attached to it. You can either do this solo with 32 ETH as a group, with tech like distributed validator technology, or with a pool like rocket pool. Now, this is nothing new to you guys, I've discussed it extensively on the refill before, but I do think that the ETH staking ecosystem is ongoing, significant changes right now.
00:01:15.660 - 00:01:51.876, Speaker A: And I talked about this, I think yesterday or the day before with regards to restaking changing the landscape, and liquid restaking tokens changing the landscape. But when it comes to solo and home staking, that is also going through some pretty rapid changes here because there are more and more solutions coming online. You know, there's DVT which went online recently where you can have anywhere from two to ten people, you know, up to ten people staking all at once. So essentially what would happen is that you each put three, if you have ten people, you each put 3.2 ETH up to make that 32 th requirement. And then you all get to be a node operator. You all get to run the full nodes and validators on your local hardware or in the cloud, wherever you want to run it, really.
00:01:51.876 - 00:02:23.004, Speaker A: But you all get to be a node operator here. Uh, there is obviously rocket pool, which has existed for a while. There are other pooling solutions coming online. There are other solutions from the likes of Etherfy and Puffer and swell and all these other protocols coming online. So really, home staking and solo staking is just getting better and better as time goes on, and it's not going backwards. Contrary to popular belief, as I've mentioned before, yes, solo stakers or home stakers may be a minority in terms of the amount of ETH staked, but they are pretty much the majority in terms of node operators. Right.
00:02:23.004 - 00:02:44.104, Speaker A: Rocket pull has thousands of node operators. There are thousands of. Of two solo stakers, I believe. I don't know the exact number there, but I think there has to be. I mean, maybe there's. Maybe there's hundreds, because if you include rocket pool node operators in the solo stakers, it would be in the thousands. But obviously, it's very hard to know, and, you know, very, very hard to know who's an active kind of node operator there.
00:02:44.104 - 00:03:27.796, Speaker A: But I think we can safely say that there's potentially upwards of 10,000 plus node operators on the network right now, which is. Which is really exciting, obviously. And because of that, and because of the fact that the node operators are what really matters from a decentralization perspective on the network, we should be optimizing for that. And that's what we've been doing, which is really, really exciting. Now, last thing I'll say on this, because, as I've said, I've talked about this a lot on the refill before, but I just figured it was worth kind of reiterating these points here. Last thing I'll say on this is something that Nolan V brought up in a reply to my cast, where he said, you know, is it good to lower this 32 ETH requirements? Is it good to allow people to stake with, you know, maybe just one ETH or something like that? And I'm like. And I've discussed this before on the refuel as well, but I just want to refresh people's kind of memories here of this.
00:03:27.796 - 00:03:47.956, Speaker A: So, lowering the barriers to staking should be our number one goal as an ecosystem. But there is a limit to that. As I've discussed before, the limit is economic in that you can lower it to, like, 0.18. Let's just say you spin up a full node with. Sorry, you become a node operator with 0.18. That includes running a full node and running a validator. Okay.
00:03:47.956 - 00:04:28.144, Speaker A: 0.18 right now is $270, right? So you first buy that, Ethan, then you buy the hardware. So you spend, what, $400 on hardware or something like that at best. It depends where you are in the world, but let's just say $400 on hardware and then you earn like three to 4% from staking to get back. Just the hardware cost would take you a very, very long time because you're not earning much. Three to 4% on $270, even if ETH, you know, goes ten x from here, 3% on, on $22,000, something like that, right. In the best possible case scenario for the foreseeable future is still not that much, right? So when you look at it from kind of that perspective, not $22,000.
00:04:28.144 - 00:05:03.528, Speaker A: I did my math wrong there. It's $2,200, right? So 3% on that is not that very much. So there is really a limit here to how low you can get, the capital requirement barrier, but that shouldn't mean that we shouldn't lower it as much as possible. We definitely should. And obviously the calculus can change based on the USD price of ethics, but there is a limit there, right? And I think that the capital requirement is the number one barrier by far right now for. For stakers, for solo stakers, for home stakers. But then that will eventually shift to the technical barrier as being number one, and then we can kind of focus on that and see what we can do in that regard.
00:05:03.528 - 00:05:29.352, Speaker A: But we are, I mean, we are doing that in parallel. We are focusing on that, we are improving it in parallel. But it's definitely not the main thing right now. The main thing is still that capital requirement there. So anyway, enough on that one. Just an actual related tweet here that each staker put out today. There's a frequently asked question right now from home stakers, from people who run their own nodes, you know, how much more disk space will your node need with blobs being added? So the maximum amount you will need is an extra 100 gig.
00:05:29.352 - 00:05:58.802, Speaker A: So if you have a two terabyte drive right now, you should still be fine. And I know some people have been saying that they two terabyte drive fills up. That's because you need to be pruning your full node. You need to be proving your ex pruning your execution layer full node, or you need to be running it in a mode that does auto pruning. That way you're not going to be storing all this unnecessary data, and it's not just going to be reaching that two terabyte limit there. But also, at the same time, if you're someone who just wants as low maintenance as possible and you don't want to go through kind of pruning and things like that. Then just run a full terabyte drive in there.
00:05:58.802 - 00:06:20.512, Speaker A: I mean, a full terabyte drive is not that much more expensive than a two terabyte one. And the price is obviously coming down all the time. So you can run a four terabyte drive and not have to worry about this issue at all. But, I mean, I run two terabyte drives on, on my solo box is two terabyte right now. And I think my rocket pool box is to tear. Oh, no, I think my rock pull one's four terabyte, but my two terabyte solar ones, fine. But there's not, there's nothing wrong with it.
00:06:20.512 - 00:06:36.726, Speaker A: I'm running, never mind on there with, I believe, a lighthouse. I always forget which ones are running where. I need to check my. I got a little diagram that I've drawn up that that kind of, kind of reminds me of where I'm. What I'm running, where. Because sometimes I forget because I have so much going on. I'm running so many different kind of things here.
00:06:36.726 - 00:07:04.482, Speaker A: Um, but, yeah, I mean, my two terabyte drive is, is fine. I mean, uh, and I think it's going to be fine post den kun. But, yeah, it's about 103 gig max for blobs, because obviously blobs expire, uh, they explore expire every 18 days, so. And the expected average is around 50 gig as well. So, yeah, you should still be fine with a two terabyte drive there. All right, so EPBS has been a huge topic of discussion over the last few weeks. In particular, you've seen a lot of core devs and researchers tweeting about this.
00:07:04.482 - 00:08:03.150, Speaker A: I've talked about this a lot on the review and linked, uh, you guys, a ton of resources for you to kind of, I guess, get up to speed with this stuff. Well, apparently there is a new EPBS breakout call that is, that is happening. So the first one happened yesterday or today, I guess, depending where you are in the world. And Terrence has some notes here from that call. So if you are all interested in kind of keeping up with the bleeding edge of EPBS research and developments, these calls are probably what you're going to be maybe listening in on if they're public, I'm not sure if they're publicly. And basically reading these notes here from terrence and others on what the calls actually entail, because epbs, the reason why it's become, I think, such a, I guess, like, loud issue now or come to the forefront of Ethereum development now is because I think the core devs are getting, getting fed up with PBS existing outside of the core protocol because it's just an annoyance for them to have to deal with. So I think they're just trying to enshrine it as fast as possible so that it's easier for them to reason about.
00:08:03.150 - 00:08:58.744, Speaker A: And I've talked about this before on the refuel about how because MeV boosts builders and relays exist outside of the core protocol, it is really annoying, especially the relays. It is really annoying for the core devs because they have to monitor this sidecar software while not having any influence over it or any direct influence over it, and not having any easy way to reason about it because it's not part of the core protocol, right? It's not part of the core client software. It is a sidecar software. And the reason why they have to worry about it is because like 95% of the network runs mev boost, so they want to enshrine it as quickly as possible. And enshrining it is also good from, from other kind of like lenses that you view this stuff from. But yeah, if you want to read the latest call, the notes on this latest call, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Tony has shared a cast on Firecaster today of a paper that has been published by him and a bunch of other Ethereum researchers on stealth addresses.
00:08:58.744 - 00:09:48.092, Speaker A: So he says, here we introduce a standardized stealth address protocol for Ethereum called ERC 5564, enhancing privacy with unlinkable transactions. The paper was created in collaboration with these fine folks here, including Vitalik. Of course you can find a link to the ERC in the, in the cast, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But stealth addresses has been something that has been worked on for a little while now, and as Tony says here, it basically allows you to have unlinkable transactions. So you're not gonna get like full blown kind of maximum privacy, no default privacy across everything here. But the way this works is that it essentially, from a high level, allows you to unlink certain transactions from each other. So at least from my understanding, you would basically be able to unlink trails of you trying to send ETH to a new address.
00:09:48.092 - 00:10:35.572, Speaker A: For example, like say you've got an address that's doxxed, say it's sassle ETH using this. You should be able to, at least from my, I might be wrong here, but this is from my understanding of I should be able to send ETH to another address without those addresses being linked, that would be really cool because like right now I can't do that, right? Right now none of us can do that. The best you can do is use tornado cash. But like most of the people in crypto are barred from using tornado cash because if you're a us citizen or person, it is illegal for you to do that. And it is a very gray area, depending where you are in the world for you to use that. And so most people just default to using centralized exchanges where essentially what you do is you send ETH from your docst address or from a known address to a centralized exchange or you send a token or stable coin, then you wait a bit and then you withdraw that, those funds from there to a new address. So obviously the centralized exchange can connect those addresses together.
00:10:35.572 - 00:11:03.600, Speaker A: But it is very, very difficult for the everyday person to connect these things together. The on chain analytics tools can do it relatively easily because they use a bunch of heuristics to kind of link these things. But yeah, I think tornado cash is still the gold standard as a mixer, but that's sanctioned right now. That is also not the be all, end all. We can do more than just tornado cash for preserving privacy. Yeah, and that's what stealth addresses attempts to do. So if you want to read this paper, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:11:03.600 - 00:11:32.506, Speaker A: So. Definitely something to keep an eye on here. All right, so biggest news from today of course is the announcements and the I guess like release of the details around the Stark net airdrop for, for the Strk or Stark token. Now of course you can check your eligibility at Provisions Starknet IO. Please do not go to any links except that one, or any URL's except that one. I will link it in the YouTube description below. Please do not google this or anything like that.
00:11:32.506 - 00:11:57.884, Speaker A: Go to Starknet's Twitter and go to the link here, the official link, because obviously there's a lot of phishing going on right now and if you haven't yet, please switch from Metamask to Rabi. Or please just use Rabi as your main desk, main desktop client, even if it's a pass through for your hardware wallet. If you. It is just so good. I've been using it so much since I got fished and it just, it's amazing. I love it so much. It's just such a beautiful experience and it makes me feel so much safer on chain as well.
00:11:57.884 - 00:12:37.766, Speaker A: But yeah, just wanted to give the shout out there now onto the airdrop itself. This airdrop is pretty big. It is pretty big. You can see here, bankless did a thread on this airdrop, so you can see here that more than 700 million stark tokens are being allocated, which I believe is a huge chunk of the supply. I don't know what the total supply is of stock chain right now, but I believe that this is a pretty, pretty huge chunk here. And then they've broken up this allocation in this pie chart that you can see and allocated tokens to different users, users here or different kind of like entities here. So one thing that sticks out here, which I was very very happy to see, is that ETH stakers are 22% of the 700 million token.
00:12:37.766 - 00:13:19.776, Speaker A: So they get 22% of these 700 million stark tokens here. And that is the biggest allocation besides stark net users. Obviously stocknet users are going to be prioritized here, but that's 51% for stocknet users. Then you have a theorem developers getting a nice chunk, EIP authors getting a nice chunk, the protocol guild getting a chunk, and then just open source developers and stock, and stock x users of course, as well here. But what I really wanted to talk about was that allocation to ETH stakers. This has been something that I've been harping on a lot about for the last week especially. I did tell you guys, I did say to you guys that I thought that there'd be a big project or relatively big project that would do something like this and that should start a trend.
00:13:19.776 - 00:13:49.134, Speaker A: Now obviously the, you know, Stark net's done this, but there's no trend yet because other projects haven't done it. But I really, really do hope that there is a trend being started here with this. Because as I said before, as I said yesterday and the day before, I think you want to be rewarding e stakers. And this isn't just solo stakers, this is also stakers through I believe, light. Oh, I think it's like everyone pre merge. From what I read I was getting rewarded here. And as I said, you can check your allocations on the website that I'll link in the YouTube description below as part of the tweets.
00:13:49.134 - 00:14:36.276, Speaker A: But yeah, I just really love to see this. Now in saying that, I checked some of my addresses and it said that they weren't eligible when they definitely were, and I believe they used, they being stockinette used the rated.net work solo staker list for the, for what they allocated stark tokens to. Now I think I discussed this yesterday or the day before where I said that that list is not great. There is a better list that I tweeted out about that had all of my addresses on it, had full coverage, but these other addresses did not. Sorry, rated networks list did not. So I think that what I'm going to try and do going forward because the creator of that list that I showed you guys yesterday actually dm'd me on Twitter and we, you know, we kind of had a back and forth there.
00:14:36.276 - 00:15:14.270, Speaker A: But basically what I'm going to try to do is I'm going to try and create a master list of solo and home stakers for projects to use. I don't want us to have multiple lists out there that projects are using. And I don't want us to have shitty lists either because like multiple lists is already like a headache, but shitty list is even worse because then people feel slighted, people get disappointed, people feel like upsetting set right, and you want to have as good of courage as possible. Is the coverage ever going to be 100%? Probably not. Like that's, that's going to be very, very difficult to do, is it? You know, if we can get it as close to 100% as possible, that's great. So I'm going to probably try to take this initiative on board. I already have no time in my life.
00:15:14.270 - 00:16:06.960, Speaker A: But hey, what's another kind of thing to add to that pile there and try to get a master list that projects use? And what I want to do with this master list as well is I want people to be able to attest to this list. So essentially what you could do is you could put this list on the Ethereum attestation service and people can attest to it and basically say, okay, well, my address is on, you know, on this list and I am a solo staker, so I'm attesting to this. Projects can also attest to it and say, this is the list that we're going to use. You know, if, if we, you know, we do an airdrop or we're going to use this list because this is the list that we agree is the right one. It has full coverage or has as best coverage as you can get because we just do need that kind of like master list of solo and homestakers. And second point would be to update that regularly as well because obviously the one I showed yesterday was updated to September and there's been a lot more validators coming online since then. Not sure how many solo validators have come online since then, it's hard to tell.
00:16:06.960 - 00:16:42.540, Speaker A: But still, we do need a good list here. But in any case, the fact that stocknet, I mean, very big project within the ecosystem, ethereum ecosystem, right? One of the biggest l two s has kind of fired the first shot here. I expect to see other projects follow suit. I'd be very, very surprised if projects like Eigen layer puffer swell and either fight didn't air drop some portion to solo stakers. Obviously, they're going to prioritize their own users in an airdrop because this is what you should be doing, honestly. Because at the end of the day, your own users are the ones that you want to be rewarding the most. But I'd be surprised if they didn't do at least something there.
00:16:42.540 - 00:17:36.226, Speaker A: And then outside of each stake as well, obviously there's a protocol guild contribution here from Starknet, which I love to see. And I've personally taken it upon myself to contact projects that I know that I'm both invested in and not invested in, and basically asking them, hey, have you heard of the protocol guild have you heard of the protocol guild pledge, which is to pledge up to 1% of your token supply to the protocol guild when you launch your token? I have now gotten two projects on board by doing this with four in the works, and I'm going to be having, I'm going to be getting more in the works. And I was speaking to actually, Trent Van Epps about this today, and we kind of joked because I was like to him, yeah, I'm going to like, do this thing where I just reach out to projects and get them on board. He's like, oh, we should have like a leaderboard. And I was thinking in my head, I'm like, that'd be nice because, like, I think I'd be at the top of that leaderboard in terms of people, in terms of someone who'd referred the most amount of projects to the protocol guild and got them to actually donate here. But at the same time, I'm not doing it for that. What I'm doing it for is trying to start the trends.
00:17:36.226 - 00:18:11.972, Speaker A: The two trends I want to see is what I tweeted about the other day. I want to see every single project that hasn't done a token yet that he's going to do a token allocate up to 1% of their total token supply to the protocol guild, every single Ethereum project. Right? I want to see that, and I want to see all of them. Reward ETH stakers doesn't have to be just solo stakers, doesn't have to be just home stakers, can be stakers generally, but I want to see east stakers rewarded. Those are my two main missions going forward. I kind of think that those are the most impactful things I can be doing going forward outside of the other stuff that I'm already doing, and I'm going to be kind of sticking to that there for the foreseeable future. So yeah, anyway, enough about that.
00:18:11.972 - 00:18:48.834, Speaker A: You can go check out the eligibility criteria in bankless thread here for Stark. They've actually got a really great thread showcasing this and basically what you have to do there. There's a lot of eligibility criteria here, actually, because you could have used like immutable x when they were kind of using Stark X, and you could have used diversify, which is a stark X kind of app as well. Arch XL two as well. So there's a bunch of different criteria here and it's all listed on the bankless thread. So I'll just link that in the YouTube description below for you guys to go check out. But yeah, very, very exciting day for a furious for ETH holders among us.
00:18:48.834 - 00:19:12.986, Speaker A: As I said, ETH price is going up right now. I mean, at time of recording it's at 27, 60 ish. We're very close to three k. Like, all of a sudden we're at almost three k when we were, you know, not close to two k not too long ago. And I did say to you guys that I thought that when ETH moves, it'll be a relatively quick move because too many people are sidelined right now. But as I said, I don't want to talk too much about the price here, but that's exciting. Stock airdrops.
00:19:12.986 - 00:19:31.670, Speaker A: Exciting. Plenty more airdrops coming this year for you guys. Like, there's so many projects that haven't done tokens yet that I'm sure you guys are kind of like farming airdrops for. And as I said, I'm. I hope that a lot of them get airdropped to eat stakers as well because I know a lot of you guys stake your ETH. So yeah, just a very good time. Very exciting time to be an ETH holder and an ethereum.
00:19:31.670 - 00:20:07.350, Speaker A: And I can't wait to see what the guests like rest of the year has in store for all of us. All right, so ErP, 48 44 is right around the corner. Less than a month, or probably exactly a month from, from now, actually. Or just, just a little bit under a month based on where you are in the world, what kind of data it is there until it goes live, until Deng Kun goes live. And we have optimism here basically giving us a history lesson on EIP 4844. And guys, basically how it came to be very, very short and like how the development happened and what's going to be happening in a blob space world. So you can go give this a read.
00:20:07.350 - 00:20:52.426, Speaker A: It's very short. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to, for you to read it here. But there's also a tweet thread from off chain labs talking about AIP 4844 and what it means for users on L two. And what I like about off chain labs is thread in particular, is that they really focused on the fact that we don't actually know exactly what the cost savings are going to be for roll ups using blobs because of the fact that blobs are going to be a competitive market. Just like core data is just like Ethereum, l one block space is there are things like inscriptions that could happen short term on blobs. There are a lot of other variables at play here with, with the fact that people could potentially arbitrage between core data and blobs. There is the fact that blobs can only be bought in like full batches.
00:20:52.426 - 00:21:17.050, Speaker A: So you have to buy like one blob. You can't just buy a portion of a blob, at least from the protocol, but there are going to be extra protocol things where you can actually buy portions of a blob. And it depends on how frequently each roll up is buying blobs. So there is a lot of kind of like, variables here. And we're just not going to know until blobs go live. Now, as I've told you guys before, once blobs go live, we're going to have to wait a little while. It's not going to, we're not going to have good data within like the first week.
00:21:17.050 - 00:21:52.676, Speaker A: We're going to have to wait, you know, maybe two, three months or something to get some really kind of like good data that has a lot of signal and not too much noise in it. Because I do think that we're going to see some kind of Djen project say, hey, we're doing inscriptions in blobs. Maybe they just called blobscriptions and oh, my God, I just came up with that. And if someone uses that, I am sorry, because I don't know if some kind of like Djem project is going to use that terminology, but it's out there now. But yeah, I can imagine some project coming along and being like, hey, we're blobscriptions. And, you know, it's really cheap to do this on ETH L1. And they're not going to maybe inform their users that blobs expire after 18 days.
00:21:52.676 - 00:22:25.390, Speaker A: So it's literally useless to be putting inscriptions in blobs. But I just think that the djen kind of energy runs deep, especially as the market gets hotter and hotter. So we could potentially see that now, again, that's only going to be over the short term. It is not going to be, in my opinion, a long term issue. I do think that the roll ups are obviously going to crowd out this stuff anyway because they can, they can afford to outbid everyone because their roll up is basically, you know, thousands, tens of thousands of users transactions all kind of rolled up into one. So they're definitely the biggest players on, you know, on, in the blob space market. But we're going to have to wait.
00:22:25.390 - 00:22:53.694, Speaker A: You know, I'm going to give it at least like three months to get some decent data. And I'm sure the L two teams are going to do their own retrospectives on these things. They're going to do their own analysis on these things. But it's going to be exciting to see how it goes there. But yeah, anyway, you can go read optimism's post and off chain labs as tweet thread. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Now, I know you guys are waiting until Saturday for me to publish the episode I did with Eric Conner on the ETH bull case and why ETH is going in 15 to 20k.
00:22:53.694 - 00:23:36.898, Speaker A: But as a teaser, I'm going to spend the last few minutes of today's episode going through some of the stuff we spoke about and just giving like a little teaser here. And the reason I'm doing this is because Eric posted a tweet today saying upcoming ETH bullish narratives. Of course we have the ETF, right, the spot ETH ETF's, which I've spoken about extensively on the refuel, and I've spoken about the fact that I believe they're going to be approved in May of this year, which is not very far away from now. He then released Larry Fink. Obviously, Larry Fink is the CEO or the current CEO of Blackrock, the largest asset manager in the world. Larry Fink doesn't miss guys, honestly, I don't think, like, crypto natives realize just how much power that dude has. Like, I mean, especially political power, which means a lot more than people give it credit for.
00:23:36.898 - 00:23:59.514, Speaker A: So I think that Larry Fink don't miss. Which means that we're going to get those ETH ETF's by, by may supply shrink. Obviously ETH has been deflationary since the merge. There is just more and more supply coming off the market because it's going into like staking. It needs to be used to pay gas fees, which just makes ETH deflationary. More people are using ETH as a store of value, as a money. You know, there's just not enough ETH to go around sound money ness.
00:23:59.514 - 00:24:28.366, Speaker A: You know, the fact that ETH supply is, you know, is dwindling, is shrinking. ETH is used as money so much it is a collateral asset. It's a store of value, just increases its money ness. Restaking obviously a new primitive wasn't around in other bull markets has grown just so large at this stage. Eigen layer is one of the biggest projects now on Ethereum in terms of TVL data blobs, as I just discussed, blobs are a huge unlock for roll ups, airdrops generally. I mean we just saw the first one today with Starknet. Many, many more to come.
00:24:28.366 - 00:24:55.466, Speaker A: An ossified proof of stake chain. And then he said, upcoming eat bearish narratives, nothing. Now the funny thing is, I agree with everything on his list except ossified proof of stake chain. The. I do want to put this out there. The proof of stake chain on Ethereum is nowhere near ossified and it is going to change a lot over the coming years. There is a lot of stuff that the core developers and researchers want to do to the proof of stake chain to make it a lot better than what it is today.
00:24:55.466 - 00:25:25.884, Speaker A: And the reason for this is because the proof of stake chain honestly exists as a miracle, if I'm being honest. It was developed as a separate chain, obviously as the beacon chain. Before long, you know, long before we knew that, we knew it would merge. But like, long before it was merge, right. Launched December 1, 2020 and then it merged September 15, 2023. So it was a long time between those periods there. But the reason why I saying it's not going to be ossified anytime soon is because there are tons of upgrades coming and there, and there's this pretty substantial upgrades, right? There's single slot finality.
00:25:25.884 - 00:25:56.672, Speaker A: That's, that's a pretty substantial upgrade to the way that Ethereum proof of stake works. There's the max effective balance increase coming. There's the stuff around PBS as well. So yeah, the beacon chain or the proof of stake chain on Ethereum is not also flying anytime soon. I think that what Eric maybe meant here, or what he kind of like hopes, is that the ossification comes in the form of confidence in the proof of stake mechanism because the core mechanisms themselves aren't necessarily going to change. They're just going to become. Well, they're not going to change for the worst, so to speak.
00:25:56.672 - 00:26:24.648, Speaker A: They're just going to become stronger. They're not going to. It's not going to be like a whole rewrite, at least from my understanding, on things, but it's going to become stronger with things like single slot finality and so on and so forth. But yeah, there's plenty of upgrades still coming to the proof of stake chain, which in my opinion is just way more bullish than an ossified chain. Right. And obviously more it's going to get staked as well, which kind of play, which plays into that and plays into the whole restaking thing. But that there is just a teaser of what we spoke about on the episode, which again, as I said, is going out on Saturday going to keep you guys waiting for that.
00:26:24.648 - 00:26:56.704, Speaker A: And the reason I'm doing that is because I don't want to cannibalize the refuel. I don't want like to put the refuel out and the, the episode out at the same time. And I want to give you guys something to be bullish about on the weekend, on Saturday. Because it does seem like the market is beginning to trade more and more in lockstep with the tradfi markets. Because the tradfi markets have, in the US at least, have defined kind of like opening and closing periods. And because of the BTC ETF, those things are only traded during those periods. And then obviously, a lot of the trad five folks that are playing in that, but also are able to access crypto native markets are playing there as well.
00:26:56.704 - 00:27:37.978, Speaker A: So, you know, given that, I do think that we, you know, the weekends are probably going to be quieter than they usually are in the ecosystem from at least market perspective. And yeah, I'm just going to give you guys something to be bullish about on Saturday. And I mean, I usually put the drive thrus out on Saturdays anyway, so that's not a, not a thing that we just recorded on the Tuesday because it was the only time you could find to record because Eric, I think, is busy for the rest of the week. So we really just wanted to record on, on the day that we were both free and able to do it, even if it was, it was too early there. But hey, hopefully the episode lives up to all the hype, honestly, because I'm hyping this up as something, you know, as something massive. But really, I came away from the podcast more bullish than I'd been in a very, very long time. And you guys know I'm like perma bullish on Ethan, probably the biggest ETH bull in the world.
00:27:37.978 - 00:28:10.014, Speaker A: But I came away from the episode being like, oh boy, I need to buy more ETH. And I honestly, guys, like, I have like such little money left to buy 8th week because I've just been buying it so much during the bear and crab market and you know, I do other things like angel investments and stuff like that, but I came away from it. I'm just like, can I find some money somewhere? Can I like rotate some money from somewhere else to buy more ETH? Like I'm too bullish right now, right? So yeah, anyway, enough on that. I'm rambling now. Enough on that. That's, I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching watching.
00:28:10.014 - 00:28:16.494, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
