00:00:00.320 - 00:00:39.588, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of Delhi refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is not the 21 June 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So kicking off today's episode, we have a fresh recap from Tim Bico of the latest all core devs call. Now apparently this was the first ever call in history that ended early, which was maybe not forever in history, but Tim says, yeah, first time forever that the all core devs call ended early because everyone is heads down working on Petra. Now of course, we all know that Petra is right now at least the biggest Ethereum upgrade that's ever been put together. So obviously all the core devs and researchers are hard at work on that, which is great to see, of course.
00:00:39.588 - 00:01:18.514, Speaker A: So basically what they discussed on the call, I think maybe the biggest thing was that Petra Devnet one spec is I think pretty close to completion now, or at least kind of completed here so that Devnet one can be launched. You know, I'm assuming that we're going to see like over ten dev nets by the time this thing goes live on Main net as well as the Testnet forks, of course, and then obviously main net. But as I said before, my prediction is still Q one for Petra 2025. There, there was a bunch of other updates that Tim kind of lists here that you should check out for yourself. But as Tim said, it wasn't early. They ended the call early. So it was relatively lighter than usual, but definitely heavy on the picture stuff they did briefly.
00:01:18.514 - 00:01:58.020, Speaker A: They did briefly touch on peer dust progress. So the next Devnet will be based on a recent CL spec release or consensus layer spec release and is expected in the next couple of weeks there. So you can go give that thread a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but not too many kind of I guess major, major things happening there. As Tim says here, everyone is heads down working on Petra, which I guess like they, they need to be at this point. As I said, like there's so much going into Petra that it needs all hands on deck. And if we can actually get this shipped by, I'm going to say like by Q one, if it doesn't extend further than that, I'll be extremely impressed to be honest, because I know how big of a lift a hard fork is and how big of a lift the coordination is for it as well.
00:01:58.020 - 00:02:29.818, Speaker A: Because when it comes to hard forking the chain, you need to coordinate a lot of different parties in a you know, a lot of different decentralized and distributed parties around the world in order to get this thing over the line, in order to make sure that a hard fork goes through. Which I'm going to touch on a bit more in a sec in relation to something else. But yeah, we'll see how things go. I'll keep you guys, guys updated, obviously on pictures progress. But as I said, you can read this thread for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we saw some craziness happen with blobs overnight, well over my night.
00:02:29.818 - 00:02:53.880, Speaker A: So here, Matt Cutler put together a little Twitter thread. So Matt Cutler is the CEO and co founder of Block Native. They are basically a company that works very closely with the mempool, with gas. You know, you've got this extension that you probably see me running up here, this little four. That's the four. That's four way gas fees on Mainnet right now. And that's a real time gas fee checker there, which is which I've been using for quite a while now.
00:02:53.880 - 00:03:28.094, Speaker A: But anyway, enough background about them. Matt put out this tweet where he says, we're actively investigating the impressive spike in the blob base fee that started at around block. There's the block number. When the blob base fee hit two way by the. By the block, I think 110. So like three blocks later, the blob base fee rose to three way and then began to run up and peaked at near 7471 Gwei at block 272 here, which is about, I think it's like 150 blocks after that is an insane gas price there. And that is obviously not sustainable.
00:03:28.094 - 00:04:00.192, Speaker A: But it did lead to some fee spikes in the different kind of l two s that are using blobs. In the different roll ups that are using blobs, I think people were saying like dollar 20 fees on arbitrary one or something like that. And of course, this is a very temporary thing because at that gas price, um, there would not be a sustained fee market at that gas price at all. Not, I think it lasted maybe a few blocks here. Um, and Matt Cutler goes into, uh, details in his thread here. And also there is a bunch of other things to talk about with regards to this as well. But Matt's thread should definitely be where you start.
00:04:00.192 - 00:04:31.560, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. He's got a bunch of links to, to what happened. And also because the base fee climbed, there were some roll ups substant paying substantially more than what they needed to, to post their batches down to the chain. I believe we ended up burning a few hundred thousand dollars worth of eth due to this. But obviously this is not sustainable. You can see here that blast, I think, paid five or overpaid and paid 5.28 of a blob worth of a blob fee to get their batch included here.
00:04:31.560 - 00:05:02.910, Speaker A: So obviously not sustainable at all. And an outlier. Now, of course, this opened up discussions around blobs generally, as you guys know. I know, as I've been monitoring lately for you guys, if we go to Hill Dobby's blobs dashboard, you can see that we're very much near the target of blobs per block, regardless of these outliers. You know, you can see here the targets, the green line, we're actually over target right now. So we're basically like coming, you know, above and below it, but we're straddling that line there. Now, of course, this outlier, as you can see here in this chart very much, is just a very, very quick outlier.
00:05:02.910 - 00:05:23.676, Speaker A: Not something that is going to be sustainable at all. There's just no way. I mean, I think someone did the math on it. And if we were to sustain that gas fee for even like a week, we would burn, or maybe even less than a week, we would burn like the entire eat supply or something like that. So obviously not sustainable because that's many, many billions of dollars of fees there. But it shows, it did show one thing. The blob.
00:05:23.676 - 00:05:56.210, Speaker A: The blob fee market right now is, I don't know if I'd use the term broken, but it's not working as expected. I don't know enough about it to comment on it. POTUS actually has a tweet thread about this here with regards to the fee market and what could be done or the blob fee market and what could be done to tune it. So the core devs and researchers are definitely looking into that. But there is another problem here, and I think I've spoken about this before. So Tony has a great little graphic here that shows this. But the problem is basically that when it comes to blobs, there is not really any MEV to be extracted from it.
00:05:56.210 - 00:06:24.678, Speaker A: So to give you a refresher here within the Ethereum, I guess like proposer pipeline, or I guess like build a proposal pipeline. And the mev boost pipeline that like 95% of the network uses, there is the builder who constructs the blocks. There is the relay who reloads those blocks, their validators. And the validators proposes those blocks. Now, the builders build blocks based on profitability. And they. They basically prioritize transactions that are more profitable.
00:06:24.678 - 00:06:56.332, Speaker A: That's mev, right. That's the whole point of MeV. But the problem is, is that when you have transactions that are not profitable for builders to include and are also heavier, blobs take longer to propagate. For builders who are trying to do things like timing games, where essentially they try and wait until the last possible second in order to get the most profitable transactions included here, they basically just ignore blobs. So this is a form of censorship, I guess you could call it, but it is an. It's not censorship in the sense of builders are doing this because they want to. It's more of.
00:06:56.332 - 00:07:39.106, Speaker A: They're doing this because it's not profitable to include, include blobs. Now Tony's chart here shows that on average, non mev boost users, aka vanilla block builders include more blobs per block than mev boost builders do. So we've got definitive evidence of this happening here. And as I said, the financial incentives are there so that this actually happens. And it's a very kind of difficult problem to solve because of the fact that just blows by their very nature, are not going to be attractive to people who are trying to extract the most amount of value out of transactions they include in their blocks here. Okay, so how do we get around this? How do we actually deal with this? Well, that opens up the wider question around how Ethereum is dealing with Mev generally. And that's part of the scourge roadmap item that's on Vitalik's roadmap here.
00:07:39.106 - 00:08:18.030, Speaker A: It's a huge issue, guys, not just an issue for blobs, but as I've said before, Mev is a plague. It is something that will come for everything and come for change, stability. It'll come for the way that we expect the chain to work. Because it's all based on financial incentives. In the most extreme sense. It is, I guess, like the purest form of financial incentives that we have with, at least within crypto, but potentially even in the world where essentially because it's permissionless, because there's no, there's no one giving you permission to do or not do things or to include or not include transactions, well, then basically what it comes down to is just financial incentives here. Now, of course, if you're not running mev boost and you're a vanilla block builder, this incentive does not exist for you.
00:08:18.030 - 00:09:10.734, Speaker A: So you're going to include these blobs anyway. And then data always also has a chart here that shows that blobs are pretty slow to make it into blocks because of the phenomenon that I just described, where essentially because blobs take longer to process as transactions or as types of transactions, builders are less inclined to include them because of the fact that, one, as I said, they're not paying out that lucrative MEV, that they're expecting or not paying out something profitable for them. And two, it takes longer to include it. So they're trying to play these timing games and they don't want to include them. So there's, there's not just a lack of financial incentive, there's also an increased burden on the builder, and they need to be able, they need to be paid for that burden. Now, Graystroke in the Delaware Discord channel actually mentioned something today of an interesting idea of how to rectify this, of why not make it more profitable to include blobs in blocks at the consensus layer reward level. I mean, I get the notion here.
00:09:10.734 - 00:09:23.526, Speaker A: I'm not sure how technically possible it is. I think. I think it should be possible. But then what you're doing is you're essentially giving more consensus layer rewards is all new ETh. It's not. It's not rewards that are paid out by user. It's new Eth that is issued.
00:09:23.526 - 00:10:28.088, Speaker A: What you're doing is now you're picking and choosing which transactions to reward with new ETh. And that starts to get murky. And I don't know if we should go down that path. It is potentially one solution, but I don't necessarily think so because you also end up reaching kind of an upper bound there as well, where essentially, like, do you adjust somehow, dynamically the amount of layer consensus layer rewards that are going to blobs based on the demand for blobs, but also based on the, I guess like inclusion of blobs within blocks. And it gets very murky because what if, let's say that on l one gas fees spike up to like 50 to 100 way, and this is outside of the blob fee market because of some stuff that's going on for a sustained period of time, some dj and stuff that's going on? Well, then that's going to be very profitable for block builders, right? So in that environment, the block builders are definitely not going to prioritize blobs. And even though you're paying them extra, it's probably not going to match what they're going to be able to get from the execution layer rewards of extracting the MEV, basically. So when you look at it like that, when you think about it like that, it gets.
00:10:28.088 - 00:11:10.642, Speaker A: Yeah, it gets murky. And then, as I said, it's a path that we maybe necessarily don't want to go down here. But as I said, like tackling Mev generally on the chain, on Ethereum specifically, is part of that scourge roadmap item there, which is being worked on now. Of course, the question was also brought up by whipper in the daily grade Discord channel today. He basically asked, you know, are we going to increase the size and count of blob or count of blobs and all count of blobs, I guess now that we're seeing sustained demand here, and I'm going to say no for a few reasons. So I think that even though we're seeing sustained demand, it's not sustained enough. Where essentially it's so expensive to post blobs that l two fees have spiked to like many dollars, right? Like even if they're.
00:11:10.642 - 00:11:45.786, Speaker A: Even if the blob fee goes quite high, it would still be sense to do transactions on l two because of the fact that blobs would still be cheap even at, you know, a few way or something like that. Or tens of guys from, from my calculations anyway, due to the way that data costs versus execution cost works. And as we know, the L two s are also working on scaling up their execution. So in that, I guess, like that, that's one reason why I don't think we're going to be raising the blob, I guess, like limit gas limit, I guess you could call it counts. I mean, it's basically a gas limit increase, if you want to use the old terminology. But that's one major reason there. Second is chain stability.
00:11:45.786 - 00:12:14.616, Speaker A: Introducing blobs didn't break the chain, but there are lower powered devices out there and people with, especially solo stakers and solo validators with less bandwidth than, you know, they would like to have, that ended up struggling a little bit, missing attestations here and there due to the fact that blobs are an increase in load on the network. So that's another thing. Thirdly, blobs haven't been live long enough for us to see everything play out yet. So it just hasn't been long. They went live in March, guys. Hasn't been very long. We need to see these play out over longer periods of time.
00:12:14.616 - 00:12:57.190, Speaker A: Six months, nine months, twelve months sort of thing. At minimum, I would say. And then I think another big one is probably the biggest one is that if we were to do a hard fork just to increase the blob size and or count, not only would it require a lot of attention from core devs and potentially researchers, it would also be a huge coordination effort to do that. Like it takes many, I guess weeks, if not months to coordinate a hard fork. Even if we know today what's the change is going to be. As I said in the past, with blobs, it's basically a one line code change to do this, but that one line code change needs to be part of a hard fork. It's not a software update for the clients.
00:12:57.190 - 00:13:42.450, Speaker A: So a hard fork not only involves getting the clients built out, testing them, running dev nets, running test nets, you got to be safe, right? You can't do it without doing all of that. That alone is taking months already, right? Unless it's an emergency. Like if it's an emergency where essentially the chain is going to break or the chain's going to fall over or something's going to get exploited on the chain if we don't do the fix, that could happen much sooner because it would be like a war room scenario, all hands on deck. But when it's something like this, doing all that, what I just mentioned would at least take months. Then you have to coordinate with everyone, everyone running nodes and infrastructure and validators and all that sorts of stuff resonate with all of them. And you also need to make sure the community is aware this is happening and let time for it to sink and bake in and have discussions around it. The discussions alone, the preliminary discussions alone would take weeks at minimum here.
00:13:42.450 - 00:14:55.186, Speaker A: So outside of critical bugs on the network that need to be fixed, like right here, right now, or else exploiting them would result in a very bad outcome for Ethereum as a chain, there is just no way to do a hard fork in a timely manner. Now because of that, during those months of, you know, testing and developing these, these things to get them live, in order to increase the blob size and count, what ends up happening is that work gets taken away from Petra in this, you know, in this example, in this timeline. So Petra gets pushed out and it just pushes everything back. So what we could do, and what could be potential here is if we see sustained demand on blobs, we could include a blob size or count increase with Petra, essentially it would be part of that upgrade and would just be an EIP part of that upgrade, and it'd be a lot easier to reason about the coordination is already being done and we've already done all the heavy lifting there. But in saying that if peer dash goes into Petra, then increasing the size or count of blobs is. I wouldn't say like totally redundant, but it's like mostly redundant because the peer dust already gives us a huge scalability increase for blobs without us having to increase, you know, the, the blobs per block or the um, or the, or the size of them, uh, while not putting more load on the network. That's the whole point of peer dash.
00:14:55.186 - 00:15:29.674, Speaker A: And you should look up peer dust that you may not understand what I'm like, the word I'm saying, I'm saying it too fast, but p e e r d A s. Peer Das I've talked about a bunch of times before. It is one of the most interesting things coming to a theorem in the next few years, and it is a very relevant to this conversation here. And as I said, if we can get that into Petra, it makes this whole thing moot. But I figured it was worth running through. Why it's difficult to do these things. Why it's difficult to just do a hard fork that you can't just, let's just do a hard fork right outside of critical issues and outside of people having to be all hands on deck, it's just not going to happen for good reason.
00:15:29.674 - 00:16:17.348, Speaker A: I mean that's the whole reason the Ethereum is decentralized, right? Is because it's hard to make changes to the network. But also, as I said, network stability is always a priority. It is definitely the number one priority of the core devs, I would say to make sure that what they're building is stable in a live and adversarial environment, which is what a theory a main net is. It's all well and good that things work on devnets and testnets, but hey, real testing happens in production, happens on main net, where you're in an adversarial environment here. So, so I guess to wrap this up in the short to medium term, I would assume that there's going to be a lot of research done on this problem with regards to the blob fee market potentially needing tuning, but also the problem of builders not including blobs in their blocks. And as I said, this is a wider issue. It doesn't just include the blobs, it includes everything got to do with Mev here.
00:16:17.348 - 00:16:55.880, Speaker A: And there is a lot of active research happening on this, but it is not something that we can fix overnight. Guys, this is very deep stuff. This is very technical stuff, very heavy research right now, but I'm confident that we as an ecosystem can definitely fix it. But yeah, anyway, you can check out all of what I've just spoken about. I'll link the, all the relevant stuff in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, shifting gears here a bit. So bitwise, one of the companies that has a beat ETH ETF in the pipeline to set to go trading relatively soon put together a great 39 2nd ad all about Ethereum.
00:16:55.880 - 00:17:42.088, Speaker A: Not specifically about the ETh ETF, but about Ethereum and generally. So you can go watch this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but they titled this saying, unlike big finance, Ethereum doesn't clock out at 04:00 p.m. and basically the gist of the ad is that this old man is going to bed at 04:00 p.m. because that's when the big finance will tradfire markets closed, whereas the young hip guy is on 24/7 because he's a theory and he can do finance. Twenty four seven. And it's kind of funny, the language that they used, big finance, this term of this kind of trend of putting big in front of things, is something that's happened over the last ten to 15 years, like big finance or, you know, I guess Elizabeth Warren tried to coin the term big crypto, which doesn't even make sense, but like big something to imply that they're a huge incumbent and they're slow.
00:17:42.088 - 00:18:22.818, Speaker A: They have a basic monopoly on things, you know, let's break them up sort of thing. So I'm glad they actually use that language because it resonates a lot with, with people outside of crypto and the quote unquote normies that we all kind of talk about. And I do want to bring up, just based on this video, something that I mentioned a few months ago where I said that the marketing around the ETH ETF and around Ethereum, from these issuers, from bitwise, from Blackrock, from Van Eck and so on and so forth, is going to be unlikely anything we've seen, because this is what they do for a living. They sell financial products to clients, to customers, to people with big money. They know how to relate to them. They know what resonates. They have huge marketing departments to do this because that's that they're selling a product.
00:18:22.818 - 00:18:53.232, Speaker A: At the end of the day, that's their core thing to do. They're in sale. I mean, they're not in sales but like without a, um, coming in, they're not making more money and they're a business. That's their business of getting a, um, getting money flowing into their products and taking fees off of that. Right. So to do that, they need to come up with the, the most relatable marketing material. And I know that there's been a lot of debate around this within the Ethereum ecosystem where, you know, what's Ethereum's narrative? And, and as I said before, if you doesn't have a singular narrative, we just have to accept that Ethereum, just by virtue of what it is, is so much more than a singular narrative.
00:18:53.232 - 00:19:39.670, Speaker A: And as I think summarized, I guess like a couple of weeks ago on the refuel, I said that not only is Ethereum a financial platform, it's also a technology platform. And ETH as an asset is a story value and a money. So there is so much going for ETh as both a story value play and as a tech play, and that's definitely what's going to be marketed to people. I think this ad in particular focuses on the tech side of things where, and I guess, like the tech finance side of things where Ethereum can do finance twenty four seven and it's enabled by the technology that Ethereum is built on. But I'm sure they're going to be hitting on, you know, Eth getting exposure to this buying by buying ETH as a story value and as a money. So I'm very happy to see this. Kudos to bit wise, definitely, for putting this out there, but this is just, I guess, like the, the very first stuff that we're seeing about the ETF's guys.
00:19:39.670 - 00:20:15.580, Speaker A: Like it's going to be big and it's going to be really exciting. A lot of it's going to happen in the background for sure. Like unless you're actually kind of on the mailing list of these institutions or maybe one of their bigger clients, they'll probably market to them differently. You might not see some of this stuff or a lot of this stuff, a lot of the marketing, but rest assured it's happening in the background. And as I said a few weeks ago, Ethereum as a, I guess, like, thing is just so much. I'm not, I wouldn't say necessarily easier, but so much more vibrant to market because of the fact that there's so many different things you can talk about. I mean, in the, in this video alone, they mentioned stable coins and nfts.
00:20:15.580 - 00:20:35.994, Speaker A: That's just two things that a theorem is good at. And I think I believe loans as well, right? There's so many different other rabbit holes that can go down and they're going to simplify all of this for, for their clients. So as I said, you can go give this a watch for yourself. I'll link in YouTube description below. But, but really, I'm just really bullish at this point. Christ. Like, maybe you can't hear it in my voice because I'm still sick, so I'm a bit nasally.
00:20:35.994 - 00:20:51.930, Speaker A: But, like, I don't. I mean, I mentioned this a few weeks ago. There's like, no reason to be bearish, guys. No need to be bearish. There's so many bullish things happening. And yes, right now prices are crabbing sideways. But, like, who cares? As I explained yesterday, this is totally normal, especially during the northern hemisphere summer.
00:20:51.930 - 00:21:19.082, Speaker A: It's totally normal. If we're still crabbing in, like, I don't know, September or something like that, I would be like, okay, why are we still crabbing? You know, but by now, maybe we should have gone up. It's, it's, it's been a long time of crabbing. I'd be like, this is, this is weird, but I just don't see that happening with all of the stuff coming down the pipeline. You know, the ETh, ETF just being the tip of the iceberg. There's so much other stuff coming out in and outside of crypto, and there's so many reasons to be bullish here. So when I look at it from that perspective, yeah, guys, like, there's no need to be bearish.
00:21:19.082 - 00:21:56.214, Speaker A: There's no need at all. Anyone who is bearish, like actually bearish, I don't think they have their senses and people who are bearish because they want a cheaper entry. Well, hey, welcome to the club, right? Every time I go to buy Ethan, like, damn, I wish I could have bought this at a lower price because when I buy etH, it's when I just get the money that's coming in and I'm basically tapped out at this point. I'm tapped out of my spare cash to be able to buy ETH right now, and I have to wait to get more money coming in. And once that comes in, I'll be able to buy more ethics. But hey, like, that could happen when it's like four k and they're like, damn, I wish I bought it 3500. And yes, I know some people will be like, well, why don't you take on leverage and borrow against your assets? I'm like, okay, two reasons.
00:21:56.214 - 00:22:27.650, Speaker A: One, that's a taxable event in Australia. Unfortunately, it's a dumb thing that they've, that they've done, but like, it's a taxable event, so I can't. And two, that's leverage. I just don't use leverage, no matter how low my liquidation price would be. I just don't screw with leverage. I just use, you know, actual cash that I have and then just put that into ETH when I can and buy when I can. And of course, most of my ETH is staked, so I'm stacking eth, you know, that even when I'm not buying it directly with my own funds, I'm stacking it because I'm earning a return there, which I've been very happy with over the years.
00:22:27.650 - 00:22:49.940, Speaker A: Like, it's been a really great way to stack more eth. And doing it in a solo validator or solo stake away has been amazing for me. But having total control over the whole pipeline, being able to be involved with that ecosystem, it's just great. I mean, as I said, I mean, I've said this so many times, it's basically a meme at this point. There is no need to be bearish. So be bullish. Go watch this ad and you will even get more bullish, I reckon.
00:22:49.940 - 00:23:11.660, Speaker A: So, yeah. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, last up here, I just wanted to shout out that I will be at upside on the 4 July. For those of you who don't know, which is probably most of you, because you probably don't live in Melbourne in Australia. Upside is a co working space in in Melbourne, Australia. I usually attend their events because I just love the guys there. I love the vibe there.
00:23:11.660 - 00:23:40.736, Speaker A: It's always a good time. So I'll be there doing, I believe, a solo panel talking about aetherium. It's probably once again going to be a live kind of daily gwei refuel, basically. But if you're in Melbourne on the 4 July or you live in Melbourne, definitely check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so, and I hope to see all of you there. But yeah, I think on that note, that's probably going to be it for today. I know I'm cutting it a bit short here today, but it's because I've already coughed twice in this video, so I'm going to have to edit those out before.
00:23:40.736 - 00:23:57.212, Speaker A: Before I publish this and I feel my throat getting sore again. So anyway, I've powered through it. Hopefully I'm good on Monday, but that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to channel if you haven't yet, give it out there. Give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Monday.
00:23:57.212 - 00:23:59.004, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
