00:00:00.240 - 00:00:32.454, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where recap latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the discerner, and today's the 5 June 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So before we jump into the news from over the weekend, just want to give a shout out here to the episode I did over the weekend with Eric Connor. So this was our first kind of podcast together in over a year. So a lot of you will know we used to do the into the Ether podcast together. Well now the format has basically, I guess, been kept the same, but we're going to be doing it by the daily via the daily way now.
00:00:32.454 - 00:01:16.474, Speaker A: So we're thinking of doing this once every two weeks going forward, you know, and if we miss episodes, we just miss episodes. But we really want to keep it going because if you've watched or listened to the episode I did with Eric on that I put out on Saturday, you will know that he has a lot of great insights and him and I just kind of really gel well together when we're talking about all things Ethereum. And he brings a fresh perspective. So I'm very excited to just do an episode with him every two weeks. Basically, there won't be an agenda. We'll just be discussing the, I guess, highlight from the previous two weeks and out and give our takes on it. Obviously, given that I talk about these sorts of things every day on the refuel, my takes may be, I guess, like not, I wouldn't say stale, but they'll be repetitive.
00:01:16.474 - 00:02:04.202, Speaker A: Right. But I'll try my best to make sure that I just basically run the episode where essentially I'm kind of getting Eric's thoughts on things and then replying to his thoughts rather than giving my own opinions. Because I obviously have a lot of opinions that I give on the refuel already and I don't want to, I don't want it to become a kind of repetition thing. That's actually why I stopped writing the deli Gwen newsletter pretty much almost a year now. I think it was because I was repeating myself and I kind of felt bad because I'd write something in the newsletter and then I'd cover it on the refuel and it would just, it would be very repetitive in saying that I do want to bring the newsletter back eventually as kind of maybe a once a week thing or once every or twice a week thing, where essentially I just write a longer form piece about something that was really interesting during that week. So that I can break down things more than I do on the, on the refuel. But anyway, you can go check out this episode I did with Eric.
00:02:04.202 - 00:02:30.610, Speaker A: But as I said, we are planning to hopefully stick to a regular week, two weekly cadence here. So every fortnight, same time, sort of go out on the Saturday as not to interrupt the refuels. But anyway, moving on. So Brantley put out a really great tweet over the weekend that is pretty long. But I just wanted to summarize it. Basically, he starts off this tweet by saying ethereum is actually doing really well. No, this isn't worse than past bear markets.
00:02:30.610 - 00:02:49.296, Speaker A: Everyone calm down. It's not even remotely close. And here are some facts. So this is basically what I guess I've been talking about for many months now. Basically that this concept of the current bear market not being anywhere close to as bad as previous bear markets have been. And Brantley gives a few points here. The first point is the ETH price.
00:02:49.296 - 00:03:45.766, Speaker A: I mean, relative to where the ETH price has been for, you know, most of its life, being at 1819 hundred is an amazing price. It, you know, obviously it's lower than the all time high of almost 5000 in 20 from 2022. But does that really matter? I mean, whenever I think about the ETH price, I think, okay, well, where was the bulk of the long term investors bought in? Obviously a lot of speculators, a lot of short term people, a lot of tourists would have bought in at, you know, the 4900 mark or I guess $4,000 or even the high three thousand s. And sure, some long term investors bought in there. But I think that if you, if you kind of count yourself as a long term investor and you're still buying ETH now and you're buying it when it was lower, your average price will probably be nowhere near to the all time high. So that's how I think about it generally. But I also think that ETH hovering around this price that it's at right now is very healthy generally, and it's great.
00:03:45.766 - 00:04:26.302, Speaker A: And then Brantley brings up uniswap trading volumes and just decentralized exchanges in general. Continuing to kill it, right. Continuing to do record volumes not just on layer one, but L2s. Ens, you know, Brantley says here during the last bear market, Ens only had about a dozen integrations and was getting maybe a few thousand registrations a month, had no funding model, and was running out of money with a four person team. Now it has hundreds of integrations, is still getting 16,000 registrations. A month, not counting the countless names that are off chain, is funded basically indefinitely for many years to come, and has a huge team. And obviously this is the opposites to what happened last bear market funding generally is way, way up.
00:04:26.302 - 00:04:57.620, Speaker A: Right? Way, way up. Especially for things like the Ethereum foundation. They've got a huge war chest that they're using, obviously in various different ways. Daos are normal now. It's basically, I know daos are a bit of a meme because there are certain, I guess, projects, or a lot of projects which say they are a DAO, but like there's a very big concentration of tokens in just a few small hands. So is it a dao? Isn't it? But I think just the concept of DAos is very normalized now rather than just being this outlier thing. We have many different sectors.
00:04:57.620 - 00:05:24.074, Speaker A: So it's not just deFi, right? It's not just one. One sector. We've got nfts, we've got L2s, decentralized web, autonomous worlds, real world assets which obviously fall into deFi, but I think it's its own distinct part of DeFi. Yeah, just many different sectors there. Progress on ETH two, or I guess like the, what it's known as the Ethereum roadmap now is better than it's ever been. And I've talked about this at length before, so I'm not going to go over it, but, but yeah, you can go give this, this tweet. I read it for yourself.
00:05:24.074 - 00:05:51.578, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But it's just a great reminder about how far we've come and how this bear market is just strikingly different to the last one. And I'm actually going to talk a bit about this in the context of a potential layer to summer that I'm kind of seeing on the horizon. I'm going to talk about that at the end of this podcast at the end of today's episode. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so Honeyabu has an update to their validator queue.com website.
00:05:51.578 - 00:06:34.184, Speaker A: So the queue wait time now takes into account fluctuations in churn displays, churn active validator, staked ETH and APR historical charge charts for active validators, staked ETH plus percentage of supply staked and seven day rolling APR. So this site is quickly becoming a very, very comprehensive resource for keeping up to date with what's going on with the Ethereum validator queue and beyond. So you can see right now, the validator queue is at about 92,615. So we're almost at 100k in the entry queue. Wait time is at 43 days, which is almost 44 days. Very, very crazy. And the exit queue has only one validator in it, apparently, which is just insane.
00:06:34.184 - 00:07:05.280, Speaker A: Someone said to me today, or said today, they were like, is this a bug? Like, why is the entry queue so large and the exit queue so, you know, so small? Is this like a bug with, with these monitoring tools? And then you can actually check it on your own node. If you're running a full node, you can actually check and see that, no, it's not a bug. This is real. There is nothing. I mean, there's like one validator in the execute right now. Normally it's zero, whereas the entry queue is very, very full. And as I mentioned last time when I showed this website to you guys, there's a bunch of nice little charts here that you can go check out for yourself.
00:07:05.280 - 00:07:34.738, Speaker A: But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But this is quickly becoming one of my favorite sites for keeping up with the Ethereum validator queue. And just all things got to do with the validator queue. All right, so I mentioned last week there's this new initiative right now to get execution client diversity much more healthier than it is right now. Obviously the client, sorry, the consensus layout, client diversity is pretty healthy right now. It's in a very good spot, but execution layout still needs a lot of work. Geth is still dominant.
00:07:34.738 - 00:08:06.298, Speaker A: We want to get the other clients like Nethermind up, get their market share up. Well, Rocketpool is doing their own little thing here, so they've made a website called rplclientdiversity.com dot. This is from the Rockapool community where they're basically tracking rocker pools execution layer client diversity, so they actually look better than the overall network right now. They're still high on get with about 51% being Geth, Nethermind at 16.2%, BaesU at 8%, and unknown at almost 25%. Now, that unknown number is quite high.
00:08:06.298 - 00:08:54.178, Speaker A: Hopefully we can get better visibility over that. But yeah, I mean, essentially they're, they're better than, I guess, the, the overall network, but still not where that we want them to be. So this website aims to basically get people to switch from, I guess, geth to something else. And they've actually got a guide on how to do this with, while having no downtime. And, and they're tracking basically the community impact of this as well. So really great little initiative here. This is the kind of stuff, I mean, I know I spoke about this in the context of LSD, just diversity in general, but this is the kind of stuff that I like seeing the action, right? The people building these websites, building these tools to basically keep I guess the network accountable for both, you know, not only the LSD market share, but also client diversity and other things that affect the health of the beacon chain.
00:08:54.178 - 00:09:34.498, Speaker A: So you can go check out this website for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but it's at rpl client diversity.com. All right, Remy Roy has a new release of his ETH wizard software out today. So you can now set up your Ubuntu or Windows machine to become a fully working validator node in a few clicks now with multiple consensus client support and Nimbus support. So you can see the change notes here for this version which is version zero 9.8. Yeah, so I mean the main two changes are adding support for multiple consensus clients and support for Nimbus has been added on Ubuntu and on Windows and reworked. Check and prompt on existing mev boost server.
00:09:34.498 - 00:10:17.314, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean as I've seen been saying lately on the refuel, if you're looking for an easier way to solo stake, definitely give ETH wizard a check because it is definitely easier than just trying to do it on your own. I don't know if it's easier than adapt node yet, but it's getting there, right? And you know, there's nothing wrong with DAP node, but I think that we need to have more than, I guess like one solution out there for like single click staking. Or maybe not single click, but like you know, as fewer clicks as possible solo staking and Remy's working on ETH wizard and he's improving it all the time. So you can go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, Nethermind has a new client release out today. Version 1.19.0 is now ready for download.
00:10:17.314 - 00:10:59.150, Speaker A: You can resync your node to enjoy a significant database size reduction and faster sync time. So as I've been saying recently, the main theme of Nethermind has been to basically reduce the sync time and also reduce its footprint hardware wise, such as its memory footprint, but also its hard disk footprint or solid state disk footprint. Because at the end of the day, you know, I think a lot of people bought a two terabyte SSD for their solo nodes or for their rocket pool mini pools. It seems to be the favorite because it's very cheap still. And for once you start going above two terabyte, you have less and less options of manufacturer as well. Really. The four terabyte and beyond are made by manufacturers that may not be as reliable.
00:10:59.150 - 00:11:28.486, Speaker A: And if you're wanting to use this as your main machine, where you don't want to have to tinker with it, and you want long term reliability, then the manufacturers, like, I guess Samsung and others at the two terabyte mark are probably more up your alley then. And also because people trust those brands more than. Than other brands out there. I mean, I have eight terabyte SSD's in my archive note box. And they're from. The brand name alludes to me right now, but they're from a brand name you've probably never heard of before. Unless you're into like hardware and that sort of stuff.
00:11:28.486 - 00:11:50.162, Speaker A: I think people would look at them and shy away from buying. I don't know if Samsung do an Nvme eight terabyte. I mean, they probably do a non Nvme eight terabyte SSD. But yeah, those things are super expensive anyway. So you want to be able to do it on two terabytes or below. And usually the. And on, obviously getting the database footprint size lower and lower is the way to do that.
00:11:50.162 - 00:12:13.996, Speaker A: And keeping it as low as possible. And that's what nevermind is doing here. And I also saw a tweet that I haven't got up here, but I saw a tweet from, I believe, someone who works at Nethermind, basically showcasing that they were able to do a very quick sync within like 4 hours on some very high end hardware. And that's the thing with this stuff. Like, the more optimizations you make and the better you. The optimizations you make for. For any hardware just scales with the hardware.
00:12:13.996 - 00:12:37.606, Speaker A: So you can have like a normal raspberry PI or a rock five b board and you'll sync, I think, another mind client, you should be able to sync it in under 24 hours. Or you can juice the hell out of it and go like. And basically go as hard as you want and you can sync it in like 4 hours or less. I think they're trying to get that down as much as possible. But. But, you know, just generally optimizing it for all hard for hardware. It just optimizes it for all hardware, which is.
00:12:37.606 - 00:12:50.982, Speaker A: Which is what we want to see here. But yeah, you can update your client to version 1.19 if you run Nethermind. And if you're not running Nethermind. If you're still running geth, consider running Nethermind, guys. Like, there is nothing wrong with it. I mean, I've been running nethermined for a while now.
00:12:50.982 - 00:13:10.026, Speaker A: I've not had any issues, especially with the recent updates. I think I had an issue a little while ago where it would keep corrupting for some reason. I think it had to do with memory. But this was a long time ago. Now, this wasn't a recent thing, but recently I've had zero issues with it. It's tracking along just fine. It's running on my, my solo staking box just fine.
00:13:10.026 - 00:13:34.338, Speaker A: And yeah, I mean I'm running Geth as well on one of my other boxes, but I'm thinking of changing that over to Nethermind soon because I obviously want to make sure that I'm not contributing to the bad client diversity there. But yeah, I'm a bit of an outlier where I run like three. No, actually, no. Yeah, three. El Sal comburst around four, but I killed one of them because it was just saturating my bandwidth. Like my upload bandwidth. It was just killing it.
00:13:34.338 - 00:14:00.116, Speaker A: So I'm running my, I'm actually running my Rockapool mini pools in hybrid mode right now where they're talking to my archive node box. So I'm not running an ELCL on my actual rocker pool hardware. I'm just running my validators on there and then talking to my archive notebox. And I did that because, yeah, my upload was being saturated. But this is not a thing that normal, normal people have to worry about. You know, most people aren't going to run multiple Cl El combos. They're just going to run one.
00:14:00.116 - 00:14:41.886, Speaker A: And if you are running one, consider running Nethermind as your El client, if you're not already. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to go check out. All right, so Justin Slaughter here, who works as the policy director at Paradigm, the, the VC fund, put out a tweet going over the, this new bill that was dropped. So this is the McHenry Thompson bill that dropped on market structure. So basically it's a pretty large bill. It clocks in at 162 pages, meaning it's almost 20% of the size of the entire Dodd Fr, Dodd Frank act, which is obviously one of the biggest acts in financial regulatory history or legislative history here. But essentially what this is the TLDr.
00:14:41.886 - 00:15:23.662, Speaker A: I mean, this thread is quite long, but I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out the TLDR is that the, they basically want to create a proper framework around crypto in the US. Now, obviously, we know that to date there hasn't actually been a proper framework. We've seen the SEC just being the SEC. We've seen other regulatory bodies vie for, I guess, control over the crypto ecosystem. Well, McHenry and, and Thompson here want to put a stop to this and basically put forward legislation that could potentially get passed. Obviously, you know, a lot of bills just end up dying in, in the Senate because they get passed in the House and then die in the Senate and then nothing, nothing happens from it. But this is a start.
00:15:23.662 - 00:16:17.120, Speaker A: This is something that I think we should be paying attention to, because if this was or something like this was to be met, to be legislated on, or I guess, like pass the Senate and actually be written into law in the US, it would go a very long way to helping provide a lot of much needed clarity in the US and potentially stop, I guess, us based crypto companies from fleeing, because that's what's happening right now. You've seen it. Guys like us based crypto companies are fleeing, you know, Coinbase, they're still in the US, but they're opening other exchanges in other parts of the world. We saw them open the derivative derivatives exchange that's based somewhere else. Like, it's just, it's kind of crazy that the US is seeing this happen and not doing anything about it yet. I mean, this bill is one way to do something about it, but it's not like this is a bill that, that is being put forward by the Democrats as well as the Republicans. I believe this is just a republican bill.
00:16:17.120 - 00:16:56.214, Speaker A: So far, the Democrats, at least the high ranking ones, still seem very anti crypto. They're running on that platform. I believe Elizabeth Warren recently said that crypto was fueling the fentanyl epidemic in the US, that they're just coming up with anything that they can to demonize crypto at this point. So I think that it really is up to the Republicans. And this is what I hate about, just like, I mean, it's not excluded to the US, but us is a perfect example. This is what I hate about two party politics, is where, like, you have these two parties, one of them is, at least at the higher levels, is so against crypto that they're just making up bullshit to demonize it. And the other side is so for crypto that they're writing legislation.
00:16:56.214 - 00:17:49.164, Speaker A: But then you, what ends up happening is that you end up becoming like a single issue voter say you're someone who's like obviously into crypto in the US. You have a job in crypto and you want this, these kind of things to pass and you want a friendlier crypto regime. Well, then you're going to vote for the, vote for Republicans because the Democrats aren't giving you an option there. Whereas in a system where it wasn't just two parties, you could have these multiple parties where they would be putting forward their own things and it would be more of like a middle ground rather than the extremes. Because right now you just have the extremes. And I don't want to dive too much into, to the politics stuff here, but I think it's very relevant because people shouldn't be forced to become single issue voters, especially over things that I guess, like, for them may not be like maybe it's. Maybe they're just a casual crypto investor and they're like, fuck, you know, I really want to, um, I really want to vote for, for this, for such and such party, but that party like really hates this thing that I'm into, right.
00:17:49.164 - 00:18:12.408, Speaker A: So I'm going to vote for, for this party because of this. And it's just a mess right there. There are a lot of moving parts to it, obviously. But I hate that these two party systems where essentially you. It's like that South park episode, I think it was like they had two choices and it was like a turd sandwich and, and something else. Can't remember the other thing. But basically the, the point was is that like you pick the lesser of two evils and in that world you don't really get good.
00:18:12.408 - 00:18:47.260, Speaker A: I guess politics, you don't really get good governance. You just get divisive governance and you end up with the worst of all worlds. But that's my little rant on politics there. But you can check out this, the, this summary of the bill from Justin. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so something I missed, a bit of alpha that I missed, I guess like this maybe happened a little while ago, was that the scroll l two mainnet is potentially going live or should be going live in August. So there was a temperature check for the ave v three develop deployment on scroll mainnet to, to be done here in the governance forum.
00:18:47.260 - 00:19:25.340, Speaker A: You can check this out. There's a bunch of specifications and stuff like that as well. But yeah, in this thread, it seemed to leak the alpha that scroll main that will be going live in August. So very cool to see scrolls ZkvM going live so soon. I mean obviously we have ZK sync era live, we have Polygon ZkvM Live, and there's more coming online all the time. But now that we have a date around scroll, I guess people can start deploying apps there, start thinking about what they're going to be doing there, start getting, obviously users have been, you know, using the testnet, but users can start getting hyped about using the main net in August here. So yeah, I just wanted to that there for you guys because I don't think I had talked about edit before.
00:19:25.340 - 00:20:03.962, Speaker A: And thanks to pseudo theos for putting this on my radar as well. And you know, when it comes to these like zkvms, I remember saying to you guys that there's a lot of hype around them, but at the end of the day they're not just going to go live and then all of a sudden everyone's going to use them. It takes time to build up ecosystems. And I've seen some people say that, oh, you know, look at Polygon ZKVM, there's not much activity there. Uh, but then look at Zksync error and there's heaps of activity there. I would caution you against measuring activity, uh, on these things if they don't have a token yet because it can very easily be inflated by airdrop farmers. Now I love Zksync.
00:20:03.962 - 00:20:45.918, Speaker A: I am an investor in matter labs, as I should disclose this here, but I'm seeing the stats, I'm seeing the metrics out of, out of Zksync era and I'm looking at it, I'm like, okay, well they don't have a token yet. They've announced they're going to have a token. So I bet a lot of this activity is just airdrop farmers. Because in a world where there's just hardly anything to do on there and it's still building out its ecosystem, and you have this massive amount of TVL and these record breaking, I guess, other, other metrics that you're looking at like transactions per day and stuff like that, and you don't have a token yet. And it's very well known that people airdrop farm, that's what's going to happen. And the reason why it hasn't happened with Polygon ZKVM is because Polygon already has a token matic. And that's been out for a long time.
00:20:45.918 - 00:21:15.570, Speaker A: No one's necessarily expecting a Matic airdrop, even though maybe there, maybe they would be, I don't know. Right. But no one's expecting it because the token's already out there, it's already been issued. And then a counterexample to this though is the starkware ecosystem where starkware have announced they're going to have a token. They have stocknet live, but Stocknet is not EVM compatible. So it's harder for people to onboard than just changing the network in metamask and bridging really easily across. There's not that much to do there because it's harder for developers to build out their stuff.
00:21:15.570 - 00:21:50.422, Speaker A: They have to actually build it out custom or do the transpiling which leads to its own sets of errors and things like that. So there are different reasons. But I think when, when looking at these things, you have to take all that nuance into account. Now scroll, I don't think are going to launch their token in August, right? If they are going to have time and everyone knows that everything's going to have a token, right? But they're not going to launch their token in August with their main net. I don't think. I think that they would launch their main net first and then launch the token sometime at some time in the future. So I think what I think is going to happen is that their main net is definitely going to be farmed as well for these airdrops.
00:21:50.422 - 00:22:24.264, Speaker A: So when you're looking, when you look at these things, just always take that into account and make sure that you're aware of which projects have a token, which have announced they're going to have a token, which don't have a token yet and haven't announced it, or blah blah. And then you can do some on chain sleuthing as well if you're into that sorts of stuff and you've got the tools to do that, to actually see exactly what's happening and exactly what activity is happening. And if it looks like farming activity, if it doesn't. But yeah, anyway, that's a little bit, a bit of an aside there. I'll leave that there. You can check out this temperature check. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:22:24.264 - 00:23:02.224, Speaker A: All right, speaking of ZKVMs, the Kakarot ZKVM, which is part of the starkware ecosystem, has announced that they have raised a pre seed round. So this had participation of course from a starkware and lambda class here, as well as angels such as Vitalik. Buterin. Now Vitalik is, was also a very early investor, if not one of the first investors in starkware. So it's only natural for him to also be an investor in a ZKVM building on stockware. But, but yeah, I mean, just another ZkVM to add to the long list of zkvms that are coming to mainnet here. As I said before, I don't know how many of these things are actually going to be super successful in the long term.
00:23:02.224 - 00:23:40.634, Speaker A: Like if you look ten years from now, which of these zkvms are going to be mostly dominant. Like how many are there going to be of these generalized platforms? Obviously the app specific ones are different, but I'm talking like the generalized platforms. I really don't think between zkvms or ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups, we're not going to have more than five at most. I think that have like the majority of the value. And I'm talking like a power distribution where essentially 80% of the activity is in like the top five and then the, the long tail is the, is the 20%. But it might even be higher than that. It might be like 90 95% on the, on the, on the, on the heavy side for the, for the top five and then like 510 percent for the, for the long tail there.
00:23:40.634 - 00:24:02.564, Speaker A: But we'll have to see, you know, uh, we'll have to see how that shakes out there. But I guess congrats to Kakarot for raising this pre seed round. Great to see another ZKVM joining the fray. And they're doing something different. They're not just doing it the same way other ZKVM's doing it, they're doing it by building it in Cairo, which is a starkware technology. And they're calling themselves a type 2.5 ZKVM.
00:24:02.564 - 00:24:40.612, Speaker A: So between two and three, and you can read about the types in Vitalik's blog post, which you can just Google for, and Google types of ZK EvM Vitalik. And it should come up there. All right. Last thing I wanted to talk about was what I alluded to earlier around this L2 summer that I think we're gonna potentially see next year. So I, I put out this tweet where I said there's a bunch of things happening over the next six to twelve months that have me convinced we will see a proper L2 summer sometime next year. Next year, obviously being 2024, Erp 4844 is going to go live hopefully by the end of this year to greatly reduce roll up fees. Now I've been talking about this for ages.
00:24:40.612 - 00:25:09.916, Speaker A: On the refuel, it's going to reduce roll up fees by ten to 100 x. Just depends how it's implemented by the roll ups themselves. And obviously depends what the layer one base fees and gas fees are doing at the time. Base main net. So Coinbase's L2 is going live over the next six to twelve months and onboarding potentially millions of new people to the ethereum ecosystem. Now the reason why I singled out base here is because of that existing user base that Coinbase has. None of the other Altus or rollups really have an existing user base.
00:25:09.916 - 00:25:50.432, Speaker A: You could argue that polygon does because they have the polygon pos chain and they can migrate people over there today vm. But it's nothing close to what Coinbase has. And not only does Coinbase have tens of millions of unique, you know, relatively active users, and I use users like lightly here because they're just holding crypto on the exchange. Not only do they have that, but, but they have what they have is users that haven't actually been on chain before. So they can push a lot of people to use base and then those people will be able to bridge to different Altus, bridge to a theory theorem l one if they want to, and experience the whole ethereum ecosystem. And this is going to be net new people, I believe. So there's that.
00:25:50.432 - 00:26:16.774, Speaker A: General improvements to roll ups for both users and devs. We all know that the improvements are being made all the time. Obviously arbitram had their nitro upgrade go live. Optimism is having bedrock go live very soon, actually. I mean, I think it's like in the next few days, I can't remember the exact date, but yeah, Bedrock's going live. And just generally l two s are always improving. New novel apps being launched on roll ups, L2s, layer threes, such as actual innovative defi.
00:26:16.774 - 00:26:40.550, Speaker A: I'm seeing a lot of actual innovation happening in the defi ecosystem. I struggle to call it like DeFi 3.0, but I'm paying a lot of attention to it. And I talked about it on the refill before. Some of these things like potential, like Oracle less protocols. Not to say there's anything wrong with having a protocol that has an oracle, but I think it's an interesting design space to have a protocol without an oracle. And there is stuff that can be iterated on there.
00:26:40.550 - 00:27:04.674, Speaker A: Real world assets I think is a huge thing. And I've talked about that as well. And autonomous worlds, that's something I talked about, I believe last week too, so I won't rehash that there. And then last point here was me just basically saying general market potentially heading back up in 2024. But this is based on my own intuition, admittedly. And really, I mean, I base this on a lot of the things I've talked about with regards to the market over the last few weeks. Basically, me feeling.
00:27:04.674 - 00:27:22.554, Speaker A: Feeling like this is 2019, me feeling like this is an accumulation range, me feeling like the crypto markets are just doing what they've always done through their cycles. I don't really pay attention to what's happening in the macro environment. I don't really care what's happening there. I mean, I've been hearing about a coming recession for, for a long time now. If it happens, it happens. If it doesn't, it doesn't. I really don't care.
00:27:22.554 - 00:27:57.024, Speaker A: At the end of the day, the inflation stuff, like no one cares anymore. I mean, it's all old news. And I think crypto is literally doing exactly what it's been doing throughout its whole life. It's not always going to be like that, but I still think it's young enough and early enough for it to continue just playing out its same cycle. So for me, I feel like 2024 is going to be a good year for the general markets. And then I finished off the tweet by saying, just like the foundations of Defi Summer in 2020 were built during the 2018 2019 bear market, so too are the foundations for a potential L2 summer in 2024 being built in the 2022 2023 bear market. And I truly believe this.
00:27:57.024 - 00:28:13.632, Speaker A: It really does feel like when we were building the foundations out in 2019 for DeFi, no one was paying attention. No one really cared. It was just the hardcore people paying attention and caring, and people were fighting it, saying it would never work. Right. It was. It was fundamentally broken. No one's going to use this over centralized alternatives.
00:28:13.632 - 00:28:36.494, Speaker A: And then it happened. Defi Summer happened, and Defi is huge now. And the same is true for L2s. How many people are still fighting L2s? How many of these other competing ecosystems are saying the l two s are worthless? You know, if you have to scale via l two s, you're a failed protocol, blah, blah, blah. Right? And how much infrastructure is being laid right now? Heaps like heaps of infrastructure is being laid right now. We have l two s going live every other day. We have them improving.
00:28:36.494 - 00:29:06.306, Speaker A: I mean, optimism is, bedrock's going live soon. Op stacks improving all the time. Arbitrary just put nitro alive a few months ago. We have stylists that they're doing so people can develop smart, smart contracts in other languages. On the arbitrary one network have arbitram, Nova, you have other ZkVM's going live. There's so much stuff happening and very little people caring about it, I guess, relative to how many people will care about it when the bull market comes back. So yeah, I feel like the foundations are being laid here and it gets me very, very excited.
00:29:06.306 - 00:29:36.994, Speaker A: So yeah, ignore the day to day price movements. I mean, I actually went and looked at the last two months of price movements. It's really, really stupid. For the last two months, either has basically been the same price and if you're trying to trade it, it looks ridiculous. Like I don't even know who's trying to trade it right now. And this is like peak, peak crab market. This is peak time based capitulation where essentially you have an equilibrium where there's just like the same amount of demand as there is, as there is a sell pressure basically.
00:29:36.994 - 00:29:57.966, Speaker A: And eventually that's going to change. Eventually there's going to be more demand than supply and we're going to head back up again. But for now it's accumulation season. In my eyes. I'm still buying ETH. Not as frequently as I am, as I want to be because I don't have, I mean I don't have a steady income so to speak. So any ETH that I buy comes from stuff that I'm farming or other investments that I just rotate into ETH.
00:29:57.966 - 00:30:15.614, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm pretty much tapped out. But I have all my validators stacking ETH for me and I'm sure a lot of you to, you guys do as well, which is, which is always good too. But anyway, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:30:15.614 - 00:30:16.054, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
