00:00:00.400 - 00:00:30.650, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 26 August 2021. Alright everyone, let's get right into it. So 100,000 ETH has now been burned since EIP 1559 went live around 20 days ago. That is a lot of ETH, right? Over $300 million worth at current prices. And a lot of this burning has been led by NFT mania, of course. But it's just been absolutely incredible to see kind of like the speed at which these ETH has been burned.
00:00:30.650 - 00:01:02.526, Speaker A: I mean, if you annualize this out, I think it works out to about 1.7 million ETH burned. Now, who knows if the kind of like, I guess current network activity is going to keep up for at least like the next, I mean, what year? A year or so, like year -20 days sort of thing. But, you know, in saying that, I think that it's just been wild to see the fact that like the fees are high, but people are paying them. Like, I mean, I was doing some transactions before, like NFT related ones, and the fees just like are so high. Um, and, you know, I'm paying them because it's worth it. And I think that's what a lot of people are doing as well.
00:01:02.526 - 00:01:32.820, Speaker A: They just, it's worth it now. I mean, it's profitable for them to do so. Um, but yeah, it's just been crazy to kind of see this. But I did want to talk about two things in relation to this. One of them is, I guess, people coming at me, um, a lot of the time and asking me questions about kind of like the price and why the ETH price hasn't reacted to this. You know, why it's just, I mean, it hasn't been going down exactly. I mean, it is up from when 1559 went live, but it's been like crabbing around, right? We're in like this little mini crab season where it's just like pinging between like three k and 3.4k
00:01:32.820 - 00:02:04.764, Speaker A: or whatever. And I mean, all I can say is that like, it's, it's not going to just like react immediately. I mean, I've spoken about efficient markets before and how I don't believe that markets are efficient. I believe they're incredibly inefficient. But at the end of the day, markets don't just look at kind of one factor. There's a million other things that go on and we can even look back at history of something like a bitcoin harvening, for example, where bitcoin harvesting is a 50% reduction in supply. And if you actually go back and look at the chart, it doesn't really seem to have like a massive effect on bitcoin until about six months after the harvarding goes through.
00:02:04.764 - 00:02:45.380, Speaker A: So that's a, that's a quite a long period of time. But, but it also shows that this, the kind of like scarcity side is just one side of it. You need the demand side to match it. So, you know, right now, while we're in this kind of like crabbing, I guess like the demand and supply side have kind of matched with each other because you have, I guess like a sideways movement where, you know, you have people selling and you have people buying and it's mainly, it's mainly just like bots kind of trading with each other and some traders in and out and people just like doing their daily activities, whether they're taking profits back to ETH and stuff like that. I mean, there's a whole lot of that kind of stuff going on there. But at the end of the day, you just kind of have to wait, you know, wait till the time kind of comes out. Time passes.
00:02:45.380 - 00:03:16.424, Speaker A: And over the long term, obviously, you know, all of us believe that ETH is going to go up in value, but over the short term, it's just, it's, it's not going to react like, like a lot of people expected it would react. And I think on top of that, if you kind of look at the amount of ETH that will have been burned in six months. Right. If you kind of, I guess like take the annual amount, which is 1.7 million, you halve that for six months. If, if it was to take that long to play out like the bitcoin harbing's do, which I don't believe is going to be the case, I don't think it's going to take that long to kind of play out like that. But if you, if you kind of like take that, then it's, it's really only.
00:03:16.424 - 00:03:40.114, Speaker A: Sorry. The amount of ETH that will be burned here would be like what, 800 and something thousand, which is, which is insane. That's an insane amount of money. It's billions of dollars worth of ETH at that point. But yeah, as I was saying, like there's so many more kind of like factors that go into markets going to why ETH is going up or down. Like if the overall market is bearish and the trend is bearish. It doesn't really matter if there's really, like, good news coming out all the time.
00:03:40.114 - 00:03:56.044, Speaker A: It's. It's just going to be a thing where the price is going to go down until it gets to a point where everyone's just like, okay, well, you know, it's gone down a lot. Like, everyone's kind of wrecked right now. Let's. Let's buy. Because, like, we're sitting on these kind of, like, we're sitting on cash right now. We think this is a good entry, and then basically the price goes back up and the sentiment changes overnight.
00:03:56.044 - 00:04:25.012, Speaker A: I mean, I sure. You know what the funny thing is about the crypto sentiment is? It doesn't just change overnight. It literally changes within, like, ten minutes. Like, if the price is crashing, right? Say the price has gone down, like, 5% in, like, an hour, and then all of a sudden, it bounces back up by 5% within that kind of, like, hour. You have two completely different sentiments, and I've seen this play out on Twitter. It's actually so funny to watch play out because you have the sentiment of extremely bearish while things are going down maybe 5% a day, which is actually for crypto. I mean, it's a normal crypto day, but still, like, it's a.
00:04:25.012 - 00:04:57.348, Speaker A: That, you know, you watch the charts and you see these kind of, like, red candles, and you're like, oh, my God, what's happening? Um, and then, like, an hour later, if the price goes up 5%, because it just bounces back up, uh, automatically, everyone's, like, really bullish again. And it's just, it's quite insane just how, I guess I glued people out of their screens and glued to the charts. They are. I mean, I am, too. I have the charts up pretty much all the time, but, like, I mean, that doesn't really affect the way I kind of, like, view these things. I'm obviously always playing the long term game, um, and kind of like to relate that back to this, really. You can't let recency buyers get the best of you in times like this.
00:04:57.348 - 00:05:41.188, Speaker A: If the price is going down, even for, like, a month, who cares? I mean, we saw what happened when the price came off, 4400 down to 1700, and it did that for a little while, right? We kind of crashed in May through June, through July, and then we started going back up, and then everyone suddenly turned, like, super bullish again. But there are a bunch of us who remain bullish throughout, and we're like, you know, this is just kind of, like, the way it is, this is the way crypto goes. And that was a really brutal drop as well, mind you. So, yeah, it's just been quite funny to kind of, like, see that play out and see people kind of say, you know, why isn't ETH mooning immediately? It's because it's just markets are complex. There's so many other things that are going on, and there's no such thing in my mind as efficient markets. Like, especially for something like ETH, that is such a multifaceted asset. And there's so many kind of, like, misunderstandings around it, too.
00:05:41.188 - 00:06:06.538, Speaker A: Like, as I've, as I mentioned, when 1559 went live, so many people kind of said, oh, well, I didn't know we'd be burning this much ETH. And it's just, that was so insane to me. Really. It really was, because these are not people that are just, like, random people in the, in the industry. They're people that I actually see been regularly kind of paying attention to this stuff. I know they kind of, um, you know, watch the refuel or, or read my tweets or respond to them or whatever. And I was saying, like, exactly how much ETH was going to get burned based on the calculations that Justin Drake did.
00:06:06.538 - 00:07:02.680, Speaker A: And, you know, you still have people being surprised. So even if people are spending every day in the ecosystem, even if they're studying this stuff, they can still be kind of taken aback by things like this. Um, and then the final thing I'll say on this is also that 1559 really was only like a teaser, right? We're working towards that full ultrasound money, which is basically 1559 as burning and the proof of stake issuance, which is about 90% less than the current proof of work issuance, which would reduce the supply, sorry to have the issuance go negative. So I think it's currently about 1% or something like that, net negative a year, which, I mean, that, that I think is more bullish than 1559 for a number of reasons that I've gone through before. But, yeah, I just wanted to kind of, like, give some color there and clarify things for people who may, you know, be kind of, like, confused or kind of thinking, you know, why isn't the price going up, blah, blah, you know, revisit this. And, I mean, even if it takes a few months, revisit it, and then, you know, in a few months, it will be like, oh, wow, we know we're going up because of 1559. It's so bullish.
00:07:02.680 - 00:07:40.812, Speaker A: Look at how much ETH we're burning. But, you know, if you wait until that happens, well, then you have to buy at a higher price. So if you have like a long term outlook and you really don't care at the end of the day about where you buy in, you like, you're kind of DCA, you know, whatever. Uh, it's, it these times, you know, and unless you kind of like, think we're going down a lot, times like this, when the market's just going sideways is usually a pretty decent time to buy. But it's kind of hard, right. Because if the market is generally bearish and there's like a bearish trend and then there's just like a sideways for a month, but then it kind of still crashes after that, you kind of feel shitty. And I've been there before plenty of times, but generally I, my own rule and kind of like whenever I buy into something, I don't like buying into pumps ever.
00:07:40.812 - 00:08:11.812, Speaker A: Like if something's gone up a lot, I really don't like buying into that. And I know yesterday I spoke about how, you know, you shouldn't let that kind of like dissuade you from investing in something. But I'm talking about things going up like very quickly in a short period of time. You know, some things can go up ten x in like a week. I really don't like buying into that sort of stuff unless there's actual, like strong fundamentals backing it up. Like Axie Infinity is a perfect example of this where there was strong fundamentals backing it up. But generally, if there's something just done a ten times pump for absolutely no reason, I hate jumping into that sort of stuff, that's not something I will do.
00:08:11.812 - 00:08:40.654, Speaker A: Whereas, you know, if it's just been quiet for a while and actually see the fundamentals improving and people are just not paying attention to it yet, well, then, yeah, I'm going to jump into it. I'm going to, I'm going to probably place a bet there, but that's like a whole nother thing there. I'm going to leave it at that for now. But, yeah, just great to see 100,000 ETH being burned next, I guess milestone is what, half a million? A million. You know, we're going to get there. I guess, like if we, if you kind of like, extrapolate this 20 days, times it by five, will be there in 100 days at half a million. So, yeah, very much looking forward to that.
00:08:40.654 - 00:09:24.816, Speaker A: All right, onto the next thing here from Danny Ryan. So he gave an update today on, I guess, eve two consensus layer, whatever you want to call it in his finalized number 28 update here called the Road to Altair Edition. Now for those of you who may not be familiar with this, I've been talking about it a bit on the refuel lately, but Altair is the first ETH two network upgrade, hard fork, whatever you want to call it. I mentioned that paramount, the testnet that is actually getting wound down soon, but that forked and you know, everything went, went nicely there and they're currently doing testing and everything on that. The next testnet is scheduled to upgrade on September 2, which is Prater. And then following that there'll be a main net fork. So we may see main net fork being what, end of September, early October sort of thing.
00:09:24.816 - 00:10:13.134, Speaker A: And then as I've said before, all eyes on the merge like that is literally what everyone is going to be working on. Well, pretty much everyone, I would say. Some people are still going to be working on some other things within Ethereum core, but generally most of the developers, researchers and any other kind of like ecosystem participants are going to be working on the merge, which is super exciting, right? Like, I mean they're already doing that. As I mentioned before, it's not like we're waiting till this kind of goes live on Mainnet and then they will work on the merge. There's already lots of work being done there, but I think maybe we're still on track for Q 120 22. I just, I hate giving dates or like release Windows generally, or kind of like especially with Ethereum core stuff because sometimes it can take a lot longer than we would like and then you, you know, I mean even L2 stuff has taken a lot longer than we would like. So just generally this sort of stuff, just take any dates with a grain of salt.
00:10:13.134 - 00:10:40.438, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean q 120 22, that'd be awesome. Even if it's like the very end of q one, like March 30 or whatever, that'd be quite funny. But yeah, Q one, Q two for the merge. Let's hope that we can kind of stick to that. And I'm really looking forward to that, but I'm also looking forward to this. So if you're, if you're running an ETH two validator, definitely pay attention to these updates because there's going to be a client release from the various teams. Whatever client you're running to update to this once the mainnet fork is announced.
00:10:40.438 - 00:11:26.032, Speaker A: It hasn't been announced yet. There's no date for it or whatever, but it's coming. So definitely keep an eye on the various channels just so you can upgrade your validator and beacon node. So Justin Drake posted I guess like a post from ETH research today on Twitter where he basically said, this has been an MEV research bake breakthrough MEV smoothing for consensus stability, trustless MEV Oracles and potential for MEV burn beyond base fees. Now I just highlighting this because some of you may be interested in it, but I read through it and I'm going to be honest, I didn't understand most of it because it is like way out of like what I work on. This is protocol, protocol level stuff right here, very technical stuff. But I always pay attention to things that people like Justin Drake are excited about because Justin Drake's a core researcher.
00:11:26.032 - 00:12:07.630, Speaker A: He's been working on Mev related things. I mean, you've probably heard about him, talk about this on, on bankless before, but generally, yeah, if you're interested in kind of this sort of stuff, definitely go check out this blog post. You know, I mean, I guess like it's a research post as much as I didn't really kind of like understand it. I think there's a lot of great discussion going on in here and I think that the more discussion, more eyes on MeV that we have, the better. So, yeah, definitely go check that out. So Uri from Starkware announced that Starkx has now crossed $10 billion in cumulative trading volume across DyDX and diversify. And most of the action on so rare and immutable, the other two apps that they have live on, immutable on, on Stark X is just minting not yet trading.
00:12:07.630 - 00:12:35.350, Speaker A: So that because those are NFT platforms. And then Uri says his guess is that they'll cross $100 billion well before the end of Q 120 22. Turns out there was no need to wait for next week, which is a prediction that he gave a few days ago. You know, I mean, I went through DIY dexs growth, I think on yesterday's refill the day before about how, you know, they added the token. The growth has been like pretty amazing to see on their L2 exchange and stuff like that. But diversify has had a lot of great growth as well. They've got a bunch of really innovative products on there that they're adding, too.
00:12:35.350 - 00:12:52.606, Speaker A: So if you haven't checked out diversify, definitely go do that. And of course, these NFT platforms are also hitting up here. So rare is pretty popular. I've heard it is centered around football or soccer, as our Aussies call it. But I'm not a sports guy. So I haven't really followed it too closely. And immutable, I mean, I'm going to actually talk about something that they announced today.
00:12:52.606 - 00:13:33.012, Speaker A: It's perfect segway, but immutable has really just a couple of apps on there right now, like gods unchained and I think guild of guardians and maybe one other or something right now. But yeah, it's still mostly just minting and not trading. But yeah, great to see this kind of from Uri here. But also he said that Starkx had settled 106,000 transactions on DYDX over just this past day, consumed 169 million gas, which is 0.1% of the daily gas on Ethereum L1 at 1600 gas per transaction. And he's kind of like comparing this with the original l one, DyDX. This would have cost 200k gas per transaction for a total of 21 billion gas, 12% of the network's daily gas.
00:13:33.012 - 00:14:11.310, Speaker A: So Stockx scales in prod 120 X, which is an absolutely massive improvement. Right? And to kind of like, I guess maybe simplified it a bit, focusing on this like 1600 gas per transaction. So for an example, when you send like an ETH transaction, it's 21,000 gas, right? So this is much cheaper than even just like a simple ETH transaction, which is the cheapest thing you can do on Ethereum. Uh, sorry, simplest, simplest transaction you can do on Ethereum, which is absolutely amazing. And the fact that they've just been able to scale this by 120 x is incredible. So, yeah, I mean, I'm loving Stark X and Starkware. They're just like, no bullshit, no hype, just like, you know, scaling a theorem in kind of like their own way and doing a really great job of it.
00:14:11.310 - 00:14:41.170, Speaker A: So, yeah, really excited to see that. Now, let's talk about that immutable update that I was, that I mentioned. So, immutable have announced that the IMX public token sale will be happening on 8 September on coin list. So you can get the full details here. Now, unfortunately, for some reason, Australia is barred from this sale. When I click through to this link, it says, your jurisdiction is not allowed. And I read the sale terms and it said, you know, the usual United States, I guess, like, I think China or something like that.
00:14:41.170 - 00:15:32.792, Speaker A: And, and Canada was on there, but then they said, like other jurisdictions, and I mean, maybe they haven't updated yet, but I didn't see Australia in there, but it seems that Australia is unfortunately on the list that cannot participate. And you can't even use a VPN because coin list has a KYC requirement and all that kind of stuff there as well. So unless you have a way to, I guess like get someone who has an id in another kind of part of the world that's eligible, you unfortunately won't be able to participate. I know I have a lot of Aussies that watch and listen to the refuel, so it's unfortunate for us that we won't be able to kind of like participate in this, but at the same time, I kind of like spoke about how they're doing an airdrop to people who had gods unchained cards or have used immutable x or played kind of gods unchained and stuff like that of. Of ETH instead of IMX because they can't airdrop IMX to United States citizens. But I think that they're going to be able to airdrop IMX to australian citizens. They didn't mention anything about that.
00:15:32.792 - 00:15:58.764, Speaker A: They just said that us would be barred from it. But unfortunately, it wouldn't surprise me to see that they will also bar Australians from getting the IMX airdrop. But I don't know, I don't think that's confirmed yet or anything like that. Hopefully the Australians can still get that and the other people as well, like Canadians and any other restricted jurisdictions, of course. But yeah, unfortunate to kind of like see that there. But you know, I mean, this is just like, I guess their token might. You know, I don't think their token's going live on 8 September.
00:15:58.764 - 00:16:30.282, Speaker A: This is just the token sale. Not sure exactly when the token's going live. Maybe it's in kind of like the details here, but for those of you who don't know, immutable x is an l two platform for NFTs. I've talked about them a lot on the refuel before, but I guess like, cool, they're doing the sale and if you can participate, definitely go check it out and you know, it'll be on coinless. I think there are also sale limits on coin list and stuff like that as well, to try and make it fair. These sales are always kind of like a bit iffy, if I'm being honest. Just because of the fact that they put limits on things, you know, then they open it up and whales just gobble it up.
00:16:30.282 - 00:17:06.914, Speaker A: If there's kind of like enough, I guess, like enough kind of space left and stuff like that. And coin list can, can be very, I guess, unstable during these sales. I've participated in a couple of these sales myself, and definitely the experience is far from desirable because everyone's trying to get in their queue system hasn't really worked well in the past. But yeah, generally, I guess just like if you want, if you're interested in this, definitely go check it out anyway. But I would love to see kind of like better models in the future, maybe, of these kinds of things. But it's hard because there's no perfect model when it comes to token sales. And yeah, just like definitely go check this out if you want to be linked in the YouTube description.
00:17:06.914 - 00:17:43.130, Speaker A: So loopring has crossed $2 billion in trading volume on their l two. So this has been a great kind of ascent for loopring here. They've been doing a lot of great work. I spoke about them yesterday about how they're going to be supporting nfts on their l two platform. And the interesting thing about loopering, and I think I've discussed this before, but basically they're kind of like their own little ecosystem as an l two, right? They're not sharing their l two with other kind of apps or anything like that. They're not a generalized l two, but they're their own little ecosystem, and they're just like making their, I guess like their loop ring specific l two as powerful as it can be. And if you have, if you've traded on that, you'll know what I mean.
00:17:43.130 - 00:17:58.404, Speaker A: It's a very smooth experience. The deposit withdrawal experience is great. It's not just the exchange, it's also the payments infrastructure. They have set up, the smart wallet, all that sort of stuff. So yeah, it's just great to see their continued growth here. I mean, $2 billion in trading volumes, nothing to scoff at. Obviously.
00:17:58.404 - 00:18:34.650, Speaker A: L two s have quite a little while to go before they match l one trading volumes. Even uniswap on optimism is only doing, I think, four or $5 million, last time I checked, of 24 hours volume on a good day, whereas Uniswap on our one is doing like a billion dollars every 24 hours. So it's, it's a, quite a, quite a big difference there. But that's network effects for you at the end of the day. And, you know, the same network effects that keep that kind of like work against, I guess, like a theorem killers are going to work against altoos for a little bit. But I think the harmonization becomes that l two s are something that we want to push users towards. We don't want to push them towards the ethereum killers, obviously.
00:18:34.650 - 00:19:19.860, Speaker A: So over time, I expect that to kind of like balloon up, but also optimism and even arbitrum, they're just like, rolling out slowly. They have guarded launches. They're not trying to, I guess, like, scale to thousands of transactions per second from the get go because that would actually have a lot of empty blocks as well, a lot of ghost blocks, because there's not just that kind of demand yet. I mean, if you look at how much even something like the polygon pos chain is doing as a benchmark here, uh, they're doing about 90 transactions per second. Um, and if you look at, uh, optimism, I think it's like one transaction per second on average. So really, until these platforms actually have, like, demand for the, the sky high scalability, I think it's okay that they have guardrails on and they're kind of like, taking it slow. And at the end of the day, if you give people, people kind of like more scalability, they're going to eat it up.
00:19:19.860 - 00:19:50.810, Speaker A: But a lot of it gets eaten up with spam transactions, too. And that's why you need fees. I mean, all these chains offering kind of like subsent fees, I just don't see that being sustainable or lasting forever because the chain is just going to be hit with spam attacks eventually, right? Like, just, I mean, not just like an attack, but just spam in general. People just doing things that are ridiculous. I mean, this happens on layer one ethereum as well, and people pay the fees to do it, and that ETH gets burned. So that's all well and good, but generally it doesn't last very long. You know, if you have a chain that can do tens of thousands of transactions per second, this applies to l two s as well.
00:19:50.810 - 00:20:26.872, Speaker A: Don't get me wrong. This isn't just like the Ethereum kills, this is l two s. Then what ends up happening is that if the transaction fees are subset, you do have that spam problem. So, you know, it's a kind of a balancing act there, but still great to kind of like, see, I guess, like loot brings growth here. And I'm looking forward to seeing kind of like what obviously optimism and arbitrum do as they kind of continue to scale out and towards the end of the year. So I spoke about the EGL drama the other day. You know, that net, that kind of like token that was used? Well, I guess like that the project was trying to force into the ecosystem to be used to vote up or down on the gas limit as kind of like some pseudo on chain governance.
00:20:26.872 - 00:20:54.016, Speaker A: Well, unfortunately, the Aragon team got embroiled in all that drama pretty heavily. And Alexei Sharp, the, I guess, like lead of the Aragon team here. And for those who don't know, Aragon is an ethereum one client, he put out this thread basically saying he's gonna get off Twitter for a few days because it started to affect his mental state because of all the kind of drama that's been going on with. With kind of, like, the Aragon team, Egl in general, and, like, geth and all that sort of stuff. You can read his thread. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But I want to.
00:20:54.016 - 00:21:06.856, Speaker A: What I wanted to focus on was this kind of, like, thing he's. His mental state with. With this sort of stuff on Twitter. I mean, there's a lot of. And I'm not gonna say I don't contribute to this, but there's a lot of, like, toxicity that goes on. On Twitter. There's a lot of joking, and that goes around.
00:21:06.856 - 00:21:30.120, Speaker A: And some of it can, like, be very hard to translate, especially because there's a lot of people who are from other countries where English isn't their first language. So sarcasm normally gets. Gets lost, and people may feel like they're being attacked. People who aren't used to being in the public eye definitely would feel like they're getting attacked. And I think Alexei definitely falls into that bucket. As he's a core developer, he doesn't really spend much time on Twitter. He spent time building.
00:21:30.120 - 00:21:47.006, Speaker A: Right. Whereas someone like me, who spends all the time on Twitter, I definitely kind of developed a very thick skin for it, and I can just, like, laugh it off. But there's a lot of people out there who. Who, you know, are very deeply affected by this sort of stuff. And, you know, as I said, I know that I sometimes I contribute to this sort of stuff. Like, I make fun of Cardano all the time. Whatever.
00:21:47.006 - 00:22:23.644, Speaker A: I mean, for me, that's just, like, the way I am. It's like my banter, my australian humor. I don't mean to, like, be, you know, an asshole or toxic about it. And really, these days, I'm just blocking all the idiots who come at me as well with, like, oh, you know, theorem's gonna die, blah, blah. Okay, goodbye. On the block list you go. But generally, I think what I wanted to just advise here is that if you see people who may not be very active on Twitter getting it, you know, attacked or, like, having to deal with toxicity or kind of like, I mean, tweeting out things that may be weird and maybe kind of like, unlike them, if you know them, reach out to them, or even if you don't, you can just reach out to them and dm them and say, hey, like, I really appreciate your work.
00:22:23.644 - 00:22:37.600, Speaker A: Don't worry about, like, all this stuff that's coming at you on Twitter. It's just noise. And people really appreciate that because that's what happened with me when I went through some drama last year. I had a lot of people reach out to me and say, hey, I got your back. You know, I'm just ignore this noise. Maybe take a break for a few days. It'll blow over.
00:22:37.600 - 00:23:07.010, Speaker A: Because it does. I mean, crypto, Twitter's memory is like the short, shorter than a goldfish. But, um, yeah, I just like a little tip there. Just reach out to people, because a lot of these people who aren't used to the public eye just don't know how to deal with that. And that's not their fault. They're just not used to kind of like, this attention. And really, I think social media in general kind of like, I mean, it's pretty bad when you, when you're, when you have, like, a lot of people kind of like coming after you because you can feel like you're stuck in a room that's just getting smaller and smaller and you have all these people coming at you with all these comments, and it makes you just feel really, really.
00:23:07.010 - 00:23:28.252, Speaker A: So, yeah, if you know people that and you see this happening on Twitter and you know the person, and even if you don't know the person, it's just simple. Dm, they might, they may not see it. They may see it. I mean, even not just a DM, you can reply to their tweets and basically say, hey, man, I got your back. Like, ignore the trolls, ignore the haters and all that sort of stuff. And they appreciate that because, I mean, I know I've spoken to some of them. They really, really appreciate that.
00:23:28.252 - 00:23:56.044, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just wanted to call out that there. But if you want to get kind of like a bit of background on what happened with Aragon, EGL and all that sort of stuff here, you can read Alexa's thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description, and you can go check it out there. Some super exciting news out of hot protocol today. They are now supporting optimism. So you can basically go and transfer assets in and out of optimism within minutes. Pete Kim here put out a kind of, like, screenshot of the interface where you can send USDC from optimism to Polygon.
00:23:56.044 - 00:24:13.564, Speaker A: And now these are really, really fast transactions. Like, within minutes. You know, I've spoken about how optimistic roll ups have the main drawback of that kind of like seven day withdrawal period. And you know, that, that people were like, oh, well, this is like massive turn off. This is like a buzz. This is like a. Something that would kill optimism or arbitrary, whatever.
00:24:13.564 - 00:24:32.830, Speaker A: This is kind of like a deal breaker. But I know I've been talking about these bridges, like hop and connects and all that sort of stuff that we're coming and now they're here. I mean, hops here. It supports optimism, as you can see. Go from optimism with USDC to Polygon. You can go to Ethereum, all that sort of stuff within minutes instead of having to wait that seven day withdrawal period. So this is absolutely awesome.
00:24:32.830 - 00:25:23.760, Speaker A: More and more assets are going to be added over time. And for those of you who may be wondering how this works and how a hot protocol can enable, you know, instant kind of withdraws within minutes, it's basically they have like these liquidity providers that sit in between, I guess, like optimism and polygon, for example, and take on that kind of like seven day withdrawal period for you, because they know that in seven days they're going to get those assets. So essentially, it's like an IOU to them, but it's crypto. It's cryptographically guaranteed that they're going to get those assets and they take on the risk for a small fee. You swap through them, you get kind of like your instant access to that liquidity on, you know, the Ethereum main chain or polygon, whatever. And they get kind of like the fee and the tokens when they kind of like, when they come to come to market there. So you can kind of like, I guess, like, read this, this help desk article here from hop exchange or hop protocol, sorry.
00:25:23.760 - 00:25:51.890, Speaker A: Of how to provide liquidity and become like a liquidity provider for this sort of stuff, which obviously, the more liquidity there is, the better the bridge is going to be, the more that we can kind of bridge in and out with, with low slippage and stuff like that. But, yeah, this is really, really cool to see and great to see that. You know, I'm not just talking about it saying, coming soon all the time. It's actually here and very timely. And, you know, they're going to support arbitrary. I mean, they're going to support everything, right? Like all these bridges, they, they lose nothing by supporting everything. They gain a lot, right? They have to support everything that's, they're kind of like their main use case here.
00:25:51.890 - 00:26:16.492, Speaker A: So we won't have to worry about kind of like the seven day withdrawal kind of like periods anymore. Uh, it's just going to be very, very seamless and smooth through these bridges. All right, last thing to talk about was something that I missed the other day. Barn Bridge announced their smart alpha product. Now this product is a little complex for people who aren't kind of like familiar with it. I'm not going to explain it now because I probably butchered the explanation. You can go check it out in this blog post here.
00:26:16.492 - 00:27:06.196, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to kind of get your head around what this is. But essentially they explained here and the TRDR is that smart alpha? I mean, I'll just read this paragraph out here. So what smart Alpha does is it allows users to calibrate their exposure to the performance of an underlying asset. So say you want exposure to like ETH, right? And you want to calibrate that exposure to have less risk or more risk. So it does this by, so by regularly redistributing an aggregated pool of the underlying asset between two groups of users, a senior side and a junior side. When the price of ETH goes up, for example, seniors give up some of their assets to the juniors and vice versa. And put another way, junior users are buying asset price risk off of senior users, guaranteeing them price protection up to a certain threshold in exchange for greater upside potential.
00:27:06.196 - 00:27:39.146, Speaker A: So this is kind of like those, I mean, you might see more advanced traders talking about this on kind of like Twitter and maybe in podcasts and stuff like that. This, but these are like exotic financial products that these people use to hedge their exposure, right? Like you can use options, you can use other types of derivatives. You can obviously now use like the smart Alpha product, which is actually going live very soon. I think they said here that it's going live. Where do they say it? They said it somewhere anyway. But it's going live kind of quite soon here. But essentially you can use this kind of like hedger exposure to ETH as an example.
00:27:39.146 - 00:28:34.290, Speaker A: It's any like an asset here. So if you're a junior user, you can buy this price risk off of senior users and guarantee them a price protection up to a certain threshold, and then in exchange for that price protection for them, you get greater upside potential. So yeah, and the outcome is a two sided marketplace for asset price risk generalizable to any compatible ERC 20 token today. This is actually like a pretty big deal and a pretty big product, especially for people who, you know, I guess like a trade as a funds and people who specialize in this kind of like asset risk exposure and I guess diversifying their risk and wanting to kind of like manage that. Maybe it's not going to be used by everyday traders like me or you, or maybe it is because these products typically weren't very easy to use before, but now with Barnbridge's solution, they become easier to use. And I think at the end of the day, making it really easy people to understand as well is a big, is a big kind of piece of the puzzle here. But if you do want to understand it, I suggest giving this blog post a read.
00:28:34.290 - 00:29:09.802, Speaker A: It does a much better job of explaining it than I can and then definitely go kind of like check out the Barn Bridge protocol in general. It's a really great tool. I think it's just working to democratize, I guess, these advanced or exotic financial products and letting users like me on you who may not have kind of like the, I guess, the expertise in this sort of stuff to get involved with it in a really easy and friendly way. So, I mean, I'm always down for promoting these tools because that's exactly what we're trying to do with DeFi. I know Defi has taken a backseat to NFTs recently, but people are still chugging along here. They're still building. And Defy is going to, I mean, I still think Defi is going to be bigger than, than anything.
00:29:09.802 - 00:29:31.802, Speaker A: It's just going to take a little while to get there because right now Defi seems like unsexy compared to nfts. But that's okay. You know, Defi, you know, people are still building. It's going to have, it's a day in the sun again. And products like Barmbridge's smart Alpha are definitely going to be one of those that I see a lot of people using. Once I guess Defi comes back into fashion. But even so, like, a lot of people are going to be using these anyway as long as I know about it.
00:29:31.802 - 00:29:48.978, Speaker A: At the end of the day, like as long as you're aware of it, you can kind of use it if it appeals to you. So that's why I kind of highlight this stuff on the refill all the time. But anyway, I think that's it for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:29:48.978 - 00:29:49.434, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
