00:00:04.570 - 00:00:39.426, Speaker A: Marine Snow is a secluded music community that collectively owns the world's foremost gallery, gift shop and auction house. In music, Marine Snow is solving one major problem that can be broken down into several smaller segments. The main problem is that music is about community. Yet music streaming services are commodities. And today, if you look at the data, music fans spend much more money going to shows, buying vinyl and buying merch. And the reason why that is is because those goods offer psychological values that digital music is not offering today. They offer a sense of community, a sense of social status, an identity, and a sense of scarcity.
00:00:39.426 - 00:01:26.802, Speaker A: So Marine Snow's goal is to bring those values to the digital arena. Marinesnow is also needed to bring two important concepts into the web three music arena. The first is subscription as investment and the second is curatorial governance. I'm really focused on Marinesnow having the best music in the world and having that be defined across genre, across region, and across even time period. And for historically, critically and culturally important artists, marinesnow's product provides a set of exclusive music that you can't listen to anywhere else for 90 day periods. Our goal is to have the best music in the world and to attract a subscriber based on having the best music in the world. The business model is one where we're trying to pioneer a new model of subscription as investment, where it's subscription with a floor.
00:01:26.802 - 00:02:24.826, Speaker A: You can pay what you want the more you pay and the earlier you pay is, the more ownership of the platform you have and the more you can capture in the financial upside as the platform grows. That ownership also allows, you say, in the curatorial governance of the platform and gives you some rights as we figure out what we acquire next. Our cost model is paying artists fixed cost amounts that will in time be bundles of cash. And our token aligning incentives so that they have a short term incentive to work with us with cash and a long term incentive to work with Marinestone through token value. And I think that's a much more powerful model than models that pay less than half a penny per stream and not basing value on the number of streams that a song gets. We also pay journalists a small amount to write a blurb about each song that we acquire to contextualize it, the way that the blurb next to a painting in a museum helps better tell the story of the work. Marine Snow is currently built as a mobile app, but soon will be available on the web.
00:02:24.826 - 00:03:19.500, Speaker A: And from a technology perspective is comprised of a very game like experience where you unlock the songs on the platform based on your lean and participation and also social features where you can talk about music not exclusive to Marine Snow. Within the walls of Marine Snow, the plan is over time for the exclusive songs on the platform and the social features and community to begin to feed into each other where the communities can start to help inform what we acquire next. Community is really integral to what we're building. The whole point of Marine Snow is to be a music community for music lovers. So yeah, the phrase that we use is that Marine Snow is a music community company and yeah, I would say that my ultimate goal is to attend a Marine Snow wedding. And what that means to me is that two people meet on the social graph of Marine Snow that would never meet on any other platform. And then there are the tools where they can slowly escalate the intimacy of their relationship and fall in love and I can be in the back with a champagne glass and a single tear rolling down my face.
00:03:19.500 - 00:04:13.702, Speaker A: Marine Snow is an ecosystem of journalists, artists and members where each is incentivized to contribute to the value of the platform. The platform is designed to reward the breadth of your consumption and your curiosity, the depth of your consumption, your active participation in the platform, your helping others and other forms of community. Our plan for Tokens is to bundle Tokens with access to Marine Snow. And I think that's akin to giving people Nike shares every time they bought Nike shoes and rewards the right incentives where people care about what we're building and are not purely in it for speculation, but then they can also capture the upside of what we're building, which is really the goal. I'm also really interested in how the tokens can be used to inform curatorial governance. So the people who own bigger stakes in Marines know will have slightly bigger stakes in terms of figuring out what we acquire next. I don't think it'll be one to one, it'll be something like quadratic voting.
00:04:13.702 - 00:05:00.570, Speaker A: But yeah, I think that's really healthy in the web two environment where incentives are really misaligned. For example, if you were to talk about an album on Twitter, you would try to talk about it in the most hyperbolic way to get the most engagement possible. So it either sucks or is amazing. Whereas if you were to own parts of Twitter I think you would be a little bit more careful about being as truthful or as aligned to long term truth as you can in your opinions. I think I have a pretty unique background and whatever unfair advantage I may have comes from being really steeped in the business world and also really steeped in the music industry. I was an economics major in school and also went to business school and started my career in management consulting at BCG. I also worked for SoundCloud and Spotify and Strategy and Operations where I helped create Spotify's first cross genre playlist called Pollen and worked for Frank Ocean for a little bit.
00:05:00.570 - 00:05:36.994, Speaker A: So I think I bring a perspective that sees the music world from a business perspective, from a tech company perspective, as well as from an artist perspective. And everybody who works with us also has similar perspectives in that we have a lot of producers, DJs, musicians, on staff, people are DJing, pretty big parties and everybody's a real deep music connoisseur and we are all building the product for music connoisseurs. We're lucky to have some amazing investors. We have Peter boyce's Salation Capital. And he used to be a general partner at General Catalyst. We have Batter Collective who are some of the best seed investors in the world. We have some amazing angels.
00:05:36.994 - 00:05:56.234, Speaker A: Like Kevin Durant. Trevor from Friends of Benefits. Scott Bellsky. Jenny Fleis. Jared Matfis, crypto partner. And then we also have Seven X who I feel very lucky to work with for a variety of reasons. One, because I think they bring a deep music love that's really important to what we're building and they really care about our mission and really care about using the right incentives to help achieve our mission.
00:05:56.234 - 00:06:16.530, Speaker A: I also think Seven X brings a really interesting perspective on how to tap into Asia, which is a really important market to me, as I think there's a lot of opportunity, for example, in the world hearing Chinese music and hearing Korean music outside of just Kpop. And so I'm really interested in that cross pollination. And I also think Seven Max has a bunch of other really interesting portfolio companies that we would like to be connected. Overall, they've just been really, really helpful.
