00:00:11.000 - 00:01:06.894, Speaker A: Token extensions on Solana are all about optionality and choice. From privacy preserving technologies like confidential transfers to new compliance frameworks like transfer hooks, it represents the next major step forward for businesses looking to build on blockchain. Token extensions comprise more than a dozen extensions designed to better meet the needs of developers, enterprises, and financial institutions. Solana is the first network to offer this level of integrated developer and user experience in a single token program on a public network. But what exactly are token extensions? You can think of them as a series of options, features, and capabilities built into the newest iteration of of the Solana token program. Token issuers, from game developers to stablecoin issuers, can choose to enable any combination of token extensions, which reduce the amount of work your engineering team has to do and provide capabilities that weren't previously possible.
00:01:10.074 - 00:02:10.684, Speaker B: Token extensions are designed in a way that the basic capabilities of any SPL token remain the same, retaining full composability with DAPPS wallets programs while still allowing customization for advanced use cases. While each token extension offers unique functionality, today we want to focus on five of the token extensions we find most impactful for businesses building on Solana, let's talk about transfer hooks. Transfer hooks are a powerful new extension that give token issuers greater ability to dictate how tokens and users interact. Here's how it works. Token issuers can designate a specific program that is invoked every single time a token is transferred. The program called by the transfer hook extension can determine whether the transfer is allowed based on a whole host of criteria from on chain sources. This flexible design empowers developers to build complex token interactions, and because the transfers happen at the token program level, it can't be bypassed.
00:02:10.684 - 00:02:57.974, Speaker B: Next, confidential transfers all information sent over a blockchain is by default public. However, being able to see specific details of those transactions can expose sensitive information. For businesses, the confidential transfer framework is a new approach to privacy, which retains the compliance needs of businesses. These are non anonymous, non private transfers that publicly share the source destination and token type, but use zero knowledge proofs to encrypt the amounts of the transfer. Token issuers also have the ability to appoint an auditor, which can decrypt the amounts transferred. Suddenly. Previously sensitive actions like merchant settlement flows and payroll are now possible on the blockchain because one can make these kinds of payments without the amounts being public information.
00:02:57.974 - 00:04:02.414, Speaker B: The permanent delegate token extension is a powerful extension designed to give the token issuer absolute authority over tokens that they issue. The extension is intended for tokens that require revocation ability, such as licenses or credentials, as well as stablecoins or securities tokens that have ownership and compliance requirements. Because the issuer can transfer or destroy tokens at any time, this extension must be used carefully. Transfer hooks, confidential transfers, and permanent delegate extensions strike an elegant balance between maintaining privacy and self custody. Token extensions provide tools for issuers who want to retain regulatory compliance and the ability to freeze and seize assets that have fallen into the wrong hands. Combining transfer hooks and confidential transfers provides the ability to create permissioned tokens within the confines of a permissionless network, something businesses looking to adopt blockchain have requested. The non transferable token extension has been a long requested feature by developers.
00:04:02.414 - 00:04:45.874, Speaker B: While it was previously possible to freeze a token, it couldn't be destroyed, but a non transferable token can be. This makes it perfect for credentials and user identification while ensuring that the token is issued to one specific wallet. Using the metadata and metadata points or token extensions, developers can create whole new classes of fungible, semi fungible, and non fungible tokens. The metadata extension provides a lightweight set of on chain attributes that can be used to easily store key details about the state of a token for use in a program. The metadata pointer extension allows full programmatic customization of metadata for that token, perfect for games or new asset classes.
00:04:46.934 - 00:05:44.282, Speaker C: We've seen how Solana's network sets the stage for payments and value transfer, but the real magic happens when we tackle complex users use cases such as accounts payable, bank to bank settlement, and cross border remittances. Token extensions offer native solutions that eliminate the need to patch smart contracts and disparate protocols together. Now, everything you need is right there in the token itself. Let's explore how these extensions will usher in a new era of finance. As we all know, payments companies and regulated enterprises have strict requirements such as the need for privacy, payment attribution, reversibility, and access controls. Token extensions provide for all of these requirements natively, which means that developers can use one program for all of their needs. All of these features and more are natively available in the token.
00:05:44.282 - 00:06:49.916, Speaker C: In other words, regulatory and business requirements that may have precipitated the need to spin up a private chain can now all be satisfied by the native attributes of the digital asset itself. Let's take a look at a few simple examples. By requiring that the metadata about the payment is integrated into the transaction itself, the problem of payments attribution for the accounts payable and receivable use case is solved uniquely by token extensions. Finance operations can automatically and programmatically map payments to invoices, all transacted confidentially on the blockchain. Secondly, businesses can settle transactions across borders instantly and automatically with extremely competitive Defi enabled FX order book markets. These payments can be confidential but also auditable if required by a regulator. Token extensions allow enterprises to have all of the functionality of a private network embedded into the token itself while operating on the public.
00:06:49.916 - 00:06:51.344, Speaker C: Solana blockchain.
00:06:53.444 - 00:07:55.904, Speaker D: Token extensions on Solana are designed with stablecoins in mind. For instance, transfer hooks empower stablecoin issuers to deploy on chain compliance checks such as KYC and AML. This allows transfers to be vetted against an allow list before execution. The permanent delegation token extension proves indispensable for bringing fiat assets on chain at scale, allowing licensed issuers to exercise authority over funds and aligning with regulatory requirements. Token extensions extend their transformative impact to the realm of real world assets such as stocks, bonds and real estate. These permission token experiences coexist seamlessly alongside permissionless deFi, trading on the same markets but restricted to approved users at the token level. As more assets get tokenized, token extensions pave the way for new financial use cases, enabling tokenized invoices to serve as collateral for interest bearing treasury bills.
00:07:55.904 - 00:08:03.764, Speaker D: Offering a novel approach to meeting payment obligations with opportunities to generate yield, token.
00:08:03.804 - 00:08:51.114, Speaker E: Extensions are an exciting new toolkit for developers like me. It offers modular extensions, which empower builders to build new types of token experiences. Solana is the first network to offer this level of integrated developer and user experience in a single token program. And while capabilities of token extensions are advanced, implementation is straightforward. What used to take months of complex coding can now be done in minutes. With just a few lines added to your standard SPL token code, developers can make use of over a dozen new token extensions. Simply mix, match and implement pre built extensions specific to your project's needs.
00:08:51.114 - 00:09:26.244, Speaker E: Token extensions decrease the time it takes to go from idea to product, increasing the pace of innovation and freeing up developer time. To get started, head over to Solana.com to try out token extensions firsthand. You'll find our documentation, including step by step guides and code snippets, to get you up and running quickly and help you integrate extensions seamlessly, enhance the business value your project offers with the dynamic capabilities of token extensions, and start building today.
00:09:28.584 - 00:09:51.724, Speaker A: Token extensions are powerful new features for Solana that radically expand what's possible to build on blockchain. They provide businesses with the same security and compliance controls as permissioned blockchain environments for reducing engineering time and operating on one of the world's most popular public blockchains. We can't wait to see how the future of blockchain is shaped by what you build with token extensions.
