00:00:00.880 - 00:00:57.130, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you very much for having me, organizers. This talk is going to be about some interaction between Toric topology and commutative algebra, specifically the problem of determining the homotopy type or understanding something about the homotopy type of moment angle complexes in terms of some homological algebra surrounding Stanley Reisman rings. And this is all joint work with Ben Briggs at the University of Copenhagen. Okay, here's the obligatory slide of definitions you already know, but just to fix some notation throughout the talk, k will be a simplicial complex on m vertices. And I'll write the Stanley Reisner ring like this. S is just the polynomial ring on as many variables as you have vertices, put them in degree two, and you quotient that by the Stanley Reisner ideal. So that's just this monomial ideal generated by the non faces of K.
00:00:57.130 - 00:01:29.536, Speaker A: So that's like the main algebraic object associated to k. And then the spaces will be the moment angle complex. That's this polyhedral product for the pair d two s one. And the Davis Yanis gave it space, same thing for the pair cp infinity, comma, a point. And then we have this homotopy vibration relating the two. And really this space has a m torus action on it by rotating the disks coordinate wise. And that action is what's relating these two spaces here.
00:01:29.536 - 00:02:19.496, Speaker A: This vibration is really like a polyhedral product model for the Burrell vibration of that action. Okay, so the problem I want to talk about is just, you know, the dream would maybe be to read off the homotopy type of a moment angle complex straight from the combinatorics of k, if you could. There are some examples where you can do that, and I'll mention them later. But in general, this seems to be a very hard problem. There aren't so many simplicial complexes for which the homotopy type zed k is really known. An equivalent way of thinking of this, since the simplicial complex and its Stanley Reisner ring determine one another, is just to try to understand the homotopy type of Zk from algebraic properties of this ring. Right, the combinatorics of K.
00:02:19.496 - 00:02:54.868, Speaker A: It's encoded in the algebra of the Stanley Reisner ring. And then what is again an equivalent problem, but I sort of think of as a possibly easier problem, is to try to understand the homotopy type from the minimal free resolution of the Stanley Reisner ring. So again, the Stanley Reisner ring and its minimal free resolution determine one another. They're literally isomorphic in the derived category of s modules. So in that sense. These are equivalent questions. But the minimal free resolution is, of course, just more to look at than a simplicial complex.
00:02:54.868 - 00:03:39.254, Speaker A: And I think commutative algebraics are used to this idea that if you have like a small monomial ring, half a dozen variables and a few generators or something, the Betty numbers just get very big very quickly. And the minimal free resolution can be very complicated. So you maybe shouldn't hope to just stare at the complex or its Stanley Reissner ring and try to figure things out that way. But instead, the minimal free resolution sort of spreads that information out in a very organized way. So you can look at properties of this resolution and see what it says about the attaching maps, say building up Zk as a CW complex. Yeah. So this minimal free resolution, all these f's are just free s modules.
00:03:39.254 - 00:04:08.020, Speaker A: I'm thinking of a minimal free resolution as an S module, where s is our polynomial ring. And basically all the invariants of a ring that you study in commutative algebra are encoded in this resolution, like this number p. Here, the length of the resolution is the projective dimension. Hilbert Syzygy theorem tells us that's less than or equal to m, the number of variables. But bhdem, beyond that, that's sort of a mysterious invariant. The Betty numbers are there. They're just the ranks of these free modules.
00:04:08.020 - 00:05:35.524, Speaker A: And so the first thing I want to do is just give some sort of interpretation of this minimal free resolution in terms of the topology of Zk. And right away we see this tor showing up here, which hints that at least the modules can be interpreted in terms of the moment angle complex, because we have this familiar theorem saying that the cohomology, the moment angle complex is the Tor algebra, or this Kazul homology of the Stanley Reisner ring. And then here's Hoxter's formula describing store algebra directs some of the groups of full sub complexes. But you can think of this as giving a sort of toric topological interpretation of just the modules showing up in this free resolution. Right? Each f here is just the free s module, whose size is like this vector space Tor I. And also here I wanted to mention, related to this topological interpretation, something that fits nicely in this picture, classical results, commutative algebra of Avramav and Golad says that this Kazul homology is a Poincare duality algebra, precisely when k is Gorenstein. And this has a nice topological explanation, if you like, by this result of b psi, which says that z k is actually a manifold closed orientable exactly when k is Gorenstein.
00:05:35.524 - 00:06:30.086, Speaker A: So that'll come up a bit later. But the natural question is, what about the rest of the resolution? Aside from modules, which are completely determined by the cohomology of Zkhdem, the rest of the information of the Stanley Ryzen ring is encoded in these differentials. So can you interpret them in similar topological terms? And the answer is yes, if you remember that the moment angle complex isn't just a space, but it's a space that comes with a torus action, the standard m torus action. So to get at that information, we're going to bring in the group action. This torus action gives the cohomology of Zk, the structure of a module over an exterior algebra. The exterior algebra is the cohomology of the torus. So the way I think of this in like a coordinate wise way, is as follows, that lambda be this exterior algebra generators of degree minus one.
00:06:30.086 - 00:07:11.740, Speaker A: And then for each j between one and m, you can just look at the action of the j th like coordinate circle in your torus and look at what that does in cohomology. Right? The contravarion map here is going to have to send any cohomology class to just one tensor itself. Plus, you know, the generator, the cohomology of s one tensor, something of one degree less than alpha. So call that thing iota j alpha, that determines a derivation of degree minus one. Because these are all coming from cohomology of this torus. They all anticommute. So they give you a graded lambda module structure.
00:07:11.740 - 00:08:10.820, Speaker A: I mean, you can do this at the co chain level, and it's giving you a DG lambda module structure there. And then that's inducing this. And this previous theorem gave you sort of two ways of understanding the cohomology of a moment angle complex. So how can you understand this extra structure? So, first of all, the algebraic way, the Tor algebra way of computing cohomology of a moment angle complex is usually computed using the Kosul complex. Or I've written here this reduced Kzool complex that came up a lot last week. So just define a lambda module structure there by letting your jth generator act by like this derivation, just like interior multiplication or differentiation with respect to the variable ui, so it's zero on all the generators except Ujdev. And then extend that by the graded Leibniz rule, and you get a graded derivation on the whole kosul complex.
00:08:10.820 - 00:09:04.602, Speaker A: And then it's easy to see that this isomorphism that you have, the level of Dg algebras, is also an isomorphism of dg lambda modules. So you can compute this structure easily in the usual way. You compute the cohomology of a moment angle complex and then the more combinatorial interpretation, that Hoxter isomorphism. It's easy to see what's going on there too, these horizontal isomorphisms or those Hoxter isomorphisms. So each generator of the exterior algebra, derivation of degree minus one over here is just looking like the map, or the sum of maps induced by inclusions like this, where you add in one more vertex to a full sub complex, namely the jth vertex. So yeah, those are all inducing a bunch of maps of degree zero, of course. So there's a shift in degrees here.
00:09:04.602 - 00:10:48.810, Speaker A: But really, you know, the right nth cohomology group here is landing in the right nth cohomology group in this big subgroup. Okay, so here I was going to maybe for now just give the example that kept coming up last week, where k is just three vertices with one edge. So if you think of the kazul complex, or what I guess I just called it, you tell me if you can see, it's all right, but okay, so I guess the reduced kazule complex here is looking like, here's our polynomial ring on three variables. My only missing faces are one two and one three. So that's the Stanley reisner ideal that's being tensored with some exterior algebra on u one, u two, u three in degree one, and d v y is vi, as usual. So you can just compute here and you see that the only things that can be closed and not exact are in these degrees, like so, corresponding to the missing face, one two. You have a class represented in the kzoul complex by v one, u two.
00:10:48.810 - 00:11:44.562, Speaker A: Similarly, with v one, u three, both of those are closed because d of v is zero, d of u two is v two, but v one, v two is zero. So same thing here. So here's a basis for cohomology. And then we can think of the exterior algebra module structure. In this case, iota one and iota two are only non trivial, like here and here. Maybe minus iota three would take this class to this one, and iota two should do that. Right? It's just differentiating away, this u three or the u two.
00:11:44.562 - 00:12:35.218, Speaker A: And for degree reasons, that's the only place you could have a non trivial derivation of degree minus one. So that's the whole lambda module structure in this case. And what does this have to do with the minimal free resolution? Sorry. Maybe I should also say in terms of this second bullet here, like, you can see these maps in the hawks or decomposition also, because there you just take like this full subcomplex on one two, it's corresponding, that's a copy of s zero. So its generator h zero is corresponding to this class. Right? And if you just included the full sub complex one two into 123, well, that's just an equivalence, because this full sub complex is also just a copy of s zero. So that's giving you a non trivial map right there.
00:12:35.218 - 00:13:20.670, Speaker A: Same thing with the other one. Okay, so the, the point is that this information is telling you a good part of the minimal free resolution. So more generally, a torus action gives you a whole bunch of higher cohomology operations. The exterior algebra that I just described sits inside of a larger algebra of higher cohomology operations that's acting on the cohomology of any space with the torus action. So, Greski, Kotwitz, MacPherson introduced these higher operations. They just have these odd degrees. They're degree like one minus twice the degree of s, where s is just any monomial in your polynomial ring here.
00:13:20.670 - 00:14:25.822, Speaker A: And in the case that there monomial s is just like a variable VJ, then that's exactly this derivation. So, the secondary operations indexed by quadratic monomials would go down by degree three and so on. And if you included those ones into this picture, I won't say much about how they work, but they're higher operations that feel a lot like higher massey products in this case. Okay, I should now call this delta three, delta two, and then some higher operations down here, corresponding to these missing faces of delta one two and delta one three. And then the theorem is just saying that this picture is all the data of the minimal free resolution of this Stanley Reisner ring. If you just take this picture and sort of turn it on its side and tensor with s, that's how commutative algebraic draw minimal free resolution. And all these operations assemble into a differential.
00:14:25.822 - 00:15:28.854, Speaker A: You just look at s tensor, the cohomology of ZK, and you define a differential by just summing over all the square free monomials, multiply on the left by that monomial s. When you apply the operation Delta SDE, the right for moment angle complexes, it turns out only the square free ones can be non zero. So, I can also write this like this, right? Think of a square free monomial as just a subset of our vertex set m. Okay? So like I said, the point here is just that the lambda module structure is exactly the data of like the linear components of a differential in a minimal free resolution. So to know the moment angle complex with this module structure is to know all the modules. So the Tor algebra, Stanley Reisen ring together with just the linear components of the differential. And then you could study these higher operations to get at the higher components of the differential.
00:15:28.854 - 00:15:54.880, Speaker A: They won't be so relevant for this talk, except for the fact that in homological degree one. So here, this is homological degree zero. This is all homological degree one. And this is homological degree two. Projected dimension is two. You always have. In homological degree one, you're missing faces, indexing some higher operations, connecting your missing face classes to like h zero.
00:15:54.880 - 00:16:02.240, Speaker A: Yeah, please. Yeah.
00:16:06.510 - 00:16:10.010, Speaker B: Is this arising from the Taylor resolution?
00:16:10.710 - 00:16:19.770, Speaker A: It could, we just use the Kosul resolution, the Kosul complex, and apply the homological perturbation lemma. But you could take any resolution.
00:16:20.750 - 00:16:35.298, Speaker B: Do you understand yet how that take this Taylor resolution approach corresponds to the taking a crazy resolution and doing hh the double homology, is there a connection between those two lines of thought?
00:16:35.434 - 00:17:12.140, Speaker A: There is, yeah. Hh double homology is just when you take the cohomology of the cohomology of the moment angle complex. Right. I would maybe call this like sub d or something. I don't know what the notation is. Some differential of degree minus one. And this would just be this, right? So for any torus action, you get some induced operation degree minus one.
00:17:12.140 - 00:17:54.570, Speaker A: For double homology, it's just a very specific piece of the linear components of the. So yes, this information is completely contained in the linear part of the minimal free constitution. And higher operations don't come in to double homology. But this operation right here would also induce higher operations. And knowing all of those higher operations is what you need to get to like the equivariant cohomology with respect to the diagonal circle action. Zk. Okay, so there's some background on minimal free resolution and sort of topological interpretation of it I'm going to be using.
00:17:54.570 - 00:18:57.922, Speaker A: So now back to this main problem of the homotopy type of z k. So there's a long history here of identifying when the moment angle complex could have the simplest possible homotopy type. Just a wedge of spheres is about the simplest thing it could look like. And I'm being a bit unfair here, and condensing a lot of beautiful work into one theorem, but I think basically this maybe started with a result of Gerbich interior, which gave a very specific wedge decomposition for the moment angle complex associated to just m disjoint vertices. And then they later generalized that to any shifted complex, k also has the homotopy type of a wedge of spheres. Stephen went over the sort of inductive proof that can handle these two classes to show that Zk has to have the homotopy type of a wedge of spheres there. And then Valker and Brujic showed it for vertex decomposable spaces showed much more.
00:18:57.922 - 00:19:50.570, Speaker A: All of these results are slightly different and do different things. Some of them involve like desuspending the entire BBCG decomposition. So it's not just about the moment angle complex necessarily, and about the, the most general class we know where moment complexes of wedgespheres are these dual sequentially Cohen Macaulay complexes. So if the Alexander dual of K is sequentially Cohen Macaulay, then Zk is the homotopy type of a wedge of spheres. So these first two or three are some very like rigid combinatorial definitions, I won't give you right now. And then it was realized that these all fit inside of this much bigger class complexes or sequentially Cohen Macaulay complexes more generally. And the definition there is a bit more loose and homological as opposed to combinatoric.
00:19:50.570 - 00:20:41.030, Speaker A: But none of these proofs use the following classical results from commutative algebra. Egan and Reiner showed that k is dual cone Macaulay if and only if Stanley Reisener ring has a linear resolution. And a linear resolution just means okay beyond the first differential, which is just the data of your missing faces. Like I said, if the only entries in the matrices describing the differentials in your resolution are all just monomials, the matrices describing these differentials have entries which are monomials in s. And if you only see linear terms there, then you say it's a linear resolution. So these are just linear syzygys. If that's all you see as you move along the resolution, then you say it's linear.
00:20:41.030 - 00:21:38.584, Speaker A: And so you could. What I want to do is sort of rephrase some of these results using this theorem here and some variance of it. So I've just said dual cone Macaulay, as opposed to dual sequentially cone McAuley. But shortly after this, there's a variant that says if k is dual sequentially cone McAuley, then the Stanley Reisner ring is component wise linear, which means something very similar. And then there's a whole bunch of different versions of this theorem that came after that in commutative algebra. So I'll mention some of those in a moment, I think. Um, but the way I want to first just rephrase this theorem maybe is just to show that everything in the, the linear strand of the resolution is always in the image of the Hyravitch map.
00:21:38.584 - 00:22:41.660, Speaker A: So in this case, Zk is of course, the only thing it could be, really, with this cohomology. It turns out to be s three wedges, three wedge, s four. And about the only thing that's obviously in the image of the Hurevich map for a moment angle complex are the minimal missing face classes, these classes corresponding to your missing faces of k. But beyond that, I just want to say that anything that's connected to this homological degree one stuff by primary operations or linear monomials in your resolution are also going to be in the Hirovich image. So if you had a linear resolution, everything would be in the Hirovich image. And that's one way to see why the theorem above is true for all of these classes of complexes. So I'm going to next phrase a theorem which is like a bit more than you need for those purposes that I just described.
00:22:41.660 - 00:23:42.246, Speaker A: But here's a theorem that's true for lots of torus vibrations, but not all so phrase in terms of moment angle complexes. And this vibration right here, relating zk to dj, start with just any homotopy class, PI n z k, and also let mu I be like the inclusion of the bottom cell, the ith coordinate of cp infinity. DJk here always contains like a m fold wedge of cp infinities. So you can include the bottom cell into the ith coordinate. And the theorem is like if h of f denotes the hirievich image of f, then acting on it by like the sweep action. So now I'm switching from cohomology to homology, because I want to say something about the Hurevich homomorphism, but exact same way, this torus action is giving you a lambda module structure, calling my generators lambda. Now.
00:23:42.246 - 00:24:27.032, Speaker A: So let's just remember they have degree plus one now instead of minus one. So they're going up by degree one in that picture over there. So if you act on something in the Horovich image H of F, and I want to say that's still the Horovich image of something. And there's really only one thing it could be if you think about this vibration here. So the mu I is also the bottom cell of BTm, or one of the bottom cells of this product of CP infinities over here. So it definitely doesn't lift to ZK. But if I compose f with omega and then I take the white head product of those two things in here, then that Whitehead product will have to map trivially to BTM since it's an island brick Maclean space.
00:24:27.032 - 00:25:19.950, Speaker A: So you get a lift of that Whitehead product ZK. And a lift is unique because this vibration splits after looping. So this bracket with a bar over it is the unique lift that Whitehead product, and I claim the Hirovich image of that is exactly the sweep out of this homology class H of F. And this is this Omega ordinary Whitehead product or higher white hit product, just the ordinary, we just have two maps and sn into DJk and s two. I'm just going to consider their ordinary width. But is it of also those type of iterated whitehead product of those mu eyes or it can be whitehead product of something else. It can be whatever, like f could be whatever you like.
00:25:19.950 - 00:25:42.958, Speaker A: So you might be thinking of taking f to be the lift of a higher whitehead product of a bunch of other mu I's right. Okay, iterate this. But I just want to consider not just the lifts of whitehead products but just all, everything in the homotopy of ZK. Okay. Okay, thank you. But yeah, you're right. You could consider start with f to be already something of this form.
00:25:42.958 - 00:25:46.130, Speaker A: Right, right. Thank you.
00:25:47.030 - 00:25:54.930, Speaker B: Are there any other questions for Steve at this time? Anybody? Thanks.
00:25:57.360 - 00:26:59.360, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a place where some polyhedral products show up. So I wanted to maybe sketch some idea, the proof here. It's very. So starting with sn plus one, there's just the universal whitehead product into here. So here's like iota n, iota two, the whitehead product of the inclusion of these two things whose cofiber is just the product of sn and s two. And I want to think of this sphere as a polyhedral product in the usual way, namely as like the boundary of dn cross d two. Right? Dn cross s one, union s n minus one cross d two.
00:26:59.360 - 00:27:43.660, Speaker A: And there's a well known interpretation of the whitehead product in terms of polyhedral products where you just think of the sphere in this way and then you just pinch the boundary of all disks to a point. Um, right. So if I did, you know, q cross q where q is that pinch map and this becomes an s one, this becomes a point. So you're looking at sn across a point union a point across s one. And that's exactly the definition of the wedge. But I'll think of doing that piecewise. So first imagine just pinching in the first coordinate.
00:27:43.660 - 00:29:06.100, Speaker A: That would get you to here. Okay, so sn one becomes a point cross d two and then I can do the identity cross, you know, pinch in the second coordinate that gets you down to here. And then along here I really want to look at this whitehead product of mu I and omega composed with f. Okay, I have sn here, so I should write like this, I think. Let me just put the identity there for now. And up here I could just do f cross the identity to get to Zk cross s one, Union point, cross d two. And then what do I put here to make this commute? So let's just also pinching this disk to the sphere.
00:29:06.100 - 00:29:46.620, Speaker A: Okay. And then lastly, I just need to fold these maps together. I do the universal whitehead product, and then I do my two maps on either side, f composed with omega and mui. So here's just like the identity map and mu I folding into DJK, there's omega. And here I have an action map. Like consider now the ith coordinate action. It's a circle action on Zk might call that AI.
00:29:46.620 - 00:30:28.982, Speaker A: And that action extends to this cofiber here, the AI bar. So this last map is just the action of the ith coordinates. And then you just have this whole bottom row here. The bottom composition, like sn plus one to the Davis unscavage space, is just the white head product of mu I and omega composed with fdev. I can write it in this way since Mui has degree two. This thing is commutative. And so my top row is some lift of omega.
00:30:28.982 - 00:31:07.976, Speaker A: And lifts are unique. So this must be the unique lift. Okay. Yeah, this is the unique lift of the Whitehead product. Usually whitehead products are of no use for studying the Hirovich image, because whitehead products always have trivial Hirovich image. Their suspension is trivial. But this lift of a white head product might have a non trivial Hirovich image.
00:31:07.976 - 00:31:28.384, Speaker A: And you can check that, in fact, it does. So all of these spaces up here are polyhedral products associated just two disjoint points. These two things are really just like half smash products. So you can just track very easily using polyhedral products or without to see what this map does in homology, to see that this purevich image is what we want. Right?
00:31:28.552 - 00:32:04.178, Speaker B: Excuse me, Steve, I want to comment about this. In fact, Martin and I were discussing this map recently, and we both thought it would be very nice if you could prove that the top map is essential. So can I continue?
00:32:04.274 - 00:32:05.230, Speaker A: Yes, of course.
00:32:06.050 - 00:32:17.510, Speaker B: And we thought about it, and it would be very, very nice to have a purely combinatorial proof of the fact that that top map is essential.
00:32:20.250 - 00:32:56.546, Speaker A: That's my comment. Are there any other comments? So that's showing that something that is in the image of the differential is also in the image of Horowitz. Is that the point? What differential? Well, I mean, you have multiplication by AI. AI is like a differential for one of the actions of the sweep. Actually, yes. I'm thinking of AI as some sort of ith coordinate circle action on Zkhdem. Yes.
00:32:56.546 - 00:33:30.432, Speaker A: So what this map does to a homology class or a co homology class in ZK is the sweep action, what I'm denoting by this little lambda I action. So, yeah, you can just see that this first map. So this is just a sphere of dimension n plus one. It's easy to see that this half smash product is a wedge of spheres. Like if I draw a picture imagining n to be one. So let me start over here. Here's my one disk.
00:33:30.432 - 00:34:37.730, Speaker A: Cross a circle, and then I'm just pinching the first coordinate so this disk will become a circle. So that's now looking something like that, right? And this is clearly homotopy equivalent to sn, in this case, s one drawing, this case, and it's easy to see that this, this first map is just the inclusion of sn plus one into the right, summoned here. And then this second map, like I said, is really just like a half smash product. If you think of both of these unions as pushouts, or one of the corners is contractible. They're both just like the cofiber of the inclusion intersection to one. So this map is just like f half smash, the identity. So it's easy to see that it's like the image of the fundamental class here is going to go to the hyravitch image of f tensor, the fundamental class of a circle.
00:34:37.730 - 00:35:32.004, Speaker A: And here, the cohomology of this is really a tensor product, because this is a half smash product. So it's just the tensor product is Zk and s one, with like the s one generator removed at the bottom, but this product is still there. And then what this action map does is exactly the sweep, right? So this is by definition, like lambda I, as I'm calling it there, h of father. So that's how you can see, Tony, that this map is essential. And, yeah, like you said, this diagram, I think, has shown up in other places in a paper of panovs and abramions in particular, where they're thinking of f as maybe a higher whitehead product. Consider a similar sort of argument like this. Okay? And the corollary is just that, okay, the hyravitch image is closed under the sweep action.
00:35:32.004 - 00:36:22.000, Speaker A: We know that these missing face classes at the bottom in homological degree one, are always in the horovic image. So everything attached to that by primary operations or by the linear pieces in the minimum free resolution is also in the Horovich image. So this is called the linear strand. Everything connected to homological degree one by degree one stuff, that's all going to be in the Hirievich image. And then, fun fact, something is a wedge of spheres. Precisely when the Hirovich homomorphism is surjective, right? If you have every homology class being hit by some map from a sphere, you can just add all those maps together to get an equivalence like this. So the corollary that I sort of already described is just recovering the, I guess, dual Cohen McCauley case by Egan and Reiner.
00:36:22.000 - 00:37:20.788, Speaker A: K is dual Cohen Macaulay if and only if this thing has a linear resolution. So this is just my rephrasing of that theorem of Irie and Kishimoto and a bit more generally. Now, here's that analog of Egan and Reiner that says, okay, a Cohen Macaulay complex is pure, so all of its facets are of the same dimension. And the dual of that is like saying it's Alexander dual. All of its missing faces are of the same size. So sequentially, Cohen Macaulay is just some non pure generalization of the Cohen Macaulay property, which allows for complex to be not pure or dually. Your missing faces, or like the generators of your Stanley Ryzen ring, don't all have to be in the same dimension, like that example up there, right? You could have missing faces of different dimensions, but it still sort of makes sense to talk about a linear resolution or linear strands above any of those degrees of, um.
00:37:20.788 - 00:38:26.140, Speaker A: So, using that corollary back here, that the linear strand is in the image of the yhrabiitch map, together with this other bit of classical commutative algebra, you get this other result. So again, this could be phrased, you know, is dual cone Macaulay, or if it has a component wise linear resolution. And then one other result I didn't mention on that previous slide, but a nice one that came up last week also is if k is flagged with a chordal one skeleton, Zk is known to be a wedge of spheres. And you can also see that easily using this as well, because the classical result of Freiburg says that this is precisely the case when a quadratic monomial ideal has a linear resolution. Okay, I don't want to run out of time. So, like I said, all of these results were already known. We're just sort of getting at them in a different way that doesn't involve having to dualize thinking of the Alexander duals of simplicial complexes.
00:38:26.140 - 00:39:45.932, Speaker A: And the initial motivation for all of this was to understand the homotopy types of moment angle manifolds. So in terms of moment angle manifolds, remember that's the moment angle complexes associated to Gornstein complexes, or like sphere triangulations. In particular, about the only classes of gornstein complexes for which moment ankle manifold has really been identified, like up to homeomorphism, are ones coming from work of Gitler and Lopez de Medrano and a few others that identify the case. The moment angle manifold is a connected sum of sphere products when your simplicial complex is like a stacked polytope. So something you can get from starting from a simplex and doing vertex cuts or dual neighborly polytopes or sphere triangulations that are neighborly in the sense that, uh, like a d minus one dimensional sphere triangulation, every d over two set of d over two faces are connected. Every set of less than or equal to d over two. Like half the dimension vertices should span a face.
00:39:45.932 - 00:40:28.932, Speaker A: Yeah, okay. But they could never be a wedge of spheres, right? So you could never have like a fully linear resolution for a manifold. There's going to be some cut products. So that can't happen. But the point is you can have a linear resolution all the way up until like the very last attaching map, essentially. So a subficial complex, especially if k is Gorenstein, is called almost linear if its resolution is linear for p minus one steps, where p is like the projective dimension or length of the entire resolution. So this is basically what's happening in all those examples where moment angle manifolds have been identified already as a connected sum of sphere products.
00:40:28.932 - 00:41:07.668, Speaker A: So we wanted to try to see these in a more homotopy theoretic way because Gitler and Lopez de Medrano's results use like H. Cobordism theorem and they really use the smooth structure of moment angle manifold. So they only apply to polytopes like sphere triangulations that are polytopal. But there are tons and tons of sphere triangulations that are not polytopal and have similar homological behavior. So we just wanted to see if we could recover their results some sort of simpler way. So all of these examples that I sort of just mentioned have an almost linear resolution. The boundary complexes of polygons.
00:41:07.668 - 00:41:47.530, Speaker A: I'll show an example of that one at the end, I think these all have resolutions that sort of look like this. If k is an m gon, you know, the boundary of an m gon, then you'll have a bunch of missing edges. Those are the only missing faces. They'll all be connected to the bottom class in H zero by some secondary operations. And then above that you only have primary operations. So you have like a sequence things. Then you have a top class somewhere.
00:41:47.530 - 00:42:33.828, Speaker A: And you'll have some secondary operations by proncari duality, which are just like the mirrors of what's going on down here. So you just have a bunch of like primary cohomology operations and then this and this secondary. So that would be like the classical example of an almost linear resolution above homological degree one. It's all linear terms except for the very last step. And then you might ask if there are any others that look like this. And polygons fit into a wider class of polytopes called cyclic polytopes. And they're the ones that would have instead of degree type, like 21112, like this, it'd be maybe 3113 or 41113.
00:42:33.828 - 00:43:27.450, Speaker A: So those are strictly almost linear resolutions. And by the upper bound theorem, any simplicial sphere which is neighborly in this sense right here has this like extreme old property that they simultaneously maximize the face numbers of the simplicial complex. So you might think that they're, because they have this extremal behavior, neighborly complexes, like all of these examples are neighborly, they might be very special. You might think that they're very rare. But it turns out that there are lots and lots of them. They grow super exponentially in a number of variables. And there's a lot of conjectures by combinatoris here, I could say about families of neighborly synthetic spheres that are non polytopal that have been constructed.
00:43:27.450 - 00:44:01.030, Speaker A: But to give the impression that there are lots of them, I just wanted to give this conjecture of Kalai, which sort of suggests that they might even be sort of generic among sphere triangulations. He suggests that the number of neighborly n minus one spheres on m vertices. Oh, there should be a log here. Pardon me, this is definitely not true. I meant to have the limit as m goes to infinity of log of this number over log of that number. That's perhaps one. I think it's considered a very bold conjecture in combinatorics.
00:44:01.030 - 00:45:30.688, Speaker A: They're nowhere near proving this, but there are very good, like asymptotic results about the numbers of these things. As the dimension or the number of vertices grow so the point is there are just lots and lots of them that are not coming from polytopes. And then same thing. If your missing faces aren't all in the same degree like this, you can talk about sequential cone macaulayness or component wise linearity. So now call a simplicial complex component wise, almost linear if. Well, okay, the easier way to say it, this isn't the usual way to define it, but it's the same as saying that the linear part of the minimal free resolution is acyclic in the middle. So if you think of the way I described, the minimal free resolution earlier, has just like s polynomial ring, tends to the cohomology of our moment angle complex, some differential, then in the middle of your resolution, or the middle cohomology group, if you had some class alpha that was in the kernel of all the like primary operations, all the derivations of degree minus one, then that would give you something that's not acyclic, right? Because you could consider just like one tensor, this and the linear part of the.
00:45:30.688 - 00:46:30.902, Speaker A: So that's definitely not in the image of any differential d multiplies on the left, the maximal ideal. It increases the dimension on the left side of the tensor product, in other words. So this would certainly be not exact in there, but it would be closed if alpha did not support like a primary operation. So to say the linear part of the minimal free resolution is like acyclic like this. It's just to say everything in the middle has a primary operation coming out of it dually. In homology, any homology class that isn't like the top class or one of these homological degree one pieces can be reached by sweeping out some of these bottom classes. Or in terms of Hoxter, this is just like take your missing face classes and think of those bottom pieces of the Hoxter formula, and then just include full sub complexes into bigger full sub complex and see how these classes persist for lots of polytopes.
00:46:30.902 - 00:47:34.768, Speaker A: That just exhausts the entire cohomology of Zk. Okay, so I think this was just the last thing here, right? The point is, okay, is a sphere triangulation, or more generally any Gornstein complex, and it has this component wise almost linear property, then that's saying a lot about its homotopy type. So it's like n minus one skeleton would be a wedge of spheres, right? Because everything's in the image of the Horovich map, except for that top class, which must not be a Horovich image because it's like a product of things by Poncari duality. So that's enough to conclude that ZK is, at least rationally, at connected semosphere products. So all of these moment angle manifolds are formal, they're rationally looking like connected some of those spheres, and integrally, their loop space is a product of loops on spheres. Later this week, we'll hear more about this problem from Lewis about when can the moment angle complex be decomposed like this in terms of familiar spaces. So this is a good example where that happens.
00:47:34.768 - 00:48:22.452, Speaker A: Again, this is sort of the simplest homotopy type the loops on ZK could possibly have. Okay, so the examples here I didn't mention, but, you know, these component wise, almost linear ones include all of these. Of course, they also include stacked polytopes. So if you take a simplex and start doing vertex cuts, you won't have all your missing faces of the same dimension, but it will still have a sort of component wise almost linear resolution. And we showed that if you take any two component wise almost linear sphere triangulations and consider their connected sum, you get another one. So in particular, that means you can take a connect sum of the simplex. That's what corresponds to like vertex cutting.
00:48:22.452 - 00:49:24.302, Speaker A: So you take any of these examples we've discussed so far and start doing like stellar subdivision in any way, you'll stay inside of this class and you can, you know, take connected sums of like cyclic polytopes and stacked polytopes, things like that, to get tons and tons of examples. Okay, I guess this is just a better drawing of like, what I had here, right? In the case of a pentagon, you can consider all of your missing phase classes like vertex one three is a missing edge, vertex one four is a missing edge, and so on. So they'll be connected to homological degree zero by these secondary operations. And then if you just consider like the missing edge one four, that's just a copy of s zero, right? If I include it in vertex five, then I get something contractible. So that map is null homotopic. So this shouldn't have like a delta five connected to it. But if you consider one four and include it into the full sub complex 124 or 134, those will be equivalences.
00:49:24.302 - 00:49:52.702, Speaker A: They're inducing non trivial maps. Those are giving you some like, primary operations like this. So yeah, usually you can't do this, of course, like take, uh, an element in the nth homology group of some space and like just push it up to the n plus first one. But if you have a hoxter sort of formula for your cohomology. You can do this. And also, if you have a circle action, you can do this. You can sweep out an n dimensional homology class to get an n plus one dimensional one and for moment angle complexes.
00:49:52.702 - 00:50:07.110, Speaker A: These two things coincide as you just take these bottom classes and push them up into higher degrees. You stay in the here avid change. Okay. I'll not give another example, so thank you very much.
