00:00:05.760 - 00:00:37.469, Speaker A: Hello everyone. It's a great pleasure to be here to share about our web 3 Innovations from Xen. My name is Kobe Zhang, CEO of Xen. For those people who are not familiar with Zen so we are new brand from Ant Group for Web3 Innovations. We are starting from last September. It's almost one year till today. So we have served more than 1 billion people in China and also another 1 billion people in the ACPC areas for the Web2 world.
00:00:37.469 - 00:01:14.105, Speaker A: And we built a lot of blockchain infrastructure for them already. But now we are trying to bring this technology to be available to be shared with you guys. So we want to build a faster, hard, higher, stronger infrastructure together with you. So we all know that web3 massive adoption. We need a greater infrastructure not only for tokenization for applications for layer one and L2. So we will share a few use cases here. First we will talk about the faster zero knowledge proofs.
00:01:14.105 - 00:01:50.965, Speaker A: We all know that usability is just like love. You have to listen, you have to care and you have willing to change. And one of the key factor for durability for ZK proof is about performance or speed. So we want to build a faster ZKP service for you. So we all know that 0Zkp is great but it has lower performance and it's fragmented. You have a lot of options and computing complexity. It involves a lot of complexity to the developers.
00:01:50.965 - 00:02:47.615, Speaker A: So we launched Power Zebra. Zebra is short for zero knowledge become really accelerated or acceptable. We provide people's FG GPU and our software co optimization for the underlying operators and give you a simple interface to do the leaky service. So we have recently released a few performance table on our Twitter account for reference for gpu, MSM and also ASIC MSM and GPU X Poly. We all have been released the best performance ever in the world. In case you are interested you can check out Twitter and also have a live demo to try it out. So we provide different form of the service to you guys.
00:02:47.615 - 00:03:40.041, Speaker A: It could be MPG IP in case you are interested in building your own ASIC chips. We provide GPU libraries to be deployed on your own machines and we also have a SaaS option just run it on demand GPU virtual machine on the cloud. The second is about security. So we believe that Web3 project is only as strong as security is secure. So we all know that there's a lot of innovations around smart contact review. So there will be automated tools and also expert manual audit for this. But both method is kind of lag behind the involving threats so on the day of the release, you actually checked all the potential threats about smart contract.
00:03:40.041 - 00:05:02.101, Speaker A: But as time goes by, things will change, There will be new threats rise and you will find the new flaws of this smart contract. So how do we deal with this? So we noticed that a lot of smart contracts actually forked from same origin. In that case we can understand the attack impact is amplified across forked code which is very straightforward. So we all know about vampire, right? So if someone is bit by a vampire and he will bite another one and then it goes before become a vampire family. And the reason is we have original vampire if he is killed and then the entire family tree will be killed. So with this observation we want to find that if we continuously scan the code of all the Web3 smart contract and also to analyze the bloody correlations between them using lag language models and also the code analysis technologies and we also have on chain monitor about the ongoing threat happened in the web3world. We know that KYT know your transactions about all these threats.
00:05:02.101 - 00:06:14.175, Speaker A: To combine these two together, we actually can improve this security of smart contract a lot. So that what we have released the Zen AI scan basically it's continuously protect smart contract with SAS service. So it's very close to the expert audit in complex code. So with manual audit from experts at the beginning and AI scan continuously scan this smart contract, it actually improves the security a lot. The third piece is we will talk a little bit about anti AIGC kyc. So I think a lot of progress recently is about how we meet the compliance and regulatory requirements for Web3 applications. And this is very interesting because recently when we noticed all the recent progress of land art language models at the AICC is actually being a big threat about whether to identify your face, identify the image and identify your identity card.
00:06:14.175 - 00:06:57.495, Speaker A: So this is a famous word from inception. To break down this kind of threat you have to go deeper. We all know about aitc. So with AIGC you actually can generate a vivid image of anyone that you have ever saw on the Internet. You can make this one, this person make any actions or reactions as you want. And with this it could be a presentation attack or injection attack to your mobile devices. Actually it can fake, it can be anyone that you saw on the Internet.
00:06:57.495 - 00:08:24.915, Speaker A: So how do we deal with this? So especially for those exchange wallet with bio verification of your face, how do we deal with this? So we have upgrade the KYC solution from Xen by a lot to solve this AITC attack. So previously our Real ID basic actually served more than 1 billion people in China and also in HDTC areas. But we find it's still a little bit behind what we saw the new thread from AIGC and deepfake. So we have upgraded our product with yellow highlighted body features for example for this batch generated document detections. So for ARGC you generate a batch of documents, they are pretty similar in terms of the background in terms of the features they have. So we have a cloud feature vector store to identify this kind of new threat and we have a reinforced learning framework to have generated all the deep fake videos and trying to train a model how to deal with it. And also we have a lot of efforts to protect identify the root or hook devices risk in case of the injection attacks.
00:08:24.915 - 00:09:09.417, Speaker A: And also there will be some blacklist from the device side or the behavior data, immediate data. So with this upgradation we actually notice that our capability to deal with the AIGC and deepfake attacks is about 90%. So here is a quick summary of all the products. We have the three products, that is only an example. So we basically focus on tokenization, decentralized applications and the key Smart Contract review application Chain Node service. So in case you are interested you can visit our website and try it out by yourself. So all the technology is from Ant Group and Alipay.
00:09:09.417 - 00:09:51.323, Speaker A: So we are powered by Antenna Open Labs. So in case you are interested in any collaborations for the research and paper, feel free to visit our official site from Onchain overlaps. One more thing here. So we love Sonana so we provide some exclusive offers for smart contract review identity, KYC and Power Zebra and Zenot Growth Supply. So in case you are interested we have a telegram, you can take a picture. I will stop here. You can take a picture and join the telegram group and you can claim your coupon there.
00:09:51.323 - 00:10:00.075, Speaker A: And also in case you are interested to have communication with us on Twitter and website, feel free to read it. Thank you all.
