00:00:01.960 - 00:00:11.398, Speaker A: Cool. Well, thanks, everyone, for coming out here, you know, modular summit. Woo. Yeah. Round of applause. All right. That's right, yeah.
00:00:11.398 - 00:00:31.686, Speaker A: Love this place. So I'm back. Guess who's back? It's me. I'm the co founder of Cosmos, CEO of Informal Systems, and we're incubating the cycles protocol. We do a lot of stuff in informal systems, security audits. We were on staking offering on Ethereum and in the cosmos ecosystem. We're also leading development for the Cosmos hub, best place to launch a chain.
00:00:31.686 - 00:00:53.804, Speaker A: We do a lot of secure engineering for the interchain and for starkware and others. And we're incubating cycles, which I'll talk to you a bit about. So a lot of exciting stuff happening, but I also like to think about bigger problems in the space. And that's what I want to talk about a bit today. The talk is called defund the dealers. But I'm not going to tell you why for a little bit of. Just keep the mystery.
00:00:53.804 - 00:01:25.936, Speaker A: Just hold it in the palm of your hand. This is what I want. All right, so we're here to talk about liquidity, and we're here to ask the big questions about liquidity. Where does it come from? What is this mysterious stuff? Is it in the room with us right now? Yeah. Who pays for it? How do we decentralize it? What does it even mean to decentralize it? Is that something we want? Okay. And these are the things we're going to try to answer, or at least understand a little bit more in this talk. But to do so, we're going to have to talk a little bit about history.
00:01:25.936 - 00:01:45.536, Speaker A: Okay? And I promise I'll be brief. Sort of. When I heard my talk was going to be 25 minutes instead of 20, I thought I could shower you all on a little bit more monetary history. This is the stuff I love, I promise. This is not seed oil. This is pure extra virgin olive oil here. Monetary history.
00:01:45.536 - 00:02:23.328, Speaker A: All right, so we're going to talk about the medieval period. Okay? And the reason this is important is because they actually had a quite advanced and sophisticated banking system and monetary system that isn't that well known. And I think there are things that we can learn from that historical monetary system that we've kind of lost in the transition to modern capitalism. And I want to sort of revive that. And I'm not suggesting that we need to return to the medieval era or anything like that, but there are things we might have lost that are worth knowing about. And so I want to describe this system briefly and then we're going to evolve forward in time. And so in this period, you had many different jurisdictions, and they all issued their own money, primarily in the form of a silver coin, sometimes gold.
00:02:23.328 - 00:02:46.130, Speaker A: And there were two main institutions in the money market at this time. There was what we call the mint and the exchange. Now, the mint defined the issuance of coins within each particular jurisdiction. Right. And this was governed by the king, while the exchange defined the exchange between different monies, between different jurisdictions. And this was dominated primarily by the italian banking families. Okay.
00:02:46.130 - 00:03:39.948, Speaker A: And so how did this all work? Well, at the mint, some merchant would come along and they would have some silver, some silver bullion that they acquired from trade or from mining or dug out of a hoard or something like that, and they would bring it to the mint, and they would give up their silver to the mint, and the mint would give them back some coins. And in doing so, the merchant has given up some of their silver as signorage. They're sort of taken away by the kingdom. And so the merchant is paying essentially for this service, but they receive coins in exchange, and the value of those coins to the merchant in that jurisdiction, their actual purchasing power is higher than the metal they started with. Right? So they actually gain purchasing power, but they have to give up some silver. Right? And this excess purchasing power actually comes from sovereignty. It's the power of the king itself to declare that by stamping my face on the coin, it's now worth more than the silver in its uncoined form.
00:03:39.948 - 00:04:11.832, Speaker A: Right? And so the important thing to emphasize here is that it's the users, it's the merchants that are paying for liquidity, right? They're paying for access to the liquid coin form. This means of payment. They're paying for it by giving up some silver, and they're incentivized to do so because the coins are worth more. And that's the sort of power of sovereignty expressed by the king that allows the merchant. The king wants silver because he needs to fight wars overseas, right? His own coins aren't kind of enough for him. He needs the silver. But the merchant, so long as they're doing business in a local jurisdiction, they're happy to get those coins and to get that higher purchasing power.
00:04:11.832 - 00:04:45.602, Speaker A: Now, the exchange of is a little bit different. Right? Now, remember, this is a time when usury, it was illegal, right? So it was prohibited. So you couldn't deal in the time value of money, because time is something that belongs to God. And who are you to sell something that belongs to God? And so they were having modular summits at the time where they'd get on these panels and they'd talk about, can we sell something that belongs to God? And the theologians were unanimous that, no, you can't. And the italian bankers are like, all right, so we're going to have to do something else. So we're going to engage in foreign exchange. And that was legal at the time, that was ok, so instead of dealing in current versus future money, these guys are dealing in present versus absent money.
00:04:45.602 - 00:05:34.850, Speaker A: And that was what sort of dominated the monetary system at the time. And the way this would work is that some merchant, say, in France, who's an exporter and has some importer in Spain who owes him money, and he's in France. And so he wants to collect his money, but he doesn't want to go to Spain, he doesn't want to ship metal, it's all expensive. So he'll write up a bill, he'll draw a bill on his importer from Spain, and he'll sell it to a banker in France, and the banker will give him some coins, and then it'll now be the banker's problem to collect on the debt. But the bankers were smart. They coordinated a highly sophisticated, very advanced banking system. This is back in the 16th century and even earlier, and they would coordinate the whole system to try to balance the trade flows across the different regions so that they could gather on a quarterly basis in these clearing fairs, where they got together with the other bankers and they cleared all of their debts without using any money at all.
00:05:34.850 - 00:06:16.140, Speaker A: Very, very powerful. They were focused on this idea of liquidity saving, that between themselves, they would structure the whole system so that they could save liquidity. So that's clearing and liquidity saving, but the users are paying for liquidity. And unfortunately, or fortunately, fortunately, the system sort of came to a crashing halt at the end of the 16th century because of all the silver that was being imported into Spain. It compressed the spreads, it kind of ended seniorage, and it led to the rise of the central banks and the modern system. Right? And so in the modern system, instead of focusing, you know, instead of the users paying for liquidity, now the state is explicitly subsidizing liquidity by paying to. For private people to actually produce it, rather than the other way around.
00:06:16.140 - 00:06:52.360, Speaker A: And we've moved from a system based on the clearing principle and liquidity saving to one based on accumulating reserves and liquidity provisioning. Right. And so, in summary, this is a beautiful chart. Take a picture of this and mull over it. But the important thing to emphasize is that we move from the merchant paying to the state paying, from a principle of liquidity, of clearing to reserves, liquidity saving to liquidity provisioning. From a quality theory of money based on balancing the graph to a quantity theory of money based on an imbalanced graph funding the permanent deficits of states. And so, I'm not saying that we have to go back, but maybe we lost something.
00:06:52.360 - 00:07:09.744, Speaker A: Maybe there's something to be learned there. Now, where does that leave us today? Well, today we have our good friends, the grand firefighters. Janet, Jerome and Ben. This is a real picture. You can tell because that's actually what Janet's hands look like. And there's the grand firefighters just dousing the world in liquidity. We're in this crisis.
00:07:09.744 - 00:07:30.252, Speaker A: Everyone's on fire. The fires of illiquidity are just ravaging the planet. And so we need the great firefighters to douse us in liquidity. But what is this liquidity even? Right? Everyone's just obsessed with the fed's balance sheet, right? This is the fed's balance sheet. You know, the liabilities over the last, I don't know, 20 years or so. Look at this explosion. But is this stuff even money? Who is this liquidity for? It's only liquidity for the banks.
00:07:30.252 - 00:07:41.580, Speaker A: Only the banks can access this liquidity. These are their deposits. I don't have deposits with the Federal reserve. They won't let me in. You know, I could try to register. They'll exclude me. Right? And so this kind of liquidity, it doesn't even make it into.
00:07:41.580 - 00:08:19.054, Speaker A: Into the real world, right? Everyone's obsessed with these numerical quantities. How much liquidity is the fed printing? What is this stuff? Is it in the room with us now? Can you access it? Can you use it? No, you can't. Only the banks can use it, right? And they're starting to recognize that this is a problem and they need to do something about it, right? But it seems like in crypto, same shit, different ledger, you know? I mean, for all of our open source and verifiability and transparency and all this. All this great stuff, we're still stuck in the same paradigm of monetary aggregates. This obsession with liquidity that has no meaning, no value, no utility to real people. When was the last time your mother accessed, you know, liquidity from one of your blockchains? She never did. And I'm not sure she ever will.
00:08:19.054 - 00:08:43.398, Speaker A: Well, we might have something to do about that. Okay, so before we kind of address that problem, let's talk a little more about providing liquidity. Now, where do we start with that? Well, I'm starting with Jack Trainer's the economics of the dealer functions. Very, very nice, easy, clean paper that just describes the mechanics of how dealers work. And so we're just going to cover it briefly. How do dealers work? Well, besides the dealer, we think about two different kinds of actors. There's the value investor and the time investor.
00:08:43.398 - 00:09:00.178, Speaker A: Now, the value investor has low time preference. They don't need, sorry, high time preference. They are high time horizon. They don't need to worry about liquidity. They're just in it for the fundamentals. They want to buy low, sell high, but the time investor is in a different situation. They have illiquidity issues they need to transact.
00:09:00.178 - 00:09:34.822, Speaker A: Now, the willingness of the value investor to buy low, sell high, creates what we call an outside spread. That's the outer bars. Within that outside spread, there's an opportunity for the dealer, the market maker, dealer, market maker, it's the same term. They show up and say, hey, I'm going to take advantage of this outside spread and I'm going to quote an inside spread, a bid, ask price to the time investor who needs money now. And I'm going to use my balance sheet to absorb flow from the time investor so I can make liquidity available to them. And I'll take the risk onto my balance sheet because I'm going to expect that over time, the flows are kind of going to net out. Right.
00:09:34.822 - 00:09:56.840, Speaker A: So I have this opportunity because of these, you know, because I can take some risk, but the flows will net out. I can harvest this spread of in the meantime. But the size of that spread is actually the dealer's estimate of their uncertainty, of the existence of the market itself. Because if they take on too much directional flow, then the market's going to disappear altogether. The dealers are going to step out. And this happens from time to time. Yeah.
00:09:56.840 - 00:10:41.582, Speaker A: Now, in crypto, we've gone ahead and tried to decentralize the dealer function, amms xy equals k, all this beautiful stuff. But in doing so, we've collapsed the spread into a static fee. It's no longer something dynamic that the dealers can adjust, it's just the transaction fee in the amm. Now, there's been a lot of research over the last year or so about, okay, how can we make dynamic fees in amms? Can we make them a function of volatility, this kind of thing? But it's still a big open area for research, and we're increasingly discovering that actually, you know, just decentralizing the dealers isn't quite cutting it. And a lot of folks are going back to hiring centralized dealers, centralized market makers, you know, adding concentrated liquidity, things like this, to address these kinds of liquidity problems that are still plaguing us in the blockchain ecosystem. Now, cosmos is certainly no stranger to this. We've been plagued, you could say, by liquidity challenges.
00:10:41.582 - 00:11:20.358, Speaker A: And despite having clearly the best tech, celestia and everyone else, and amazing user interfaces and all of a sudden, amazing Dex like osmosis, we're still struggling to attract sufficient liquidity to compete with, let's say, ethereum and Solana and these kinds of ecosystems now. So what are we going to do about this? Well, we're introducing hydro, so this is an application that we're building at informal systems. It's cool. We've gone from theory and history, deep theory and history of money, to actually building degenerate liquidity providing in the cosmos ecosystem. Let's get it done. This is a decentralized auction platform for protocol owned liquidity. There's all this capital tied up in community pools across the cosmos ecosystem and beyond.
00:11:20.358 - 00:11:53.466, Speaker A: We want to make this capital accessible. We want to deploy it into amms and into other apps that actually need access to liquidity in a frictionless and permissionless way. We're going to work with our friends from the time wave project to make this all automated, because right now, what's happening is people are making proposals to the cosmos hub to say, hey, we want some atoms. We're going to put it into multisig, we're going to deploy it into some amm. You know, it'll sit there in the LP. No one's really monitoring. It's all kind of like ad hoc, right? So we want to formalize it, build a proper action platform, auction platform, let people bid on it, and unlock all that capital in the community pools to provide liquidity across the ecosystem.
00:11:53.466 - 00:12:31.728, Speaker A: So, for all you, all you modular people building roll ups, you should know that the Cosmos hub is Celestia's best ally, and it's your friend and it's here to support you. And if you want access to tier liquidity, you should get in touch with us. And for all of you that want the grand power of an application based blockchain and building in cosmos, the Cosmos hub is the best place to launch a chain, and Hydro is a big part of that, and you should get in touch. So, arguably, after all this ranting about problems with liquidity, providing this is sort of the best we can do in the world of providing liquidity. Nice, decentralized liquidity provider. This is kind of the pinnacle. But there is another way, and it's the other way that I want to talk to you about liquidity saving.
00:12:31.728 - 00:13:04.088, Speaker A: Now, I hope you were paying attention during the history, because we're going to run it back turbo here. Remember the bankers that are gathering in these clearing houses on a quarterly basis to clear all their debts? Well, I came across this paper about liquidity that says, for the ordinary saver, liquidity is of little value. Just keep the dealer function in your mind here. Because the point of the dealer function is that it only works because there are. Because the flows balance out over time. They make this point that many long term investors would be just as well served by an asset market that only traded once a week. Imagine if the markets were only once per week.
00:13:04.088 - 00:13:41.046, Speaker A: I mean, it's ridiculous. Obviously, it's a silly idea, but just conceptually, there's something interesting there, because if the market's only traded once per week, then you might not need dealers, because all the flows from all the different individuals that would happen over the course of that week could balance out against each other. You'd find the liquidity from the other people that were going in, in the other direction. And so they say the attempt to offer perfect market liquidity actually ultimately works against the interest of investors. So there's something to think about in this batch offering that batching trades can actually be incredibly valuable. And so maybe not weekly. Maybe we should do it daily or hourly, or every few seconds.
00:13:41.046 - 00:14:07.098, Speaker A: And who's doing it every few seconds? Our good friends, Penumbra. Yeah, represent. So Penumbra just launched. Huge round of applause. These guys are doing some breakthrough stuff, and they get it right. And this combination of privacy and batching, I mean, they still have liquidity providers because they're only running the auction, they're only running the batch execution every, every few seconds. So they can't net out all these trades, but at least they can significantly reduce how much is being leaked in executing their trades.
00:14:07.098 - 00:14:35.784, Speaker A: And they've got the right idea, this working towards batching. So everyone's really excited about penumbra and for the right reasons. And so we're building something similar. We're sort of generalizing the ability to build private batched execution on cosmosm chains. And we call that quartz. Right? And what I really like about the design of quartz is that it really emphasizes the sort of modular thesis of composition, right? We have encrypted intents and results that really just need data availability you could post that to Celestia. You have execution.
00:14:35.784 - 00:15:08.690, Speaker A: We like to do it in a trusted execution enclave. So you can keep it private, right, and then produce zero knowledge proofs of correctness so that in the worst case, if intel rugs us, we're just back to the base case of, like, public, you know, transparent blockchains today. And then we have settlement happening on chain where you can update state and so on. Now, the reason we went and had to build quartz was because we're building a really interesting application that we call cycles. And cycles is based on these ideas of privacy and batched execution. But it's an open clearing protocol. It's designed to clear the most debt for the most people with the least money.
00:15:08.690 - 00:15:48.372, Speaker A: I'm going to say that six more times in the talk, so don't worry if you didn't catch it the first time. But the idea behind cycles is that everyone in crypto thinks that the power of banking comes with the assets, the asset side of the balance sheet. If only we had counterparty free, permissionless assets, then we could solve banking. The bankers are just laughing all the way to the central bank because they know that the power banking comes from the liability side of the balance sheet. Like we saw, the bankers have been gathering. Even though our system is no longer systematically designed around the clearing principle and liquidity saving, the bankers still gather in clearing houses every day and have for hundreds of years to clear as much debt as they can with as little money as possible. Right? And this power of clearing we have all been systematically excluded from, unless you, you know, unless you're part of.
00:15:48.372 - 00:16:09.328, Speaker A: Part of the bank, unless you marry into their family or whatever, you're excluded from it. Right. Maybe you've used, splitwise. That might be the only time you've experienced clearing. Right. You split a bill with your friends, but split wise only works in small, trusted groups with trusted friends. What we want to do with cycles is allow people to clear with arbitrary strangers, arbitrary debts anywhere in the world in a privacy preserving way.
00:16:09.328 - 00:16:43.908, Speaker A: So that's the power of cycles, to clear the most debt with the least liquidity for the most people. To illustrate how kind of cycles works, we have our good friends, the Three Stooges. You might be familiar with this video. The idea is that they all find out that they each owe each other $20, but only one of them has a $10 bill. And so they pass the $10 bill around a few times until all the debts are cleared, and then everyone's like, oh, banking is stupid. Okay, there's actually a profound insight in here, which is you could clear all $60 of that debt with no money at all. And the bankers know this, but the rest of us seem to have kind of forgotten about it.
00:16:43.908 - 00:17:17.928, Speaker A: Right? So that's what we can bring back. Here's him actually giving the money. And so, with cycles, the way we're approaching this is to build what we call a universal finance engine. We can express, we can boil finance down to a very small number of primitives, what we call obligations and acceptances and tenders that allow us to express kind of arbitrary financial compositions that can then be solved over with a graph solver in an enclave, like I was showing in a batch operation in private. And it's not just about cycles between people. We can add liquidity sources as well. That purple node at the bottom is a liquidity source.
00:17:17.928 - 00:18:23.500, Speaker A: It could be bitcoin, could be atom, could be tia, it could be what have you, it could be hydro, it could be this platform we're building for providing liquidity, that you can close cycles with a liquidity source. In the world of cycles, there's no difference between a liquidity source and a user. We can abstract over all of it with our universal finance engine and build arbitrary kinds of financial applications from a small number of primitives with the same graph solver. And when you generalize this into a network with many different liquidity sources, you come to unpack incredible amounts of power, where a small number of people being willing to use and accept a particular currency can actually benefit a much larger number of people that don't even want anything to do with that currency because of the network effect in cycles. And so the way we're building out this platform is to make it a sort of a risk reduced platform that gives you the power of the obligation graph for building new kinds of lending protocols and new kinds of stable coins that aim to be designed on top. Right? So cycles is aiming to be this sort of optimal place to build lending protocols and stable coins. And so with that, I'll tease the idea that we can now build a safe, decentralized, liquidity saving stablecoin what can be unburdened by what has been.
00:18:23.500 - 00:18:54.506, Speaker A: Yeah, let that sink in for a minute. This is where I drink some water. I don't have any. So, Chad, liquidity savers, virgin liquidity providers, respect the graph. Okay, all right, I'm ready to tell you what the title. Are you ready to know about the title of the talk? Do you think you know yet? Does someone want to get up here? And we have some time. No, that's crazy.
00:18:54.506 - 00:19:28.126, Speaker A: So back in 1922, Carl Schmitt said, sovereign is he who decides on the state of exception. And today, you know, I apply this to blockchains. I say, sovereign are they who decide on the state transition. And I bring this up because to understand this problem of liquidity, I think we have to. We have to go back to the question of sovereignty, sort of where we started with in history. And, you know, it's somewhat unfortunate that we have to turn to like a, you know, a proto Nazi to really get the best, you know, the best of sovereignty and theorizing about sovereignty. Many people are struggling with this sort of challenge.
00:19:28.126 - 00:20:05.072, Speaker A: But there's our friend Carl, or, you know, anti friend Carl, however you want to refer to him, was really focused on the state of exception as the state of emergence, the emergency event. Right? But there's a counterpoint to this, which is that the state of exception can actually occur in day to day reality. It can occur in the everyday. It doesn't require some extreme emergency to go all the way up to the central bank. And this is most easily expressed in the institution of the police. Okay? Where the police get to actually express this kind of sovereign power. When they intermediate the making and enforcing of laws, right? They show up for security reasons.
00:20:05.072 - 00:20:40.626, Speaker A: They intervene for security reasons where no actual legal situation necessarily exists, right? And by doing so, they actually inhibit. They inhibit our ability to build more preventative solutions or to decentralize the reaction, right? There are lots of different ways to respond to things. And that institution actually inhibits us. And thinking about that, it occurred to me that, hey, maybe dealers are like copse. Maybe dealers are like the police. They express this kind of sovereign power when they interfere in people's illiquidity in the everyday. The state of exception of illiquidity in the everyday.
00:20:40.626 - 00:21:06.576, Speaker A: They intermediate between production and consumption in markets. They show up for liquidity reasons when no economic situation exists. And they potentially inhibit more preventative mechanisms and more decentralized mechanisms for addressing those liquidity challenges. Right? So defund the police and defund the dealers. Now, I'm not saying that we completely get rid of police. Completely get rid of dealers. I mean, obviously we're gonna need cops.
00:21:06.576 - 00:21:31.374, Speaker A: We're gonna need dealers to some extent. But these are very expensive state subsidized institutions, right? And what we can do is significantly reduce our reliance on them. I mean, people like to say cities are like police departments. Cities are large police departments with small civic service appendages. Well, it feels like our economies are large dealer departments with small production appendages. Everything's about the dealers, the market makers. It's all anyone seems to care about.
00:21:31.374 - 00:21:55.534, Speaker A: What we can do is focus instead on preventative mechanisms and on decentralizing their reactions so that we can reduce our reliance on them. Not get rid of them completely, but reduce the reliance. And so, in the world of liquidity and the dealers, these preventative mechanisms are the liquidity saving protocols. Right, protocols like cycles, things like Penumbra that do this kind of batch execution. But really, we have to push towards the liquidity saving and the. The reaction. Sorry.
00:21:55.534 - 00:22:18.142, Speaker A: To decentralize the reaction in the liquidity world, we can use things like amms and like Hydra, which are really focused on that. So the alternative talk. The alternative title for my talk was a throwback to Evan Forbes talk last year. Who saw that? Yeah. More of you have seen Evans talk. I mean, come on. Yeah, it was a real banger, right? But this was the alternative title, how to make the dealers cucks.
00:22:18.142 - 00:22:41.038, Speaker A: Okay, but you weren't going to understand that until we got all the way through. Evan last year put out a long list of stakeholders that he believes are cucks. I will add dealers to that list because that's what we need to do here. So that's it for me. Thank you so much. Stay connected. We are hiring ad informal.
00:22:41.038 - 00:22:56.310, Speaker A: We're bringing cycles to market. We need a lot of creative, brilliant, motivated people to make this thing work. We're transforming the financial system, and that's hard work. So if you're interested in any of this, what we're building with cycles, trying to clear the most debt for the most people with the least money, please reach out, get in touch, and thanks so much.
