00:00:00.200 - 00:00:38.650, Speaker A: What is up guys? Taiki here. Today I'll be going over how you can create a custom RPC for your metamask wallet so you can actually get your transactions through on Polygon. If you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So let's get started. So as the number of daily transactions on Polygon are going up and to the right, as well as the number of unique addresses, you might have noticed that, you know, the network has been congested and sometimes it's hard to get your transactions through. And also after the iron finance collapse, the network has been even more congested and there's potentially even a spam attack happening on Polygon. So you know there are many factors that's causing the network congestion and the way you can get around that is by creating a custom RPC.
00:00:38.650 - 00:01:52.168, Speaker A: Well you might be asking what is a custom RPC? And I'm not a technical person either, so I want to use an analogy so you can understand it in the simplest way possible, the simplest explanation possible. So the RPC is what the URL you put here whenever you were configuring your metamask wallet on metamask. And the way I like to think about these RPC URL's is I think of the each individual URL as like a road, right, where everyone is trying to get from point a to point b. And if everyone at the same time is trying to use the road at the same time, the network might get congested and it might be, it might take some time to get your transactions through. So the idea of creating a custom RPC is, you know, let's beat the traffic by creating our own road, right? Let's just use our own single road that only I can use so I don't have to deal with sharing a single road with everyone else adding to the traffic. So if you look at the RPC like the URL's, if you go matic already gave you six URL's you can choose from, right? So whenever the network is congested, you maybe you can switch through six of these and maybe one of them is less crowded, right? But in this tutorial I'll be using infuria to create a custom one. So you don't have to even worry about it, right? Let's just create our own custom URL.
00:01:52.168 - 00:02:42.700, Speaker A: So that being said, let's get to the quick tutorial on how to do this yourself for free. Alright? So the first thing you need to do is to create an account at Infura IO link will be in the description below. And once you've done so you can go to the dashboard where the top thing will say new network alert. The Polygon Network API is available today, so we're going to click on that and you're going to be on the free plan. Or if you scroll down you can select this Polygon Pos, it's right, it's, it says $200 but right now it's free. I'll include a screenshot in the video where I asked the team and they said they don't know when, how long this is going to go on, but they're not going to charge you randomly because you do have to add your credit card on file, right, but you know they're going to notify you if they're like this free program is ending so you'll have enough time to unsubscribe so you won't get charged. So once you do that, let's get to the next step.
00:02:42.700 - 00:03:26.004, Speaker A: Alright. Now that you're signed in, he should be redirected this page under the Ethereum section, right? So if you're not redirected to go to the Ethereum section and go to the projects tab, right, and then what you're going to want to do is to create a new project and you can call this whatever you want, right? My own medic RPC, I just decided to call it there. Doesn't really matter. And once you click on that, you go to settings and then under the endpoints you want to move from the Ethereum mainnet to the polygon mainnet. And this URL is going to be the RPC that you're going to use to configure your metamask wallet or whatever your wallet you're using and create, creating your own RPC. So that being said, let's get back to the slideshow so I can actually go through how you're going to do this. All right, welcome back.
00:03:26.004 - 00:04:03.300, Speaker A: So now that you have your custom RPC, users have to add your own network. So you go to your metamask, right? And once you click at the top, right, whatever network are you on, you should be, there should be this like drag down, right? Once you scroll down to the bottom, there will be an option to create a custom RPC. You're going to click that and then you're going to just, you can name it whatever you want. Like I called it mymatic RPC. And then in the new RPC URL section you're just going to want to put your link, right, your URL and chain, id 137, currency symbol matic and the block Explorer URL being Explorer, matic, network. So everything is the same. The only thing that's going to change your RPC URL.
00:04:03.300 - 00:04:30.286, Speaker A: And once you've done so, you're set right now you have your own road that you can drive through. You don't have to worry about congestion. This is your road. And after I've done this, I haven't really had any trouble getting my transactions through, even if, like on Twitter or even on my discord, people are saying, oh, it's so congested. So hopefully this was helpful for you. And I mean, it was definitely very helpful to me. And I want to give a shout out to Chris Soriano.
00:04:30.286 - 00:04:57.056, Speaker A: He's one of the moderators on my discord. But he made this video a week ago and, you know, like, he brought it up and I just wanted to, I guess, share the knowledge so you don't have to be stressing out about getting your transactions through. Thank you guys for watching. Have a nice day. And yeah, have fun using polygon out there. Hey guys, thanks for watching till the end of the video. I just wanted to mention that I'm participating in round ten of gitcoin grants, where even the smallest contribution matters due to quadratic funding.
00:04:57.056 - 00:05:21.420, Speaker A: You can see that even a $1 contribution will be matched $3 by a gitcoin. So, you know, if you like the channel and it's helped you understand defi, yield, farming, etcetera, and you want to support me and the channel, I really appreciate even like the smallest donation, because how quadratic funding works is that the more people donate, the matching just increases. Right? So thank you for your consideration and the links will be in the description below.
