00:00:14.000 - 00:00:38.695, Speaker A: Welcome to Breakpoint. I'm Siang from Jupiter, so I'm here to introduce you the Jupiter ecosystem. We call it the Jupyverse. The Jupiter consists of three main pillars. The Jupiter Platform, the Community and the Jupe Tokens. The Jupiter platform is one of the most comprehensive platform across all of crypto. It has three main products, the Spot, the Pubs and the Launchpad.
00:00:38.695 - 00:01:21.315, Speaker A: It's also one of the most integrated network across all crypto systems. Since launch, the Spot product has done more than 300 billion in volume. It has generated more than 300 million for our partners and we have integrated more than 30 DEXs. The PERPS product in 2024 has done more than 100 billion in volume and the GLP community is providing more than 600 million in liquidity for our traders to trade on. And we are doing all these things with just three trading pairs. The Joobdao is also one of the most active and largest Dao with over 300,000 active Dao voters. They engage in vibrant discussion and provide robust feedback for all the proposals on the Drupal.
00:01:21.315 - 00:01:57.385, Speaker A: Here I'm sharing three examples that Drupivorce is pioneering. We introduced the Define First Dynamics slippage. Slippage is the most confusing and ever changing user experience barrier for our users. The dynamic slippage provide real time slippage estimation based on different heuristic like training, pair size and marketing condition. It also provides MEV protections. Since the dynamic zippage launch it has increased our swap success rate by a lot. We are doing this because we love our users.
00:01:57.385 - 00:02:33.185, Speaker A: We want to make sure that it's safe and convenient to trade on Jupyter next. We also innovated on this working model. We call it the Jupyter Workgroup. The Jupyter Works Group are the execution engine of all the Jupyters. They are independent autonomous team from the community and they're accountable and funded by the dao. They handle key community outreach, dao coordination and ecosystem growth effort. We believe this is the future of decentralized work and we want to bring this working model to more working groups around the ecosystem.
00:02:33.185 - 00:03:32.255, Speaker A: I think we would love to see working groups like the Developer Relationship, Video Production and Marketing Group next. We also pioneered this initiative we call JOOB Transparency Audit. We did the first crypto live community transparency audit with all the community members live on Twitter. We went through every single transaction on the Gymnastics Wallet and make sure every single transaction is accounted for. This provides certainty, accountability and transparency to all the JOOP holders. These are the examples that show what we believe in the core JUPYVERSE ethos to provide the most user driven experimental platform, to have the most active engaged community and to provide the most transparent distributed token. Now I went through all the Drupal I would love to share five product updates.
00:03:32.255 - 00:04:11.545, Speaker A: First the Metapolis API platform to provide to make developing on Solana a lot easier. The Metropolitan API platform is the Most comprehensive liquidity APIs with three main API. The token API is to provide a comprehensive token information verified by our community. Partners don't have to worry about scam tokens when they provide this token for their user to trade on. Second, the Price API. The Price API is an upgraded version of our very first API. Now it provides real time token data trading data from Jupyter and also real time liquidity data.
00:04:11.545 - 00:04:55.535, Speaker A: Last the Swap API over the years we have launched multiple features on the Swap ui. The new Swap API consolidate all the new cool features like Dynamic zippage and automatic Guest priority fees into the Swap API. We believe this will massively improve the partners platform for their users. With this all liquidity needs are in one single set of APIs. Next Jupyter iFQ we are launching Jupiter iFQ to make liquidity deeper on Solana. Today Jupiter Swap aggregate all the on chain liquidity to provide the best price for our users. With Jupyter IFQ top market maker will soon be able to provide their pricing codes directly into our routing engine.
00:04:55.535 - 00:05:26.655, Speaker A: We believe with this and their liquidity we can make even better deeper liquidity on Solana. If you are a market maker out there, let us know. We would love to work with you to provide more liquidity for our users. Jupiter perps V2 to make Solana the best place for perps over the years based on our experience working on the perp product, we realized that on chain perps suffer with a few problems. First, low liquidity. Second, poor user experience. Traders also need to deal with steel Oracle price high fees and high latencies.
00:05:26.655 - 00:06:17.625, Speaker A: A multi prong approach is needed to solve all these problems. First, we work with our key partners the GLP community to provide ample liquidity for the traders to trade on. We work with risk managers like Gauntlet and Chaos to make sure that the market is safe and recommend good parameters for the purpose product to to perform optimally. Last, to make sure the program and the product is safe and secure, we work with security auditors like Offsite Lab, Autosec, Neodym and Zachtree. With their help we managed to decrease the perps fee on Jupyter as competitive as Binance for trades. That's more than a Million dollars we sometimes we even see better price. Today I'm bringing three new updates to the PERPS product.
00:06:17.625 - 00:06:57.985, Speaker A: Limit order. Limit order is one of the most anticipated features by our users. This is only possible because we are also bringing a massive UI update on the PERPS product. Next, the DOF Oracle standards. So we are leveraging kiosk pricing data and using PIF as the backup Oracle. With the new DAF Oracle we provide lower latency high available pricing data even during congestion time. Since the launch of the DAF Oracle it has massively improved the trading experience for our users.
00:06:57.985 - 00:07:23.075, Speaker A: And most importantly, the Dove Oracle standard is an open standard. So anyone here who loves to use the Oracle let us know. And last but I think it's the coolest thing that we are. I mean we are launching today the guestless transaction on purps. Our keepers will take care of all the gas fee the traders are paying. That means trading on purpose. You don't have to pay a single guest.
00:07:23.075 - 00:08:22.953, Speaker A: This will make sure that the trading performance is much faster. Obviously the experience will be a lot better as well. With this we believe that we are bringing perps on Solana to parity with centralized exchanges. Last Jupiter Mobile we believe to onboard million more users onto Solana we have to remove all the friction to start using Solana. Over the years we learned a lot but by creating our swap UI we're consolidating all these lessons that we have learned to create we believe the best swapping experience on mobile. We are doing this with three great features. Easy on RAM User can easily start swapping on the mobile app by using Apple Pay, Google Pay or credit cards.
00:08:22.953 - 00:09:17.575, Speaker A: Second one tap swap we believe one tab swap is the best swapping experience anywhere. All tokens are tradable immediately on Jupyter Mobile with the best price possible. With great features like dynamic slippage and auto priority fee we remove all the confusing settings before the user need to set. I mean the user needs to set before they start the trading adjournee. With Wallet directly integrated into the Jupyter Mobile we allow smart retries. All fiat transactions will be retry automatically Last obviously zero platform fee like our UI we think the Jupiter Mobile will be the most simple frictionless entry to onboard millions more users onto Solana to start their decentralized trading journey. And lastly April to make min coins fun again on Solana.
00:09:17.575 - 00:09:51.585, Speaker A: At Jupiter we believe min coins are here to stay. I mean to boom. On Solana we are making a massive upgrade to the APE platform that we launched a few months ago. We are calling it April 8Pro has two main features, Ape Trading and apemin. Anyway the video is not playing. I'm going to walk. I'm going to go talk through it.
00:09:51.585 - 00:11:22.659, Speaker A: So April allows April requires zero seed phrases using our account extraction system, even allows user to log in with Google. April allows faster and better transaction for our ape user using our keeper backend keeper infrastructure. APO even provide top notch trading signals for our users to trade on and APRO is also the cheapest across all the trading platform and it only costs 0.5%. And most importantly APRO works perfectly well on mobile so you can ape shit on the go and last admin so token creator can easily mint new tokens using the admin UI with locking investing directly on the ui liquidity is locked right directly on Meteora pool token creator can earn fee perpetually April is our commitment to make min coin trading creation and culture fun right here on Solana. Obviously we are Jupiter, we love experiments. I'm also sharing three fun experiments that we are working on. First LVG v2 Since the pause of LG v1 the team has been working very hard on LGBT to push the AirDrop PCL and transparency meta forward.
00:11:22.659 - 00:12:16.181, Speaker A: Our interns are also hard at work at the Fox initiative to token nice predictions and allow odds token to be freely traded on Solana and a few months ago we announced the GUM initiative. Over the course of the next few months we will share more on the everything exchange on everything and not one, not two, I mean not one but two last things. We are announcing the acquisition of Solana fm, the most innovative Solana explorer world class expert in Solana data infrastructure. We are also buying Coinhaul, the number one aggregator across Cosmo. They have done 2.6 billion in volume with more than 225,000 users across 23 chains. We believe they are the best one of the best team they are.
00:12:16.181 - 00:13:02.889, Speaker A: I mean both are the best team in crypto. In summary, using Solana today is great but we are here to make using Solana awesome. With the Metropolis API platform we are making developing easier on Solana. With the Jupyter IFQ we are bringing more liquidity onto Solana. With the Upgraded Jupiter perps v2 we are making perpetual trading great on Solana. With the introduction of Jupyter mobile we believe that we can onboard millions more users onto Solana. And lastly April I think we can make meme coin fun again on Solana Here we want to drive the decentralized meta forward together with the Jupyter United Planet the Cadets have been very helpful to push the Jupiter's ethos forward.
00:13:02.889 - 00:13:25.745, Speaker A: The user has been very helpful in giving us great feedback. The DAO are very active on the governance. The team has been working very hard for all the great updates that we've been rolling out over the last year and obviously the work groups for pushing and expanding the jupyters here. I would love to thank everyone. Thank you.
