00:00:00.090 - 00:00:21.246, Speaker A: People are going to realize it's an absolute must in the long run to scale the single execution environments, liquidity UX developer complexity, all of these things, like exactly what Salon is doing. I think that's exactly like the rationale behind someone like Eclipse is like, yeah, we clearly need to innovate on the VMs of these L two S and these roll ups more. And in that scenario, you do start to see more of a power law.
00:00:21.348 - 00:01:03.278, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Das, London blockworks number one institutional crypto conference, where all the top institutions and people in crypto are going to be this march in London, what's becoming maybe the crypto hub of the world. Have a link in the show notes where you can learn more and also discount code that will get you 20% off. So click the link, find out more and I'll see you there. What's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we are joined by John Charboneau, who is probably the most prolific researcher in the space. I think you joined the space in 2022, so you haven't even been around that long, but your rise has been absolutely incredible and you went from being an analyst at Delphi to now you've co founded an investment fund called DBA. So John, welcome to the show.
00:01:03.444 - 00:01:13.534, Speaker A: Yeah, glad to be on finally. It's been a while since I've done a pod. That's what we were just saying before. Thank you for setting this one up because Hasu and I have been very slow at planning our next pod, so need someone else to do it for me.
00:01:13.572 - 00:01:20.760, Speaker C: Thanks for coming on, John. Do want to just start off really simple and ask just probably the most basic question, which is what is a roll up?
00:01:22.410 - 00:02:17.410, Speaker A: This is going to be tough. This has been a whole big debate with everyone over the last few months. The TLDR that I've tried to push on a lot is that basically people try to kind of simplify a roll up into the idea of very simply what we have today, where it's like this one bridge contract on Ethereum and that's where all the money is. And so that effectively is the roll up. And a lot of what I've tried to do is just generalize and separate that because I think it's actually really important to get the right mental model for it to understand what is the purpose of a roll up versus something like Salon in the first place. The very simple answer is that a roll up is just some state that you derive off of some data. Basically that is posted on another blockchain, another data layer.
00:02:17.410 - 00:02:36.542, Speaker A: So there's data posted on Ethereum and I can run some state transition function over that data that says like, hey, this is the state of my roll up. That is all you really need to have a roll up at just like a fundamental level. Is that all of these other things are very important but they are implementation details. Kind of on top of that at the most basic sense, what have been.
00:02:36.596 - 00:02:50.050, Speaker C: The most common disagreements? What are maybe the different camps for our audience who are going to be mostly solana based and so they probably won't understand or know or be aware of the different kind of distinctions. Can you break that field down for us?
00:02:50.200 - 00:03:46.302, Speaker A: Yeah. The main pushback that I would say I've gotten from people is it's not like a technical pushback, it's a practical kind of pushback of primarily most ethereum people in this community have a general concept of what roll ups are for. They are for scaling ethereum. And so if you view them as a scaling solution of ethereum well then the natural byproduct of that is okay, well if it lacks this bridge from the base layer to the roll up, well then what the hell is the point of this thing? That's the whole point of it in the first place. And while I agree in practice that for the large majority of use cases that roll ups should be viewed as they generally for most practical uses are like an actual attempt to scale their underlying base layer. They don't necessarily have to. You can have a roll up on top of ethereum that just doesn't have this bridge at all or on top of some other DA layer.
00:03:46.302 - 00:04:42.806, Speaker A: And you do get certain security properties by the fact that you are using that DA layer. And it can help in these different senses of, okay, you are just using that other chain's consensus and whatever properties it may have as opposed to having to go bootstrap your own validator set. You can make a much more simplistic setup potentially easier to launch a chain as compared to launching your chain, having to go find a bunch of validators, all of that kind of stuff. What the use cases for that latter one will be is unclear because I think the practical reality is the majority of things that we see is like you want to be able to bridge assets around. That is what we are using most of these IGS for is that you want to be able to tap into the assets of this kind of other chain. But at just kind of a fundamental level, I think understanding those two very different parts of there is the security aspects and the roll up itself and then there is the bridge and the security properties of the bridge are two very distinct things and separating those helps you understand very well. Okay.
00:04:42.806 - 00:04:47.190, Speaker A: What are the architectures that we should think about? How should we bridge across these chains and stuff like that.
00:04:47.340 - 00:04:55.050, Speaker B: Yeah. John, another simple question how do you define scaling? And when you think about rollouts, are those scaling ethereum? Is that the proper way to phrase?
00:04:55.470 - 00:05:33.430, Speaker A: Yeah. So I still don't think there's a perfect definition for any of this. In general, I would say that my kind of basic definition of scaling is trying to get more throughput through a system relative to whatever the resource requirements are. So if you just double the block size of something and that equates to just doubling the compute that everyone needs to do, that's not really scaling, that's just higher resource requirements. And that's where a lot of the kind of unfair criticisms were of Solana and other chains over the past couple of years is like oh, it's just a block size increase, so it's not scaling. Whereas we're doing the whole like clients and proofs and all that. So that's real scaling.
00:05:33.430 - 00:06:25.670, Speaker A: Obviously the different side of that is one like yes, Lana does have higher resource requirements, but so do roll ups. The difference is like okay, but we can create more efficient execution environments that for comparable amounts of resources do get you a lot more throughput. So I consider that scaling. And then there's very far side of that is also just like scaling in the sense of verification of so users don't have to even execute all the transactions the way that you would normally run a full node. You're scaling verification by having ZK proofs and data availability sampling that I don't even need to run all these things. And then there's the other kind of fuzzier concept of scaling the system of like you're talking about do roll up scale another chain? Do they scale ethereum? And this is where I honestly don't even think this is a perfect answer. I think there's good arguments on both sides that they do scale ethereum or they don't.
00:06:25.670 - 00:07:22.978, Speaker A: In general, I kind of think of it as you're generally scaling it if you are using the properties of the underlying system in some way and retaining a lot of the underlying security properties of the system. So if I am bridging my ETH up to a roll up and this is a well constructed roll up that maintains security properties that are very directly derived from ethereum, I would say that is scaling ethereum. In a sense, it lets you do a lot more interesting things with your ETH that you couldn't do on the base layer versus is it scaling? If I send my ETH to Coinbase and now I could do whatever I want with, like, that's not really scaling in my mind at that point because, all right, you effectively just have no security properties derived from it. So that becomes like a fuzzy line. Which is why a lot of people very reasonably say that roll ups aren't scaling ethereum. You just have to consider the base layer itself. But I do think it is obviously important to use them in a different way with more compute and similar security properties.
00:07:23.154 - 00:07:45.818, Speaker B: Yeah, and they also scale like the culture of ethereum in some ways. Like you hear ethereum aligned, which is a meme from the ethereum community. And also kind of solana community making fun of that. But I think there is some there's a real power to it. We did have Nick White from Celeste on, he described this some degree. But I'm curious if you could just define for our audience a bit like one thing with roll ups and sequencers and so forth. They actually do have high resource requirements, but because of validity proofs, fraud proofs.
00:07:45.818 - 00:07:55.970, Speaker B: But we can maybe just talk about validity proofs if you want to, why that is scaling. And then maybe also go into the difference between data bandwidth and data availability sampling because there are differences there.
00:07:56.120 - 00:08:48.150, Speaker A: Yeah, it depends on what kind of your definition of scaling is. Again of what do you want to scale. If you want to scale verification of these things in particular, then yeah, proofs are like the perfect way to do it where it's just you have some one beefy node, whether it's a sequencer, a validator, whatever it is for your chain. But they could just send me a ZK proof of this thing and assuming that there's data availability sampling as well, then it's super light for one person to do all the execution and then that's just one person has to do it. Everyone else can just check these super cheap proofs to verify with low resource requirements, et cetera. So that's like really scaling. The verification of it is from proving and probably important distinction is like we often associate all of those with roll ups today because in practice those are all the teams that are really pursuing these technologies.
00:08:48.150 - 00:09:57.494, Speaker A: But you can absolutely implement CK proofs and data availability sampling on any chain in theory, in practice, that's not what people are doing today, but you absolutely can and there's a real possibility of that in the future. And then the kind of other part of that is scaling in the sense of like, okay, how much can we really get through this system of the actual nodes that do have to actually execute these transactions and create the blocks? Because someone does still have to do that at the end of the day and there is a trade off still at a certain point of okay, even if everyone is able to easily verify these things, are we okay with one sequencer? That is like the question of decentralization on these systems. That's why it always gets it really fuzzy is because we're talking about decentralization of different things. Maybe it's okay to have super decentralized verification and super centralized block execution or maybe it's not, depending on the use case. If you want absolute censorship resistance in real time, well then getting a ZK proof doesn't help you because you just know the block was valid. But if the sequencer says screw you, I'm not including your transaction, like a ZK proof doesn't help you. So for something like that you want to have a reasonable enough quorum that is censorship persistent is decentralized et cetera.
00:09:57.494 - 00:10:28.180, Speaker A: So to do that in particular, and to get the max amount of throughput through the system, you do have to fundamentally scale the execution of the system itself, the data propagation of the system itself. Otherwise you will still become bottlenecked by that at some point. Because even if it's really easy to verify the chain, if no one can build a block with a million TPS, well, then you're not going to get a block with a million TPS. So that's where a lot more of the execution, innovation and stuff like that comes in, of something like the SVM and Solana being able to much more efficiently use resources to get much lower, latency and higher throughput through the.
00:10:30.470 - 00:11:08.386, Speaker C: So maybe going a bit deeper on that. You mentioned there's different layers basically to scale. It really depends on what you want. And maybe that's a good segue to modular versus integrated, formerly known as mean. Maybe for the audience, a brief intro would be like modular says, okay, well, we're going to scale these kind of independently of each other in some sense. Although again, as you say, things do get fuzzy depending on whose perspective you look at it from. But then maybe something like Solana is maybe a simpler way of looking at it, which is like, okay, we're just going to do everything in an integrated way.
00:11:08.386 - 00:11:36.746, Speaker C: Now, the system can still be modular within that. But Solana, whatever Solana is in quotes is kind of that. And one thing that you sent me a meme the other day, which was Green Goblin looking at Spiderman and saying like, you and I are not so different after all. Green Goblin being monolithic chains and Spiderman being modular chains. Can you describe why they're not so different after all? I think I know what you mean, but maybe for the audience, yeah.
00:11:36.848 - 00:12:44.880, Speaker A: So I'd say the whole modular monolithic meme has done a great job catching on over the past couple of years because in practice, we see two very different approaches by very different teams that are generally going in one direction or the other of like, what trade offs are we trying to make? So in general, Solana has gone this monolithic integrated route of we want to try to scale as much as we possibly can on the base layer, try to keep everything together, minimize developer complexity, just like put it all through one pipe. On the other end there's this modular, okay, we can strip these things apart. We have this one layer that doesn't do execution, and all these roll ups do execution. So that's been helpful to some extent in that there are different trade offs that people are taking. The more technical reality is that there ends up being, at the end of the day, little to no distinction at them if you play them both out to their extreme, and that's when you start to real. I think that's been the problem with the modular monolithic is, I think that it has led people to kind of incorrectly understand some of the underlying technicals of the system. That oh, you can't do these things in this other system.
00:12:44.880 - 00:13:21.750, Speaker A: And in particular, the simple examples of that are, let's say we play this out to the complete extremes. One end is like the integrated monolithic end is like Solana, okay, max throughput one chain, everything lives on Solana. Solana can add data availability, sampling and ZK proofs, like in theory in the future. And people are looking to do that. It's not like a near term practical priority, but that is absolutely something that you can do. And this is something that we talked about on the podcast that I did with Tolly, Neil and Nick the other day, is in particular, the way that you would likely do it is the whole modular. What they want is data availability, sampling.
00:13:21.750 - 00:13:50.898, Speaker A: Solana doesn't have that. The way that you generally add that is you just have to encode the data differently such that nodes can sample it. The problem with that is you in practice end up with slower data propagation, slows the system down. You don't want to do that probably for something like Solana. So what you do is you just kind of have a slow path where Solana keeps going as it is as fast as possible. And then you can have this kind of like asynchronous path where we encode the data differently every once in a while and people can sample it. So that's like one extreme is like Solana adds this slow path to Das and ZK.
00:13:50.898 - 00:14:22.654, Speaker A: The logical extreme end of modular is like, let's say you just have one DA layer. So like Celestia or ethereum or whatever. And let's just say that there's one dominant SVM roll up on that thing and it does all the throughput because the SVM gets to a million TPS. The extreme end of that solution is you just have this one execution layer that's doing all the execution. You get a proof of that and that goes like blazing fast. And then you have this slow path of Das slightly asynchronously after the fact. At the end of the day, those systems end up looking like exactly the same.
00:14:22.654 - 00:14:51.830, Speaker A: They have the same technical properties, same security properties. The only fundamental difference at that point is you basically have two tokens at the end of the day and potentially two different social communities. So just like understanding that the boundaries of those things break down and one system can use the benefits of the other is just important to understand because I think we're going to see that more and more is that the Solana community is going know, say like, hey, these are great research innovations, we can borrow some of these and vice versa. With the way that the role of community is saying, hey, the SVM is like, we can borrow this. And I think we're going to see a lot more of that kind of going forward.
00:14:51.900 - 00:15:22.706, Speaker B: So in this endgame where a lot of things are converging and Vitalik talks about this in his blog post probably about a year ago now. What are some of the pros and cons you see because it's two different to get to the same outcome. So with Ethereum in my mind they've created this relatively more simplistic base layer that's been really good for a path dependent way to try to form money around ETH. I think that's been a really big focus versus something like Sol which is almost like we're going to focus on throughput and latency first try to get applications and then somehow find our way into money if that's supposed to become a thing. So I'm just curious from your point of view, what are the trade offs there?
00:15:22.888 - 00:16:33.066, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say that actually captured it well, which is, I think a lot of what some people still kind of overlook in this is that it's like one system is better than the other, is kind of the view that people will take, whereas they are practically taking different paths because there is, in large part, like, a path dependence to this of, like yeah, if you're starting from scratch, it probably makes sense logically. If you were just like crypto did not exist and we were just starting fresh today, you would probably try to make the first chain the most scalable thing that you possibly can. The first principles thinking is probably not like hey, how do we make this settlement DA layer and then have a million roll ups on top of it? That's probably not in practice like the first principles thing that you would think of what's happened in practice is that we obviously started from a very different place. We started with Bitcoin, we started with Ethereum, and there is a high path dependence to that. And that is why, in large part, I think that is somewhat what gets underappreciated at times from some within the Slanic community, is like they'll look at an Ethereum roll up or why would we put the SVM on an L two? Or any of these things? Because, oh, it's going to be probably more expensive than Salana. And very possibly it will be. It probably will be.
00:16:33.066 - 00:17:10.230, Speaker A: But they're not a comparison because the whole point of those systems is that they are able to tap into and scale that underlying base layer. And the practical reality is most of the interesting state right now within crypto is on Ethereum. It's in the ethereum ecosystem. So yeah, if you're spinning up a new native chain and you're going to have all native assets and you're going to have your booming economy great, it makes sense to go make the most scalable thing in the world just in your own island. Practical reality is like you want to tap into the network effects, the developers, the users, the liquidity, et cetera, of the existing system. And generally the best way to do that is to in some ways build your system on top of that. So that does come with trade offs.
00:17:10.230 - 00:17:56.946, Speaker A: You are now potentially bottlenecked by the throughput of that system depending on how you architect yourself. You do have potentially other complexities for developers in trying to strap this thing on top of the existing system. And we see that kind of in practice in a lot of different places in crypto of what is that trade off between trying to build on top of the existing system and its complexities versus starting from scratch. Another random example is like suave and anoma I think is actually a very similar idea. Is everyone's getting all excited about intents and how do we do this intent matching and more expressive preferences and everything. Suave is the approach of like hey, let's be real, the ethereum and all this stuff exists, we need to build on top of it and make it work. And the other end is like hey, what if we just say screw it to backwards compatibility and start over.
00:17:56.946 - 00:18:05.480, Speaker A: Because optimally this is possibly a better system and that's a trade off. One is not better or worse than the other. There are trade offs to both of them.
00:18:06.090 - 00:18:36.446, Speaker C: One thing I'm curious about. I think you just mentioned many roll ups and one maybe disagreement even within Ethereum and certainly within the entire crypto community is will there be I think was it Vance who said something like there will be like a thousand roll ups. But then maybe the more other side of that is maybe you actually just need like one or two roll ups to scale. Ethereum in a sense. What are your thoughts on that? How should we think about that?
00:18:36.628 - 00:19:36.614, Speaker A: Yeah, his Tweet was like there would be 100 to 1000 of them within like a year or two. And I pushed back on that one more of just from a scaling perspective. I was like, I don't think the math of 4844 supports that logically. Or if it does, then 99% of those chains are like dead chains that are doing 0.1 TPS. So part of it is just like the scalability of can you support that many meaningful chains where I guess in theory you could have a million chains but if everyone uses two of them, what's the difference at that point, the path of how many there will be in the longer run? A lot of that just honestly comes down to what are the design decisions and scalability trade offs that people will make in designing roll ups in the future. So if you just took the current standard of effectively every roll up and every L two, whatever an L two means is they're single threaded, very simple EVMs that use ethereum for DA, stuff like that.
00:19:36.614 - 00:20:45.974, Speaker A: In that world you're not going to have one roll up because the very simple, practical reality is that each of these single roll ups have relatively conservative throughput constraints on them. They can't just go do 1000 TPS because they have the same limitations of the EVM execution environment. They're single threaded, they have state growth problems, so they have to meet with your gas. So if you assume that that is the world where nobody optimizes on the EVM and everyone just sticks with the EVM anyway, I think just by default you need many chains. And I think that's probably in practice a large part of why people in this kind of more modular world have gotten excited about app chains and all of that, like this million roll up future. Because if you look at what we have today, you need that or the system doesn't work at the end of the day because it's by necessity you will need many chains. The other side of that which I think is more likely to play out over time, is that you will see more consolidation and this more power law distribution particularly because I think people are going to realize it's an absolute must in the long run to just scale the single execution environments for just so many reasons.
00:20:45.974 - 00:21:08.960, Speaker A: Whether that's liquidity UX developer complexity, all of these things like exactly what Salon is doing. I think a lot of those same ideas you're going to see more and more. And that's exactly the rationale behind someone like Eclipse is like, yeah, we clearly need to innovate on the VMs of these L two S and these roll ups more. I think that is more likely to happen. And in that scenario you do start to see more of a power law.
00:21:09.330 - 00:21:56.100, Speaker B: John, I'm curious, as both a researcher and an investor, when you think about the applications that will launch these app chains or roll ups, who do you think is going to be doing that? Like Hayden Adams, I think this was a post yesterday and it was pretty long going into Ethereum. He's like, Uniswap has been around for six years. We take up, I don't know if it's true, 25% of east block space, at least on the L one. Is ETH really just trying to be money? Is that who it's really trying to cater towards? Is it trying to cater towards the apps and have the largest ecosystem? What's it trying to do here? And he's like, I love Ethereum, I'm going to keep building on it. But in some ways it reminds me of something like Google or Facebook, where you have what they would call suppliers on the platform almost complaining that, say, Facebook or Google is accruing a lot of the value themselves and maybe not thinking about the publishers. And so I'm curious, how do you think that's going to play out? Do you think the biggest apps on Ethereum are going to eventually try to launch their own roll up?
00:21:56.950 - 00:22:47.090, Speaker A: So I still expect app chains to make sense in the long run, particularly for the applications that actually warrant it and have the resources and have the time and have the users and have the network effects to do it. In general, I'd say there's broadly three reasons why you want an app chain. They kind of generally fall into one of three buckets. One is today I would say is very clearly scalability. But I would say that most of that is alleviated by if you just scale the execution environments by you have a parallel VM, you have local via markets, et cetera. A lot of the need for scalability today comes from the fact of you're running low throughput single threaded virtual machines that can be generally alleviated. The other part is bandwidth can still in theory get saturated even on like a system like Solana or a full DA layer in which case you may want to spin up your own isolated instance.
00:22:47.090 - 00:23:55.766, Speaker A: But in practice I would say that's not really the problem today, particularly for something like Solana. Customizability is the other thing and this gets to the kind of like value capture and internalization of value. So I would say that most kind of value capture in these systems seems generally like an engineering problem where the early iterations of whether it's a lending protocol or Dex or whatever it is tends to leak out effectively all of its value to the underlying base layer. And it seems to be that from most of those cases, it is basically an engineering problem to try to internalize those things on a shared environment, but that it is not impossible. Just like it's a little bit harder of trying to look at designs like people are exploring, with hooks, like designing mev, capturing AMMS, et cetera, that it is possible to internalize more of that value even if you are an application on a shared environment. That being said, it is clearly a harder engineering lift and it's like unclear what is the kind of percent of value you capture there, what is the trade off there. I think for most applications that trade off is going to be designs on a shared environment are just going to get better and better over time.
00:23:55.766 - 00:24:38.520, Speaker A: They're going to get more efficient. You see this with the iterations of uniswap V, four uniswap X that are mitigating mev, that are reducing those impacts, which does allow you to internalize more of the value at the limit that the shared environments definitely still make sense for the majority of applications in my mind. But it's very possible that for an application that is so big that it has its own network effects, that it is the brand itself. That even if it is a marginal improvement that something like Uniswap gets by having its own chain of being able to tweak extra things and being able to customize a little more, it's probably worth it. If you have hundreds of engineers and a ton of. Resources and you have the branding yourself, that extra incremental gain is potentially worth it for most applications. It's not going to be worth it is my general view.
00:24:38.520 - 00:25:45.786, Speaker A: The other part of it that I would say is the really tricky one to reason about that. I don't think anyone even has a vaguely comprehensible answer on this is the best argument for appchains long term is potentially the whole sovereignty thing where just like on chain governance is really hard and the ability to just really control your stack and use the more social aspect and forking within that. This is kind of along the lines of what MakerDAO is exploring having their own chain for is for more of the governance functionality and the forkability of the system. And that's not really a roll up versus L. One thing that is really in practice in large part like how app specific is your chain, what are the assets that are drived there, what is the use of this chain makes it easier to coordinate a fork? That is a really hard one that I don't think there is a great answer to. There are different ideas of how can on chain governance try to delegate some of that power to the validators or the social consensus of the underlying chain. But that's a really difficult thing to reason about and large applications may value that a lot in practice at the end of the day.
00:25:45.786 - 00:25:51.210, Speaker A: But I think that again, that's probably the kind of outlier on what do most things actually need.
00:25:51.360 - 00:26:18.200, Speaker B: I got to throw in one comment really quick when you were talking about branding and if you do launch an app chain, you need to have a strong network effect and brand it's like that better be pretty damn strong because if you launch an app chain, what about the front end? And we've seen this with Uniswap where you actually have a front end that's owned by not the protocol and the token holders. So that front end might have greater brand value than the protocol underneath it. So even if you launch an app chain, it's like where is that front end going to point? And so I think it's going be really interesting and who actually controls that network effect going forward?
00:26:18.570 - 00:26:30.890, Speaker A: Yeah, that brings another really difficult question of what is the off chain versus the on chain entity and kind of the value capture of the system. That becomes a really tricky question too. That's pretty fundamental.
00:26:31.710 - 00:27:13.986, Speaker C: One thing I want to ask is about the SVM as a roll up in L two with Eclipse. So when Neil made the announcement of the SVM roll up for Eclipse, there was maybe some mixed reactions. So my personal belief is that it's a very good thing for Solana because I think maybe the bottleneck for Solana isn't necessarily tokenomics or economics. It's just really mindshare and just getting adoption of open source technology. A lot of people disagree with me on this from all sides and maybe some folks in Crypto were like, oh, it's super bearish for the token and whatnot. I'm curious, John, what you think what this means for maybe the next five years for Salon and SVM.
00:27:14.178 - 00:28:12.680, Speaker A: Yeah, my definite view is that very in any kind of reasonable time horizon, it's clearly positive. Even on a short time horizon, I have a hard time viewing it as being negative at all, honestly, of pulling liquidity away from their users or anything like that. The whole explicit purpose of this is that it is tapping into a new market which the SVM through Solana does not currently have access to the whole point of Eclipse or something like it isn't to go take liquidity from Solana because if it was, there's not a whole lot to take. That's kind of the whole point is it's going on top of Ethereum and trying to scale that ecosystem. So it is inherently positive. Some in that aspect of like, you are opening up the SVM developer and user ecosystem to a completely untapped base of developers and users and liquidity and all of that. And that kind of gets back to earlier the distinction between that L ones versus L two S, whatever it means.
00:28:12.680 - 00:28:55.506, Speaker A: That is one of the things that I think that some people fail to appreciate at times is that they're like, oh, this thing is probably going to be more expensive than Salana. Probably will be, would be my guess. I mean, we'll see when Celestial launches. I think it'll be de minimis either way. But that's not the point. The whole point is that if I am an ETH user, if I am a user of DeFi or whatever within the Ethereum ecosystem, what in practice are you going to use? You are going to use the system that feels like an extension of Ethereum, that has certain security properties of the bridge that are very different. I'm going to be much more inclined to use my ETH, my other ETH denominated assets, ethereum Ecosystem assets within an Ethereum L two than I am to go figure out how the hell to bridge this thing to some other L one that has like six different versions of wrapped ETH.
00:28:55.506 - 00:29:28.434, Speaker A: And I don't know what the hell anything means, you're going to use that other thing. And that is the whole point of scaling Ethereum in that sense is like that is the user base that is liquidity. And that's where a lot of getting back to the path dependency of these systems. So it is just a fundamentally different market that you're adding. And the argument of is this good or bad for Salana? Kind of presupposes that you have a choice, that Ethereum and these other L two S are going to exist. Yeah, if you could click a button and the world is all of the transactions happen on Salana in the future. Yeah.
00:29:28.434 - 00:29:43.062, Speaker A: As a sole holder you would click that button. But that's not really the option. The practical reality is that Ethereum exists. Ethereum l two S will exist. Would you rather them all be EVMs? Or would you rather increase SVM adoption out of the practical options? It seems like very obvious to me.
00:29:43.116 - 00:30:04.474, Speaker B: I've heard you say it's like a lot of people in crypto know that Solana has good tech, but do people care? And the SVM extending is part of that. Helping people care and leaning into it and finding out more about the ecosystem in general. You've written about Ethereum, I think really since you were in the space. You kind of got famous for your Ethereum roadmap pieces back in the day. What started catching your eye with Solana? I mean, I know you've kind of tweeted about it, obviously knew the ecosystem.
00:30:04.522 - 00:30:05.326, Speaker A: For a while, but I feel like.
00:30:05.348 - 00:30:08.574, Speaker B: Lately and you were a contributor on the Eclipse paper. So I'm just curious, is there anything.
00:30:08.612 - 00:30:10.238, Speaker A: Particular that jumped out at you or.
00:30:10.324 - 00:30:11.680, Speaker B: What made you find it interesting?
00:30:12.290 - 00:31:15.370, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely over the course of this past year I've spent a lot more time on Solana. I mean, part of it is the, quite frankly, practical investment aspect of it, of like it's actually gotten to a point where it's more exciting to look at because of just like asymmetric outcomes to where it is. The other part is just the fundamental of it has seemed like very clear to me increasingly over the past year that we've gone swung a little too far as an industry in the direction of getting super excited about oh, we're going to have a million app chains and all of these things when in practice Bridging sucks. We don't have that many applications that people use and we have plenty of block space. So that seems to be a rather poor investment of time and capital, at least on the margin, like where most of that is going. And it seems that there is a very significant hole to fill of just minimize developer complexity, scale the hell out of a single system, minimize Bridging. Quite frankly, the biggest risk that is still around is just like having a bunch of different bridges.
00:31:15.370 - 00:32:10.498, Speaker A: Minimizing that scaling single execution is actually the simplest way to do that. So yeah, it's a mix of like there's clearly great tech that I think was adequately appreciated a year or two ago when everyone was all excited about Solana and sentiment has just swung so far to the opposite side of the spectrum that is irrational relative to the amount of tech. And then there is also the very clear, strong, just social side of it. In my mind that has been very impressive and that actually is really important is everyone kind of talks about it, but the whole social layer does actually matter a lot. And when you get punched in the face as much as Solana has been punched in the face, really hard over the past year and a half, and everyone is still as excited as they like. You notice that some of the ways that I started to notice it was like I remember when I came into Crypto, everyone was always fighting all the ethereum people. We were always fighting with Avalanche.
00:32:10.498 - 00:32:24.406, Speaker A: And now over this past year, no one's fighting with Avalanche anymore. Everyone is only fighting with Solana. And I think that there's a reason that everyone is still fighting with Solana. And I think that that alone kind of speaks to it.
00:32:24.508 - 00:32:33.678, Speaker B: Mert's. Become the Hercules of Solana. I don't know if it's just my newsfeed, but everybody's just putting Mert and Anatoly together. Mert, I'm just going to pump you up, but I 100% agree.
00:32:33.764 - 00:32:49.082, Speaker A: One of my favorite tweets that I saw a day or two ago, I'm trying to think of who it was. I think it might have been like, Monet's Bly. He was like half drug, but he's like, it's super bullish how often Mert's salty replies. Keep ratioing everyone about salana. He's got a trip.
00:32:49.146 - 00:32:51.154, Speaker B: He's the deadpool of Salana as well.
00:32:51.272 - 00:32:53.682, Speaker C: More like the Joker brain damage at this point.
00:32:53.736 - 00:33:01.074, Speaker B: Quick break from the show to tell you about Das London. Look, I don't really give investment advice, but I'm going to do it here. This investment gives you a real world experience in London.
00:33:01.122 - 00:33:01.346, Speaker A: Yep.
00:33:01.378 - 00:33:22.634, Speaker B: A trip to London. You're going to meet some of the smartest institutions, people and builders in the space. Third is you actually get to listen to these people as well, because there's going to be over 60 speakers at this event. And fourth, most importantly, of course, we get to hang out. I'm talking about Das London, which is Blockwork's biggest and best institutional conference. That's happening this march in London. The big institutions are starting to realize that Crypto is here to stay and they're actually leaning into the space.
00:33:22.634 - 00:33:38.782, Speaker B: From BlackRock to Visa, we're seeing it all. It's a two day in person event. Like I said, over 60 speakers. It's a killer lineup. But more than that, what's most important to me is the people you get to network with and meet. Like, you might collaborate with these people. Whether you're a project or maybe you're looking to work in the space, you might work for one of these people or just learn from them.
00:33:38.782 - 00:33:49.378, Speaker B: It's really great to meet these people. And this gets everyone under one roof. So I'm a huge fan of this conference. I'm going to be there. Check out the show notes provided, a link where you can learn more. And also a 20% discount code. Yeah, 20% off the ticket.
00:33:49.378 - 00:33:59.814, Speaker B: These tickets do go up every single month, so that's why I would sign up. Now. The code is lightspeed 20. That's Lightspeed 20 again, that's in the show notes. Make sure to use it so they know I sent you and you'll get that discount. All right.
00:33:59.852 - 00:34:00.710, Speaker C: I hope to see you there.
00:34:00.780 - 00:34:02.170, Speaker B: Now let's get back to the show.
00:34:02.240 - 00:34:26.420, Speaker C: John, I didn't want to ask you because you are one of the few people who actually understands maybe both ecosystems really more than most people. I don't think there's maybe even over five people who understand it as much. So with that said, I'm curious, if you were to contrast maybe both ecosystems and say like, okay, here's some things that ethereum can learn from Solana and here's some things Salana can learn from ethereum, what would those things be in your mind?
00:34:27.030 - 00:35:04.202, Speaker A: The things that ethereum can learn from Solana, I would say, are less ethereum itself and more of just the roll ups and the teams building on top of being. I think that there should be a lot of learnings to focus a lot more on scaling, just like the actual execution of the system and not pretending like roll ups and L two S just magically solve scaling when on their own, they don't. You have to still scale the execution of those systems. Otherwise you just have a copy of the EVM. So I think that's very simple. It's like being pragmatic about those things. I think that people will be forced to learn those things on the other side.
00:35:04.202 - 00:35:55.430, Speaker A: For Salana, I'd say most of it is just learning not from the roll ups, learning more from ethereum itself. And that's more on the just kind of softer social side of things. Because the arguments of Solana being centralized and this is one of the things I've gotten ethereum people always say Solana centralized, and Solana people always say like, ethereum single sequencer roll up to centralized. I think it is like ridiculous in practice at any technical level. The main area where I think ethereum is like leaps and bounds ahead on decentralization, it's not nodes or any kind of validator metrics or any of those things. Those things are nice. The real area where it's meaningfully, more decentralized and in practice is incredibly value is at that just like very fuzzy kind of social layer.
00:35:55.430 - 00:36:48.990, Speaker A: And this is one of the things I've talked about as far as just simple communications and research and all of those things. As someone who came into the space like a year and a half ago, at this point, when I came in, it was not a question that I was going to be immediately drawn to ethereum. And that was the ecosystem that I was going to get involved in because of just the incredible depth of people who are participating in that ecosystem. The amount of research that you just go on e three research on any random day, and there's a bunch of random new awesome posts that are like, there's too much there to read and stay on top of, and there are just so many people who care about the ecosystem. So trying to have more of that, that kind of just openness and just excitement of bringing new people in and research and all of that I think is really valuable. And that is a very fixable thing. I would say that is the best thing because nerd sniping new people who come in and are just super interested in all this stuff is super important.
00:36:48.990 - 00:37:06.006, Speaker A: And in my general opinion, Solana has made that rather difficult even for me. When I try to go through, look through docs and find stuff to read on Solana, it's still difficult even for me. I have to do more work than I want to. So for new people coming in, they're just going to be like, all right, I'm going to go pay attention to Ethereum. They're doing all this cool off over here.
00:37:06.188 - 00:37:47.458, Speaker C: Yeah, 100%, I very strongly agree with that. And it's something I have said as well, which is maybe a few things, the node things like, okay, whatever, maybe they're in the same order of magnitude on some level, but really the social level layer. And I tweeted this like if Metallic were to go away, would Ethereum be fine? And the answer in my mind is absolutely yes, but if totally went away, would Solana be just as fine? It's like, probably not. And some people disagree with me on that. But let's be realistic know that's part of the reason why I posted on Twitter. I'm like, I'm going to boycott pausing all ratio operations until it totally starts writing more. And so that is what we need.
00:37:47.458 - 00:38:21.530, Speaker C: So I totally agree. There one thing that's clear is some people on ethereum, maybe like yourself and maybe connor, like including node, are kind of cognizant of the fact that, okay, well, the end game is similar in terms of node requirements when you take these systems that are logical extremes. But then there are some other folks who are like, no, you must run the nodes at home. Because if world war three happens, what then? What are your thoughts on generally the decentralization aspect of blockchains as it comes to running a node at home? How do you think about that as a framework.
00:38:23.310 - 00:38:54.520, Speaker A: In general, I would say that end user verification is an important goal to strive for at the end of the day. And to your point, I think that that is an achievable thing. Whether you're running a roll up or an L one or whatever. At high scale, it's the same idea at the end of the day is yeah, you're going to have a relatively beefy node that's actually making all the blocks and then we want to make it easier for people to check it. I think that most people generally agree that, yeah, that's a thing that we should add on any system. Like why not seems additive. The particular difference today is how much you prioritize that today and constrain yourself.
00:38:54.520 - 00:40:01.078, Speaker A: And then also, if you want people to even participate in consensus at that kind of Raspberry Pi type level, my general view is that I definitely get it for something like ethereum, where it is today, which has again just a very different constraint compared to solana, where it's trying to be something very different, where it is trying to be. That meme of money, world War II resistance, whatever. Everyone should be able to verify this thing and participate in it. It wouldn't make sense for Ethereum to just go turn around tomorrow and increase the gas limit and do a bunch of these execution optimizations because it's just not what it's trying to be. So I understand it, it doesn't make sense for anyone else to be making those trade offs because that is the whole reason of why bitcoin and ethereum exist in the first place. My general view is that I still don't think those nodes are going to be participating in consensus in the long run. I think that there's probably a little bit too much over optimization on that front of trying to have at home to a meaningful extent participate in the consensus.
00:40:01.078 - 00:40:30.374, Speaker A: I think we're already just seeing that in practice as like the economics are going to squeeze that out over the long run. I think that it should be achievable at a technological level for a reasonable person to participate within the consensus of any of these systems. That should be a reasonable goal. I don't think it's going to be economically rational. I think that we already see that today. It's not really economically rational for someone to run an at home solo staker. It's pretty economically rational for them to pool with other people and I don't think that's ever really going to go away.
00:40:30.374 - 00:40:44.566, Speaker A: So I think that that will continue as a trend over time. And then what you'll want to see is just end user verification that I do think is important and that I think can be added to kind of like any system at the end of the day and should be kind of prioritized and added.
00:40:44.758 - 00:41:05.970, Speaker C: So talking about the solo staking stuff, actually that's a good segue. I did see maybe a clash between Dankrad and Scott about Lido and what should happen there and I saw that you weighed in. Can you for people who are unfamiliar with what's going on there in terms of lido and ethereum, can you describe what's happening from kind of both sides and give us what you think of it?
00:41:06.120 - 00:41:58.290, Speaker A: So the general kind of what's going on is lido has right about a third of Ethereum stake right now. So the whole argument is basically like is that a centralizing force and bad for ethereum and all of these things. And I think that any proof of stake system is going to have to deal with this kind of same kind of fundamental question at one point or another. And this is also why when people try to use the Nakamoto coefficient from one chain to another and I think it's generally a ridiculous thing because if you have a Nakamoto coefficient chart and you count Lido as one entity, I think that's just, like, ridiculous. And yet people do that all the time. It's just not an apples to apples thing. A lot of people in the ethereum community, a number, tend to be on the side of, like, it's a risk to have this one governance entity that is, like, controlling all the operators.
00:41:58.290 - 00:43:04.722, Speaker A: We should try to reduce that. I tend to be more directionally on the side of, yeah, it would be nice in theory if everyone ran an at home staker and we had a perfectly decentralized, validator set that was equally distributed, et cetera. In practice, the economics do not favor that at all. And I think that in practice, that is, like, even with a meaningful amount of social pressure is not going to really achieve any kind of meaningful improvement. I think one of my favorite tweets, I think it was Tolly who was kind of shit posting around it, he was like, lido should just fork into lido one and Lido two. And I think that's kind of what people are underappreciating, is like, okay, do you feel significantly better if Lido has a third of the stake, and then some other big LST has like, 20% of the stake or whatever, and then Coinbase and Finance have another 30% of the stake? Does that make you feel better? No. And that's the practical reality, is that's where you're going to end up is like, all right, maybe you have a duopoly, an oligopoly.
00:43:04.722 - 00:43:52.286, Speaker A: It's not a meaningful improvement. The practical reality, the thing that's really important in my mind is the operators under the hood of Lido. The decentralization of them matters a lot in my mind. And so what really matters is constraining the hell out of whatever the successful LST governance is. And so that's where I think more of the social pressure should be applied to Lido at the moment, is I think that they deserve a lot of social pressure, but I don't think it's practically reasonable to say, like, hey, you should self limit at some arbitrary number. I think it is, in practice, very valuable to be social pressuring LSTs in any ecosystem to say, hey, you need to have very minimized governance. You need to have governance that is aligned with our own governance of our chain, that gives veto rights to stakers to holders, and having a decentralized, validator site under the hood such that people can permissionlessly enter, et cetera.
00:43:52.286 - 00:44:02.040, Speaker A: That is where I think a lot of the pressure should be applied, and that's going to be the same for any kind of LST ecosystem. I think there's a lot to learn from Lido for Salana, LSTs, and others that will be doing the same things.
00:44:02.570 - 00:44:32.862, Speaker B: Yeah, that Nakamoto coefficient or that like 33%, right? That has to do with controlling the liveness or sometimes the security of a chain. I'm curious, from a researcher point of view and thinking about developers, that really matters. But when you're thinking about investing in protocols in the space, has your mind changed now that you're thinking about, I don't know, long term investment in the sense that when institutions come in or you have brands come in that build in crypto, what are the things that they're going to be thinking about? Because, for example, Visa started on ethereum. Part of that's the mind share. I don't know. Are they even thinking about Lido? What's going underneath there?
00:44:32.916 - 00:44:33.086, Speaker A: Then?
00:44:33.108 - 00:44:42.230, Speaker B: You see Visa now on Solana, so maybe it has to with speed and latency. I'm just curious, from a researcher's point of view versus being an investor, has your views changed on what will make something successful in crypto?
00:44:44.170 - 00:45:41.898, Speaker A: This is why I call myself a researcher as a joke at this point. Being a researcher is being an investor that actually does your diligence, which is potentially not common. I guess people have started to pass around like, oh, JP Morgan has these charts or something like that, of like, oh, Lido has an increasing stake. My general view is I don't think that that is really a meaningful concern that people are looking at from the outside of like, oh, this system is like, there's a big LST. Most of these people honestly don't understand the reason that people are concerned about it is because the majority of Ethereum people who are at least loud about this are on the side of like, oh, this is a big problem. So when you have some of the loudest people in the community who have some of the largest followings, who are saying, like, oh, this is a gigantic centralization risk, yeah, people are going to pick up on like, oh, sounds like they're saying it's a centralization risk. People are going to pick up on that.
00:45:41.898 - 00:46:03.700, Speaker A: I think it's more of that. It's just like people are following what is the message from most of the louder people? The nuances of the composition, of the validator set is something that we at the deepest technical level in crypto don't have a perfect answer to and still fight. Like, this is not something that I think is a meaningful outside influence. This is so far down the list.
00:46:05.030 - 00:46:42.718, Speaker C: I do want to very briefly touch on, because you said something about social pressures in Lido, and maybe fixing it that way won't necessarily work. Social pressures is an interesting force, let's say, in crypto that I haven't seen in other industries. And obviously the meme that comes to mind is Ethereum alignment. What are your general thought? And I know you have that meme that I liked, which was like, it's a word sheet, excel or Word. And then it's like, align ethereum, sonic cosmos. I thought that was great. What are your general thoughts on what that even means? Is that a good thing, bad thing? Inevitable? How do you think about it?
00:46:42.884 - 00:47:14.534, Speaker A: Yeah, I go back and forth on it. And I joke about it too. It's tough because underlying it are very good ideas that I do think are really important and kind of fundamental to everything that we're building. They are very social systems. We do have values underlying these systems. The problem is that it's just so easy to twist what other people are saying, misinterpret it because people are inherently, when it's a fuzzy thing, going to misuse the term of you're going to say, oh, I want to align with this project. Sure.
00:47:14.534 - 00:47:49.758, Speaker A: And you don't actually mean it. All of those problems and you're just in whatever ecosystem, it's a pump and dump random thing. So people are going to use it negatively. So it's hard to the term itself, I don't think it signals anything to me. If someone says oh, I'm ethereum aligned, that doesn't mean anything to me. If someone is very loudly saying oh, I'm really ethereum aligned, that's probably actually more of the opposite for me. I think that ethereum alignment by someone's actions is a real thing and a very important and meaningful thing in practice.
00:47:49.758 - 00:48:30.330, Speaker A: We see that in look at the ethereum ecosystem today, like the way that blocks are made or anything in that ecosystem. If all of the block builders and relays and validators today were full profit maxis in any of these ecosystems, most chains would be screwed today. It would be like a very bad situation that would be incredibly centralized and you would have one builder building all the blocks and just censoring everything. And that could very easily happen if people were all being strictly economically rational, profit maxis today, chains would be getting reorgan. Whatever. There is an underlying level of the social layer around these systems like okay, there are properties that we care about, we want to enforce them. We will actually work with each other to do these things and scale the system appropriately.
00:48:30.330 - 00:49:21.550, Speaker A: That is an important underlying concept. That's not achieved by yelling on Twitter, oh, I'm ethereum aligned. That is achieved in practice by what your actions and like a couple of them, I think remember Abdel from Starkware actually had a very good post on this probably about a week ago where he kind of broke it down. There's the cultural aspect of it, there's the technical aspect of it. There's like an economic different chains, different communities will fulfill different properties. You may not be technically aligned if none of the things that you're working on are like EVM or ethereum related, but you may be economically aligned if you're using ETH everywhere, decentralized money in an appropriate way. You may be socially aligned if you are helping contribute to the PBS ecosystem and trying to keep that decentralized and censorship, resistance, these different levels of areas that are important.
00:49:21.550 - 00:49:44.840, Speaker A: But it's very much actions speak a hell of a lot louder than words in these kind of areas. And I do think that's important and underlying concept. But yeah, the meme itself, that's just why it's rightfully getting made fun of is because it does get misused. It is really fuzzy. People do use it inappropriately and so it gets very easy to make fun of, which is why people like myself still make fun of it, even though I do think it is actually very important.
00:49:46.410 - 00:50:30.840, Speaker C: Well, okay, so I do like getting philosophical at the end of the episodes. You were super technical, especially for this episode. But I am curious personally at least and asking people who are deep in the space and who make it kind of their life's work, at least currently, to contribute to the space. So I have two questions for you. One is why are you in crypto? What is your driving force behind your contributions? And two, what do you think of the entire crypto industry right now? Just zooming out. Doesn't have to be about ethereum or solana, just the entire thing. What do you think about it?
00:50:31.610 - 00:51:01.790, Speaker A: So as far as the why crypto, so I would kind of split it into two parts. One of them is why I was interested in crypto. And I would say that was all of the pretty stereotypical reasons that you would I kind of went through the normal progression of what is the first reason that I looked at crypto was because I was like, oh, it looks like bitcoin is going to go up a lot. And my friends were telling me it's going to go up and you should buy some. So I did that and then it went up more. That is the reason I got in in the first place. That was the first thing I looked at was like, oh, this makes sense as a macro thing.
00:51:01.790 - 00:51:24.950, Speaker A: I pay attention to macro a lot. Like this whole bitcoin thing that Paul Tudor Jones is talking about, it makes sense. And then from there you get into the oh, this DeFi thing makes a lot of sense. Like someone who's coming from a finance background and understands a lot of the inefficiencies and the problems of the systems, like, okay, immediately this clicks, this makes sense. This is awesome. Could see how this would be great in a longer term future. It's super interesting, super valuable.
00:51:24.950 - 00:52:21.100, Speaker A: Similar for the money aspect of like, yeah, this seems like a very intuitively, valuable thing to the world to have this alternative money that is not tied to a government. Very clear. You see all that stuff in COVID makes sense. The reason I would say I then convinced myself to work in crypto was a little bit different as opposed to just having it as a big side hobby that I was super interested in. The initial reason that I started working in crypto and is probably one of the driving forces why I do really like working in crypto is because of just inherently how well it lends itself to new and interested people. In particular, because a field which is just fundamentally changing at such a rapid pace and has people who are super, super interested in it, you legitimately can come in as an absolutely random person and very quickly contribute in a meaningful sense to the ecosystem in one way or another. If you really care and you find your niche and you spend a hell of a lot of time on that thing.
00:52:21.100 - 00:53:35.102, Speaker A: I came from an unfortunately traditional banking background, which is the exact opposite of that and drove me absolutely crazy, where the job mandate is basically please make a nicer pitch deck than the analyst at the other bank and there is no value beyond that 2% nicer slide that you can really add to any meaningful extent. And that's something that just fundamentally drives me crazy. So going to an industry where everything is changing constantly, you actually can add meaningful value right away. People are super interested and want to work together on stuff and nerd out on random stuff is a ton of fun. That is the fundamental reason I love working in crypto is honestly separate from the CRISPR aspect of it. That's why I got really interested in it in the first place was all the crypto specific stuff and then the zooming out state of where crypto is right now kind of vibe. Um, I'd say like at a good spot of like getting kind of I would say comfortable with what it is and where we are of leaning in and understanding that there's a balance between it.
00:53:35.102 - 00:54:32.020, Speaker A: Matt Wang had that post of the casino on Mars lean into the speculation and all that stuff. There's definitely a degree of that. You obviously don't want it to be like full fledged, like, oh yes, it's all speculation, but leaning into the fact of this is a weird and fun industry, that I do wake up every day and I'm like, how the hell is this a real job? Happens pretty much every other day. And leaning into that and just understanding that and that is what makes it a lot of fun to work here. And particularly in a period like now where it's not the bull market, everyone's coming in for the quick buck, it's just not there to be had. You really have to lean into that and have people who love the ecosystem and just love who they're working with and what they're doing. And I do think that we are seeing that more and more and that is something that makes me long term very positive, is that the people that I look at, that I work with, that are around, are not about to leave even if just prices go down a bunch more.
00:54:32.020 - 00:55:00.474, Speaker A: And that is the kind of fundamental thing that makes it pretty increasingly clear to me there's no way to pretty much realistically kill this thing. There are too many people who are just so interested in this thing and it just keeps getting bigger and keeps sucking in more people and it's like it is a ton of fun to work in and that will diminish over time. But yeah, definitely leaning into that aspect of the uniqueness and just like the kind of the weirdness of the crypto industry. I do like seeing people embrace it. That is what makes it a lot of fun.
00:55:00.672 - 00:55:34.022, Speaker B: It's funny when you mentioned working in finance and it's almost like that's something frowned upon before you come into crypto. You're not like just some dev in a basement going at it. But I think Crypto, it's actually had this beachhead for people like you and obviously people that are developers as well, that almost like maybe I'm pushing this too far, but almost like felt repressed in some way in their jobs. And that you go into work with your suit and tie, you have your eight to 08:00 p.m job, whereas you were going into deep research. But you're posting memes throughout. That's something that you can express in other places and that will bring in new talent that can actually express itself and have fun.
00:55:34.022 - 00:55:58.430, Speaker B: So I think that's really cool. That was a pump fake by Merck because this is going to be a kind of technical question I just have to ask. You've talked about how Solana should potentially be looking into being a settlement layer for rollups as well, for SVM rollups and how you think that could actually create a stronger argument for Solana or Sol for value capture than an Ethereum. Could you maybe explain why you think that could be a really good move for Solana?
00:55:58.850 - 00:56:47.258, Speaker A: Yeah, so it's like tough because I don't know that there's anything you could really do to become a settlement. Like in practice. The reason you become a settlement layer is that path dependency of like you have a lot of interesting assets and everything there that people want to tap into. So Solana just doesn't in practice have that at the moment. So it doesn't make sense to root your chain around Solana where this is the bridge that matters because you don't have the users and everything to tap into. I do think it is at least an interesting concept in the future where if you basically assume what is the ultimate bottleneck? Is it like data propagation or is it like compute execution? And if you think that the bottleneck is going to be execution at some point, well, then you think that effectively roll ups are inevitable. Solana is an interesting settlement base layer or whatever in that world if it is the best data propagation layer.
00:56:47.258 - 00:57:38.682, Speaker A: But you do need other execution environments to scale because it's at least very unique in that Ethereum is obviously very constrained in that you are tapping into a very simple base layer of you have a ton of ETH. That people really care about and these other kind of ecosystems on Top. But you don't have a scalable layer that actually has all of those things natively on it. So it would be interesting that conceptually you could have a very scalable, quote unquote settlement layer, which is still kind of a made up word in my mind. The potentially more interesting side of what Solana can do as a base layer for roll ups is more on the kind of data propagation side. So this is where I think people will start to realize the line between a shared sequencer and a DA layer is kind of not that far apart. Every chain is a DA layer.
00:57:38.682 - 00:58:32.666, Speaker A: It's just that for Solana, you are propagating the full data across them as opposed to having the slower path where people can kind of sample them. And effectively, what a shared sequencer is, is just a layer that is very good at propagating data very fast and not bothering to execute those things. Solana is already very good at those things, which is why you see people looking at at least early stages of hey, like Solana could be a shared sequencer. How important shared sequencers will be, that's like another separate question that I'll put aside. But fundamentally, Solana actually optimizes for a lot of the things there and then really just adding Das as like a slow path is something that you can in theory do in the future. But that is kind of the difference that Celestie and ethereum. What they're doing is that's the fundamental trade off generally between these shared sequencers and specialized DA layers, specialized ones like slower block times and the Das.
00:58:32.666 - 00:58:47.694, Speaker A: But in theory those can be integrated in the future, which is far off. But yeah, in practice, I think the most likely near term association for Solana with rollups is like if it gets used as a shared sequencer, because even as it stands today, it's built reasonably well to already do that.
00:58:47.752 - 00:59:05.900, Speaker C: You have some of the best writing in the space. So I do want to maybe be selfish a little bit here, sorry, to the audience and ask you what is your process for writing? How did you get good at writing? What are some advice you would have for people looking to write about crypto more and do some more research?
00:59:07.070 - 00:59:47.270, Speaker A: So I never really wrote anything before coming into crypto. It was really a byproduct of just starting my job at Delphi. That's what I was doing. I in general have found it very like most of it is honestly selfish of I don't publish most of the stuff that I write. I have like hundreds of pages that are just like sitting in my drafts that will just never get published. It is just so helpful to just make yourself write. You don't need to think of it as this is something that I'm going to post and get a bunch of attention and whatever, just literally write for yourself to clarify your thoughts.
00:59:47.270 - 01:00:33.830, Speaker A: It doesn't have to be this perfect well written thing. It's nice if you could do that, but definitely make it as concise as you possibly can and really just try to rearrange your thoughts on the page. So I tend to be very obsessive when I go through a topic of the general loose format of my screen is generally like Google Doc on one side and then 100 tabs open on the other side of the screen. And I will just go through every single thing on that. And then as I find a new piece of information that is valuable, I will work that into the document and I will progressively go through that and rearrange the information requestion. What is my thesis throughout this as I get new information and go through that topic. So it's definitely a very obsessive making sure I'm not missing anything.
01:00:33.830 - 01:00:45.866, Speaker A: I have not left a stone unturned. I've looked at everything that I possibly could on this thing and really synthesized everything in the simplest manner possible, because that will help you just form your thoughts in the best way possible.
01:00:45.968 - 01:00:50.570, Speaker B: You say concise, which is true. Your writing is very easy to understand. Does not mean your writings are short.
01:00:50.640 - 01:01:15.886, Speaker A: I should be clear on that. Yeah, I don't think that actually short length, at least for me. I think that is actually usually problematic because at least if you're looking at a relatively big topic, that means you've probably just formed your thoughts quickly and haven't looked everything. You can write a very long paper. I think that's great. That's what I like to do. But your writing style and your thoughts throughout that thing should be as information dense and succinct as possibly written.
01:01:15.886 - 01:01:20.534, Speaker A: Like short sentences, bullet points, those help me a lot. Just for thinking and going through.
01:01:20.572 - 01:01:22.614, Speaker B: Yeah. John, are you going to breakpoint, by the way?
01:01:22.732 - 01:01:24.082, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm excited.
01:01:24.226 - 01:01:38.262, Speaker B: All right, Solana community has caught John. Well, John, thanks so much for joining today. Everybody, you really need to go read his articles. He's got a lot up there, and they're really informative whether you're in Solana, ethereum, et cetera. So, John, keep bringing the research papers, keep bringing the memes, and thanks for coming on.
01:01:38.396 - 01:01:40.110, Speaker A: Awesome. Stunned up our guys. Thanks.
01:01:40.220 - 01:01:51.162, Speaker B: We'll see you next time. All right, I've got a little ending note here. First, thank you so much for listening. The full episode. If you really liked it, hit subscribe. But secondly, make sure you sign up for Dash. This is Blockwork's biggest institutional conference happening in London in March.
01:01:51.162 - 01:01:59.450, Speaker B: I've included a link in the show notes and also a discount code. Get 20% off. Make sure to use Lightspeed 20 when you sign up. All right, I'll see you there. And I'll see you next time on Lightspeed.
