00:00:00.360 - 00:00:29.055, Speaker A: We realized early in 23 that we weren't reaching a lot of users and at the same time Jesse Pollock actually dmed me on Twitter and I hadn't talked to him for several months since I left and he was like, hey Luke, can, can we chat? I'd love to tell you about what I'm working on at Coinbase. And he told me about base and this is before the base testnet had even launched. It was like February 2023. And so I was like, this is amazing. I'm all in on base.
00:00:33.475 - 00:01:14.863, Speaker B: Welcome to the Edge Podcast. I'm Defi dad here with Nomadic from 4 RC. Today's show features a top lending and borrowing app on Base called Moonwell. In this episode we explore how Moonwell is pushing the boundaries of on chain finance, focusing on accessibility through mobile onboarding and stablecoins. We'll also dig into Moonwell's alignment with Circle and the role of innovative tools like Passkey wallets in simplifying crypto adoption. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the Edge podcast possible. Introducing Redstone, the fastest growing Oracle for Defi Redstone is the leading Oracle for liquid staking and restaking assets supporting over 60 chains.
00:01:14.863 - 00:02:25.593, Speaker B: With both the push and pull models, Redstone protects more than $3 billion of total value locked and is trusted by more than 100 clients including the biggest protocols in Defi such as Pendle, Venus, etherfi and Athena. The unique modular design of Redstone makes their price feeds available, cross chain including evm, non evm, roll up networks and all types of app chains. Redstone aims to bring the industry forward by supporting upcoming Bitcoin staking tokens and continues to be the number one Oracle provider for liquid staking and restaking tokens. Soon the team will unveil the highly anticipated Redstone token to decentralize the protocol. Learn why Nomadic and I rely on Redstone for our favorite Defi apps at Redstone Finance and join the Redstone Expedition today. Power up your portfolio by borrowing, lending and multiplying your favorite assets made safe and easy by the industry leading automation tools at Summer Fi. Summer Summer Fi offers a curated Defi experience to access the highest quality protocols and strategies.
00:02:25.593 - 00:03:15.333, Speaker B: Discover new Earn strategies for your portfolio in a user friendly app designed to filter based on the tokens you hold, the networks you transact on, the protocols you trust and the highest available yields. Learn more today at Summer Fi. The best place to borrow and earn in Defi Discover Merlin Chain, the cutting edge bitcoin L2 trusted with over $2 billion in total value Locked. Merlin revolutionizes Bitcoin by unlocking its true potential with native L1 assets, lightning fast transactions and ultra low fees on an EVM compatible network. Elevate your Bitcoin experience with Merlin Chain today at merlinchain IO. All right, let's introduce Luke Youngblood, a founding contributor at Moonwell. Luke, welcome to the Edge podcast.
00:03:15.333 - 00:03:16.223, Speaker B: How are you doing?
00:03:16.349 - 00:03:23.835, Speaker A: Doing great today. It's good to be here. Been watching your content for a long time, about five years now, and really excited to be on your podcast.
00:03:23.915 - 00:04:25.899, Speaker B: Yeah, well, totally our pleasure to be able to host you. One of the reasons that Nomadic and I started digging into Moonwell is we noticed just all the activity on base and so we're going to talk about your background, but just very quickly, you previously worked at Coinbase, so you've always had, I'm guessing, an eye for building products for real human beings. And that's always been a part of the challenge of onboarding more folks to crypto. And so we're hoping that like, through the lens of Moonwell, we can talk more about, like, how do we continue to onboard the next generation of users. Not just like the native crypto users, not the whales. We're talking about Net new folks, folks too, who, you know, maybe are in developing countries. We understand that Moonwell is really focused on that mission and again, I think it's a part of why you've had such an enormous year here growing at Moonwell.
00:04:25.899 - 00:04:32.139, Speaker B: So how'd you get started? I guess at Coinbase. What led to ultimately working on Moonwell?
00:04:32.267 - 00:05:01.047, Speaker A: Sure. So I've been a software engineer working in tech for my entire career. Prior to Coinbase, I was working at Amazon Web Services, you know, the cloud company. And I think Amazon really instilled in me this customer obsession. You know, that's one of their leadership principles at Amazon is to, you know, be really obsessed about making a nice customer experience, making your apps easy to use so that, you know, anyone can shop. And I kind of brought that to Coinbase. You know, I got into crypto as a hobbyist before Coinbase.
00:05:01.047 - 00:06:12.487, Speaker A: I was mining bitcoin in my free time and my brother and I were experimenting with Ethereum back in the early days before, you know, before I joined Coinbase, we actually launched some proof of stake infrastructure for some of the early proof of stake networks, Tezos, Cosmos and others. And that's what brought me to Coinbase. So my brother and I had this two person startup, we helped the Tezos network launch, we built the Tezos Foundation Validators. And then Coinbase was looking to get into staking back in 2018 and so they, they sort of Aqua hired my little tiny two person startup and I went to go work at Coinbase and helped launch a bunch of staking rewards products. So if you're familiar with staking rewards where you can just hold, you know, your Ethereum in your Coinbase account and you earn a staking reward for it, that was the product line that I launched as lead engineer there. I spent three years at Coinbase and it was a great experience. You know, having been early to crypto, that whole message of Coinbase's mission, which is to increase economic freedom in the world, really resonated with me because I saw that, you know, bitcoin has the opportunity to do that and crypto has the opportunity to increase economic freedom in the world.
00:06:12.487 - 00:06:53.785, Speaker A: And so when I left coinbase in early 22 to launch Moonwell, I was really inspired to kind of bring Defi to the world, if you will, because, you know, those of us that were really early, like yourselves in Defi summer, you know, the apps were not very easy to use at all. They were really only designed for like, you know, hardcore tech enthusiasts, like software engineers, like me. You had to have a, you know, home computer, a web browser, Chrome Metamask, you know, the whole nine yards. And I thought, this is great, but, you know, how do we bring this to people that just use a mobile phone? So that's how, that's kind of how we started Moonwell just over two and a half years ago.
00:06:53.865 - 00:07:23.705, Speaker C: Luke, maybe before we dive further into Moonwell, let's just kind of stick on Coinbase for a minute. Just kind of like due to your insights, I would love to get an idea from you on where you think they're going. I see so many people speculating about their different business models and like which one will be their primary focus and curious just kind of what you think about their on chain finance efforts. Like how big of a piece of the pie do you think this will eventually be for Coinbase?
00:07:23.825 - 00:08:16.625, Speaker A: That's a great question because a lot of people are not familiar with the Coinbase sort of master plan and kind of what they're working on. You know, originally when Coinbase first launched, it was just a way to buy and sell Bitcoin and you know, so the first use case of crypto was speculation, obviously. Right. But that's, they definitely have a bigger plan than that. And the way I would kind of think about base and how that ties into Coinbase's Future strategic vision is that increasingly more and more of the financial Rails that the world operates on will be powered by stablecoins and other types of crypto, you know, not just Bitcoin and Ethereum. Right? And so if you look at what's happening in the news recently, for example, Stripe just acquired Bridge, which is a stablecoin payment Rails infrastructure provider, for $1.1 billion.
00:08:16.625 - 00:09:10.005, Speaker A: You know, Stripe is one of the most amazing tech companies. You know, 2.8 million e commerce websites globally use Stripe for their to accept credit card payments on the back end. And if you think about all those developers, there's over 9 million E commerce developers that are building in the Stripe ecosystem. And so, you know, Coinbase's vision of bringing a million developers to base and then a billion users on chain, but we already have the beginnings of that with Stripe coming into the ecosystem. And so if you think about, you know, the type of credit card services that Visa, MasterCard, American Express offer today, right, Every merchant basically has to pay a hidden tax of about 2 to 3% on every transaction. So when you swipe your card at the store or online, you know, we're all paying 2 to 3% on every purchase.
00:09:10.005 - 00:10:23.743, Speaker A: You don't really see that because the merchant pays it out of their pocket, but the cost is passed on to you as a consumer. So Coinbase, along with Circle and with Stripe and, you know, Bridge and these, these stablecoin infrastructure Rails companies now see that as an opportunity. Because if, for example, we can settle stablecoin payments on base for less than a penny versus 2 to 3% on Visa, that's a great opportunity for Stripe to kind of disrupt Visa and capture a lot of their margin. And so, you know, to kind of bring it back to what is happening internally at Coinbase. In many ways, their move to on chain versus being a more traditional cefi kind of exchange is very similar to like what Amazon was doing a decade ago when they were migrating all of their Amazon retail apps to Amazon Cloud, like to aws, right. We went through the same kind of journey where as a solution architect there I was actually, you know, talking to a lot of these Amazon retail teams, helping them to understand how to use cloud so that they could bring their apps, you know, into the more modern world. And right now, Jesse Pollock and the Base team are really doing that exact same thing at Coinbase.
00:10:23.743 - 00:10:43.385, Speaker A: They're going around to all the different developer teams at Coinbase training them on how to write smart contracts, how to use solidity, how to build on chain systems versus off chain systems. And so over the next five to 10 years, you're going to see all of the Coinbase apps start to migrate slowly from being off chain CEFI versions to being like fully on chain versions of themselves.
00:10:43.505 - 00:11:26.621, Speaker B: Luke, can we talk about Base? Because Base is synonymous with Moonwell. Like, the whole reason I started paying attention to Moonwell was because I was looking on Base for yields. And I noticed as a lending and borrowing hub that there were lots of great opportunities. A hub like Moonwell is what makes, I think, an L2 or any network successful. But you were like a Day one launch partner, I believe, and I'm imagining that that has had an enormous impact on the success of Moonwell. So maybe talk to us about the time leading up to this, how you decided to move over to Base and what that has meant for the trajectory of Moonwell.
00:11:26.703 - 00:12:23.407, Speaker A: That's a great question. So we first launched the V1 of Moonwell in February of 2022, just a few months after I left Coinbase. And I think the V1 of our app was a great app, I think, but it was really tailored more towards that early Defi user, the Degen, that was really comfortable using very complex and hard to understand products. We had a spaceman theme, we had moons and stars, it was dark mode, there was purple color theme. And we were really leaning into just that sort of core audience, right? Like the type of person like me that probably plays a lot of video games, is a software engineer, loves geeking out on. On chain finance and Defi. But what we realized, and so to kind of bring this back to base, we realized early in 23 that we weren't reaching a lot of users.
00:12:23.407 - 00:12:51.315, Speaker A: And at the same time, Jesse Pollock actually DMed me on Twitter and I hadn't talked to him for several months since I left. And he was like, hey, Luke, can. Can we chat? I'd love to tell you about what I'm working on at Coinbase and kind of share the news. And so we met privately, just like the next day. I think he pinged me on like a Friday and we met on Monday and he told me about Base. And this is before the base testnet had even launched. It was like February 2023.
00:12:51.315 - 00:13:35.279, Speaker A: And so I was like, this is amazing. I'm all in on Base because back when I was working at Coinbase, we were trying to encourage leadership to launch an Ethereum L2, but they weren't really receptive to the idea. And I got that idea from Flashbots, because I was a contributor to Flashbots, you know, The MEV relay I was contributing on the infrastructure side, kind of helping them build nodes and just doing it as a volunteer effort because I believed in kind of like scaling Ethereum. And so some of the flashbots contributors were telling me, like, hey, you should convince Coinbase to launch a L2. It would be really good for their business. But somehow Jesse was able to convince the leadership to do this. And so what we realized were two things when we first found out about this.
00:13:35.279 - 00:14:36.733, Speaker A: Number one, our app was way too complex and too hard to use for Coinbase retail users that might want to try it for the first time coming from Coinbase. And so we thought we need to redesign our app completely. So we reached out to Vector Dao. Vector Dao is a dao that does design work and it's founded by a bunch of former Coinbase engineers, designers, really smart and artistic people. And so Yi Tong, who's like the founder of Vector Dao, he was the design, like a staff design engineer at Coinbase or a designer. And we asked them, like, hey, would you be willing to do a redesign of the Moonwell app and the brand and make it suitable for a retail audience from Coinbase? And so we spent that spring, like iterating with them on the design for three months or so we went, we had many meetings with them, helped to kind of share our Moonworld mission and vision with them, and our goal of making the app more easy to use, more beautiful. And they really crushed it on the design.
00:14:36.733 - 00:15:29.695, Speaker A: They came back with a V2 design. We had the Figma files and everything. And then that summer of 2023, before Basemanet launched, myself and a bunch of Midwell contributors from Brazil were working nights and weekends, working crazy hours, like 100 hour weeks to get Moonwell V2 over the line. And so the day that we launched on August 9, that was the day of base mainnet launch, was the same day that we launched the redesign of our beautiful app. And so those two things kind of landed together, like the Moonwell V2, which is the app you see today, and the base mainnet launch. And so it was really kind of exciting to kind of queue up all that work and just make sure that everything landed on time. And also that was our expansion from like the Polkadot ecosystem where we first launched into the base ecosystem.
00:15:29.695 - 00:15:59.743, Speaker A: So we had to do a ton of work to make sure that we could actually govern the base protocol. We developed a novel cross chain governance solution called temporal governance that allows us to kind of have our token holders vote and be able to execute Real decentralized governance on base as well. And so we've continued to invest in the multi chain stuff because that's really key to kind of our vision of being able to expand across the super chain.
00:15:59.799 - 00:16:44.487, Speaker C: Luke, I don't know who's doing hiring at Coinbase, but it just seems like every Coinbase alum is just a gigabrain. I don't know what they're drinking over there, what they're feeding you guys, but I think the Coinbase mafia is going to give the PayPal mafia a run for its money. I want to get your opinion on base's kind of roadmap to decentralization. For me, I've got funds on base, but there's been something kind of holding me back from really putting a more, I'd say, meaningful percentage of my portfolio into base. So I guess your positioning within the base ecosystem. Yeah. What can you tell us about how like, I guess, plans on further decentralization of the base network?
00:16:44.631 - 00:17:14.895, Speaker A: Sure. I think that's a valid concern, to be honest. You know, we've been really focused on decentralization throughout, like the Ethereum community for years now. Right. And Ethereum has a really great decentralization story at the layer one level with tens of thousands of relay chain validators that are confirming new blocks through the Proof of Stake network. But at the layer 2 level, they are still very centralized. There's a single centralized sequencer run by Coinbase, or in the case of Optimism, it's run by the Optimism Foundation.
00:17:14.895 - 00:18:01.901, Speaker A: And these centralized sequencers are a single point of failure. And so Coinbase does recognize that this is something they have to decentralize over time. And so you can see their efforts if you follow Jesse Pollock and the BASE team on Twitter or on X, they're building towards what, what's called a stage one rollup, where you'll be able to, if let's say you have funds on Coinbase and you on base, sorry, and you want to exit those funds, you'll be able to do so regardless of whether the sequencer allows you to or not. You'll have the ability to be, you know, kind of censorship resistant, if you will. And then of course, the longer term vision is to, to actually decentralize the sequencer and the way that that's going to happen. I've seen some of the plans from Optimism. They're.
00:18:01.901 - 00:19:08.005, Speaker A: They're already implementing interoperability between optimism L2s. So for example, you will be able to, later this year or early next, you'll be able to send Tokens between Base and Optimism, Zora and Mode, and all of the Super Chain aligned Layer twos. So that's step one is sort of connecting the sequencers together so that they can have some trust with each other. Because that is a trust assumption you have to have is that if I allow like OP tokens to transfer between Base and Optimism, for example, I have to trust both Optimism and Base's sequencer because they have permission to mint and burn tokens on either chain. And so that will bring some decentralization. But then the longer term vision is to actually have more Super Chain L2s participate in the shared sequencing and really have a robust decentralized sequencer network where all of the super chain L2s kind of come together and confirm blocks together. And on the Optimism side, they're building some really cool privacy tech that you might have heard about.
00:19:08.005 - 00:19:54.615, Speaker A: Just last week we had the big ETH global conference here in San Francisco and I actually had a chance to meet with some of the teams from World Chain and Unichain. That's Uniswap's new Layer two and worldcoin's new Layer two that are part of Optimism Super Chain. And they're actually building some really cool tech alongside Flashbots. And what they're building is the ability for. You know, one of the challenges with decentralizing the sequencer is we don't want to introduce mev. Right? MEV is value extractive on Mainnet. You know, a lot of the swaps on Uniswap on Mainnet get sandwiched and, you know, transactions get reordered and it's mainly extracting value from retail users of DeFi.
00:19:54.615 - 00:21:06.993, Speaker A: But on the shared sequencer side, we want to make sure that as we decentralize the sequencer, we don't introduce reordering opportunities. So these techs that are like these like hardcore electrical engineering people that I met at Flashbots and the techs working at Unichain and worldchain and Optimism are actually all building towards a world where they can kind of have an opaque mempool, if you will, like, you know, hide the contents of the mempool from the people running the sequencer themselves so that as they decentralize the sequencer, we can't introduce MEV or people who can't reorder transactions in a block. And so I think that's kind of really important. So they're being very thoughtful about this because in a few years from now we will have decentralization at the sequencer level. But apps like Uniswap want to make sure that all that value isn't just captured by Jared from Subway Eth, if you're familiar with that, that's like one of the largest sandwich attackers on Mainnet that's extracted millions of dollars of value from Uniswap traders on Mainnet Ethereum. So yeah, they're decentralized in the sequencer, but it's a progressive decentralization like a lot of projects in crypto are.
00:21:07.089 - 00:21:58.843, Speaker B: So when you look at the ecosystem of base, there's a lot that's available. I mean, it's undoubtedly the number two. I think L2 on Ethereum now, I think it's just behind Arbitrum or might be eclipsing that even soon. So I think there is a challenge of earning attention. If you're in a very busy, thriving ecosystem with lots of liquidity, lots of applications, you've got to fight for that attention. And so I think that goes to the heart of what is the mission? How do you differentiate? So maybe we could talk a little bit about just that. How do you pitch the mission behind Moonwell? And then I guess, how does that manifest in terms of how do you actually differentiate from other defi applications?
00:21:59.019 - 00:22:39.237, Speaker A: Sure. The Moonwell vision that we all came together and coalesced around a couple years ago is a world where finance and governance is on chain. And our mission is to bring powerful on chain finance tools to everyone in the world, no matter where you live or what your ability level is. And so if you think about that, is very similar to the Coinbase mission I mentioned earlier about increasing economic freedom in the world. And the thing that differentiates the Moonwell app from other apps is that we try to really reach people where they are. So, for example, if you're living in South America or in Africa, you probably don't have a desktop computer. You probably have a mobile phone.
00:22:39.237 - 00:23:11.925, Speaker A: And so we're mobile first. You might not even have a like high speed Internet connection at home. You probably just access all of your apps through your phone. And so just like in the developing world, they sort of bypassed running a lot of copper wires and building landlines for phones. They went straight to mobile. We think more and more people globally are going to be going straight to mobile when they come on chain and start using crypto and on chain apps for the first time. And so as part of that, we've actually translated the Moonwell app into five different languages.
00:23:11.925 - 00:23:54.979, Speaker A: Besides English, there's Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese and Korean today. And then we have Munwell contributors around the world in other language speaking countries, like, for example, Vietnamese, German, et cetera, that are just translating the app into many different languages. And so we want to be accessible to everyone, no matter where you live. And for those of us that live in America or in Europe, we might not really appreciate this as much because we have access to good banking services like if you live in America, you have services like Venmo, where you can just send your friends money. But if you live in, for example, Brazil, like three of our Moonwell contributors do, they do. 40% of people in Brazil don't even have a bank account. Right.
00:23:54.979 - 00:24:28.895, Speaker A: And so, and if you live in a con, a country like Argentina where your local currency is being inflated away, most of those people actually want to hold stable coins in a crypto wallet and then transact with stable coins. And so Moonwell is really designed to bring the power of on chain finance to everyone in the world, no matter where you are. And I think that's, that's really the mission and that's the focus for us. You know, we want to make it so easy to use that you can go from zero to having, you know, an on chain finance application working in like one minute or less.
00:24:31.515 - 00:25:08.035, Speaker B: Hey, everyone, before we get back to the show, excited to tell you about a new Omnichain bitcoin solution called FBTC, which has already surpassed $125 million in TVL and become the fastest growing BTCFI asset this summer. The FBTC Points campaign Sparkle offers sustainable yields plus points and token airdrops from strategic partners such as Babylon Mantle's new token cook and more. To learn more, visit fbtc.com ongoing hyphen campaign and special thanks to FBTC for sponsoring us at the Edge podcast.
00:25:09.815 - 00:25:23.007, Speaker C: Luke, we were talking a bit before we got on about the app. Would you be able to, like, showcase it with us and maybe the audience watching on YouTube can see how it works and then hopefully we can kind of make it interesting too, for people listening.
00:25:23.111 - 00:25:50.459, Speaker A: Absolutely. So let me just show you a demo of the Moonwell app really quickly. So first of all, I'm showing you what's called an iOS simulator. This is simulating a mobile phone, but you could do this on your real phone. It's just easier for me to present. All you have to do is browse to Moonwell Fi and you can load the app. Now, what's really cool about this is we've integrated with the Coinbase Smart wallet, which means you no longer have to download any apps or extensions to actually get a crypto Wallet.
00:25:50.459 - 00:26:27.965, Speaker A: And you also don't have to write down a 24 word recovery phrase because your wallet is secured by like your fingerprint or your face ID. And this works on both iOS and Android and it works on older devices too. You don't have to have like a later state of the art phone. So let me just jump in and click Launch app. Now I've already connected the Coinbase Smart Wallet, but I'm just going to disconnect to show you how easy it is. So you could just tap Coinbase Wallet and then you'll see this pop up and you say connect to Moonwell. Now this is very similar to like connecting MetaMask, if you're familiar with that.
00:26:27.965 - 00:27:13.727, Speaker A: But I'm just going to go ahead and approve that. And then I'm, I've already connected my app to the wallet and so I didn't have to like download any apps or extensions to do that. And then like really simply you can browse our Discover page and kind of see all these different markets and what's available to you. So let me just tap into the Ethereum market and I want to just supply some Ethereum in my wallet. And I wanted to mention something, I have a little bit of Ethereum here already that I've pre funded. But Coinbase has this really cool feature called Magic Spend and so you see this little like wallet icon. What that means is you can actually have ETH in your Coinbase account and you don't even have to, you know, transfer it or withdraw it to your wallet.
00:27:13.727 - 00:27:51.931, Speaker A: You can actually just deposit it directly from Coinbase into Moonwell. That's optional. You don't have to link your Coinbase account to the Smart Wallet. But that's a really cool feature because not only can you use apps like Moonwell, but you could actually like trade on Aerodrome, the Top decks on Base, or you could, you know, buy NFTs on OpenSea without even having to like withdraw your funds. So that's one of these scary pain points, you know, that a lot of people have when they first use Defi is like you have to paste that withdrawal address into your Coinbase app, right? And that's really scary. You know, people are if you mistype one character, you might lose all your money. Right? So, so we, we just want to make that easy.
00:27:51.931 - 00:27:55.131, Speaker A: So let me just go ahead and supply a little bit of ETH here, Luke.
00:27:55.163 - 00:28:12.595, Speaker C: I usually look at that about three to four times to make sure I've got it right when I'm pasting. So that Magic Spend Thing is really cool. So essentially what, what that's doing is anybody with a Coinbase account, whether they know it or not, are attached to Defi now, essentially. Is that, is that kind of correct?
00:28:12.675 - 00:28:44.281, Speaker A: That's correct. Yeah. I think this is a huge unlock. It works with Ethereum today, but you can imagine in the near future we'll work with USD Coin with stablecoins, it will work with cb, BTC with Bitcoin. So it can go right from Bitcoin in your Coinbase account into Defi in a single operation. And I'm really bullish on that feature because I think this is a big unlock. Again, you know, just trying to reduce all those pain points, the friction and onboarding points that exist in, in, you know, Defi previously and make it easy and accessible for everyone in the world.
00:28:44.281 - 00:29:06.555, Speaker A: Okay, so let me go ahead and click confirm and, and this is what, this is what will happen here. I'm gonna, I'm gonna actually switch my payment method. This is the pay with. I'm just gonna pay out of my regular wallet. And you'll notice something here. Um, yeah, I don't have a recovery key that, that's just a test wallet. But so first of all, it tells me exactly what will change.
00:29:06.555 - 00:29:36.925, Speaker A: So just like some of the better wallets you might have used, like Robby and even Metamask is doing this today. It gives you, it tells you exactly what's going to happen with your wallet balances, which is really good for, for safety. Right? You want to know if an app you're using is going to take more money than you think it is. But this is kind of cool. See how it says sponsored by Coinbase. Coinbase developer platform is actually sponsoring gas for apps like Moonwell and Aerodrome and others on base. And they have this technology called a Paymaster, which is a smart contract that connects to your smart account wallet.
00:29:36.925 - 00:30:00.575, Speaker A: And basically that means that when you use Moonwell and Aerodrome and others, you won't even have to pay fees. So again, reducing that onboarding friction, that was another pain point. You had to go buy Ethereum before you could even use an app. And so really you can kind of see how Coinbase is trying to make apps as easy to use as like a Web2 app. You know, like, you shouldn't have to pay fees to use an app. So let me go ahead and confirm this. Use my biometrics design.
00:30:01.035 - 00:30:35.147, Speaker B: These friction points you're calling out to, like, these were. Each one of these things were questions that like, a friend would ask you. Like, okay, so you Said that I can, like, lend my ETH on Moonwell, but, like, how do I actually do that? Oh, we got to go, you know, create the wallet now. You gotta withdraw. The withdrawing there is taken care of through that. That one feature that's specific here to, like, a Coinbase user. So you're able to, like, basically go directly from Coinbase to there, which I think is the gateway drug to getting people into DeFi.
00:30:35.147 - 00:30:58.533, Speaker B: Like, you have to, like, allow them to see how easy that is. Otherwise they're stuck trying to figure out, did I send money to my wallet? And then that other feature, that. That. That's so cool. I didn't realize that there was, like, gas being sponsored now in certain instances. So, you know, everyone would get stopped with. In this case, you're lending eth, so you already have eth, at least available.
00:30:58.533 - 00:31:19.457, Speaker B: But, like, let's say you're lending usdc. It's such a common pain point. I don't have any Ether. I don't have whatever you could be on Tron, whatever network you need, the native GAS token, if that can be handled here on something like Base. It's just huge. So really cool stuff, Luke. I had no idea that this worked like this.
00:31:19.457 - 00:31:22.881, Speaker B: I gotta get on there and try using that Coinbase Wallet.
00:31:23.033 - 00:31:53.945, Speaker A: Yeah, no worries. Yeah, so I want to actually just borrow some eth, but before I. Or, sorry, borrow some UCC against my ETH that I just supplied. But before I do that, I just want to show you guys a feature that's kind of cool. So let me go back to the main app here. So if you want to just install this app to your home screen, you can just click that little sheer button at the bottom and click Add to home screen. And then what that does is it really allows you to kind of have the Moonwell app right onto your home screen, just like any other app on your phone.
00:31:53.945 - 00:32:25.221, Speaker A: It's a progressive web app, so you can just get back to it by clicking there and you get right into the Moonwell app. So really, again, trying to make this super easy to use, just like a mobile app. And you can also install the Coinbase Wallet to your home screen by just going to wallet.combase.com that's a smart wallet. And so, you know, I can see exactly what I have in there. And if I refresh this, I think it will show me even my defi positions. But let me.
00:32:25.221 - 00:32:28.093, Speaker A: Yeah, so I can see my defi positions here as well.
00:32:28.189 - 00:32:41.303, Speaker C: Luke, just quick question, quick question. On progressive web apps, do you think they're getting kind of close to parity with like just regular apps in the, you know, Apple App Store and Google App Store. Like, are we getting near?
00:32:41.439 - 00:33:22.903, Speaker A: We are, I think because, you know, one of the challenges with building like an app that touches money is that the app stores like Apple and Google really don't like apps that touch money. Even apps like Coinbase Wallet, which are pretty trustworthy, have been blocked by the App Store from time to time. And so for an app like Moonwell, it's. It would be really hard, if not impossible for us to get through the App Store approval process. But progressive web apps allow you to just have like a react native app like ours that or a React. Sorry, a React app like our app is built on React Index JS framework that can just simply be installed to your home screen and, you know, kind of bypass the gatekeepers at the App Store.
00:33:22.999 - 00:34:03.969, Speaker B: Luke, just a quick follow up. I noticed that, you know, Moonwell has the typical like lending and borrowing options. You know, if we lend, we're just earning that borrowing interest and maybe some other reward like the well token on the borrowing side. It's over collateralized, so we're putting up more in terms of the asset value than what we borrow. But there's also a vault tab and it's got some really competitive rates there. What are those vaults and how are you offering, how is Moonwell offering these more competitive rates for let's say USDC here is 12.6% APY?
00:34:04.057 - 00:34:50.519, Speaker A: It's a great question. So one of the early projects to the base ecosystem is Morpho, if you guys are familiar with the Morpho lending primitive. Morpho launched on Mainnet and it quickly grew to almost $2 billion of TVL on Mainnet and they came to base and they were one of the first, you know, kind of isolated lending primitives. What makes Morpho different than other lending apps like Moonwell is that it offers isolated markets where you can simply supply one collateral and borrow one borrowable asset. So for example, cb, btc, Coinbase is Bitcoin. You can borrow USDC against it. And these vaults are actually these permissionless immutable contracts that supply borrowable USDC liquidity into those markets.
00:34:50.519 - 00:35:39.689, Speaker A: And so they offer people that are really new to on chain finance the ability to simply supply an asset like ETH or USD Coin or Eurocoin and let our risk curators, which are Block Analytica and B Protocol, kind of manage the risk of lending that out for you and generating a return. And so you can click on this Little eye to see exactly where all the yield comes from. The base APY is what you get for lending out your USD coin. And then of course there are rewards that come in the form of our token as well as Circle has USDC incentives on some of the markets or in the case of Eurocoin, they have EURC incentives. And then of course you're also earning some morpho tokens. But morpho is not yet transferable so we don't show an APY for those. But you can easily see the breakdown of where all the yield comes from.
00:35:39.689 - 00:36:09.285, Speaker A: Again this is. We want to make it really clear where all the yield comes from because it's not just coming from lending but that gives you a really nice like in fact let me just go ahead and deposit $5 in there to show you how easy that is. I'm going to deposit $5 of USDC. You'll see exactly what's going to happen. 5 USDC is going to leave my wallet and I'm going to get this vault token that represents a claim on that. And again this sponsored by Coinbase, so there's no fees to pay. So let me just confirm that.
00:36:09.285 - 00:36:23.693, Speaker A: And another cool thing about being on base is that 2 second block times mean transactions confirm extremely quick and fast. You know, you can use the Defi app and you know, have your transaction confirmed in seconds.
00:36:23.869 - 00:37:16.355, Speaker B: Yeah, it's definitely providing the, I think the user experience that you know, we were foretold what happened someday, like it's already there. You know, you're able to basically have a transaction confirmed within you know, a second. And that's nice because to your point here, whether the gas was sponsored or not, the gas on base is so cheap. You know, it's very cheap on really all the, all the L2s now but the fact that you can pay less than a cent, I mean I'm transacting at least once a week. One of the reasons is to Aerodrome but some of the other like applications I've played with like Moonwell, it's, it's just such a nice perk. I guess I'll never get over like what, what I used to pay on like an eth mainnet versus what I can do now on base.
00:37:16.655 - 00:37:54.619, Speaker A: We've been working hard towards this future of trying to make apps easy to use and accessible to everyone. You can kind of see that. So you know, I wanted to show you also what the portfolio page looks like. So if you just tap here, you can tap on portfolio, you can kind of see your portfolio how much you're supplying, how much you're borrowing, what your credit limit is. Again, we're trying to get, we're trying to make it easier to understand so there isn't a lot of financial jargon. And you know, I want to go ahead and borrow some USD coin just to show you how easy that is as well. So let me go back to the markets and then this is where I can borrow USD coin against the ETH I just supplied.
00:37:54.619 - 00:38:30.349, Speaker A: So let me borrow, let's say $10 of USD coin. It'll tell me what, what I'll pay to borrow. And then of course, I can go ahead and do that in my Coinbase wallet. It'll tell me I'll get $10 in my wallet. And so again, like one of the concepts that you've probably seen a lot in in defi is that health factor. We still have a health factor and you need to make sure you're not borrowing too much or you might get liquidated. But we call this credit remaining because we're trying to, again, just remove the jargon, make it more accessible.
00:38:30.349 - 00:38:45.301, Speaker A: People understand a little bit more about how these things work in the sort of CEFI world. Right. And so, so we want to kind of, you know, tell people what the credit limit is, how much they have remaining, make it really simple and easy to use.
00:38:45.453 - 00:39:15.251, Speaker B: I love that. Yeah, yeah, that, that's a, that's a nice little improvement. I just want to know how much money could I likely borrow against whatever assets I have there based on their price today? You know, if it's stablecoins here. Thankfully it's easier if you're borrowing against stablecoins, but if you're borrowing against something like eth, just tell me what the max is and tell me, you know, how much of my credit, my borrowing I've actually used there. So, yeah, I think it's a really nice improvement.
00:39:15.363 - 00:39:45.649, Speaker C: So Luke, as you were taking us through the app there, it's clear that stablecoins are an integral part of the Moonwell platform. Would you mentioned earlier the acquisition by stripe of Bridge, I guess, for Moonwell, what do stablecoins mean to the platform and what is like your vision of where stablecoins are going, their current trajectory? Is this just going to get bigger and bigger. We just kind of love your high level thoughts.
00:39:45.777 - 00:40:39.747, Speaker A: For sure. Yeah. First of all, stablecoins are becoming an increasingly important part of our financial ecosystem, whether It's TradFi or DeFi. And part of the thing that's driving that is of course the stripe Partnership and you know, stablecoin payments starting to become a reality. And so I think what's going to happen, this is just a theory that I have that I think we'll see play out in the coming years is that as more and more payments happen on stablecoin, rails versus fiat rails, you know, versus Visa and MasterCard, we'll start to see increasing global adoption of stablecoins. And I think in my opinion, stablecoins are the first retail friendly use case for crypto. It's the first use case that actually could be used by everyone in the world because you know, since we all pay this hidden 2 to 3% tax on every transaction we, we make, that that's ripe for disruption.
00:40:39.747 - 00:42:10.355, Speaker A: And as the merchants start to pass some of those savings along to consumers, we'll start to see greater adoption. Now it's going to take some infrastructure, right? For example, we're going to need apps like coinbase to provide like a really nice, easy to use, maybe it's a debit card or credit card experience that actually settles with USD coin on the back end and so that you have that same experience when you check out or when you buy something in a store. And then what's going to really happen, I think on the base ecosystem side is base is where all that stablecoin transaction volume will settle. So that's where, you know, Stripe and the merchants will sort of receive their USD coin or Euro coin in the case of people shopping in Europe and then all of those, you know, merchants and stablecoin settlement clearinghouses, if you will, instead of just holding like dollars in a bank account or in the case of many of these like Stripe today, they probably hold US Treasuries short term because they want to earn a yield on those Treasuries. Those apps are going to increasingly use money markets like Moonwell because they'll want to earn an on chain yield. They won't just want to hold, you know, billions of dollars of USD coin in their wallet on base. And so we see this as sort of strategic because as you know, Stripe and Bridge and these other payments platforms integrate stablecoins that brings all this money into the on chain economy.
00:42:10.355 - 00:42:48.269, Speaker A: And not only does it allow the base ecosystem to grow and all the apps like Moonwell and Aerodrome to grow, it allows opportunities for, you know, retail users of our app to also, you know, enjoy the deep liquidity that exists in the money markets. So that will, that will drive down borrowing rates for people that want to borrow stablecoins. Right? If, if Stripe is supplying billions of dollars of tvl then that means the interest rate to borrow will be much lower. And so I I see it as like this economic flywheel that really starts to just grow and take off as more and more of the payments volume kind of converts from Tradfi over to.
00:42:48.397 - 00:43:23.801, Speaker B: On Chain Finance say hello to Puffer Unifi. Puffer Finance is expanding beyond native liquid restaking with new products such as Unifi Based rollup and UniFi pre confirmations AVs. UniFi is not just another L2. UniFi is a based rollup one that will solve L2 issues such as slow withdrawals versus instant withdrawals. With Puffer Unifi. Puffer Unifi is fast capable of sub second transactions. Unifi also has boosted Puffer points, which means if you bridge assets you earn boosted Puffer points and rewards from Dapps on Unify.
00:43:23.801 - 00:43:32.405, Speaker B: Puffer's core products mean a bright future for Ethereum. Puffer Unify will launch in November 2024. Learn more at Puffer Fi.
00:43:34.985 - 00:43:49.363, Speaker C: Luke I definitely see a symbiosis with Coinbase and Circle. But curious, I guess, kind of Moonwell's alignment with Circle as well, I guess. Does their kind of mission align with yours as well at Moonwell?
00:43:49.459 - 00:44:44.607, Speaker A: Yeah, it does actually. So we just joined the Circle alliance, which is a partner program that fintechs and other apps like ours can kind of plug into. And we've been strong partners with Circle for quite some time now. For example, when Base first launched, we had liquidity incentives from Circle in the form of USD Coin on some of our markets. And then we've been I was featured on the circle Developers Podcast YouTube channel months back last year actually. It's funny because I live in Northern California and Circle actually developed a course on Bitcoin that they've been teaching through Junior Achievement. NorCal Junior Achievement is actually a global charitable organization that aims to kind of help young students in high school age kind of grow and learn about entrepreneurship and other business opportunities.
00:44:44.607 - 00:45:25.701, Speaker A: And JA norcal actually developed this course together with Circle. It's called Bitcoin from It's on Bitcoin. It's about barter. From barter to Bitcoin. It's on basically the history and the future of money. And so I actually had the privilege of teaching that at a few of the local high schools here in Northern California. And so, you know, I've kind of been really deep in the Circle ecosystem for some time and I really, I love their mission because what Circle is building is not just a stable coin, like USD coin, they're actually building these fintech rails, like the APIs and backends that all of the companies like Stripe need to plug into to actually process stablecoin settlement and stablecoin payments.
00:45:25.701 - 00:45:50.055, Speaker A: And so you might see like Tether for example. Tether has a fraction of the employees of of Circle. And you might wonder like why, why do they have so few employees and Circle has so many employees is because Tether is just building a fiat backed stablecoin whereas Circle is building this new like global payments Rails infrastructure. And so that's the difference. I think it's really strategic for them and I could see, you know, Circle really crushing it in the years to come.
00:45:50.175 - 00:46:23.101, Speaker B: Luke, I want to zoom back out for a moment. You know, what are some of the ways that you see crypto fitting into the life of everyone on the planet? Like coming from Coinbase building Moonwell, you're very focused on, you know, real mass adoption in crypto. And so, you know, Bitcoin has been an incredible on ramp for so many folks. Stable coins, of course, stablecoins is synonymous with Ethereum. Ethereum has been huge. Solana has been in a huge on ramp this cycle. Yeah.
00:46:23.101 - 00:46:31.361, Speaker B: So what are your thoughts there? Like what else needs to be done to make Defi or on chain finance more accessible to the average person?
00:46:31.473 - 00:47:12.095, Speaker A: This is a really good question. So first of all, I think those of us that have been early to Bitcoin, we kind of view Bitcoin as the only truly sovereign form of money. Right. It can't be inflated away by any central bank. And it is sort of this digital gold that's great as, you know, a retirement asset, if you will, because it's one of those things that will probably always be worth more a few years from now than it is worth today, just due to the global inflation and all the money printing that's going on with almost every central bank globally. And so Bitcoin is, I think, what people want to hold, increasingly want to hold and store as like a digital retirement account, if you will. And so Moonwell is a perfect place to just hold your, your digital gold essentially.
00:47:12.095 - 00:47:36.971, Speaker A: And then stable coins are what will be paid in and transact with on a daily basis. So Moonwell kind of enables you to store and grow your Bitcoin or your Ethereum over the years like a retirement account, while you can also borrow in times of need. So for example, if you needed to pay for school or to start a small business. And then we also think of it as just a way, a simple Way to store, earn and transfer stable coins in your daily life.
00:47:37.043 - 00:47:56.089, Speaker C: Luke, I want to go back to this idea of the Super Chain again. You talked a bit about it earlier in the podcast, but as somebody like working in the ecosystem again would just love to get your high level vision of how that's evolving and ultimately where it's going. What's like the end state, end game for the Super Chain.
00:47:56.177 - 00:48:46.889, Speaker A: So I think one of the things we really need for the Super Chain to reach mass adoption is this new idea called chain abstraction or network abstraction. You might have heard of it in the early days of the Internet there were mostly these walled gardens like AOL and CompuServe. And it wasn't just like this globally connected network of networks. But now if you use the Internet, you don't really think about the fact that you open an app on your phone and it might talk to like AWS where some compute is running or Google for some search functionality, or even OpenAI for like a chatbot or support functionality and maybe Stripe for billing and payments. And so all of those services are just available on the Internet. And when you open the app on your phone, it just talks to those services. And the Super Chain is going to evolve in a very similar way, especially now that you have big companies like Coinbase and Sony building Sonium, Uniswap building Uni Chain, World Coin building World Chain.
00:48:46.889 - 00:49:23.601, Speaker A: So you can imagine a defi app or an on chain app like Moonwell. When you open that app on your phone, they'll be, they'll be doing things in the same way. For example, they may be reaching out to World Chain to for proof of personhood or proof of being over 18. You might be transacting with a stablecoin on base. You might be buying music or tipping an artist you like on Sonium. And so this is kind of why the chain abstraction is so important and interoperability is so important. And the way that's going to happen is just by the super chain L2s first connecting to each other with the decentralized sequencer.
00:49:23.601 - 00:50:10.555, Speaker A: Like I mentioned earlier, messages will be able to flow freely between these L2s really quickly in a matter of just a second or two. And then as we drive the scalability of all these things up and the transaction time down. For example, Unichain is going to have a 250 millisecond block time that will enable these apps to have a more web2 like experience where it's very fast and snappy and you don't have to wait for things to happen like you do today. So I think that's kind of the vision that we have with the super chain and that's why we're so kind of excited to be building in the super chain ecosystem. Because I feel like you see that, that happening now with Sony, you know, Coinbase, Unis, Swap. There's even rumors that BlackRock is building a L2. I'm not sure if that's true or not, but BlackRock manages something like a hundred trillion dollars of tradfi assets.
00:50:10.555 - 00:50:47.009, Speaker A: And so if they're building a L2, that means that a lot of, you know, tradfi settlement might happen on the super chain as well. So imagine, you know, a future where you might be able to, you know, settle stocks. Like today those are settled with Digital dtcc, which is like this, or sorry, dccc, which is like this digital clearinghouse that all stocks are settled with. That could happen on chain in a much more efficient way. And you know, all of these kind of companies are sort of building a different version of optimism, if you will, but one that's tailored towards their business and we'll see it connect together kind of like a new Internet, if you will.
00:50:47.097 - 00:52:42.767, Speaker B: One team that's related to you that I think of is just another team of Coinbase alums, which is definitive fi. And obviously there's just so many builders in the space who, who start from Coinbase. And one common thread I've noticed is you guys love to work on really hard problems. Like you don't just like fork a protocol, you look to like really make significant improvements for us as users. So I can appreciate and attest to like some of the, some of the things you demoed today, like those are improvements that really are going to ensure that the next class of new users that come into this space, they're just, they're not going to get turned off the way that there were many people in 2020, 2021, I have no doubt there's many folks who got so turned off they've never come back because they, they spent so much money on gas, you know, let's say on like an Ethereum L1 when gas prices were like literally like 50 to 100 US dollars per transaction. Now that we've got the right infrastructure with something like a base and other Ethereum L2s and all that's being done to scale Ethereum L1, I mean, it's, it's, it's really setting us up for a time where now we can make these more dramatic improvements to the UX like now you can really look to reach parity with what we would have used on something like a coinbase or any other sort of exchange. So the day that Defi is that frictionless that it's almost impossible to discern, am I on what is an underlying centralized exchange or am I on a totally permissionless self custodial type of Defi application? I mean that's the future that we're all building towards.
00:52:42.767 - 00:53:25.153, Speaker B: Like, that's when I think like Defi, you know, really starts to take over. But guys, this is a good place I think for us to wrap up. So I want to remind our listeners first, go learn more and check out the application that we got to demo here at Moonwell Fi, follow Moonwell Defi on Twitter or X and then follow Luke Youngblood, which is Luke's personal account. Luke, thanks so much for coming on. Really appreciate you walking us through the demo. We don't get to do as many demos nowadays and Coinbase alums are so good at demos. So if you listen to the podcast, I'd highly recommend Go to the Edge xyz.
00:53:25.153 - 00:53:47.455, Speaker B: You can find the article there that tends to have all the links to podcasts, like where we show it on YouTube, but otherwise just go to my YouTube, it's defidad and you'll, you'll find the episode there and you can watch it. Otherwise, any final word for us, Luke? And like I said, would love to have you come back in the future and just really appreciate you coming on.
00:53:47.535 - 00:54:13.293, Speaker A: Thank you so much for hosting me today. It's been great guys. I really love all your content. I think you bring on chain finance to a much larger audience in the way that you're helping people learn and grow. And it really resonated with me in the early days of Defi Summer. So I'm just really appreciative that there's builders like you in the space that are creating good content for, you know, half a decade already and, and it's been an honor to be here. So thank you for hosting us.
00:54:13.389 - 00:54:53.475, Speaker B: As a fellow Defi dad, we have to look out for one another. So yeah, we always, we, we love to use Moonwell. I look forward to more tutorials now in in our newsletter. So if you haven't subscribed to our newsletter, it's totally free, it's the Hyphen Edge xyz, but otherwise, thanks everyone for joining and we'll see you next time. Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at FourthRevolution Capital and to stay up to date with future episodes, plus get expert tips, strategies and exclusive content. Subscribe to our free newsletter at the Edge XYZ D.
