00:00:00.090 - 00:00:00.640, Speaker A: You.
00:00:04.210 - 00:00:53.950, Speaker B: Welcome back, everybody. I have a longer than typical intro for the next discussions. I think it's a particularly interesting organization. I'm here with Sergey Nazarov, the co founder of Chainlink, what has become the industry's standard oracle network for connecting smart contracts to real world data and off chain computation. Chainlink secures, I think over billion across numerous top blockchains are used by leading global enterprises such as Google, AWS, Deutsche Telecom to securely connect to the blockchain economy. This year, Chainlink plans to launch the cross chain interoperability protocol, CCIP, which I hope to learn a little bit more about in a moment here, a cross chain communication standard that lets different blockchains interact, which is a large pain point for those in the space. So, Sergei, thank you so much for joining us again.
00:00:53.950 - 00:00:56.170, Speaker B: Appreciate you coming back to the conference.
00:00:56.330 - 00:00:58.640, Speaker A: Sure, my pleasure. Thank you for having me.
00:00:59.250 - 00:01:09.300, Speaker B: Maybe to set the stage, you can just give us kind of a level setting, quick overview of smart contracts. DeFi, why the banking industry should care about DeFi as a growing market.
00:01:10.950 - 00:02:31.898, Speaker A: Sure. So smart contracts are kind of impartial, technologically guaranteed agents codified within these blockchains. And so what everyone is used to in traditional centralized finance is counterparty risk and a certain lack of transparency and a certain lack of control over assets. And that's because you basically have to rely on a counterparty to be solvent, to execute transactions, to process transactions, to do any number of things along those lines. Smart contracts are quite simply pieces of code that do everything related to transactions that traditionally would be done by more centralized servers or intermediaries, but they do them in a more transparent, more user controlled, and more guaranteed manner. So in the case of past examples like Robinhood or others where trading was halted or derivative settlement issues with things like archegos or other similar situations, you basically had an expectation that a server controlled by a legal entity would act in a certain way, and it didn't act in that way. Or at least the assumptions around its solvency or its behavior very suddenly changed.
00:02:31.898 - 00:03:21.870, Speaker A: And those sudden changes, as people in the financial markets know, create serious issues, serious losses, systematic financial risk, if there's a cascade of those types of changes in counterparty risk or solvency across a whole category of assets or counterparties. So decentralized finance is really just the rewriting of the financial system in this cryptographically guaranteed format. And cryptographically guaranteed means that human decision making has no place in the transaction, basically. So the transactions people engage in have counterparties that decide what to do. They decide whether they want to settle the derivative or whether they want to go to court. They decide if they want to pay out the insurance claim. They decide if they want to halt trading or not halt trading.
00:03:21.870 - 00:04:43.366, Speaker A: Smart contracts are guaranteed in that they run on a big network of independent computing machines that have no control over each other and that have no single entity responsible for them. And that creates guarantees. Those guarantees being that once the code is written and deployed onto such a network, it will operate as expected. It will operate in a completely transparent way, such that no counterparty risk relevant information can be kept from anybody, and it'll be private key controlled, which means that as long as you have the private keys that can control the code or can do something relative to a function in the code, you would retain that control regardless of anybody's decisions. And the reason that DeFi and this reimagining of the financial system in this format is attractive is because it solves a number of key problems that are becoming more and more relevant. The three problems basically come down to user control, which means that if your assets are in the smart contract, or the DeFi contract, or the lending protocol, or the derivatives protocol on a blockchain, you have real time, immediate control. You don't need for somebody to wake up and decide to let you take your money out.
00:04:43.366 - 00:05:57.082, Speaker A: You don't need to wait for somebody to get approval from their legal department to let you return your assets back into your direct control to redeploy them. This is something that I think is very fundamental. And as the financial markets continue to experience unexpected shocks from various directions, commodity directions, inflation directions, geopolitical directions, the ability to control one's assets, regardless of the decisions or counterparty risk of an intermediary or a service provider of some kind, will become increasingly more valuable. The second thing is transparency. So imagine if you knew every single thing going on in your bank. So imagine if there was just an API that gave you access to every single loan, every single decision, every single risk parameter, every person that was fired, every person that was hired, everything in real time, at the same speed that the managing directors of that institution got that information. That's the level of transparency that this enables, because it forces that transparency at the level of infrastructure.
00:05:57.082 - 00:06:43.070, Speaker A: So the infrastructure itself forces that type of transparency. And that's a very useful thing for counterparty risk assessment. And it avoids all kinds of disjointed things, like the 2008 financial crisis, or some of the stuff that happened with Archigos, or some of the stuff happening with other things like ever grande and others. It's basically a problem with opaqueness that gets largely eliminated. And then the final thing is decentralized financial products, due to them being accessible through the Internet on these blockchains, are inherently global from day one. So in that they're inherently global, it means they have access to the entire world's market. They don't need to have access to just one market, they just are inherently global at launch.
00:06:43.070 - 00:07:53.730, Speaker A: And that is a very large advantage because the total addressable market to access those financial products becomes massive, even compared to when a leading bank in a certain geography were to issue such a product. Let's say a non leading entity like a fintech or somebody launches a similar product. Well, they immediately have globally accessible user base size, and that has a number of advantages just by sheer numbers. And it's one of the reasons why today in the DFI world, you can earn 8% on the US dollar. So that is quite an impressive thing in my opinion. And that in and of itself I think merits people taking this extremely seriously. To say nothing of the fact that it's grown more than 100 x in size from less than 2 billion to over 200 billion, approximately two and a half years, with approximately one and a half to two and a half trillion dollars worth of value in the format of crypto, which is the format which is used to put value into DFI, and then the amount of value that can flow into crypto is in the hundreds of trillions.
00:07:53.730 - 00:08:27.550, Speaker A: So the amount in DeFi is small, considering the total value in crypto that could be in DeFi and the amount of value that could be in crypto is also really small. So this is all in its very early innings. And the trajectory for growth based on these reasons that I outlined, and the inability for the current systems offerings to compete with these capabilities is quite staggering, actually. So this is what I would say are some of the main reasons.
00:08:27.890 - 00:08:43.810, Speaker B: Okay, what are hybrid smart contracts and what does chainlink as a decentralized oracle network do to enable them? What exactly does it do? Why are chainlink, Oracle so important to DeFi?
00:08:44.390 - 00:09:44.550, Speaker A: Sure. So hybrid smart contracts are the more advanced version of smart contracts. The initial version of smart contracts was really just one or two separate contracts on one blockchain that created token ledgers and that allowed voting or multi six, so some kind of access control or voting mechanism. And these were the initial contracts in our industry, and all they required were a blockchain, because the token ledger only needed a blockchain and the multisig system only needed a blockchain. Hybrid smart contracts are actually the more advanced version of smart contracts, such as DeFi. So the vast majority of DeFi is a hybrid smart contract. Basically, everything that goes beyond just exchanging tokens in DeFi is a hybrid smart contract, and it's a hybrid in the sense that it uses both on chain computation and off chain computation.
00:09:44.550 - 00:10:51.050, Speaker A: Off chain computation is things like aggregating market data to create a reliable settlement price. And without a settlement price, you can't have certain things like derivatives, blockchain derivatives. And without market data, you can't have certain basic primitives like lending. So Chainlink right now powers the vast majority of the DeFi lending world, vast majority of the DeFi derivatives world, and is starting to power the vast majority of the decentralized insurance world. And the reason for that is that Chainlink, as a system, pioneered and basically invented this concept of an oracle network, a decentralized oracle network, and an oracle network is really a new form of decentralized computation. So blockchains generate consensus about blocks of transactions. Those transactions are about usually three things, private key signatures, token ledgers and their related movements, and state machines.
00:10:51.050 - 00:11:58.514, Speaker A: So codifying of state, codifying of the state of an agreement, they really don't do much beyond that. And that's already a lot, and that's great. But in order for blockchains to do things like generate games that rely on randomness, or decentralized financial products that rely on market prices or insurance products that rely on weather data or any number of other more advanced use cases, you actually need to pair them with an oracle network. And Chainlink is the system and the open source standard that has pioneered oracle networks. We basically invented and pioneered them, and likewise because of that, have captured anywhere from 60% to 90% plus of various smart contract verticals in the DFI world, in the gaming world, and in other new expanding smart contract categories, Oracle networks, one way to think about them is actually as services. So to think of it as a set of services. Just like there's Amazon Web services for Web 2.0
00:11:58.514 - 00:12:24.170, Speaker A: companies, Chainlink creates hundreds of decentralized services that provide everything from data to randomness to cross chain communications to other more advanced computations to any number of other things. And it's that additional set of services that supercharges what can be built on a blockchain, pretty much giving birth to DeFi, giving birth to new types of smart contracts.
00:12:24.830 - 00:12:38.880, Speaker B: Okay, and how should financial institutions consider kind of adapting these new technological advancements, offering their users access to blockchain assets and DeFi, how do they go about that.
00:12:40.610 - 00:14:52.038, Speaker A: I think it's the type of thing where users will demand access to certain financial capabilities, services, products that banks will either offer them or not offer them. At the retail and institutional level, basically, this has already all begun with custody. So basically, when PayPal began offering the ability to get access to cryptocurrency, that they essentially custody for people on a retail level, that was, I think, the thing that really kind of created the proverbial shot in the air for the race for custody, where everyone basically started to realize that consumers, retail or institutional, will want exposure, will want access to cryptocurrency. And that creates a very foundational problem of custody, of securing that cryptocurrency. And custody is really the beginning of this dynamic, where retail and institutional users demand that their service providers, banks, whoever they use to get exposure to things, provide them this access. The first question for banks is, do you think that your clients will continue to want custody and access to cryptocurrencies, digital assets, whatever word you want to use for this category of exposure? If the answer is yes, well, then there's another very simple question of where do users go from there. So once users have access and exposure to digital assets and cryptocurrencies through you, through you as a bank, what do they want next? Well, they probably want to do exactly the same things that crypto users in the crypto world have wanted to do, which was, while it was great to give them initial custody, they eventually wanted to put those assets to work in various DFI protocols.
00:14:52.038 - 00:15:40.860, Speaker A: And those DFI protocols gave them 8% on the US dollar through stablecoins. It gave them larger yields on other tokens, gave them certain yields on bitcoin, those holdings. And that's what really, it'll come down to. It'll just come down to you needing to service the requirements of customers. And those requirements have already solidified around the demand for custody. The step from not doing anything for people, for retail or institutional, in relation to crypto assets, to doing custody is much, much larger than the conceptual leap from I have something, custody with you. I need you to make sure that I can use it in this smart contract over here.
00:15:40.860 - 00:16:29.400, Speaker A: That's a very small leap, and I think that's the small leap that is going to have a very big impact on what users and clients expect from their institutions and banking partners. And I think banks should get very prepared for that, because I think it's going to be just the same as what you saw in the crypto world, where if you've been in the crypto world for three, four years and you don't have your assets in some kind of yield bearing defi thing? That's a big question. Like the vast majority of people that I know, that's what they do. And the competition and the ease of which to do that with which to do that is improving. So I would say that banks should expect that.
00:16:30.730 - 00:16:41.150, Speaker B: And maybe you could touch on the cross chain interoperability protocol. What is CCIP? Briefly if possible, what are cross chain smart contracts?
00:16:42.770 - 00:17:46.526, Speaker A: Sure. So CCIP and cross chain smart contracts are the next evolution in hybrid smart contracts. So right now, hybrid smart contracts are built by combining pieces of code, pieces of smart contract code on one blockchain together with multiple different Oracle networks. One oracle network might provide price data, another one might provide randomness, another one might provide automation, another one might provide a payments system access. These oracle networks provide a more advanced capability to smart contracts on this one chain. But realistically, now there are so many different chains with so many different groups, private keys with value in those chains, and so many different properties to those chains, some of which are speed, some of which are other properties that, just like web developers, can connect applications from different clouds. You really should be able to build an application composed of different contracts on different chains.
00:17:46.526 - 00:18:56.914, Speaker A: And the chains basically become and really are computing environments that are focused on their set of guarantees. Just like Google Cloud and AWS and Azure have various capabilities and services that developers value. And if they can't get one capability in one chain, they can go to another chain. And so now smart contracts will actually be built across multiple chains, still using multiple Oracle networks and the Chainlink framework. And the chainlink open source standard is able to create this cross chain interoperability protocol, which will do for blockchains similarly to what TCP IP did for many disparate separate internets and intranets back when it was introduced, in that it focused, and this focuses on communication. So most cross chain systems right now focus on token movements. And while that is useful communications information, which is really what token movements are, is really the higher level abstraction of how to define all cross chain interactions.
00:18:56.914 - 00:20:09.854, Speaker A: So the cross chain interoperability protocol is something that we're developing with some of the best people in the blockchain and cryptography industries, people like Ari Jules, who's our chief scientist, who used to be the chief scientist of RSA, and somebody called Dan Bonet, who heads the Stanford applied cryptography department, and a number of other projects in the crypto industry are all kind of coming together to build a communication standard. Across chains, which will actually allow not only token movements, but it'll allow commands and information and state to move between contracts on different chains. And this will accelerate the advanced features and capabilities of blockchains and smart contracts. Just like the appearance of Oracle networks focused on data accelerated our industry into a state of providing DeFi. So I think this will have a similarly large impact. And just like we were very focused on getting the Oracle networks right for data aggregation for markets, we are now spending significant time on getting this right. And it's a very complicated problem that a number of people have tried to solve and they haven't solved foundationally, really from a security point of view.
00:20:09.854 - 00:20:18.900, Speaker A: And that's actually the point of view from which we approach all parts of both the core protocol and other additions to the protocol, like this communication standard.
00:20:19.270 - 00:20:35.350, Speaker B: I see we have about ten minutes left, and I wanted to ask you a couple of an industry question, maybe a macro question, but before that, what is the ultimate vision? Now that we've learned a lot about sort of what Chainlink does, what's the ultimate vision for Chainlink and the smart contract economy, where are we in the journey?
00:20:37.050 - 00:22:06.258, Speaker A: So I think things are very early. I think that's proven out by a number of key factors just on the numbers. Once again, if we're fluctuating between one and a half to two and a half trillion dollars in the crypto format, and the derivatives industry alone is in the hundreds of trillions, to say nothing of the insurance industry, global trade, finance or other industries that have problems that are extremely well served by the unique properties only provided by blockchains, than one and a half trillion to two and a half trillion dollars of value secured in the crypto format is in the very, very small single digit percentage range. So just based on the raw numbers, I think we're extremely early in this industry. Beyond that, I think usability of this technology, as proven by the need for custody providers, has some room to grow. So there's a lot of optimization that can still occur on the usability, which usually means that there's large user groups that are yet to benefit from interacting with the technology, because the usability hurdles and the usability friction has yet to be removed. And beyond that, some of the core foundational infrastructure is also still early.
00:22:06.258 - 00:22:52.660, Speaker A: Scalability is still getting figured out. Privacy is just starting to get figured out, which is something we also work heavily on. And identity data, also with the help of Chainlink, is now just starting its way to make its way on chain enabling, regulated and AML KYC compliant forms of DeFi. Now, what Chainlink does in this very early stage of our industry that I do sincerely believe will secure hundreds of trillions of dollars over the coming years is provide infrastructure. So we don't make any end user applications, and we don't make any blockchains. We don't make a blockchain. We provide all of the decentralized services.
00:22:52.660 - 00:23:49.378, Speaker A: So decentralized services are akin to APIs. So in the web economy, you have applications used by users. That's what DeFi is. You have the core code of an application. That's the code written by its developers, and that's what a smart contract or a set of smart contracts on a blockchain are. And then you have services, Twilio, Stripe, Google Maps, GPS location data, a number of other examples. Those three examples, together with core code make something like Uber, right? So unless you have Twilio to send text messages to drivers and riders, unless you have stripe to pay the drivers, and unless you have the Google Maps location API to get access to the location of a rider, even if you write all the best core code in the world, you won't build Uber, right? You need the location of the user, you need to communicate with the user, you need to pay the driver.
00:23:49.378 - 00:24:36.798, Speaker A: And that is really what we do on the web, three decentralized services level. So all of the web 2.0 services, AWS services, Twilio stripe, all of these services, we either repackage them or reinvent them for the purposes of smart contracts being able to use them, because smart contracts cannot use them. Smart contracts cannot access any external payment system. They cannot access any data. They cannot access anything like Twilio. They require essentially a secure middleware with consensus now, right now we have over 800 Oracle networks.
00:24:36.798 - 00:25:15.198, Speaker A: We're going to be approaching over 1000 oracle networks, and we're going to have thousands of Oracle networks sometime soon, I think. And that basically means that the universe of services that can be combined with core code by developers will continue to massively expand. And when that expansion happened in the web 2.0 world, you had a massive explosion of innovative new applications such as Uber. So our goal is not to build the end applications. Our goal is not to build the platforms on which the core code runs. There's a lot of those platforms.
00:25:15.198 - 00:26:22.758, Speaker A: Our goal is to create all of the decentralized services that allow all of these smart contracts to do more useful things, to capture that hundreds of trillions of dollars of value, without which many people, and me included doubt that they would be able to capture that value, because without an Oracle network about something like weather data, you can't have crop insurance. Without an Oracle network about something like randomness, you actually can't have fraud proof gaming. So at the end of the day, we really expand the scope of what all blockchains do. We do that across blockchains and across use cases. And another thing that happens as a result of that is we basically create a very big abstraction layer that has all of the world's blockchains integrated into it. And then really we are the gateway, the abstraction layer, the framework through which enterprises can utilize blockchains in a secure, easy to implement fashion. But that is a subsequent stage of what Chainlink does.
00:26:22.758 - 00:27:24.282, Speaker A: Our fundamental goal is to create these services to enable all of these smart contracts to grow to a new state of usefulness and to capture more and more value from the traditional world into the crypto format, decentralized smart contract format, by enabling those contracts to exist. And I and the people working on Chainlink, I think, are very proud of our ability to have done a lot of that for DeFi, allowing that to exist and grow. If you actually look at the rate at which data is put on chain, or the point at which Oracle networks appear on any one chain, you will see an explosion in defi activity. And likewise for lots of gaming, likewise for lots of insurance products. Generally speaking, we are very excited and genuinely kind of humbled to be able to provide a new way for the world to work through all these decentralized services. It's kind of the missing piece in a lot of these use cases. And once that piece falls into place, the use cases come to life.
00:27:24.282 - 00:27:49.154, Speaker A: And so that's really what we plan to do for many, many years, across everything, across data, off chain, compute, soon, cross chain communications, anything that smart contracts need to do something useful and blockchains don't provide in a decentralized, consensus based way, Oracle networks can, and hopefully through Chainlink will provide.
00:27:49.352 - 00:28:01.270, Speaker B: Okay, I'm going to get greedy and squeeze one last one in here, which is a pretty big crystal ball question. If you zoom out, what do you see more broadly happening next in the blockchain industry?
00:28:03.450 - 00:30:01.150, Speaker A: I think the blockchain industry is in a certain sense influenced by many macro factors, such as inflation and people's need to fly to safety, to an alternative category of assets and systems, because the assets and systems in the traditional world do not meet their needs. So the speed at which assets and systems in the traditional world do not meet the needs of retail and institutional consumers is actually the rate at which I think blockchains and smart contracts will gain adoption. In addition to that, the efficiencies, usability improvements, reducing a friction to access these systems, scalability improvements and various other improvements are something that will make it more and more likely that that happens. So the core macro trend is if there's more things like Robinhood, where trading is halted, if there's more things like Evergrande, where solvency wasn't proven, was trusted, but didn't exist, if there's more situations like archegos, if there's more of these types of serious holistic failures of traditional assets and systems, then blockchains and Defi are the alternative to that. That's what people don't fully, I think, understand, and they view it as maybe some kind of speculative asset or something like that. But really it is the alternative to a failure mode in traditional assets and systems. And one of the only factors limiting that transition is the usability, is the friction to utilize the systems, is the speed of the systems, is the privacy guarantees of the systems, is the identity data to make regulated AML Kyc, which Chainlink is also providing and has been providing to various applications.
00:30:01.150 - 00:31:36.200, Speaker A: Once these factors of friction, speed, privacy, scalability, are essentially made to be equivalent to web two and traditional financial systems and assets, then the choice will be between having an unreliable, high counterparty risk, possibly insolvent asset or system that you work with, or having all the same value of that asset and system, but with cryptographically guaranteed assurances. And I have to tell you, over the past ten plus years that I've been in this industry, once I explain this choice to anybody, and once they understand the fundamental difference, the choice, I have yet to meet a person who says, no, I will take the more risky option. At the end of the day, it's kind of a foregone conclusion that just depends on the rate at which those other systems fail and at the rate at which our industry and the infrastructure of our industry can reach parity with those systems while maintaining this additional cryptographic guarantee property. And that is what is very exciting for us. So I think if we can be involved in him in some small way, in driving the world towards that, then really that benefits everybody. Developed markets, emerging markets, retail, institutional, because the problems being solved here, they really don't appeal to anybody.
00:31:38.810 - 00:31:47.018, Speaker B: That's all the time we have for today, unfortunately. There's so much to talk about. Super insightful comments. Thank you so much for being here. It was a great pleasure.
00:31:47.194 - 00:31:49.020, Speaker A: Great. It's my pleasure as well. Thank you.
