00:00:11.690 - 00:01:17.860, Speaker A: I believe we're living in a unique moment in time. When we look back in ten years, it'll be very clear how special the spoken is. Until now, there was a big limitation on how things could be built. They needed to be centralized, which means that central entities could change the rules of the game at any time, any way they wanted. Developers you had a huge dependency on central. Platform creators would only get a fraction of the value they generate, and anyone who is trying to challenge the status quo would risk getting shut down. But web three changes everything.
00:01:17.860 - 00:02:16.580, Speaker A: For the first time ever, you can build an app that can't be shut down. You can create an app that is provably fair to your users, and you can guarantee access globally, which means for the first time ever, you can build a lending borrowing platform for the unbanked. Now think about it. That wasn't possible before, but now anyone, anywhere in the world can build it. You can build an insurance product that pays out fairly, not one of these that you have to read into the fine print to discover you can't get paid, or something that sends you to fight with the claims department, something that pays out fairly. You can create a lottery that cannot be rigged. Think about it.
00:02:16.580 - 00:03:07.460, Speaker A: And you can coordinate global initiatives like actions for climate change. Now, this is a huge deal, one of these shifts that only happen once in a lifetime. We're talking about multitrillion dollar markets. We're talking about an opportunity to build a world we would much rather live in, and a huge payoff, of course, for those who create it. And like every systemic change, the earlier you get in, the higher the payoff, and this revolution is unstoppable. And it's already happening. Like, until now, you had to trust everyone you interact with, every app, every service, every institution.
00:03:07.460 - 00:03:42.540, Speaker A: Now, trust is good, but having to trust everyone you interact with with no proof, that's a problem. Trust minimization solves this problem by giving you proof. Once people understand they can have proof, they're not going to go back. Like take docusign for example. People aren't coming back to paper. First time they got a docusign, they said, okay, yeah, that's what I want. And the next time someone sends them a paper to sign it, they say, no, no, I want a docusign.
00:03:42.540 - 00:04:09.770, Speaker A: Send me a docusign. It's going to be the same thing for this. Once people know they can have proof for the apps they're interacting with, they're not coming back. People are going to demand that things that they use are provably fair. They're going to say, prove it. And this revolution is happening right now. A massive amount of investment and talent is going into web three.
00:04:09.770 - 00:04:30.530, Speaker A: All big tech, all finance. Everyone's trying to get in. The technology is ready. The building blocks are ready. If you're a builder, this is the moment to join. You will make this happen. The drivers of this revolution will be builders like you.
00:04:30.530 - 00:05:04.200, Speaker A: I really think, more than ever before, this is the time of the builders. Builders have the power to reshape the world. With only a laptop and Internet connections, you can build something that can impact billions of lives. But there's still a big limitation to building web three, and that web three is not connected. And what do I mean by that? Well, first, chains can't connect to the external world. Take data, for example. Chains can't connect to external data.
00:05:04.200 - 00:05:39.460, Speaker A: And when we could connect chains with external data in a trust minimized way, the whole field of defi took off. Now, the second limitation is that chains aren't suited for all kinds of computation. So, for example, smart contracts don't have automation. So if you need automation, and chances are that you do need it, well, you're on your own to build it. And then there's a whole field of AI, for example. And with my background, I know a little bit about it. And all this progress that's happening in AI is not accessible to chains.
00:05:39.460 - 00:06:30.368, Speaker A: And then the third problem is that chains can't talk to other chains. And as we've seen during Sergey's talk, this is a huge problem, because you have these assets as a developer that you want to move from one chain to the other, or you just want to be able to have smart contracts communicate with each other. So the way that you would build apps like you would do on web two with composing things with each other, is not possible to do natively on web three. And with the explosion of L ones and L two s and subnets and app chains, well, this is a big problem. Now, you can't build a modern web three app without connecting those pieces together. This is very important to understand. Early apps were simple, smart contracts.
00:06:30.368 - 00:07:28.792, Speaker A: But any modern web three app that you see around you is composed of those multiple pieces, multiple smart contracts on multiple chains, and multiple web two resources. And this makes the slack of connection a huge blocker for developers. So how do you connect Web three? Well, this is where Chainlink comes in. We've invented a decentralized, Oracle based consensus method that solves the connection problem while preserving trust minimization for your apps. And this is a decentralized, community based approach, which gets better the more developers use it, which means especially with the launch of staking and economics 20 we've built this virtuous cycle. More usage drive, more security and efficiency, which attracts more usage, and so on. And as we've seen, if we want to truly unlock Web three, we have to connect it.
00:07:28.792 - 00:08:14.916, Speaker A: This is really the next evolution from smart contracts to hybrid smart contracts to fully connected web apps. And this is how ecosystems really take off. This is how the community can build on top of the best components that the community has already built. And you can build on a global scale only limited by your imagination, really. Thanks to you, Chain Inc. Now has more than 1000 Oracle networks, processed 8 million calls of randomness, and has one of the largest web three developer community. And we're really building a platform to help you address your three biggest needs, data, compute and crosschain.
00:08:14.916 - 00:09:04.230, Speaker A: And we're going to dive into each one of them. So let's start with data. Chainlink is the leader in bringing data on chain with over $6 trillion of value enabled and 4 billion data points on chain. Now, they're big numbers, but they're really important because every new dollar, every extra dollar enabled, every extra data point delivered on chain, the whole system becomes more secure and more efficient. Chainlink is now deployed on 15 chains. And this is really what we mean by providing data at scale. And doing this at scale is hard because you need to bring this data in a trust minimized way.
00:09:04.230 - 00:09:54.310, Speaker A: In the web three world, you can't just make an API call to get your data because this creates a single point of failure and defeats the trust minimization of your whole app. With Chainlink, you get the right data every single time in a trust minimized way. And as a result, Chainlink is now the industry standard, powering all Defi and beyond. Now, we have built this standard with you, all of us together. So I really want to take a moment to thank all of you and everyone watching on livestream for building this standard with us. Thank you. And we're excited to take things to new heights with you.
00:09:54.310 - 00:10:21.890, Speaker A: I look at this picture. Speaking of new heights, we're just getting started. There's so much more data being created in the world and only a tiny fraction of it is brought on chain. Look at all this value waiting to be unlocked. And to do this, we're creating a whole suite of products, some of which I'm excited to announce today. Let's dive in. Let's start with the NFT space.
00:10:21.890 - 00:11:07.070, Speaker A: The next chapter for NFTs is to be used as assets for lending and borrowing as well as derivatives. This will demultify the market and the opportunities in that space. But to unlock this, we need secure, reliable data for NFTs. NFT floor pricing feeds solve this problem by providing the risk averse price for any given collection. Now, determining this price is far from trivial. So today I'm excited to announce that we've partnered with Coinbase to bring you the highest quality data and I'd like to welcome on stage Michael Lee, VP of Data at Coinbase to tell you more about it.
00:11:08.820 - 00:11:12.640, Speaker B: Please take your seat for this presentation.
00:11:15.220 - 00:12:03.900, Speaker C: Thank you, Kamal hello everyone. Hope everyone is having a lot of fun at Smartcon for both audience in the room and also a lot of people I know on the live stream as well. My name is Michael Lee. I'm the VP of data at Coinbase. I'm super, super excited to be here announcing our partnership with Chenlink on NFT floor pricing fees Coinbase is building an open financial system for the world. We make crypto simpler for individuals and businesses, no matter how they interact with crypto. Coinbase builds solutions for three major audiences Coinbase retail, which is an easy to use custody offering for retail customers including trading, advanced trading, earn, bi marketplace, NFTs, etc.
00:12:03.900 - 00:13:09.110, Speaker C: Coinbase Institutional, which are high touch services for institutions and high net worth individuals and families and Coinbase cloud, which is a suite of APIs, services and infrastructure for developers and businesses who want to build web three products. Coinbase has offerings across NFT space as well, spanning from product for end users and products for developers for end users. We want to provide everyone who want to interact with NFTs. We offer a wallet to store NFTs and a marketplace so you can buy and sell NFTs. For developers, we offer Coinbase pay SDK, NFT Dapp starter kit and NFT API for you to launch your NFT products. We aim to build a whole suite of products to allow building and interacting with NFTs easier for everyone than ever. The NFT floor pricing fees we're launching is powered by the NFT API served through Coinbase cloud.
00:13:09.110 - 00:14:09.716, Speaker C: We decided to partner with Chenlink because Chenlink is the leader in providing westray data to the masses. Today, we don't have a high quality and reliable NFT floor pricing fees, but with this partnership we're looking to enable growth and liquidity of the NFT market and allow developers to deploy unique smart contracts across defi use cases with an optimal liquidity profile. In order to do that, in order to arrow one, to consume the NFT data with confidence. A top party for words has been to ensure the data fees are dependable and reliable for the rapid growth this space has been experiencing. So three things. Number one, quality data. The data fees are built on on chain NFT transactions from major NFT marketplaces resistant to outliers and data manipulation, and transparent for auditing.
00:14:09.716 - 00:14:55.316, Speaker C: Number two, scientific modeling. We applied rigorous machine learning models to estimate top NFT collection floor prices instead of just simple historical averaging. Third, scalable computing. We build a whole infrastructure that can scale, that can scan and generate analytics for more than 30,000 NFT collections, more than 65 million NFT tokens, and more than 25 million NFT transactions every 15 minutes. So as you can see, we're doing all the hard work so everyone can leverage this data at ease. Digging into a little bit the algorithm itself. As you can see that at any given point, the NFT collection prices is a bell shaped curve.
00:14:55.316 - 00:16:05.528, Speaker C: What we do is we scan every NFT transaction for the collection across all major marketplaces. Then we remove outliers so that we can reduce noises. Then we apply the most state of the art machine learning algorithms to estimate the floor prices for the NFT collection. Then we update that estimates whenever there's new NFT collections come on chain so that you always have the latest data all the time. We look forward to seeing several major use cases empowered by this effort, lending and borrowing, which can power onchain financial applications such as decentralized lending markets where Webster users can collateralize their nfts index creation. We can utilize weighted market cap indices consisting of the top NFT collection floor prices to track the market performance for the overall NFT market prediction markets. We want to accelerate NFT prediction markets by allowing exchange trading markets to connect financial incentives to the trading outcomes of NFT token pairs.
00:16:05.528 - 00:16:50.588, Speaker C: And lastly, Dnips. We will enable a whole new class of dynamic nips by changing the appearance and the functionality of trades based on conditional logic connected to the floor price of an NFT collection. So looking forward, we will expand our machine learning modeling coverage to more collections to generate more actionable NFT metrics, and expand to more defi metrics as well. And we don't stop there. In fact, we'll open source all the model machine learning models behind the scene, as well as the infrastructure behind the scene as well. So everyone can check how the model works. Everyone can challenge how the model can work better and be a part of the community.
00:16:50.588 - 00:17:04.690, Speaker C: That's what we believe that web three data products should be built. So we have two sessions later today that will dig into the details. Welcome. Where to join us for the conversations with this. I'll pass it back to Kamel. Thanks, everyone. Have a great day.
00:17:14.920 - 00:17:55.644, Speaker A: Thank you, Michael. So you can already try these feeds today on Testnet, and it will be coming on mainnet late October. All right, now let's talk about interest rates. Interest rates are critical to unlocking the derivatives market, which is orders of magnitude larger than its underlying market. The problem today is that interest rates are fragmented and there's no real industry standard on interest rate, which is really holding back crypto's potential. So we need a trusted interest rate, widely accepted across the industry. And this is why we've decided to partner with CF Benchmark.
00:17:55.644 - 00:18:01.120, Speaker A: And Gando, head of product at CF Benchmarks, is here with us to share more. Gando.
00:18:05.480 - 00:18:24.644, Speaker B: Thank you very much. Kamel, delighted to be here. Good morning, New York. Good morning and afternoon. People on YouTube never would have thought that interest rates would be as topical as they are these days. They seem to be in the news every single day. So my name is Gando.
00:18:24.644 - 00:19:20.236, Speaker B: I'm head of product at CF Benchmarks. CF benchmarks exists to help raise, maybe back one, help raise investor confidence in the crypto space. We do so by benchmarking investment products and providing measures of markets. You may know our bitcoin reference rate, which the BRR, which helps settle the CME futures for bitcoin, or our digital asset classification structure, which provides a taxonomy and a framework for crypto investing. In my role, I try to look around the corner, see where crypto is headed and try to see how we can help it unlock its potential. And so when it comes to deFi, you don't need me to tell you how much potential there is. We're just scratching the surface and we're just getting started.
00:19:20.236 - 00:20:15.310, Speaker B: And, I mean, look at kind of where the crypto markets are relative to some of the bigger markets in the world in terms of financial markets. But I think crypto and DFI are still missing something. And that's what I want to talk to you about today. The world on aggregate has $300 trillion of debt. And just for a little bit of context, debt is how you can have one person undertake a limited risk for a limited return, as opposed to equity, where somebody has to take all the upside and all the downside. So it plays a really important role in helping an ecosystem grow efficiently. Global debt at $300 trillion and no sign of slowing down, it continues to grow.
00:20:15.310 - 00:21:11.810, Speaker B: It's probably going to grow for the coming years as well. All of that debt is benchmarked to an interest rate of some kind. You have government debt, like sovereign bonds, you have corporate debt, and you have consumer debt, like the credit cards in all of our pockets today, that debt is also spread globally, from Miami to Macau, and across industries, from manufacturing to tourism to healthcare. And a lot of it is benchmarked to the US dollars dollar interest rate benchmarks like Fed funds or T bills, as you may have heard. And I think crypto is no different. For the ecosystem to grow, and for the debt markets to grow in a healthy manner, they need a benchmark interest rate curve from which things can be priced as far as we're concerned. We think such a benchmark needs to abide by our principles of three R's.
00:21:11.810 - 00:22:08.210, Speaker B: It needs to be representative of economic reality, a true reflection of what's happening in the market at any one point in time. It needs to be replicable by any and all market participants to facilitate hedging and risk management. And it needs to be highly resistant to manipulation. To maintain the integrity of the markets as they grow. It also needs to exist in a web three connected layer that's highly secure. And that's why we're delighted to have partnered up with the market leader in this space, Chainlink, to bring you this interest rate curve for bitcoin. This partnership leverages our expertise building benchmarks and Chainlink's unique capability to power Defi smart contracts on chain.
00:22:08.210 - 00:23:33.710, Speaker B: We're pulling in thousands of inputs every day from DeFi protocols, from derivatives markets like futures and perps, and so on, as well as OTC activity. So institutional borrowing and lending from each other, and we're bringing all of this together to give you a yield curve for bitcoin. A measure of the time value of bitcoin transactions can then be priced as a spread to that curve, which facilitates transparency for users, so they understand what risk they're taking on and for what reward. And it makes it easier for users to dissect. If I am getting a return that is 30% above the benchmark, I must be taking on some risk that is maybe a bit opaque to justify this incremental return. So it gives that transparency to users, and it also helps unlock risk management solutions at scale. So if you're involved in bitcoin borrowing or lending activity, or if you're involved in derivatives markets for bitcoin like futures and options, integrating this curve into your product suite can be essential.
00:23:33.710 - 00:23:47.060, Speaker B: So we're going to be diving deeper in a session this afternoon. If you'd like to learn more, please join us. And if you just can't wait to learn more, scan this QR code now. Thank you very much.
00:23:58.630 - 00:24:34.802, Speaker A: All right, thank you, Gandalf. Okay, so now let's talk about proof of reserve, which is a product that allows you to provide automatic audits of any assets collateralization. So this is really useful in three main use cases. First, real world assets are getting tokenized. Gold, real estate, commodities, currencies. That's $46 trillion of value and only 0.4% that's tokenized right now.
00:24:34.802 - 00:25:18.270, Speaker A: And one of the biggest blockers in this tokenization is being able to prove that the asset is collateralized. Another very important application for proof of reserve is the security of liquidity bridges. Liquidity bridges are very useful, but they also need a lot of security. And so to increase the bridge security, you need to be able to automatically audit their liquidity. And finally, stablecoins need more transparency to fully take off. And for that, they also need to be able to prove that they're collateralized. Now, all these three problems can be solved by proof of reserve.
00:25:18.270 - 00:25:51.580, Speaker A: The way this works is it provides your smart contract with the data they need to calculate the true collateralization of any asset backed by cross chain or off chain reserves. And we've made great progress since we've launched this product a year ago. Now, cash is now using proof of reserve to bring gold on chain. And Ave is using proof of reserve to increase the security of their bridge. And to talk about how stablecoins use proof of reserve, we're going to listen to Raphael, co founder of Arcblock now. Let's take a look.
00:25:52.430 - 00:26:53.006, Speaker D: Hello, Smartcon 2022. Great to see you all. Great to have you all here. My name is Raphael Cosman. I am the co founder of Archblock, formerly known as Trust Token, and we are the creators of the true USD stablecoin, which is a billion dollar fiat backed stablecoin, as well as the true five protocol for uncollateralized lending on the blockchain. And I'm here to tell you about a very exciting application that we've developed in partnership with Chainlink, which is about being able to prove on chain the reserves of products like stablecoins and some very exciting new features that we are launching as part of the true USD stablecoin itself that leveraged proof of reserve to a whole new level. So at a high level true USD, it's a fiat backed stablecoin, about a billion tokens in circulation, backed by about a billion dollars being held by our banking partners, very, very simple model.
00:26:53.006 - 00:27:43.258, Speaker D: You can wire in money, get stablecoin, you can send in stablecoin, get a wire with fiat money. Now, we have always worked from the beginning when we launched true USD in 2017. We have worked very hard to make true USD the most trustworthy, transparent and verifiable stablecoin that we could. And that is what led to our partnership with Chainlink around proof of reserve. So what we did with them is we brought in a third party auditor, top 25 US accounting firm called Armanino, who does real time attestations. Twenty four seven of the bank accounts that are backing the true USD stablecoin. They examine those bank accounts, make sure that the funds in them match or exceed the number of tokens on chain.
00:27:43.258 - 00:28:55.426, Speaker D: And then what we did with Chainlink is take that data and actually put that on chain through their Oracle network. And that is the core of the proof of reserve product. It allows defi protocols and other Dapps on the blockchain to directly query Chainlink's Oracle network and see the reserves backing true USD and other stablecoins. But what we are now doing, what we've been working for many months on and are about to ship, is a whole new level to the proof of reserve system, where we integrate proof of reserve directly into the true USD smart contract in a very innovative way. We are making it such that the true USD smart contract will actually refuse to mint any tokens unless the proof of reserve system already says that those tokens have collateral backing them. So that adds a whole new check and balance on the true USD minting process. Such that the holders of true USD and DFI protocols that are integrating true USD really know that every true USD that's minted is fully 100% backed.
00:28:55.426 - 00:29:48.370, Speaker D: And they aren't even just trusting us, they're now trusting a third party oracle network that also has to approve that those funds are there. So that's the core of the product. It's something that we're very excited about and we think is very timely given some of the recent disasters that have happened with major stablecoins that weren't built in as straightforward, trustworthy and transparent way. We think this is a very important time for us to be investing in this kind of technology and pushing the industry forward to have products, stablecoins, especially, that people can really trust. So that's something we're very excited about. It's something the team at Chainlink is very excited about. And I hope that you all here can find even more exciting applications for the Chainlink Oracle network for the proof of reserve system and for all the ways that we can bring more trust and verifiability on chain.
00:29:48.370 - 00:29:55.110, Speaker D: So I'm Raphael Cosman, we're archblock. Thank you all for being here at Smartcon and have a wonderful rest of the conference.
00:29:56.970 - 00:30:58.580, Speaker A: Isn't it awesome? So with proof of reserve, we can make web three more secure altogether. And please check out these talks if you want to learn more. Okay, so until now, we've talked about bringing a lot of kind of data on chain, but what about your own data? Bringing your own data is a huge ask from our developers. We see it in hackathons, we heard it from you and we've listened. You can already use any API to connect to more data sources, but we're going to radically improve it by enabling any developer to fetch any web two data in a fully decentralized and trust minimized way. And we really believe that this will unlock all sorts of new use cases in parametric, insurance, sports, real estate, and mainly we're really excited to see what you're going to come up with. So come visit us at the Chainlink booth to learn more about this.
00:30:58.580 - 00:31:57.830, Speaker A: Now, bringing your own data is great, but what if you have privacy sensitive data? These are valid concerns which are really blocking this data to be used on chain. Now, Deco liberates this data by ensuring its providence, keeping parts of the data private and interfacing easily with legacy systems. So say you want to prove that you live in a given state, or you want your user to prove that they live in a given state without revealing their address. Let's say that you want to prove that you're over 18, but you don't want to disclose your birthday, or you want to prove something about your risk profile or about your bank account. Deco is the technology that unlocks all these use cases. So if you're interested, I really encourage you to hear more from Dahia Malki, our chief research officer, and the Burata team. Okay, this wraps our data section.
00:31:57.830 - 00:32:33.086, Speaker A: Now, again, getting back to this picture. This, as every new bridge unlocks new land, we're working on is unlocking this massive amount of data. And all the products we've seen is really about helping you do that. Okay, so now let's talk about the second pillar, compute. Now, for any web two developer, the notion that you're going to use a cloud to accelerate your development is pretty natural. But in web three, it's still not the case. And this is what we want to solve.
00:32:33.086 - 00:33:53.898, Speaker A: We want to accelerate, help you accelerate your development process. And the first area that we want to help you with is randomness. Now, why randomness? Well, chains can't natively generate true randomness, but randomness is really at the heart of massive markets and actually it's all around us. When you buy a lottery ticket, when you play a game, or when you're waiting for an NFT drop, you're exposed to randomness. Now, how do you know that this randomness is truly random? How do you know that other players don't have access to the results before they play? How do you know it's fair? And as a builder, how can you give the guarantee to your users that your service is fair? Now this is where Chainlink VRF comes in, and VRF solves this problem by giving you a provably fair outcome with a simple API call. So in short, like if a lottery is powered by VRF, then you have proof that it can't be rigged. VRF has been growing very fast in gaming and NFTs, and we're so pleased to be working with so many of you already.
00:33:53.898 - 00:34:35.930, Speaker A: And with VRF V two, we've made it faster and cheaper and a more scalable solution. So go check out these great talks to learn more about randomness. Now another important developer need is automation. Smart contracts don't provide automation. So if you need automation, you either have to push a button or get creative or run your own scripts on AWS. Now let's all agree this is not a great thing for trust minimization. So as you consider solutions, the most important thing to think about is reliability.
00:34:35.930 - 00:35:25.254, Speaker A: Let's say you're implementing a limit order. Do you really want to be wondering if it went through? If someone forgot to push the button or the little woodpecker stopped working? Or if you script died? If you have a game, do you want to be wondering whether your game round started or not? Or if you have a dynamic nft? Do you want to be wondering if the metadata updated? Now this is why you want to use Chainlink. Chainlink is the leader in reliable automation. We bring our expertise in security, reliability and scale. So as a developer, this means you know your jobs will execute on time reliably. Now one of our users, Robovault, says it best. So I'm quoting.
00:35:25.254 - 00:36:12.120, Speaker A: Before chainlink automation I had night sweats worrying about my custom bot lending transactions reliably. I now sleep like a baby. I love this quote. So we launched our service chainlink keepers a year ago and we've seen huge demand and we realized the vision for this product is much larger than we originally imagined. So as of today, we're renaming it to Chainlink automation to fully reflect our ambitions in this space. Now, the heart of it, Chainlink automation, really helps you save time and money. If you're building a web three app, chances are that you need automation and you probably are building it yourself.
00:36:12.120 - 00:37:19.226, Speaker A: You need to build it in a decentralized way. You probably need to maintain it, to monitor it, to scale it when your service taken off. Now, why would you be wasting your engineers time on that? Leave the automation to Chainlink and focus on building the unique parts of your app, and we're going to be continuously expanding our capabilities to let you fetch your own web two data, to leverage log events, and even let you add your own custom compute as part of your automation. So if you want to learn more, I really encourage you to attend these sessions. And finally, let's talk about a couple of things coming next. First, we're investing heavily in OCR two, which will make all our services faster and cheaper. OCR two is an evolution of our battle tested OCR one, and with OCR two, only one, Oracle needs to transmit the report, which drastically reduces chain congestion and costs.
00:37:19.226 - 00:38:08.110, Speaker A: And OCR two will power all the chain link services we covered, which is going to make the whole service a lot faster and cheaper. But really, the vision here is to let you run any kind of computation that you want in a trust minimized way, just like you would on any cloud. So if you'd like to learn more, make sure to listen to Lorenz, our head of R D. Another exciting technology that we're working on is fair sequencing services. Now, fair sequencing services solves a huge problem in our industry, MeV attacks. And so FSS will provide state of the art solutions to solve this problem with minimum rewrites of existing infrastructure. And so make sure to listen to Ari Jules, our chief scientist, to learn more about FSS.
00:38:08.110 - 00:39:00.670, Speaker A: Okay, so now let's talk about our third pillar, cross chain. As we know, we live in a multi chain world and the diversity just keeps increasing. As a developer, what this means is that you need to be able to transfer assets across chain, but really to make smart contracts from different chains interoperate with each other. And we know crosschain bridging is a huge need, trading assets across many chains, using an asset as a collateral, to use an app on a different chain, enabling governance across chain. But really at a high level, it's about your ability as developers to be able to mix and match different components for what they are. Some components are great for storing value. Other components are great because they're faster, they're cheaper.
00:39:00.670 - 00:39:39.466, Speaker A: But the problem is that security is a critical feature of any solution here. Now, out of all the value lost this year, 70% came from bridges alone. And it's a very hard problem to solve. And we've already heard a lot from Sergey on our unique approach. Now, what I'll say is that we're building CCIP with those two goals. First, we want it to be developer friendly and flexible because we realize there's so many use cases out there, but we really want to make it highly, highly, highly, highly secure. And so these are the two goals that we're working on.
00:39:39.466 - 00:40:41.738, Speaker A: And so what next? Well, without revealing too much, you should totally tune in these talks to hear from synthetics and Swift, as well from Lorenz. Okay, so we've covered the Chainlink platform and the three pillars, data, compute, cross chain. And the benefit of the platform is all these products that we covered really work great together, so you can combine them to build amazing things, just like pancake swap and traders Joe and synthetics that are now using multiple products to power their web three app. Okay, now we're going to talk about the most important thing of what we're building. And that's our know. The reason why I love working on developer platform is that I love enabling builders. And when builders form a community, well, nothing stops a community of builders.
00:40:41.738 - 00:40:46.000, Speaker A: And now I'll pass it on to Stephen Flewin, our head of developer relations.
00:40:59.210 - 00:41:41.140, Speaker E: About two weeks ago, I was sitting in my comfy office chair in front of my computer. It was a little bit past 01:00 a.m. In the morning, my time, and I was throwing popcorn kernels into my mouth. This was the night of the Ethereum merge. I was hanging out, spending it with my thousand closest friends on a YouTube livestream. And I was struck by this moment because obviously it took really, really great technology for the Ethereum merge to be pulled off successfully. But more than great technology, it took a huge community of thousands and thousands of developers out there coming together from different organizations with different incentives, different motivations in order to make this happen.
00:41:41.140 - 00:42:08.854, Speaker E: Developer communities are essential to almost everything that we do. This is why we believe that Chainlink is the standard. This is why we are open source. We want to build with the community. And when I think about developer communities, when Chainlink Labs thinks about developer communities, we really think about it in two ways. First, we want to find the way to make each and every one of you successful. And second, we want to make sure that we're empathizing.
00:42:08.854 - 00:42:42.146, Speaker E: We want to make sure that we're listening to what you are caring about so that we can represent those needs onto the team, to make sure that we're building the tools and products and services that are going to solve your problems. And so we're going to talk a little bit about some of the things we've heard today and some of the things that we're going to be doing about that. So first up, in terms of listening, this is a graph of the number of GitHub repositories using Chainlink. This is actually a very important signal for us because the number of people that are sharing their source code openly, using Chainlink as a proofpoint, this is verifiable, right?
00:42:42.168 - 00:42:42.926, Speaker A: This is truth.
00:42:42.958 - 00:43:13.120, Speaker E: This is public information that's available to everybody. And when we look at the numbers, we are very, very happy with what we see. If you look over the last year, the number of repositories, these are projects that are using Chainlink has quadrupled every six months. The number of repositories is doubling. And this is huge, right? This is a proof point of the huge amount of community adoption. And not just adoption, but people sharing, doing it in a way that other people can take advantage of it. Building a network, building this community.
00:43:13.120 - 00:44:00.156, Speaker E: And I'm actually very happy to announce that this week at Smartcon, we've passed a major milestone. We have now hit over 15,000 repositories. So give yourselves a round of applause. You are inspiring the next generation of developers. One of the favorite things that my team does is we put on a hackathon twice a year, and we love poring over both the winners, the participants. Every submission, we take a look at, because really, when you look at hackathons, when you look at this moment, that developers are given this opportunity to look out and see what the futures of our industry is, we feel like that's where hackathons really shine. Whether it's music licensing via NFTs, whether it's making dows easier, making Defi easier.
00:44:00.156 - 00:44:33.400, Speaker E: We look to our hackathons as a fantastic way to get started. And this is one of the core places that communities come together. We love to hear about teams that have come together to do a hackathon project for the first time, and then they get funding, they spun up into a company, and they go further and further and further. We build better together. What Chainlink is accomplishing could not be done by the Chainlink Labs team alone. We have to acknowledge that there's an entire ecosystem out there and there's problems in that ecosystem. One of the problems that exists out there is testnets.
00:44:33.400 - 00:45:11.384, Speaker E: When you are trying to build a really great production application, you want to develop it first, you want to make sure that it's going to be good. So you ship to testnets. But in the past that developer experience has actually been pretty terrible, right? Different testnets for different tools. There was no consistency. And so one of the things that we've been working on over the past few months is actually putting together a coalition of folks. And this coalition of folks brings together a bunch of the developer experience providers in the ecosystem. Everyone from alchemy, Ethereum foundation, the graph opensea and we ask the question, how can we do better, how can we create better end to end developer experiences? So that when someone builds a project they can actually test it.
00:45:11.384 - 00:45:48.496, Speaker E: They can use all of the tools that are available to them in a fantastic. And so one of the first things that this Testnet coalition decided was hey, it seems like Gurley is the next testnet. Now I know there's a lot of debate around pronunciation, so I'm just going to call it Gurley testnet. And spelling it with the umlaut is basically impossible. But we're going to get past that and then really acknowledge that because we've all worked together as a community to decide that this is going to be the testnet we're going to use for the foreseeable future. I can now have this magical end to end experience. I can build an NFT, I can visualize it on the graph, I can then publish it and see what does it actually look like in a marketplace like Opensea.
00:45:48.496 - 00:46:38.692, Speaker E: I can leverage things like randomness and automation from Chainlink and then I can interact with that NFT via alchemy all on the same testnet to make sure that everyone that's going to use that in production has a proven experience. So this is really just the start of what we see as reaching our open arms across the ecosystem. And so figuring out what testnet to be using as an ecosystem, as a community is essential. But we're trying to go further. What are the other questions that we could be asking ourselves about developer experience and how can we expand that coalition to make it even stronger so that more developers are being successful? And so if you're actually interested in joining that conversation, we've got a link here that you can join and try and be part of that coalition or apply to be a part of that coalition. We are building a future powered by cryptographic truth. And this is really, really important to us.
00:46:38.692 - 00:47:01.870, Speaker E: But when you are a new developer entering the space, this can be very, very hard. This can be difficult. What I say is that joining as a blockchain developer is actually harder now than it was two years ago. Right. Two, three years ago, there wasn't as much choice. There weren't as many options, there weren't as many tools. But today, I have to make choices over and over and over, and it can feel like I'm banging my head against a wall.
00:47:01.870 - 00:47:44.312, Speaker E: But we want to solve this. We want to make this better. And so one of the exciting things we want to announce is that we've been investing a lot of time and energy with the community on a new site called Blockchain Education. Blockchain education is really designed to not just answer the how do I build with Chainlink, but why should I become a blockchain developer? I talk to a lot of web two developers who have very interesting things to say about the crypto and blockchain industries. But we feel like if we can answer these questions of why are we here? Why are we in the room right now? Because everyone here, as builders in this ecosystem, you're in the right place. Right. We've heard from Sergey, we've heard from Kamal about how exciting the future is and how bright the future is.
00:47:44.312 - 00:48:28.344, Speaker E: But a lot of people don't know about this. And so blockchain education is really designed to help us fix some of that. So this is a site that we've been working on with the community, and it really is designed for you to share and help people understand this journey. And one of the things that we've done is we've actually mapped out the journey from everything, from learning, finding, developing, but then also acknowledging that, hey, to actually go to production, to be successful in this industry, you have to manage your smart contracts, you have to manage your deployments, you have to manage what chains you're on. You have to worry about auditing and security. And so we're trying to be a hub and provide a lot of the resources out there that help you be successful. Another way that we're trying to help developers more and really fix this entry problem for folks is we're actually launching a new YouTube channel soon.
00:48:28.344 - 00:49:10.896, Speaker E: And so I'll share the name here today, and then in the coming weeks, you'll see more about this, but we're actually launching a chain dev YouTube channel. And what's really exciting about this is that it's not just more tutorials it's not just more documentation, but it's really solving some of the bigger questions that you have about the ecosystem and trying to keep up. Because one of the hardest things for all of us is just keeping up with the rapid pace of innovation. And so really trying to go beyond just tutorials. Although there is going to be code, there is going to be lots of live coding repositories you can clone and try out. But really answering those bigger questions and really I want to focus on inviting everyone here and everyone online to be a part of this developer community. And so we have a really fun event going on tomorrow, Thursday.
00:49:10.896 - 00:50:00.470, Speaker E: We call it developer speed running. And so it's an exhibition of some of the best developers solving problems on the fly, where you can learn from them and see how do they actually think about this problem, what tools do they choose, what problems do they encounter and how do they resolve, how do they respond to those. And this is an opportunity for us all to learn. And if you're at the conference today and you actually want to participate, go and talk to Andre at the chain link booth today between twelve and two, because he'll be talking to developers and trying to find the best people who will be showing off their skill sets tomorrow. I also want to invite folks to join the Hacker House on Friday. So if you want to check out that link as well, it's going to be a fantastic place and a fantastic time for developers to come together, form new teams, learn how to be successful. So I really do want to focus on making sure that everyone here feels empowered to join us and create the future, creating the future together.
00:50:00.470 - 00:50:09.750, Speaker E: So up next, I want to introduce Roy from the Lemonade foundation, and he's going to really exemplify this idea of community by talking a little bit about some of the projects we've been working on together.
00:50:21.760 - 00:51:03.500, Speaker F: Hi everyone, thanks so much for your time. So I'm Roy from the Lemonade foundation. The Lemonade foundation is the nonprofit arm of lemonade, the insurance company, and our job is to build exponential tech to solve real world problems. And I want to tell you today about our first project. It's called the Lemonade Cryptoclimate Coalition and it's the first web three organization built from the ground up to help protect subsistence farmers from climate risk. And I'll tell you a bit more about that in a minute. But before I do that, I want to start with an observation and a prediction.
00:51:03.500 - 00:52:10.304, Speaker F: And my observation is that we're all here because we believe in the power of blockchain to bring about dramatic, fundamental, maybe historic changes to the way that our society operates together. But I think until now, that potential has not been unleashed and hasn't come to bear on the people that really need it the most. The underloved, the unbanked, the uninsured. And my prediction is that insurance is going to be the bridgehead that allows for that potential to come to bear on the real world. And I'll tell you a bit about why I think that, and I hope by the end of the talk you'll agree with me. So in the 13 years since the bitcoin white paper, blockchain has come a long, long way. It's done amazing things.
00:52:10.304 - 00:52:56.748, Speaker F: But I think the question remains, has it really influenced the people who need it the most? And this is something that we've been thinking about a lot at the Lemonade foundation. How can we use blockchain to affect change in the real world? And one of the problems that we've been thinking about a lot is climate change. Maybe you've heard about it. And lemonade is also very concerned about climate change. We're the first insurance company that has forsworn investing in fossil fuels. Unfortunately, climate change is intensifying. And that means that there are more droughts and more floods.
00:52:56.748 - 00:53:24.440, Speaker F: And those droughts and floods are predominantly affecting the developing world. And in the developing world, we have 500 million smallholder farms. These farms support 2 billion people. That's almost a quarter of the world's population. These people are subsistence farmers. They live off what they grow. And that means that for them, a drought can be literally life threatening.
00:53:24.440 - 00:54:15.880, Speaker F: Unfortunately, today, smallholder farmers bear the risk of that on their own, right. In Subsaharan, Africa, for example, where I grew up in Kenya, insurance is basically unavailable. 3% have access to it, but nobody buys it, basically. And we believe that blockchain has the potential to pool that risk together. And if you take blockchain and insurance and data and connect them together, you can basically solve the core problem that has inhibited the scale of insurance in the developing world for crop services. And that is cost. And I'll explain.
00:54:15.880 - 00:55:08.386, Speaker F: So providing insurance in the developing world is very, very problematic from a cost perspective. Underwriting is a very costly endeavor. Even if you do have an underwriting model, an actuarial model, distribution is basically impossible because distribution for traditional companies is done through brokers and agents, and those don't exist in the developing world. And even if you did find a way to distribute it, claim handling would still be impossible or unsheavable, because basically the premium that you would be paying or collecting. It would cost more to process the claim than to actually pay out the premium. So for a traditional insurance company, providing this type of insurance in the developing world is impossible. That's why the lemonade crypto climate coalition has been formed.
00:55:08.386 - 00:56:21.194, Speaker F: So we've been fortunate to put together a group of companies, including Chainlink from the web, three space from traditional insurance like Hannibal Re, some of the most important companies in the space that have come together to work to solve this core problem, this cost problem. And the way that we're going to do it is by using a DAO instead of a traditional corporate structure, by using smart contracts instead of policy documents, by using an oracle chain link instead of claim adjusters. And when we build that infrastructure on the blockchain, basically you can take something that's unsustainable and make it infinitely scalable, because the blockchain can reach Peru or Papua New guinea as easily as it can reach rural Kenya. And on top of all that, we're also providing this at cost and not as a profit seeking endeavor. Specifically, crop data is a great use case for this. And that's because crop data can be objectively measured. It can be instantly reported through an oracle like Chainlink to the blockchain.
00:56:21.194 - 00:57:09.120, Speaker F: And it can automatically trigger, again, using Chainlink, it can automatically trigger claims. That means we don't need claims adjusters anymore. Oh, and by the way, I forgot, who the hell trusts their insurance company, right? So I think one of the interesting things that we can do here, one of the opportunities, is going from a model that's distrusted to a model that's trustless. It doesn't mean the actors don't trust each other. It just means that the actors don't have to trust each other, because everything is on chain, everything is verifiable. Everyone can just look and see what happened, right? There's no bureaucracy in the background that you have to trust. It's verifiably true.
00:57:09.120 - 00:57:46.940, Speaker F: And just because it's on chain, it also doesn't mean it has to be complicated. So this is Mpesa in Kenya. We're going to be using the same exact user interface that farmers in the developing world are used to for banking applications. USSD menus just like this one. They're going to be buying insurance directly from their feature phone. The money is going to be parked on chain. And then when we trigger a claim through Chainlink, that money is going to go directly back onto their phone.
00:57:46.940 - 00:58:47.338, Speaker F: So basically, from the farmers perspective, nothing needs to change. We don't need to do any market education. We're super excited about the fact that we're going to be launching a pilot very soon, sometime in this quarter. And once we launch that pilot, we're going to be using next year to scale. As I said in the beginning, I think if we're able to use the potential of blockchain to affect change in the real world and help these people, these 2 billion people who live off what they grow, if we can help them, these underinsured, these unbanked people, if we can make their life a bit better, that's something that I personally am super excited about. We're super excited about in the coalition making change on a global scale like this. And something that's so important is something that we're very passionate about.
00:58:47.338 - 00:58:56.014, Speaker F: And if you are too, I encourage you to drop us a line. We'd love your involvement as developers, investors, whatever it is. Thank you very much.
00:58:56.052 - 00:59:31.980, Speaker A: Now it's time to build. Thank you, Roy. I really love this story. It shows how web three can have this incredible impact on society. Okay, so we've seen a lot, we've seen a lot of great tools. We've heard about our awesome community. So what now? Well, often something that we hear is, that sounds amazing, but I don't know where to start.
00:59:31.980 - 01:00:37.126, Speaker A: First, it's really important to realize every business, every business will have a web three strategy. Just like every business now has an Internet strategy, a mobile strategy, a cloud strategy, an AI strategy. So whether you're launching a startup or you're running a billion dollar business, you need a web three strategy. And it's going to happen progressively. Businesses didn't move all their operations on the Internet right away. In fact, web three will be a spectrum from just selling your data on web three to putting whole parts of your infrastructure on web three, to starting full web three native. But the first step that you're going to take, the most important thing, you're going to think about, the most important thing that needs to be provably fair to your users and you're going to put it on chain.
01:00:37.126 - 01:01:17.246, Speaker A: For example, if you're building a lottery, the most important part should be randomness. So a great way to get started again is to ask yourself which part of your app needs to be provably fair and start with that. And with Chainlink, you can connect it all together. And remember, your users will demand that your service is provably fair. They'll say, prove it. Now, how can you prove it? Well, today we're launching badges that you can put on your apps to show that they're provably fair. We want to build this world together.
01:01:17.246 - 01:01:48.286, Speaker A: If you're a chainlink user, go to chain link, prove it to get the badge and help us spread the word. It's build time. If you see something around you that's not fair, fix it. Make it fair. Rebuild it the way it should be. I really think it's never been a better time to be a builder. I really think we'll look back in ten years and realize this was the time of builders.
01:01:48.286 - 01:02:11.800, Speaker A: And as a builder, web three is the opportunity of a lifetime. And it's happening now. I've seen this personally in messaging, I've seen this in AI, I've seen amazing things happen. But we really want to get in at the right time. And this is the moment. This is the moment where the building blocks are ready, the technology is ready. But not everyone is seeing the full opportunity.
01:02:11.800 - 01:02:23.020, Speaker A: So you can help us shape this new world. It's all greenfield. With so much potential, it so come and let us grab this time together. Thank you.
