00:00:01.800 - 00:00:55.474, Speaker A: Thank you so much for having me. I was just saying behind the stage, it's a really beautiful venue and we're super excited to be here. So I'm going to talk about Noble today and what we're doing in this modular ecosystem that we all exist in to solve for a very specific pain point, which is native asset issuance. So I'll go through a little bit of the noble origin story, we'll talk about how we're actually solving for these pain points, what those pain points are, and actually even share some exciting news on the next asset that we're launching on Noble for the modular ecosystem. So first, hello. Very exciting to be here in the heart of the European Union, and let's get to it. So what is noble? Noble is purpose built.
00:00:55.474 - 00:01:45.180, Speaker A: We like to think of ourselves as doing one thing very, very well, which is native asset issuance. We are very much leveraged and exposed to the growth of the modular ecosystem, some of which Jacob just here described. And in the past months, we've gotten to over $500 million of transaction volume on a monthly basis and even exceeded a billion dollars. So this is our success so far. We first started off with a simple mission, which is how do we bring native USDC in the cosmos ecosystem? We launched in September of 2023 and we've actually grown to 240 million of TVL. So this is a little bit outdated. We have 20 times more penetration than the nearest native stablecoin that exists in the cosmos ecosystem being tether.
00:01:45.180 - 00:03:07.802, Speaker A: And the reason why that is, is because we really try to proliferate and make it very, very easy to go between various chains, various execution environments in one click with stable coins such as USDC. So whereas many projects right now are very interested and incentivized to create these walled gardens and to retain incentives and liquidity and activity on their various chains, we really, really look to see ourselves as more of a router of liquidity, a chain that exists in between, in this case, circle and destinations like DYDX, the celestia ecosystem, and so on. So while we started with native USDC, this was really just the beginning to experiment and to kind of see what does this model look like? Sometimes I like to say that being a native asset issuance chain when you're building a blockchain almost sounds redundant. Like isn't any chain with settlement and native tokens and asset issuance chain for Noble? We really specifically focus on stablecoins. We really see this as the next unlock of onboarding many, many developers and users into these various crypto applications. And so these are the other stable coins that we're bringing on board. We actually launched Ondo's USDY officially on Noble's mainnet yesterday.
00:03:07.802 - 00:04:19.084, Speaker A: So this is the first time that various Cosmos users and application developers and builders will actually have access to this USDY, which is a tokenized treasury bill that is always hooked into the perfect redemption price that's being fed through the Ondo organization. And so this is something that we're really, really excited. So while again, we are live with this one stablecoin that is still a very, very important pillar of our growing modular ecosystem, the others that we're really excited about are also other fiat stablecoins. So really excited to share that. Tomorrow we'll be announcing we're bringing a euro stablecoin, which is very timely considering we're here in the heart of the European Union. And this euro stablecoin is actually issued by a company called monarium. And again, you can imagine where in a world where you have native integrations of USDC treasury bills, the japanese yen and the euro stablecoin, you kind of see this early machinations of forex markets actually being able to come into play on chain in a real, real way.
00:04:19.084 - 00:05:37.578, Speaker A: So by leveraging these very, very native properties on the noble chain, so a perfect redemption price for something like a tokenized treasury bill, perfect kind of current euro exchange rate, for example, and many other yield bearing stablecoins, you can actually start to build out applications that are very, very suited for things like lending, things like swapping, things like forex and so on and so forth. So we're really excited because we've seen these applications take off in the ethereum space, applications like curve and others. But in the modular ecosystem, it's still very, very hard to be able to solve for the liquidity fragmentation, solve for this kind of perfect price problem where there is discrepancies across various execution environments. And for noble, this is what we're super excited to solve for. Okay, so I talked a little bit about what we've done so far, but how are we different than any other blockchain? This will actually feel very, very familiar to the people in this room. This is typically something that I like to share with folks that are not as familiar with modularity modular systems or app chains. But really we're looking to prove that this idea of an app chain, which obviously the cosmos white paper initially envisioned, is really being realized.
00:05:37.578 - 00:06:40.732, Speaker A: Things like l two s, things like l three s, you can even think of rollups as their own sorts of app chains. So really being leveraged, this vision is something we're very excited about. This is probably another image that resonates with folks again, as you have a distinct execution environments, as you have different interoperability solutions. How does something like a stablecoin fit into that? How does an application developer that maybe wants to launch a minutia actually plug into native USDC and have reliable native USDC liquidity from the noble chain? Looking at this ecosystem map, it's very clear that there's many kind of folks doing many different things. And really for Noble, it's about issuance and settlement. At the end of the day, yeah, I mean, this is something that we all like to talk about. Really, it's the next evolutionary step, growing this interchange economy, having kind of leverage to all of the transaction volume that takes place between various app chains and making sure that this continues to grow is part of our mission.
00:06:40.732 - 00:08:18.968, Speaker A: This will also look familiar to many of you, so I'll continue to go to the next slide. But really, at the end of the day, one thing that we really, really like to emphasize is that Noble is UX. So things like fast finality, so being able to have, in Noble's case, 1 second block times, things like actually using USDC as a gas token on both the Noble chain and on various other roll ups and app chains, and this idea of this one click transaction. So we really, really emphasize that to onboard the next millions of users and developers, you'll have to have a UX environment that feels seamless, that feels easy, and that is really something that we prioritize when it comes to the stablecoin issuance piece, both for the end users, the end app gene developers, but also the asset issuers that we helped onboard into the modular ecosystem issuers like Circle, monarium, Ondo, hashnote and many more. So I'll give one specific example of how Noble is UX. I think sometimes these terms might seem very broad and even fluid and a little bit abstract, but for noble, it's actually something that's very core to the way that we operate and is a core principle. This idea of ux, and so this specific example of automated interchange accounts, now actually called a forwarding module, actually came to us from a team that had a very, very specific need.
00:08:18.968 - 00:09:03.026, Speaker A: So this team is a team that spun out of Kraften. Krafton is a south korean gaming development company. They are very well known for having built PUBG, and they're actually launching a cosmos chain. And they wanted to have this chain perform a specific function which is doing creator payouts for their various gaming developers in stablecoins, specifically in USDC. So we had various stakeholders that we had to solve needs for. You had Kraften, the gaming development company, you had circle, of course, wanting third USDC to proliferate in that environment. And you had noble being the on chain issuance chain for USDC.
00:09:03.026 - 00:10:28.200, Speaker A: And you actually have stripe that at the end of the workflow would actually be able to withdraw these creator payouts to bank accounts. So you can think of these workflows as very complicated systems, because at the end of the day, you have to satisfy very specific requirements across all of these stakeholders. And so our objective became, how do you automatically forward an asset, in this case USDC, to a destination chain, in this case crafton, in one click. And so what we did is we actually leveraged these core primitives that already exist in cosmos, specifically being interchange accounts, which is an IBC standard. And so for us, it was pretty straightforward solution to be able to actually come up with a system where you could actually register a packet, in this case a USDC transfer onto a account, which would then be automatically forwarded to a destination in one click. So this is a really seamless sort of solution that you could actually think probably would not have been as easy in other ecosystems, and definitely perhaps not in monolithic environments where you don't have fast finality, you don't have these custom workflows sort of established, and you definitely don't have things like IBC. This is another example today.
00:10:28.200 - 00:11:32.510, Speaker A: I mean, we all talk about how easy it or how hard it is to interact with these systems. Again, going back to this idea of a one click, user driven experience, here, you can actually go natively between Ethereum, Ethereum, mainnet and osmosis in one click. It does still take time because you're waiting for Ethereum finality, but at the end of the day, you have a very huge unlock where there's no slippage, having to route through various pools to go from Ethereum to the cosmos ecosystem, it's one to one. And really, at the end of the day, really what you're trusting is that in this case, noble's implementation of the cross chain transfer protocol. So this is a native bridge for USDC. So we see these intense, driven experiences with one click as something that is very, very, very core to our philosophy. And just continuing, again, to make it extremely straightforward for both users and developers to interact with these systems when it comes to stablecoin issuance.
00:11:32.510 - 00:12:28.190, Speaker A: So really, we're excited about bringing more liquidity to the cosmos ecosystem to the celestial ecosystem and really beyond. And at the end of the day, having these super, super unified experiences that we can solve for both in the cosmos side, which we already have for other ecosystems in this kind of modular environment is really important to us. I will end with happy paths. I think this is something we need to think a lot more about. I think we get a very caught up with meme coin mania and speculation. But at the end of the day, people just want nice experiences that don't give them anxiety or want them to rip their hair out. And when it comes to things like using stable coins and going between various ecosystems, that's something that we're super, super excited about.
00:12:28.190 - 00:12:58.668, Speaker A: So happy paths are something we always talk about. And here, there's some really nice examples where you don't have to think about fees, you don't have to think about slippage, you don't have to think about gas fees. And filling up your wallet with tokens to pay for gas in a separate token. Really, what we're interested is in these happy paths for all users. So that's that. Thank you so much for having me. And hopefully you learned a little bit about Noble's mission.
00:12:58.668 - 00:12:58.900, Speaker A: Thanks.
