00:00:00.170 - 00:00:48.550, Speaker A: We're all after yield and liquid staking tokens, or LSTs, are a hot yield source in DFI. But despite boosting Ethereum, LSTs also pose new network challenges. So where can we find exciting DFI opportunities with LSTs? And are we finally looking at a DFI summer? 20? Thank you to the stellar Development foundation. Be sure to check out the Soriban smart contract platform platform, which hits mainet this fall. Let's start with where we are today. The LST industry has skyrocketed recently, with Lido, the market leader, holding $13 billion of total value locked. That's double the second largest DFI protocol makerdao, currently around 16% of ETH supply, worth $36 billion, is staked, with LSTs, representing 47% of staked ether.
00:00:48.550 - 00:01:44.890, Speaker A: Since the Chapella upgrade, LSTFi protocols have been on a tear, with fracs leading the charge. LSTs are an exciting innovation which enable users to earn rewards by staking ether without locking up the underlying asset. And for an in depth look at how LSTs and their integration into DeFi protocols are changing yield strategies, check out this video that we made previously. Many top Defi protocols already support LSTs, with Lido's stake ETH leading and rocket pool's R ETH not far behind. Users can supply and borrow these assets on platforms like AavE or access stablecoins like Dai against LST liquidity on Makerdao and curve, unlocking new lending strategies and earning opportunities. And it's not just the OGs, because new protocols are also joining the LST trend, offering bonus rewards through inflationary tokens. Libra Finance quickly became the 23rd biggest Ethereum protocol just five weeks after launching Origin's oeth.
00:01:44.890 - 00:02:11.130, Speaker A: A yield collecting LST also managed to get $15 million in TVL in just two weeks. But remember, while newer protocols can offer higher APIs, they might also be prone to security risks. Case in point, unsh ETH unsheath, a new LST liquidity marketplace, had to stop withdrawals after it was hacked last Wednesday. Coming up, I'll give you four protocols which offer LST strategies. But first, a quick word from stellar.
00:02:11.310 - 00:02:40.320, Speaker B: The world is full of tensions, all simultaneously pulling on the fabric of our financial system. And that is exactly where we see change, pairing through a change that enables all the financial world has to offer to anyone, anywhere. The stellar network, a universe of opportunity.
00:02:40.770 - 00:03:28.170, Speaker A: Now back to LSTs. Here are four protocols which combine multiple DeFi elements to create innovative LST strategies. We'll start with Oasis app, now allowing users to leverage their exposure to staked ETH ave users can also borrow ETH against staked ETH before purchasing additional staked ETH using the borrowed funds, all in a single transaction. Gearbox protocol offers a similar feature where users can access leveraged exposure to staked ETH of up to ten X. That's a lot of leverage, so be careful. If you plan on diving into the world of leveraged LST, then we have pendle, which lets users deposit LST assets and mint new tokens representing the yield and principal portions of staked positions separately. And this is great because it means users have the option to keep their yield earning tokens and sell the underlying stake.
00:03:28.170 - 00:04:30.698, Speaker A: Have we saved the best for last? We'll let you decide because Prisma finance fancy themselves the end game for liquid staking tokens, and they've raised funding to realize the full potential of LSD with backing from curve, convex fracs, llama nodes, and more. However, prominent voices in the Ethereum community warn against overly financializing Ethereum's underlying security mechanism. The ETH staker community cofounder thinks that staking should promote network security, not DFI, and he wants to keep the two separate. Others fear that the financialization of LSTs is helping Lido further grow its 36% staked ether dominance. And Vitalik Buterin thinks no single staking pool should control more than 15 of staked ether. Similarly, Anthony Sasano from the Daily Gy podcast and Rocketpool Odao thinks we need to attract users away from Lido, and he thinks economic incentives are the way to do this. So what do you think of liquid staking tokens? Are you excited for the rewards, or concerned that they could pose a threat to Ethereum? Let us know in the comments.
00:04:30.698 - 00:04:33.450, Speaker A: Thank you for tuning in and stay tuned.
