00:00:00.320 - 00:00:59.332, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 22 October 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So find a little kind of meme here about something called worldcoin, which I'm sure a lot of you have kind of like, heard about over the last few days, a new kind of like cryptocurrency that's aiming to, I guess, like, Sol, maybe, maybe using the term solve wealth inequality isn't the right one, but they're aiming to kind of like, rectify wealth inequality or at least fix it or make it better by issuing this new cryptocurrency called worldcoin and distributing it to the world's population. And the way they're going to be doing kind of like civil resistance here in terms of being able to kind of like weed out any bots or anyone trying to game the system, is that they've got this thing called the orb that scans people's kind of like eyeballs, right, and puts like a unique hash of their iris on chain. And that's kind of like your proof of humanity or proof of identity sort of thing. Now, there was a bit of discussion about this in the Discord channel today.
00:00:59.332 - 00:01:39.368, Speaker A: I'm not really a fan of this project. 20, I think around 20% of the, of the kind of like coin supply is going to insiders and team. So already it just seems very kind of like once very insider, kind of like team heavy for something that he's trying to, I guess, combat wealth inequality and also kind of like the, the eyeball scanning is kind of dystopian when you think about it, right? Putting that on chain. I know it's just the hash of it, but again, like, none of this is open source or anything like that. So we don't know what, what it kind of is yet. But what I found really interesting about this project is the fact that it's actually building as an optimistic roll up on top of Ethereum. So it's not, it's kind of like own chain or anything like that.
00:01:39.368 - 00:02:28.690, Speaker A: And as I said to you guys, I don't expect people to start creating their own layer ones from, from here on out, because it just makes much more sense to create your own L2. And there's a bit more details about this here. Um, Remquo tweeted out about how Hubble, which is, I guess, like what they're calling their, their l two the optimistic roll up is much. It seems to be considerably cheaper than all the existing kind of, I guess, like roll up solutions out there, both ZK and optimistic roll up. So you can see here Remco says numbers from back when l one ERC 20 token transfers were $10 Hubble l one verification costs can probably be gas golf down quite a bit. So you can see here that Ethereum, you know, when if it costs you $10 to transfer a token on Ethereum, on Arbitrum, it's $1.90. On optimism it's $0.97.
00:02:28.690 - 00:02:44.850, Speaker A: Zksync $0.31 loop ring $0.20 Hermes twenty five cents. And Hubble claims to do it with six cents. Now, I'm not aware of Hubble being live on mainnet yet, so until I. And it's not open source either. So until I see kind of like a production style system here, I'm going to take these numbers with a grain of salt.
00:02:44.850 - 00:03:26.808, Speaker A: But still, I mean, if these are actually true numbers, then that's amazing. Like, as I said, like, I'm not a fan of the world coin project itself, but the tech that they produce can still be really, really awesome. Like, if they can actually get the cost of an optimistic roll up down this much, it's quite incredible. And you know, tuba followed up here and asked, you know, why is Hubble so much cheaper than optimism? And arbitrum? And Rimco goes on to say ERC 20 call data plus EVM signature is a lot of data to store on l one Hubble uses BLS signature aggregation plus compressed transactions to save on call data. Polynar is of course in here. And they, they go on to say, you know, this is where I expect transfers for most optimized roll ups to land. My question though is, is your Hubble fork already fully optimized with $0.06
00:03:26.808 - 00:03:59.764, Speaker A: fees, or is this a projection? Once the work is done, I get why using your own wallet will help with BLS signature aggregation. So he didn't answer this yet. Remco didn't answer this yet. But still, I mean, you know, if this is possible, it's, it's amazing. Like this is actually going to being bring even further improvements to, I guess, the roll up world here. Not just optimistic, but also ZK. And I think this is already on the roadmap for a lot of these roll ups anyway because as I've said before, the iterations that we have today of both the optimistic and the ZK stuff is really just like the first version of what's possible there.
00:03:59.764 - 00:04:40.250, Speaker A: It is definitely not the final state. You know, I know it's still expensive today, but it'll get cheaper over time, especially as the costs become amortized across, across different transactions and, and the cost gets shared on these roll ups as well. So, yeah, it's cool to see this. I mean, it's just cool to see someone else, I guess, like building a roll up on Ethereum and basically validating my thesis around the fact that I, you know, I've said multiple times now in the past that I just do not see people spinning up l one s anymore. It's just, it doesn't make any sense compared to spinning up your own l two. And this is probably the first of many. But yeah, I guess, like, on that note, I still, I mean, I wouldn't say like, I know I said I'm not a fan of the world coin project.
00:04:40.250 - 00:05:00.330, Speaker A: I'm just not a fan of a lot of the way they're doing a lot of different things. It really kind of just gives me a bad vibe right now. But who knows? It may turn into something better as time goes on. Like, it's very early days for the project. We'll see how it all pans out. But right now, the only thing I'm really a fan of is the fact that they're using an optimistic roll up on top of Ethereum. But even then, like, it's not open source.
00:05:00.330 - 00:05:27.384, Speaker A: We don't know what it looks like just yet. We don't know kind of what trade offs they've made or any trade, you know, if they've made any trade offs, we definitely want to see that kind of open source. Everyone can kind of pull it apart and look at it, but still good to see that it's building on ethereum there. If you do want to kind of guess, I guess learn more about world coin, you know, you can just go to their Twitter page here, worldcoin. I'm sure they've got a website, worldcoin.org, and see what they're all about. But I mean, as I said, my opinion is I'm not a fan.
00:05:27.384 - 00:05:50.906, Speaker A: I'm just going to wait and see, waiting to kind of like, see how this pans out, what other people kind of think of it. I think, you know, the funny thing is, it seems like twitter is a bit. A bit split on it like this. I mean, I don't even know if it's half and half, but there's, people like that are big fans of it. They think it's a great project. They think that you can actually work to solve kind of like, the super resistant problem, and then there's other ones out there who think it's really dystopian. It doesn't really make much sense.
00:05:50.906 - 00:06:09.960, Speaker A: Why do we need another cryptocurrency for this sort of stuff? And I get it, but, you know, for me, crypto was never really about solving wealth inequality. Maybe some people thought it was. I don't think it can. Like, I really think that wealth inequality is much more complex than anything that we can do within crypto. It's just such a broad problem. It doesn't. It doesn't.
00:06:09.960 - 00:06:47.328, Speaker A: It doesn't just kind of, like, pertain to something like a distribution of a coin, for example. It pertains to so many real life related things that are completely outside of the scope of what crypto can do. For me, crypto has always been about just making a fairer system, you know, basically collapsing the. The costs of interacting with that system, making it so that everyone in the world can interact with it on equal footing. It was never about solving wealth inequality, because, I mean, just to give you a prime example here of something where the rich, you know, in a capitalist system, the rich get richer because the more money you have, the more money you can make, right? Or the more money you can risk without having, you know, on. On something. And even if you lose that, it's not a big loss to you.
00:06:47.328 - 00:07:04.864, Speaker A: For example, if you have, like, ten grand and you want to risk, like, a. It. Like, just 10% of it on an investment, um, and then you're okay. You know, you're okay with losing that. You've just lost 10% of your. Your kind of, like, money, but you're okay because it was only, um, uh, 10%. That's all good, but that's still a.
00:07:04.864 - 00:07:20.602, Speaker A: Imagine if you're someone who only has $100 of disposable income. Uh, and you. You know, you you. That's part of your savings, and you're like, okay, well, now I've only got $10 to invest, sort of thing. So obviously, the person with the $1,000 can compound their wealth. If they make it two times, they'll make another thousand dollars. If you make a two.
00:07:20.602 - 00:07:58.378, Speaker A: If the person with $10 makes it two times, they'll make $20. And then you have to go into the complexities of, like, investing itself and kind of, like, the different jobs people work and where they're born, like, the geographic location, the opportunities there. It's just such a much broader problem than crypto and that's another problem I have with worldcoin, is that I don't think you can just, like, fairly distribute a token or at least like, come up with the most fair way to distribute a token to everyone as kind of like some universal basic income thing, and then expect everything to be okay. Maybe. Maybe they haven't said that. I don't think they've actually said that where they've basically gone and said, well, we expect everything to be fine and we're gonna solve kind of like all the wealth inequality problems in the world. I don't think they've said that.
00:07:58.378 - 00:08:38.106, Speaker A: But at the same time, I just, you know, if this is some sort of Ubi thing, then fair enough. Like, you're pretty much just giving away money to people subsidized by others, because the only reason why the token would be worth anything is because people are willing to pay for it. Now, I'm not sure why they would be willing to do that. I haven't, you know, I'm not sure if that's even public yet. Or maybe I just haven't looked too deeply into it. But at the same time, I guess, like, it would be a wealth distribution more than, I guess, like new wealth creation. Because essentially the wealth would be coming from people who are buying or bidding up these world coin and bidding it up to, you know, let's say it reaches like a billion dollar market cap or whatever that would be coming from other people wanting to buy it.
00:08:38.106 - 00:09:07.702, Speaker A: Now, why would they want to buy it? Maybe speculation, maybe some other kind of stuff going on there. Maybe it's, you know, it's something that people want to use or whatever. I don't know why they would want to use it, but maybe, maybe it is. And it just goes, yeah, it gets pretty complicated from there as well. And it's like, okay, well, where's the value coming from? It doesn't just get created out of thin air. It's actually coming from somewhere. Okay, like, is this wealth? This is kind of like some wealth redistribution happening here, but how concentrated does it get? Because a lot of the cryptos out there right now have a really, really horrible gini coefficient.
00:09:07.702 - 00:09:50.802, Speaker A: Even. Even bitcoin and ethereum compared to nations, you know, that exist in the kind of like real world and fiat currencies and stuff like that. But at the same time, like, it's hard to get an accurate picture because of exchange balances and people just putting, I mean, especially exchange balances, but also things like people putting their funds into, like defi into that contract into staking. It's like all pulled together and stuff like that, so it's hard to get a picture there. But still, the genie coefficients of the Gini coefficient for those who don't know, is a way of measuring kind of like the distribution of a currency, essentially, or of an asset, I guess, like if you. If you want to kind of, like, use that terminology there, I'm just not sure. So it's a bigger problem, I think then crypto can solve, like, wealth inequality.
00:09:50.802 - 00:10:06.934, Speaker A: Definitely not something that we're going to be able to solve. But I think I like seeing the Ubi experiments play out and seeing where they all. Where they all land. You may have a different opinion. You can jump in the Discord channel. We were discussing it in there earlier today, but I'm happy to keep discussing it. It's definitely interesting thing to think about.
00:10:06.934 - 00:10:54.540, Speaker A: All right, so immune Phi made a huge announcement today that they have, and this is, this is pretty pertinent and great timing, actually, but they announced that Gerard here found a bug in polygons plasma bridge that could have resulted in an $850 million loss if exploited. So the bounty that was paid out is the largest ever at $2 million. So this person made $2 million for discovering this bug. So any people out there that are budding, kind of, I guess, like code reviewers or security auditors or whatever, it's a very lucrative job, right? You can find these bugs and get, like a nice payout. And this is all totally legal. Like some people might say, oh, you know, well, they could have just, like, exploited the bug as a black hat and gotten $850 million instead. Well, I mean, there's a very small chance you'd be able to actually get away with that, and you wouldn't even be able to cash it out.
00:10:54.540 - 00:11:19.860, Speaker A: It'd be very, very hard to. So taking the $2 million just from a kind of, like, incentive standpoint is, is the better kind of play here. But also from, like, an ethical standpoint, it's obviously a lot better as well. But the reason why I think this is timely and pertinent to discussions that I've been having on the refuel lately with you guys is around bridges. And I've warned you guys how these bridges, they hold a lot of value in them, and they're not foolproof. They're not going to be bug free. There are going to be bugs.
00:11:19.860 - 00:11:51.252, Speaker A: They're going to be centralized points of fire. There is going to be exploits that happen, and you really, really need to be to understand the risk that you're taking when you put your funds into a bridge. Because as I've said before, the bridge isn't literally a bridge. It's basically just gives you an IOU. And your real assets still live on Ethereum. Like when you bridge over to a lot of these chains from aetherium, your actual assets are only secured by that contract on Ethereum. If those assets get exploited on Ethereum, then your assets on the chain that you bridge to pretty much are worthless.
00:11:51.252 - 00:12:27.456, Speaker A: Unless there's some kind of like centralization in there that allows them to like reissue the, the token such as USDC or you or USDT or something like that. But say it's your ETH. I mean, you ain't getting that ETH back. If they're lost on, for whatever reason on the chain that you bridge to, then you have no way of unlocking your tokens on Ethereum unless that smart contract, sorry, unless the bridge contract on Ethereum has a centralized control and that centralized control is used to, I guess, unlock the funds. But you know, just generally you just really don't have any way to, it's kind of like bring it, to bring it back there. So. Yeah, bridges, a lot of bridges out there these days.
00:12:27.456 - 00:13:01.464, Speaker A: I don't expect everyone to know. I guess like every bridge out there and the trade offs that they take and everything like that. But I do want to just like make sure that people are aware that these risks are out there and to, and to essentially be aware, be wary of them and, you know, don't be surprised if this, you know, this keeps happening. I, I definitely think that the largest hack that we'll ever see will have, will be, will have to do with something with a bridge. I think it already did with the, I think it was, the poly network had nothing to do with Polygon, but it was called poly network. And that was like a bridging kind of thing there. I think that, you know, that was what, $800 million or something.
00:13:01.464 - 00:13:34.806, Speaker A: I think the funds were returned. I think it was 600 million actually. And that was actually exploited. But I think that we're going to see multi billion dollar exploits happen in the future and we may get to a point where they don't actually get returned. Right. And these funds just are gone forever for whatever reason. And it's just not a good time for people kind of bridging across now, you know, you might, may be wondering what about L2s? You know, what, what about the bridges there? As I've said before, the L2s are also in the same kind of bucket because there's two types of bridges into L2s, I guess, like, probably there's more than two types because there's, like, subcategories.
00:13:34.806 - 00:14:23.504, Speaker A: But in the way I think about it is that there's the official bridge, right, where you go from, like, layer one ethereum to the L2 through the arbitrary bridge or the optimism bridge, and then there is the other bridges, like Connext or hot protocol and things like that, that are essentially cross chain exchanges. They're not actually like the bridge contract that you would normally use. Now. They're a lot riskier, I would say, than using the official kind of like bridges. And at the same time, there's other risks involved as well with kind of like how those assets are backed up and how those assets, you know, how those bridges are kind of, like, designed, too. So the l two s, I mean, I always use the official bridge, but, you know, for depositing, but I guess for withdrawing, you don't want to wait seven days. So you use one of these other bridges, but they definitely hold more risk, and you're definitely taking on more risk by doing that.
00:14:23.504 - 00:14:55.844, Speaker A: Uh, but in the normal case, you probably aren't going to worry about it, probably not going to notice anything. But there will come a day where there's, like, a reckoning here, and I just want you guys to be aware of that so you're not caught off guard by it. Uh, but I think a lot of people will be. Unfortunately, I just think it's inevitable because there's so much value at stake here. And I think a lot of, um, teams are playing hard and loose with, uh, with bridging protocols because they're just trying to meet the demand, because there's a lot of demand for this right now. Uh, and they may be thinking of security as secondary. Um, not to say that that's what polygon did here, but, you know, there are going to be bugs no matter what.
00:14:55.844 - 00:15:31.884, Speaker A: So just, just good to keep in mind there, I think. All right, so speaking of Polygon, Ayman here announced that they have launched a polygon ecosystem index called Peco or PICo, a single token that captures the best native projects on, on polygon. So it's available now@amon.com. Hopefully. I'm saying that, right? And sushiswap. So what the, I guess, index consists of, if I go down here, the index composition, you can see here, it's 50% matic, 26.1% quick, and then a bunch of others in there, such as, are they got cheer ghosts adamant Dfin.
00:15:31.884 - 00:15:55.372, Speaker A: Dfin. Yeah. And qi dow. So if you want to go long, I guess the polygon native ecosystem, this is probably something of interest to you. You know, I'm pretty sure they, they kind of, yeah, they have their methodology, methodology here as well. And like what, what kind of the requirements are and kind of like a simple how to buy as well. I mean, you know, you can just literally go and buy it on sushiswap, on, on polygon I believe.
00:15:55.372 - 00:16:24.330, Speaker A: I think they've got a breakdown here and you can like mint it as well and things like that as well. And they've got links to the pairs. So yeah, I mean this is cool to see that there's a kind of like index product that allows you to capture some of the stuff going on in the polygon ecosystem. And you know, this is funny because like there's the index cop, which I talk about a lot that does index products, but this just seems to be at steel standalone index product. So I guess a little bit of competition there maybe for the index co op. They're not on polygon though, they're just on Ethereum. So maybe this will incentivize them to move over.
00:16:24.330 - 00:16:53.824, Speaker A: But yeah. Cool to see this from, from Amon here. So immutable has announced that they are doing a supply split of the IMX token before it launches. So they've done 100 times increase in the total supply from 20 million to 2 billion. And if you had one token, for example, you'll now receive 100 instead. Now this is just a shift in the token supply amount. This is not a, this does not mean that you automatically have 100 times more worth to your token.
00:16:53.824 - 00:17:44.608, Speaker A: It just means that the token supply has, has been readjusted. Now you know, I just a disclosure, I'm an investor and immutable, but I think I can be honest here in saying that whenever I see a team do this or ever I see a project do this, I think it's because, I mean they did say that they want to make the network more accessible here to bring the masses to the metaverse. I think by increasing the token supply to something, you know, really high, like 2 billion, it does two things. One, it makes it so that your token has a really low unit price. So you know, we all know that the lower unit price tokens within crypto do better, you know, market mostly do better price wise because newer, newer investors to the ecosystem don't understand market cap and things like that. They just see like a cheap token. I'm like oh my God, I can buy, like, so many of these tokens, and, you know, if they go to this price, then they worth this much, blah, blah, blah.
00:17:44.608 - 00:18:09.640, Speaker A: So that's one aspect to it, and that's obviously a big aspect. But secondly, I actually do think that it's better to have it, like, have it so that people can feel like they have a lot more, like a lot of tokens. So they don't have to kind of have like, 0.001 of a token, even though it's worth like $10,000, for example, they have to have, like, 0.001 of it. Something like bitcoin today. I know bitcoin has, like, sats and they're trying to denominate in that.
00:18:09.640 - 00:18:51.892, Speaker A: Um, but I think doing it from doing it on the core protocol side, or I guess, like, the core token side from the get go is probably the best way of doing it. So now, instead of users being like, oh, you know, if, if the IMX price at a 20 million supply, say, say the IMX market cap was 1 billion and you had a 20 million supply, while the price would be, what, five? If I'm doing my math correctly, it would be $50, right. For one token. Now, times that by 100, the same market cap will be $0.50 instead of kind of like, instead of $50 there with, with this new token supply. So you can see how people will be able to buy 100 times more or feel like they have 100 times more tokens than what they really have. So.
00:18:51.892 - 00:19:36.400, Speaker A: So, yeah, just giving a heads up to people who are able to participate in the IMX sale or have an airdrop coming, don't be surprised when you have a lot more tokens. But also keep in mind that those tokens, it's not like you got extra money, it's just that you got, like, got redenominated, essentially. All right, so Lucas Shaw here from gnosis put out a tweet saying that the gnosis safe is the SMERS 1st 1st smart contract used to secure hundred $100 billion in digital assets. So for those of you who don't know, a gnosis safe is a multi seq wallet that pretty much everyone uses. I have a bunch of different gnosis safe wallets that I use on there. It is probably the safest multi sig on Ethereum. And, you know, that's why everyone uses it.
00:19:36.400 - 00:20:05.730, Speaker A: Obviously, it's a winner takes most market when it comes to these things. Because if you're using a multi sig smart contract, you want it to be safe, you want it to be bulletproof, you want it to be. Have been in the market for quite a while. You want it to have all those nice features. So $100 billion is huge. I mean, this is Ethan ERc, 20 tokens, but that's absolutely massive. And someone put a tweet out saying, you know, what, what if no, sir, starts taking, like, a fee on this? Cause it's currently free to be on there, but they could do, like, a really, really small fee, like, ten bits or something like that.
00:20:05.730 - 00:20:16.114, Speaker A: Like a 0.1% annual fee on. On, on this. And, you know, $100 billion. You do 0.1% of a hundred billion dollars. If I'm doing the math correctly, that's $100 million a year.
00:20:16.114 - 00:20:45.926, Speaker A: Right? Um, so $100 million a year for just storing assets. And this is going to keep growing over time. But $100 million a year, that's for literally just having, like, a contract out there that essentially, um, holds these assets and keeps everyone's assets safe. And, you know, this could grow to a trillion dollars in assets, you know, rather soon. That would be a billion dollars of revenue a year for gnosis. So, yeah, I don't know if they will do that. I feel like putting a fee on it may get people kind of, like, withdrawing their assets out of there.
00:20:45.926 - 00:21:08.560, Speaker A: I personally wouldn't, like, think about a 0.1% fee is basically nothing at the end of the day, like a yearly fee. I just really don't think it's a big deal, and I think most people would pay for it for the fact that they actually get to secure their assets in this battle. Kind of, like, hardened, smart contract. So we'll have to see how it pans out there. I think, you know, gnosis has a lot of different products. They have gnosis safe.
00:21:08.560 - 00:21:51.714, Speaker A: They have the gnosis kind of, like, prediction market platform. They have cow swap, and, you know, they have a bunch of different things going on. I think cow swap might be spinning out of gnosis, though, but they've been, like, a builder within the ethereum ecosystem for quite a while now. So it's great to see them having success with. With things like gnosis safe, which has incredible product market fit. I mean, multisig wallets are like, the lifeblood of a lot of this industry, not just for protocols, but also for groups of people and individuals who want to have a multisig, like, even if it's just a three or five or something like that, it's definitely needed, so, yeah, great to see them having success here. So Danny Ryan put out a tweet saying that looks like 62% of nodes have upgraded for Altair and this does not reflect one to one on stake.
00:21:51.714 - 00:22:28.772, Speaker A: Weight that has upgraded will not know that until the upgrade itself. There's still six days to go, so if you haven't updated yet, be sure to do so. Altev, just a quick reminder is the ETH two network upgrade that's coming on October 27. If you're a solo staker, definitely make sure to upgrade your nodes so that you're not left on a minority chain and you don't kind of like suffer any kind of inactivity penalties on your stake or anything like that. But yeah, I mean, 62% so far is really great. You know, it's funny because usually people wait till like the last minute to do it and then some people get left behind. And we've seen this happen on ETH one a lot of times before.
00:22:28.772 - 00:23:08.310, Speaker A: And then people quickly update as they realize that they're on the wrong chain. And I think people will actually be either quicker to update or will get like a much higher percentage just before the upgrade goes live with ETH two, because you stand to lose your stake if you don't update with Ethereum full node. If you don't update, then if you're a miner and you were mining on the wrong chain, well, you just got some opportunity costs there. You may have paid a little bit in electricity to mine the wrong chain, but it's not like a huge deal with ETH two. I mean, you are leaking out from inactivity, but I'm not sure if, I'm not sure if this is true, but I feel like there is a risk of getting slashed as well. But I have to double check on that. But yeah, I mean, it's just good to upgrade anyway.
00:23:08.310 - 00:23:42.396, Speaker A: So definitely go upgrade if you are running nodes here. So optimism have announced that they're delaying their main net launch of the EVM equivalence upgrade by two weeks to November. So they say here they are on track to deploy their mainnet staging environment tomorrow. After discussing with partners, we're extending its trial period to ensure a smooth transition in the. And. Yeah, and just some more details about that here. So essentially what's happening is that it is going live on mainnet staging tomorrow, which is, I guess I got, sorry, tomorrow? Yeah, tomorrow.
00:23:42.396 - 00:24:10.316, Speaker A: Um, but like the, the main nets, uh, for optimism for OVM 2.0 is being delayed to November 11. Yeah, look, as I said before, I'm all for things getting delayed if it's for like, I guess, um, security reasons and network health reasons and making sure everything goes smoothly. Um, but at the same time, I. The first thing I thought here, even though I love optimism, the first thing I thought here was like, ugh, another optimism delay. Right. Because unfortunately, optimism has been like, the, have been suffering from this for quite a while.
00:24:10.316 - 00:24:39.448, Speaker A: I mean, there was the infamous delay in March where they basically said that they would be going live in March, and then they kind of, like, delayed themselves and went live in kind of like July with, with uniswap and have been adding protocols over time. And they've had this massive upgrade going live for, you know, it was supposed to go live on October 28. Now it's been delayed by two weeks on November 11. But I'm sure they have the good reason to do this. And obviously, I'm still kind of, like, bullish on optimism and all that they're building here. But, you know, I. That was the first kind of, like, thing I thought.
00:24:39.448 - 00:25:27.156, Speaker A: Unfortunately, still love you guys, right? Still love everything you're doing. But unfortunately, that was, that was what came to mind. But, yeah, I guess, like, once this is done again, I'm expecting the whitelist to be removed on optimism's network. I I really want to see them catch up to, to arbitrum, because as much as I love arbitram, and I'm an investor in arbitram, I am a firm believer in competition being the best, kind of like a best, best thing for this ecosystem, especially amongst the l two s. We can't have just one l two dominating. We need everyone to be competing with each other to keep, I guess, like improving over time because the l two s are not only competing with each other for market share, they're also competing with the other l one s. And they actually play a huge role in kind of like, keeping everyone on Ethereum and keeping Ethereum's dominance kind of like in play.
00:25:27.156 - 00:25:45.722, Speaker A: And I really think that competition at the l two space will just kind of keep that chugging along. So I'm wishing for the success of all these different l two s out there. So. So, yeah, I mean, I'll keep you guys updated on, on optimism's kind of regenesis thing here and there. Ovm 2.0 upgrade as well. So Opal, network shared.
00:25:45.722 - 00:26:07.884, Speaker A: They shared. Sorry. That. Announced today that the Genesis community, along with their guiding mission, vision and values on their path to securing the decentralization of proof of stake, Ethereum. So you can see here that their genesis, I guess, like community consists of. Of advisors. So the advisors that they have on board are a bunch of different people within the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:26:07.884 - 00:27:15.076, Speaker A: You can see here they all work, you know, in ethereum in some capacity. There's a few ETH two core developers in there and researchers and things like that. There's a few people from other kind of like places like Jack here from scale network, from just, I'm just scrolling over random names here, people from like staking companies and staking service providers like Chorus one and stuff like that. And then you know, they go on to explain their mission, which, which is to use and evolve the SSV shared secret validator building block by creating a crypto economic protocol and diverse community that can enable the primitive to become a sustainable public good, increasing the security and resiliency of blockchain networks. So you can see here, I mentioned the other day that the current ie two architecture lends itself to an active passive redundancy single operator, which basically means that you can have one key online, one validator offline, and then you have like a validator with it being offline as like your backup, but that has to be offline to be a backup or otherwise you suffer from things like double signing. Whereas with Obel and their a two architecture, you can have active, active redundancy as a multi operator. So you can have validated clients in multiple places talking to an OBL node, but you can have them all online at the same time.
00:27:15.076 - 00:27:43.244, Speaker A: So if something happens, the other ones will kind of like keep going, keep validating for you. So you never miss kind of like attesting to a block. You never miss proposing a block, which is obviously huge, especially for enterprises that want to get involved with staking and want to run their own kind of like setup as well. So. Yeah, and then they go on about their vision. They believe in a more robust and secure ethereum and kind of like how the, how the kind of like cluster works. And, and kind of like you can see here that they've got like oval clusters with different nodes running.
00:27:43.244 - 00:28:13.548, Speaker A: So like client diversity, something that I've been talking about a lot lately. You can see on the left here they have different ETH one, different ETH two client running or consensus layer and, and should I say execution layer running. And then in each kind of like cluster they have, they have different ones running in different kind of like staking service providers running as well. So this is really cool and herbal. Kind of like sits in, you know, as kind of like the bedrock there is kind of like the middleware there. So if you want to learn more about them, definitely check out this thread. They've got like a great explanation here of everything that they're doing.
00:28:13.548 - 00:28:36.610, Speaker A: And I mean, they have a killer advisor, public advisor kind of like set up here with these people. I mean, they're on the forefront of staking both on Ethereum and other networks out there. So this is really, really bullish for both, I think, and disclosure. I'm an investor in oh boy. But that's because, I mean, big fan of proof of stake, big fan of Ethereum. It was just like, it made a lot of sense for me. Um, but I think, yeah, I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today.
00:28:36.610 - 00:28:46.194, Speaker A: So. Yeah. Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. See everyone.
