00:00:00.200 - 00:00:31.594, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where we kept the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and there's a sign it has the 3 January 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So I'm back after around, I think, ten or eleven days since I went on break during the Christmas period there. I hope you all had a great kind of holiday break and a great New Year's. I did remember to say 2024 instead of 2023 in the intro. I sometimes screw that up in the transition over the year because obviously during the whole year, I'm saying, you know, the 2023 for, like, all of last year, and sometimes I screw that up, but I got that right.
00:00:31.594 - 00:00:55.402, Speaker A: But, yeah, welcome to 2024. I honestly think this year is going to be a very bullish year overall. I think that's the general vibe and sentiment right now. Obviously, we're on the eve of the ETF's being approved, or probably being approved, which I'll talk about in a sec. Um, but yeah, I think that the break was really good for me, honestly, I didn't get to do everything that I wanted to do during it. I did want to play, you know, kind of play some more video games and things like that. I didn't get to do that, honestly.
00:00:55.402 - 00:01:24.064, Speaker A: Um, I was kind of like doing a bunch of things outside of. Outside of the home, you know, visiting friends and family, stuff like that during the holiday period. That really the only game that I played was Mario Kart eight on the Switch, because it's like a pickup and play game, and I'm actually quite good at it, so it makes it fun when you're good at something. Right? But other than that, I tried to play Baldur's gate three. That was one of the games that I really wanted to play, and I just didn't get enough time to do it. And then there was some other stuff that happened in my personal life that prevented that. But generally, I think I've had a really good kind of refresh, and I'm really, really glad to be back.
00:01:24.064 - 00:01:38.956, Speaker A: Honestly. I've missed you guys. I've missed doing the refuel. I mean, I've been active on Twitter and in the Discord channel, but I've really missed doing the refuel. So, anyway, enough about my kind of, like, time away. Let's get into today's episode. Kicking us off is some news around the bitcoin ETF's.
00:01:38.956 - 00:02:03.272, Speaker A: Well, maybe not news, but I mean, like, we're what, a few days away now from these things being approved? You know, some people think that they are going to be approved this week. So obviously there's only three days left of this week, but some people think there's going to be, it's going to be approved this week. But that deadline is fast approaching that Jan. 10th deadline that we've been talking about for a very long time now. I mean, it feels like forever. Like, it feels like it's been years, but has only been like, I guess like six months. The majority of it.
00:02:03.272 - 00:02:23.784, Speaker A: I mean, since Blackrock filed the ETF in June, I think is obviously the, the thing that kick started all of this. But really it's been, it's been a ride, that's for sure. Right. Obviously the market has priced a lot of this in. We've seen bitcoin move from twenty five k to, you know, forty five k, and it continues to move up slowly over time. I mean, pretty much at yearly highs right now. I mean, it's, it's only been three days of the year.
00:02:23.784 - 00:02:56.184, Speaker A: But, like, I like saying that joke, you know, we're at yearly highs, right. Um, and then a bunch of other things have been moving around that as well. Obviously, the market generally is, is heating up. Um, you know, and I did say that we were in that transition from like crab to bull market. I think we exited that trend transition maybe like a week or two ago. Uh, and I think we're firmly in the, the bull market now. We're like, you know, the early stages of the bull market, but we're firmly there, obviously marching up towards all time highs, uh, which could still take until, I mean, I know, I think I said that I expected maybe in q two now instead of q three, but it could still take until q three this year to happen.
00:02:56.184 - 00:03:30.424, Speaker A: Right. I think people underestimate how long we can go sideways for during a bull market still or during the early stages of a bull market. And this cycle actually looks a lot more like the 25 2015 to 2017 cycle rather than the 2019 to 2021 cycle. Just if you look at the charts, it's been more gradual. And obviously the 2019 and to 2021 cycle had a bunch of different things happening that didn't happen this time. I don't know how many of you know about this, but in 2019, there was a massive ponzi out of China called the plus token Ponzi that led to a lot of buy pressure on BTC and ETH. And that's why you saw BTC and ETH go up a lot in 2019.
00:03:30.424 - 00:03:51.480, Speaker A: And then come, come back down a lot as well, because that Ponzi got shut down. The people behind it were arrested in China, I believe, but that, that caused that kind of anomaly there. And then if you look in 2020, there was another anomaly caused by the COVID dump. Right. Which basically delayed the bull market by, I think, at least six months, if you actually look at the charts. Whereas this time around, we haven't really had much of that. Right.
00:03:51.480 - 00:04:17.234, Speaker A: All of the kind of bad stuff happened last. Not last year, 2022. Right. With everything blowing up, but it blew up quite quickly, quite spectacularly. And then we recovered into 2023, and then we had the recovery become even stronger because of the Blackrock ETF filing, which I have said to you guys, brought things forward because it's just such a, such a bullish catalyst there. And now we're at the point where we're on the eve of, I guess, like, these things being approved. I mean, January 10 is, is next week, guys.
00:04:17.234 - 00:04:35.166, Speaker A: Jan. 10th is next Wednesday. That is the final deadline. So even if it doesn't get approved this week, it is pretty much guaranteed to be approved next week. I think the entire market is expecting this. Obviously, there is still, like a, I don't know, 1% chance that these things get denied, and then I don't know what's going to happen in the market. But, yeah, we're on the eve, basically, of this stuff here.
00:04:35.166 - 00:05:30.616, Speaker A: And, you know, maybe it gets approved today. Maybe I'm just, like, rambling, and before the refill even goes out, it gets approved. But we'll see. Obviously, the people to follow are the usual people that I've been talking about on the refuel, like James Seifert and Eric Balkanis, two of the ETF analysts that I've talked about a lot over the past few months. And, of course, once the bitcoin spot ETF's are approved, we get to do this all again for the ETH ones because the first ETH spot ETF deadlines are in May, I believe, or final deadlines are in May, I believe. So we get to do this up until May, at least. Um, and I don't know, I kind of like, I definitely think that it's going to, there's more of a chance that they're going to be approved than denied at this point, simply because of the fact that, um, you know, the SAC has lost a lot of court cases, as I've said before, and they're just not really in favor right now with, with the political kind of parties that back them and definitely, I think that just approving the BTC and eats spot ETF's would be enough to, I guess like satiate the market and maybe stop the lawsuits coming in as well.
00:05:30.616 - 00:05:52.960, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll have to see how that kind of plays out there. But yeah, guys, I think the next few days are going to be definitely very interesting. We'll see if they get approved this week or next week. But yeah, we're on the eve of it right now and exciting times ahead. All right, so Vitalik was very busy over the holiday period. In particular, he publishing a bunch of blog posts. One of them was titled Make Ethereum Cypherpunk again.
00:05:52.960 - 00:06:51.442, Speaker A: Now this was probably my favorite one that he published. He did publish one about potentially changing some things about proof of stake on Ethereum to, to basically harden the protocol and make it, make it more efficient and more reliable. But in this blog post where he titled it Make Ethereum Cyberpunk again, he basically calls for us to return to our roots, because I think that due to the financial incentives and financial nature of crypto, the roots of crypto, the things that Vitalik has mentioned here, which I'll mention in a sec, you know, the meat of it is basically in this part of the post, they've kind of been pushed to the wayside in, I guess, favor of Djen casino gambling stuff. And I'm not making a moral judgment here, I'm not saying that something is good or bad, but I think that the ideals that crypto was founded on are always taking a backseat to that because those ideals are definitely more longer term. They're not something that's going to, you know, potentially make you rich. They're not like appealing to the casino degen types out there. They're more of like the long term in it for the tech kind of values and things that people kind of value over, I guess, like decades.
00:06:51.442 - 00:07:26.894, Speaker A: Right? Not the, not the short term stuff here. And what are those things? Right. Well, they listed here in Vitalik's post where he says, the main values here are that anyone in the world should be able to participate in this network. So open global participation of the network, decentralization, obviously, sensory persistence, auditability, credible neutrality, building tools, not empires and cooperative mindset. Those are like the core pillars that Vitalik has addressed here or has kind of noted here as being something that makes Ethereum cypherpunk, that basically is the cyberpunk, ethereum values, but not just for Ethereum, also for bitcoin. Bitcoin started this whole movement. Right.
00:07:26.894 - 00:07:53.856, Speaker A: But I think as I said, a lot of this stuff just gets lost. A lot of that stuff gets lost in the noise of the markets of the financial side of crypto. But it's kind of a necessary evil because the financial side of crypto is what enables this stuff to exist in the first place. Right. We wouldn't actually be able to have blockchains at all if it wasn't for the financial incentives. But I think what Vitalik is trying to do with this post is basically balance it out and basically say, hey, you know, it's not all about the casino djing games, right. There are so many other things happening within crypto that are non speculative.
00:07:53.856 - 00:08:33.216, Speaker A: He calls out stuff like, you know, public goods funding, for example, which in part obviously is, well, I guess like a lot of it is funded by the DJN activity, but it itself is not a dj and activity. Right. Funding public goods like that is a very great thing that has come out of the ethereum ecosystem. I think he calls that Ens in this blog post, as well as another non financial kind of use case here that has, has taken off in a really big way. I think payments as well is something really cool because when you look at payments, like payments aren't inherently speculative, right. I know people do payments on chain for a bunch of speculative reasons. I mean, for example, if you're paying someone to buy assets off of them, like if you're, I don't know, just use a personal example here.
00:08:33.216 - 00:08:52.616, Speaker A: If I'm doing an angel investment, I'm going to use stable coins in order to do that. That is a speculative investment. Right. But if you're just buying like a coffee or buying, you know, some, some product or paying for some service with a stable coin, that is not a speculative thing. Right? So stable coins can be used for both. But I think that, you know, people are using stable coins as a non speculative thing as well. They're holding their wealth in it, right.
00:08:52.616 - 00:09:20.744, Speaker A: They're getting access to us dollars, those kind of things. And then, yeah, I mean, there, there are a lot of, I guess, like applications out there that are non speculative, but of course they're not talked about that much, not spoken about that much because of that nature. Right. There's no, I mean, some of them have tokens attached to them, but like they're not shield like other things. Because if people want to shill a token, they're going to shill a meme coin, like a dog coin or something. Because that is just, that, that is just what the, I guess, current meta is. And that is what the traders love, and that's the narratives that get pushed.
00:09:20.744 - 00:09:42.624, Speaker A: Like, for example, EnS has a token, but no one's shilling ens and saying, like, you know, Ens is huge buy ens because of such and such reason. EnS isn't a meme coin. It's not like some super speculative thing. It really is a governance token at the end of the day, and it actually works to govern the ENS protocol. But that's not exciting for people. That that's not exciting for the D gen people and the casino goers and things like that. Right? Because at the end of the day, a casino is.
00:09:42.624 - 00:09:57.836, Speaker A: I mean, I'm sure a lot of you have walked into an actual physical casino before. They're not boring places when you really break it down. They're very, very vibrant places. I mean, there are lights everywhere. There is noise everywhere. They're constant. Basically, there are people coming, you know, walking around with drinks.
00:09:57.836 - 00:10:14.660, Speaker A: I mean, you can get a drink from anywhere, basically. And yes, of course, you can play all the casino games which are laid out for you. So casinos are not a place for, you know, serious discussions about things or for serious investing or anything like that. A casino is a place where you go and you know exactly why you're there. You're gambling. Right. And that's exactly what happens in crypto.
00:10:14.660 - 00:10:44.776, Speaker A: A lot of the time, people are gambling on these assets. And as I said, I'm not making a moral judgment here at all. I'm just kind of laying out the reality of the two sides of crypto, the very degen, casino minded side of crypto, and then the very, I guess, like, cyberpunk side of crypto that are in it for the tech that don't necessarily care about the Degen stuff or the casino stuff. They may be making tools that enable that, but what they care about is basically advancing the technology and advancing these values that. That I just mentioned before. So, anyway, you should go there. Definitely read Vitalik's blog post, if you haven't yet.
00:10:44.776 - 00:11:22.160, Speaker A: It's very important, I think, to ground us in reality here and to ground us into actually what we're actually building here. Because the saddest thing, I think, for crypto would be that, let's say, long term, you know, ten to 20 years time, crypto is still just a giant casino. And really, 99% of the activity is just casino Degen stuff. We haven't actually delivered any real value to the world outside of that. That would be, I guess, like, the most bearish outcome for crypto. In my mind is that it succeeds, but it succeeds for, I'm not going to say wrong reasons, but it succeeds for reasons that the I guess, like movement didn't start with. The movement started cypherpunk and then it just ended up being like casino DeGeneres stuff.
00:11:22.160 - 00:11:42.134, Speaker A: And no one cares about these values of decentralization and sensory resistance or anything like that anymore. All they care about is making as much money as possible. So yeah, we'll have to see how that shakes out. But you can go read Vitalik's blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Another thing Vitalik published over the holiday period was an updated Ethereum roadmap diagram.
00:11:42.134 - 00:12:21.372, Speaker A: Now this to me is the most exciting thing that came out over the last two weeks. I mean, I was actually saying to a friend a couple of days before Vitalik posted this saying, I said to him like, I bet you Vitalik post an updated roadmap because it had been a while since he updated this roadmap and I think a lot of people out there were wondering what the current state of a lot of the upgrades were. Now, I'm not going to go through each of these upgrades individually. You can actually check out Domothy's annotated version of the roadmap here. This is actually really detailed and I highly recommend checking this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but it annotates the entire kind of roadmap here, each of the roadmap items and what they mean for the network, you know, what, what the current, I guess, like work is, is being done on it. Yeah, I mean, just go check this out.
00:12:21.372 - 00:12:52.996, Speaker A: It's really, really great. But what I will say and a few of the comments I will make about this is that the first thing I want to say, and the reason I say this is because I think there's a lot of confusion still about this. This roadmap diagram is not sequential, right? This does not mean that the merge happens and the search happens and the scourge happens. No, it doesn't work like that. These are all parallel. So basically what happens is that all of these things are being worked on at the same time. As you can see by the little green progress bar on each of the roadmap items, each of them are being worked on in parallel at the same time.
00:12:52.996 - 00:13:28.480, Speaker A: There is no order where we say, okay, we're going to work on every item in the surge and then we'll move on to the rest of them. No not at all. I mean, you guys know this, like take the verge for example, with vocal trees, there's already testnets and devnets live for those things, right? And we're not even close to the, to vocal tr. I mean we're relatively close. I mean they probably go live 2025. But in terms of kind of, I guess I get getting onto the network, we have a ip 48 for going live first, and then towards the end of the year, a bunch of other eips that I don't think anything having to do with the verge, but it's still being worked on. Same with the stuff under the purge and the splurge here, it's all being worked on in parallel.
00:13:28.480 - 00:14:27.720, Speaker A: So I think that's critically important to understand. But if you actually look at the roadmap, there was a, the main critique that people made when they basically said that, oh, it looks like on the Ethereum roadmap that layer one scaling has been abandoned. It's all about L2s now. And I thought this was funny because one layer one scaling has not been abandoned per se, but it's not new that L2s are the way Ethereum is going to scale. Like that's not news that's been around since the published, I mean, even before Vitalik published the roll up centric Ethereum roadmap, it's been like over three years now of Ethereum having a roll up centric roadmap, a roadmap that rely that where the l one upgrades itself to service the l two s. But on the other note around it being abandoned. Like l one scaling being abandoned, I don't think that's true at all, because for example, with the verge and with verkle trees, we could actually increase the gas limit once we get the verge and believe some roadmap items under the, under the purge as well in like lite clients and things like that into the network, because now the network is, is able to kind of purge old stuff.
00:14:27.720 - 00:14:51.432, Speaker A: There's less I guess like demand of the full nodes of the validators or the people running the network. And we can potentially increase the gas limit by like ten x, right? So the gas limit is essentially ethereum's block size. Ethereum l one's block size. And we could increase that. And that right there is a scalability improvement, yes. It's obviously not nowhere near enough for what, for global scale, but it is a scalability improvement for l one. And there are a bunch of other roadmap items for that as well.
00:14:51.432 - 00:15:15.472, Speaker A: But I think the main criticism fell to sharding. You know, us, the ethereum ecosystem abandoning execution sharding. That was abandoned a long time ago. I don't know why this is news for people. I think it'd have to be at least three plus years since execution sharding was abandoned in favor of the roll up centric roadmap. So it always blows my mind that people are just clueing into this. And what's even funnier about that is that people have finally started talking about ERP 4844.
00:15:15.472 - 00:15:45.430, Speaker A: Guys, I don't think you, I don't know if you guys realize this, because I didn't. It's been two plus years since EIP 4844 has been in development. And just now, like three months before it goes live on Mainnet, people are paying attention. This is how far behind this ecosystem is. And this is, I guess, like why it's so frustrating. When I go on Twitter and I see this, I'm like, why are you fighting ethereum about this? Like, this has been on the roadmap for like three plus years. So the reason execution shotting was abandoned was because it was not viewed as a long term, sustainable and scalable solution.
00:15:45.430 - 00:16:45.268, Speaker A: It was not viewed as something that was actually beneficial to the Ethereum ecosystem. So we said, okay, can we still do sharding? Yes. Okay, we can do data sharding, which is dank sharding, which is EIP 48 44. And what's data sharding good for? Well, it's good for roll ups, and that's exactly what we've been doing, what we've been delivering. That's exactly what's going to be delivered in hopefully March, right, with Denkun the IP 48 44, laying the groundwork for full dank sharding with data availability, sampling and getting to the holy grail of hundreds of thousands, if not millions of transactions per second on, on roll ups themselves. Right? And actually on that TPS note as well, I do want to note that when talking about transactions per second or transactions generally, you have to kind of break it down into what those transactions are. Because the, technically, when an l two or when a roll up posts its data and its proof, obviously to ethereum l one, that is a transaction, right? But if it's posting it all as a bundle, right, posting the bundle to l one, what it's doing is it's bundling up a bunch of transactions at L2 and then just putting them on l one as one transaction.
00:16:45.268 - 00:17:23.877, Speaker A: So when you look at it like that, you could have potentially like tens of thousands of transactions bundled up into one transaction on ethereum l one. Right. So you have to kind of, I guess, like get that nuance and get that understanding before you can talk about TPS numbers and transaction numbers. But I have full confidence that rollups are going to easily scale to hundreds of thousands, if not millions of TPS. Um, and then they'll be able to scale to the world, basically. And as I said before, the end game is to, to basically make all of these transactions free, but through subsidization and all that good stuff there. So, so, yeah, I mean, that's, that's the kind of like, I guess like the surge part of the roadmap is basically increasing the scalability of l one for l two s.
00:17:23.877 - 00:17:53.922, Speaker A: Then you've got the scourge, which is all about Mev. And Mev has been tackled, I mean, in parallel, obviously, to all this other stuff. There is so many people working on that that it's bound to be solved. I mean, solved is maybe the wrong word, but it's bound to be tackled in the right way. The verge, I mean, I just spoke about that, how there are testnets and devnets live already, and you can actually, for the verge, if you want to track the progress on this. I actually link this to a friend today. You can go to Verkle dot in fo, and I think I brought this up on the refill before, but verkle dot in fo has all the information you need about vocal tree.
00:17:53.922 - 00:18:37.036, Speaker A: So if you're interested in keeping up with that, definitely go check that out. But that's part of the wider statelessness roadmap as well, and running like clients and things like that, which will allow us to actually scale the l one too. Right? And then you have the purge here, which is essentially history or state expiry. AIP quadruple four is the main EIP on this, and making it so that we can essentially have it so that by clearing old history, the chain becomes lighter to run. You can do like, clients, that sort of stuff, the purge and the verge kind of coupled together in that, in that respect. And then you have the splurge. And the splurge is named that way because basically it's the bonus content where essentially we look at the, the stuff that, that we need to fix that will probably take longer term to fix because it's not urgent, but we want to fix it.
00:18:37.036 - 00:19:04.264, Speaker A: And there are a bunch of items in here, like improving AIP 1559. You know, AIP 1559 is live, but it's not in its end state yet improving the EVM, you know, maybe snarkifying the EVM, stuff like that. Right? That's probably more longer term, but this roadmap covers like the next ten years at least, of Ethereum development there. But in saying all of that, Vitalik also has his own thread describing some of the roadmap items himself. So you can go check that out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, this is, this is great.
00:19:04.264 - 00:19:49.096, Speaker A: Like, I really, really do enjoy when Vitalik post this stuff because, like, as I've said before, I can post about this as much as I want, I can make as many videos about this as much as I want, I can talk about it as much as I want, but I'm never getting 3 million views on a tweet, right? I'm not Vitalik. I don't have. How many followers does he have on Twitter? I don't have 5 million followers on Twitter, right? I have like 250,000, which is way less than 5 million followers on Twitter. And Vitalik being the founder of Ethereum, being such a well respected individual within the crypto space, even outside of Ethereum, and the fact that the media obviously will repost this and will share it, like anything he posts just goes way, way further than anything I or anyone else could really do. And I don't think that means that Ethereum is centralized around Vitalik or anything like that. He just has the most reach. And all this stuff being worked on.
00:19:49.096 - 00:20:15.360, Speaker A: I mean, Vitalik's not even part of most of the stuff being worked on in this room. He works on the things that he obviously works on, but he's one guy, right? He's just one dude working on the Ethereum protocol. And there's plenty of other people working on it as well. And they're working on each part of this, kind of each part of this roadmap diagram here. So, yeah, anyway, you can go check this out for yourself, check out Vitalik's tweet thread for yourself. But definitely check out Domothy's annotated version of the roadmap. It gives a lot more information with a bunch of links to things to kind of read further.
00:20:15.360 - 00:20:49.358, Speaker A: I mean, you could literally spend months on this, by the way, guys. Like, there is so much here. And just huge props to Domothy for putting this together because it's helped me a lot. When I've, whenever I've wanted to learn about something on the roadmap that I haven't learned about before, I mean, I look at the roadmap diagram, I'm like, okay, like 90% of the stuff on this I kind of like have a high level overview of, but like, I don't have a deep overview of that at all. There's so much going on here and 10% of it just goes completely over my head where I'm just like, yeah, okay. I'm not even going to bother trying to learn about that until it becomes clearer that it's actually going to be, you know, included and things like that, because there's no guarantee that it'll be included in, in, in the way that it's currently described. Right.
00:20:49.358 - 00:21:17.418, Speaker A: And all that kind of stuff there. But anyway, go check those links out. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Speaking of ERP 4844, Francesco here, who is a researcher at the Ethereum foundation, has posted a 4844 to dank Sharding, a roadmap, essentially. So the TLDR is that we can gradually scale to 32 64 blobs, ten times 4844, and eventually beyond up to full dank charting, mostly with tools we are already familiar with. More blobs are coming.
00:21:17.418 - 00:21:45.946, Speaker A: Now, if you guys are familiar with the way AIP 4844 works, or basically with the way blobs work, is that we're essentially starting with a small number of blobs and then increasing that over time as the network becomes more stable and more reliable and more secure. Of course. And this post basically describes all of that. It is a really awesome post, guys. Like I highly recommend going and reading this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do to do so. But essentially by increasing the blob sizes, we basically, obviously, sorry.
00:21:45.946 - 00:22:36.030, Speaker A: By increasing the number of blobs, we essentially allow more data from the roll ups to be stored, which means more scalability for the roll up. So AIP 48 44 really is the ground floor. It is the bedrock of dank sharding. It basically is the very start. Once it's in place, we're going to be able to increase the number of blobs. We're going to work towards full dank sharding, which is data availability sampling, which allows us to essentially scale up to what Vitalik was describing in his diagram there of hundreds of thousands, if not millions of transactions per second on these l two s. Now the fun thing about this is that this is a strictly an l one improvement for the l two s for the roll ups, whereas the the roll ups themselves in the l two s themselves are going to be able to increase their scalability using many different, many different tricks and many different kind of improvements to their own stack, like, you know, improving the compression of things, improving prover costs, stuff like that.
00:22:36.030 - 00:23:14.854, Speaker A: Right? So that's all happening in parallel to this. So I think that the people who are, who maybe still a little bit impatient and being like, oh my God, the l two s are still so expensive. They're really not. I don't, I don't think they're really expensive even today. But what once 48, 44 goes live, for those of you who remember, it doesn't share a fee market with the normal l one ethereum fee market. So essentially we get like a brand new fee market which may or may not be filled up by things like, I don't know, ordinals and inscription inscriptions and stuff like that in the short term. But really, I mean, if you go to l two fees dot in fo and look at what the fees are like today, a swap for a token on optimism is, is $0.12,
00:23:14.854 - 00:23:52.298, Speaker A: right? According to l two fees dot in fo dot, that's dropping to like a cent or something in 48, 44, even, even potentially less than that. And that's a full roll up. That's not the l two storing its data off chain. That's a full roll up that stores its data on chain. So there's just so many scalability improvements coming, guys, that I think that the, the notion that our theorem is too expensive is just gonna die this cycle. Obviously l one is still gonna be expensive, but I think the notion that ethereum can't scale is gonna die, especially as more of these kind of l two s and roll ups approach stage one and stage two roll up milestones where they become more decentralized and stuff like that. It's just all additive, guys.
00:23:52.298 - 00:24:56.858, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out this post from Francesco. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we have some rough analysis done by ethwave on the max possible reduction of validators from increasing the max effective balance. Now just a refresher here. You guys know that there is currently an EIP that is currently slated for the Petra upgrade, which is the upgrade, the next upgrade after Denkun that essentially allows us to stake up to 2048 ETH per validator, which means that we could reduce the number of validators on the network while still keeping the same amount of ETH staked. Or I guess like more ETH staked more if more ETH gets staked there. Now what ethwave has done is basically taken each individual, I guess like staking entities such as Lido and centralized exchanges, look at the total number of validators they have and then say okay, well if they consolidated all of their validators into all of their 32 ETH validators into 2048 validator ETH validators, what would the total validator count be of Lido, of centralized exchanges and of all the other validators? And the analysis here is that Lido would go from 285,000 validators to just 4466.
00:24:56.858 - 00:25:30.080, Speaker A: So a massive reduction in the amount of validators there, which means a massive reduction in overhead on the Ethereum network and especially on the peer to peer layer there. And centralized exchanges, same thing, 2050, 5000 validators down to 4000. And then in the other section here, others a bit hard to reduce but they basically reduced it down from 358,270 9000. So that would give us a total of 187,553 validators. For reference, there are currently almost a million validators live on the network, I think, I mean I haven't checked lately, but I think it's at definitely over 900,000. I'm just checking on the, on the number here. Yeah, it's 903,000.
00:25:30.080 - 00:26:05.000, Speaker A: So you could assume that would be at a million by the time, by the time the MEB proposal goes through. So if we're at a million and even, just like I don't expect all of this to be consolidated, but even if we could halve that to like 500,000, that's just a massive improvement. And it allows us to increase the blobs, the blobs on the network as well because it means that there's less overhead for full nodes, less overhead for validators, and there's less risk of you know, lower power devices getting kicked off the network and stuff like that. So yeah, just a great little analysis from ethwave here. You can read the thread for the full analysis. I'll link that in the YouTube description below. But essentially that is a massive reduction.
00:26:05.000 - 00:26:58.860, Speaker A: I mean I doubt Lido is going to do this, to be honest. And centralized exchanges are going to do this because they at least, so by do this I mean at least to this extent, like, and there's two reasons, two major reasons. One, it's, it's, it's a, it's a lot of overhead I think, of to do it because I mean it is opt in, you know, you're not forced to do it. And we, in Lido's case, in particular, the node operators are basically independent of each other, so they would be doing it at different timelines as well and have their own setups, they have their own way of managing things. And two, some of them may be worried about the increased slashing risk, but I think that might be addressed as part of this proposal, as part of the AIP. So we're going to have to see how that shakes out there. But the increased slashing risk is not something I think they should be worried about, because from my understanding, the thing people worry about is that, okay, well, you know, let's say I have 10,000 validators today, and then I get slashed on, you know, 1000 of them.
00:26:58.860 - 00:27:48.232, Speaker A: Well it's only that 1000 that loses some of the ETH, right? They get that get punished. Mother 9000 don't get punished. But, and it's better to think of that in terms of like ETH instead of validators. But just for the sake of argument here that it's the, I'm just going to use validate account, but let's say they consolidate that down to a thousand and then they're like, okay, well, I get slashed on all, I get slashed on all thousand, but then all of the ETH is affected by it. But the thing is, is that the way you would get slashed is by, you'd be connected to the same full node anyway, and you'd be in the same kind of on the same infrastructure anyway, so, and there are other technologies to help with that, like DVT and, and puffer and stuff like that. So when you think about it from that perspective, I don't think the risk is really that big. And I think that the benefit is huge of reducing the amount of validators on the network because we still have the same level of security, because there's still the same number of node operators, it's still the same number of full nodes on the network.
00:27:48.232 - 00:28:15.154, Speaker A: But in terms of validators, it's redundant to have this many because the execution sharding roadmap was abandoned. And we originally wanted a lot of validators because of that original design. Now it's just tech debt and adds so much overhead to the network that we don't need and that it limits us from doing other things like increasing the size of blobs, increasing the amount of blobs on the network, stuff like that. Right. Increasing the gas limit. Even so, we're going to have to see how that all kind of shakes out there. But it's great to see this little analysis done by ethwave here.
00:28:15.154 - 00:28:43.092, Speaker A: All right, so just wanted to give this a quick shout out. Nouns, Dow and the line studio have a collabing on an EIP 4844 animation. So this, Trent says here this one min animation celebrates the work of Ethereum contributors, bringing EIP 4844 to Mainnet. Expect an NFT release at the upgrade. Proceeds go to the protocol guild. So I can't wait to mint this NFT, especially because the proceeds go to the protocol guild. But what I can't wait for more is this animation itself.
00:28:43.092 - 00:29:11.914, Speaker A: I mean, it's only going to be a 1 minute animation, but the fact that we're getting a whole animation about ERP 48, 44 and how Ethereum contributors brought that to, to Mainnet is going to be really cool. It's gonna be really shareable. I think it's gonna be something that the community can rally around. And especially because there's an NFT that once you mint it, the proceeds go to the actual contributors, you know, the protocol guild, in order to, to reward them for all of their hard work here. So really, really great to see this. Just wanted to shout it out, but you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:29:11.914 - 00:29:56.312, Speaker A: All right, so over the last two weeks, there's been a bit of a revenge arc, I think, for a theorem and l two s, because obviously, you guys know from like, I guess, the September period to like, the December period, we had a lot of fud around Ethereum and l two s, mostly due to the Solana price going, all, the sole price going up and Solana activity going up and all that stuff that happened there. I mean, you guys have all seen it. There's no point me diving into all of it because most of it was just noise. But because of that, I think a lot of the people in the Ethereum community, especially the l two leaders, like Stephen Goldfed Feder here, who is the co founder at off chain Labs who builds arbitrum, they were like, what the hell? Guys like this makes no sense. The l two s I here, they work. They've been around for a long time. The Ethereum l two roadmap is not something new.
00:29:56.312 - 00:30:16.302, Speaker A: It's scalable. It works, you know, arbitrum, it works so well. I mean, I use arbitram all the time. Arbitrum one all the time. It works so well as an example here. So, you know, Stephen put out this tweet where he says, you know, ethereum said, we're going to scale by building a roll up centric Ethereum. And then all these alts, or I guess alt layer ones and stuff like that, said, okay, we're going to scale at the base layer.
00:30:16.302 - 00:30:34.356, Speaker A: And Ethereum said, okay, you go do that, right? You go scale at layer one. That's totally fine. And then fast forward three years. The alt tau one proponents say, oh my God, ethereum still hasn't scaled. And Ethereum says, well, we scaled with l two s exactly like we said we would. And then the other people, the alt tail one, say, well, l two s don't count. Actually, if you're not scaling the l one, it doesn't matter.
00:30:34.356 - 00:31:23.814, Speaker A: So this is the kind of narrative fodder that really annoys me and that I talk about a lot, but it also annoys people that are obviously building this stuff because it makes no sense. It's not even based in reality here. It's just like a pure narrative where essentially you're denying the fact that Ethereum has had this roadmap for three plus years and you're denying the fact that Ethereum has scaled via l two s just like it said it would. We abandon l one monolithic scaling because it's just not a good sustainable path to scale. And we're already seeing the cracks in some of these designs, to be honest. I mean, not, not to pick on Solana, but I'm just talking about, like monolithic change generally. There are already cracks there in terms of, like fees going up because chains get congested and people are paying priority fees, right, in terms of, in terms of stability issues of supporting infrastructure, in terms of kind of economic sustainability as well, which I talk about a lot on the refuel and something that more people are paying attention, paying attention to now.
00:31:23.814 - 00:31:42.878, Speaker A: But it's something that I've talked about for years. So all of this just goes hand in hand with, with each other here around these kind of bad narratives. And I think this is just the worst. The fact that people are saying, you know, Altus don't count, you haven't scaled the base layer, so, you know, you haven't scaled Ethereum. That just is not true at all. Ethereum has scaled, it's scaled by L2s and it's going to continue to scale. And we're really only at the beginning still.
00:31:42.878 - 00:32:24.862, Speaker A: I mean, L2s have so much further to go, and not just from a scalability perspective, but also from an experimentation perspective. Which brings me to my next tweet, which is from Dino here, who is also an l two founder at Fluent, which are building a zk wasm l two here dyno tweeted out, you know, ethereum is not just the evm ethereum. L two s can support general purposes, languages, parallel programming models, novel or optimized databases, custom isolated or private state, vertically integrated tools or apps, novel economics or governance. And l two s are boundless. So the whole point of this is basically that, okay, well, l two s bring scalability, but scalability is table stakes. If you're building an l two, scalability is baked into that. Like, you don't build an l two without scalability in mind, like that.
00:32:24.862 - 00:32:55.550, Speaker A: That doesn't make any sense, right? So if a scalability is table stakes, that is like the bare minimum to be an l two. Well, what else can these l two s do? Well, turns out they can do anything you want. You can be, you can literally do exactly what the l one s do. At l two, you could do the exact same thing far better, far more securely, far better. From an economic sustainability perspective. You can tap into an already massive ecosystem within Ethereum. You get better bridging infrastructure, you get better supporting infrastructure, and you get to experiment in the infinite garden that is ethereum without being tied to the EVM.
00:32:55.550 - 00:33:38.764, Speaker A: And this is another really strong point against monolithic l one s, in my opinion, where essentially, at least the way they're currently architecture architected, you are limited to that l one's design. You cannot experiment with other designs. You are limited to what it's using for its vm. You are limited to what it's using for its kind of like economics, like its fee mechanisms, right? You are limited in what it's doing for its consensus layer and stuff like that, right? And mev, and ordering of transactions and all that kind of stuff there. So in that world, like, how does that compete with a modular roadmap that Ethereum has, where the l two s can basically be that l one, but as an l two, it doesn't have to be limited. It can edit itself as much as I want. It can change itself as much as it want.
00:33:38.764 - 00:34:11.884, Speaker A: Yes, it's going to be centralized for a while, but the thing is, is that experimentation is always done best in a centralized way. Because if you're experimenting, you want to move fast, and you can't move fast if you're decentralized, that is actually the pillar of decentralization to me. If you're moving too fast and you're changing things too fast, you can't say you're decentralized. Like, for example, within ethereum l one. If we were shipping an upgrade every month, I'd be like, what the hell, guys? This isn't decentralized. There's no way you can coordinate ten client teams in a month, get everything built right in a decentralized way in order to ship an upgrade a month. It just doesn't happen.
00:34:11.884 - 00:34:49.220, Speaker A: And so that's why upgrades in ethereum l one take forever, whereas the l two s, you can do that because there may be just be one or two clients or client teams working on the l two. It's a very centralized kind of team working on it. But the thing is, that's the whole point. They can move faster, they can potentially, you know, I'm not going to say break things, but they can take more risks, they can experiment more, and they can get a lot more juice out of what they're building. Whereas ethereum l one, as a settlement layer for these l two s, it shouldn't be doing that at all. It should be very decentralized, which it is. It should be very slow to change, very slow to move, and those changes should be relentlessly tested for a very long time before they even think about getting into the network, which is exactly what happens with each upgrade.
00:34:49.220 - 00:35:11.914, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, I thought it was just a really great point here that Dyno brought up that ethereum is not the EVM. You do not have to be an evm l two to be considered Ethereum. Right? If you're an l two, if you're settling down to ethereum, you are ethereum, in my mind, at least. So, great tweet from dino there. And there's a bunch of replies to this tweet as well. If you want to read through them, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. Do so.
00:35:11.914 - 00:35:37.630, Speaker A: All right, so you probably been wondering what's been happening with base lately. So base is obviously Coinbase's l two on ethereum. Well, Jesse Pollack put out a tweet in reply to DC investor here talking about what they're actually working on to get out very, very quickly, I guess. Get this out shortly. Oh, wait, sorry. He says that working on getting this out shortly, which is basically a public roadmap for base. But essentially he highlighted the main things coming here.
00:35:37.630 - 00:36:24.536, Speaker A: So the TLDR is that they want to get to stage two and then stage. Sorry, stage one and then stage two. Decentralization ASAP while supporting the network to achieve 99.99% plus availability, driving down fees to less than $0.01 with ERP 4844. Further with Dank sharding and l two optimizations themselves, accelerating smart wallets by default with 4337 paymasters and bundlers, which I guess like paymasters and bundlers are things like paying gas in any token you want, essentially unlocking best in class on ramps and stable coins for every geography in the world, supporting Coinbase to bring its users assets and products on chain, and enabling developer tools to make it easy as possible for anyone anywhere to build an on chain app. So just great to see that TLDR roadmap there, but great to see that Jesse will be publishing a public roadmap on base.
00:36:24.536 - 00:37:14.556, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that base has been, I mean, it started off with a lot of fanfare and then kind of gone by the wayside a little bit because of obviously the other narratives that have taken over. But in terms of people that can be onboarded on chain, in terms of where they're going to onboard to, like, I can't think of anywhere better than base because not only is base closely tied to Coinbase, and obviously Coinbase can, can get these users onto base very easily. Base is offering like free USDC transfers, for example. Right? They have that thing where you can essentially verify and tie your Coinbase account to one of your addresses on chain and essentially get perks on the base network. You have Coinbase with their world class engineering team, managing base and building it out. You have them committed to actually decentralizing the network ASAP, which I think is incredibly important, obviously. And I think that's definitely a moat for a lot of these l two s.
00:37:14.556 - 00:37:43.626, Speaker A: And also base is built on the op stack, so it gets to inherit all of those really great things from the op stack, all those really great improvements there. And I know that still fraud proofs aren't live in the op stack, but they will be relatively soon. I think they're actually like coming soon, TM hopefully. Right. But like once that kind of gets done and once that's live there, I think that's like the biggest knock against the op stack right now. But that's coming very, very soon. So, yeah, just a really great tweet from Jesse here highlighting the base roadmap.
00:37:43.626 - 00:38:14.428, Speaker A: But he also tweeted out as well about how on ramping is going to work onto these l two. So he said the days of on and off ramping via ethereum l one are over. The vast majority of new users will onboard directly to l two, then have cheap, fast, easy ways to do anything. A base value from the beginning has been a bridge, not an island. Because we want to enable exactly this. So there's been a lot of fight around this recently where people like, oh, you know, people tell me to use l two s, but going from l one to l two cost me like $20 in gas fees or whatever. It's like, okay, that's.
00:38:14.428 - 00:38:36.558, Speaker A: I'm not gonna say that's like a good thing, but, like, you got to think about the marginal user coming into crypto, like the new users and things like that, right? They're not going to l one. Right. If you're talking about new users, I'm not talking about existing users here. That's a different story. But new users, they're not going to l one, they're going straight to l two. Right? So the major exchanges like Coinbase and binance, they already support these l two s. They support arbitrary and optimism and base.
00:38:36.558 - 00:39:11.984, Speaker A: So going from the, from Coinbase to base, for example, costs less than $0.10 from, I think, from Binance and OKX as well, as Jesse mentions here. And that is very similar to the fees charged on other networks out there to kind of like, on ramp onto them. And that will obviously come down over time as well. And the reason why they can do this so cheaply is because the Coinbase isn't, uh, isn't bridging from l one to l two themselves to give you your assets on l two. They've already got a balance on l two. So they're just basically doing an accounting change here where essentially they're sending you the asset on the l two from their l two address, not from their l one address.
00:39:11.984 - 00:39:35.240, Speaker A: So that's what it's going to be. The future of onboarding is onboarding directly from a centralized exchange. It's not going from l one to l two because at the end of the day, most users are never going to go to l one anyway. So there's no use of them going to l one and then l two. They're going to go straight to the l two s, and they're gonna, they're gonna enjoy all the benefits of that there. And then from l two to l two as well, they're gonna be doing. But we're gonna get the cost of that down, too.
00:39:35.240 - 00:39:55.272, Speaker A: And there are obviously different risks involved with that and all that good stuff there. But, yeah. Anyway, just wanted to highlight that from, from Jesse here. But great, great things coming for the l two s, guys. I mean, I think 2024 is gonna be a really, really bullish year for l two s. Generally. There are so many things happening, you know, not just 48, 44, but all of the l two s themselves are making, you know, tons of headway, tons of upgrades.
00:39:55.272 - 00:40:15.944, Speaker A: I mean, I think Arbitrum wants to become a stage two roll up this year, which will be the first stage two roll up. Well, not. Not technically the first stage two roll up, but, you know, the first stage two roll up with any economic activity on it. Because arbitrary is the biggest l two right now. So that would be a huge milestone hit, because then we can get rid of the fud of, oh, all l two s are centralized. Like. Well, no, you know, arbitrary one is not centralized.
00:40:15.944 - 00:40:34.164, Speaker A: And the others will follow, and then eventually we'll get to that place where these l two s are all decentralized. Well, at least most of them. You know, not all l two s are created equal. A lot of them will fail. A lot of them won't even get any traction. But that's just the way these things play out. And on top of that as well, I think that, you know, there are other exciting things happening within.
00:40:34.164 - 00:40:58.908, Speaker A: Within the l two s, but each of them have their own kind of roadmap that you can go check out in their own respective communities. But, yeah, I think 2024, very bullish. I mean, the three things, I think that that. Very bullish about 2024. For ethereum, the three main things, at least, obviously, spot ETH, ETF, altoos and restaking. I still think people are underestimating the impact of restaking, especially if the market is in, like, full bull Todd mode. Like, restaking is going to be ridiculous, guys.
00:40:58.908 - 00:41:25.592, Speaker A: And you guys know that I'm an investor in Eigen layout, but I've been talking about Eigen layer for a very long time, and I just want to be very transparent about, like, how bullish I am on them. I mentioned in the deadly way, Discord channel today that I'm more bullish on restaking as a primitive and obviously Eigen layer by extension, than I am on. On kind of like l two s right now. Now, it's not a competition, really. I mean, l two s are a broad category. Obviously, restaking is. Is not as broad, but it's kind of hard to pick any of the.
00:41:25.592 - 00:41:47.520, Speaker A: Any of the kind of like one l two s. There's so many l two s. I think there's only three restaking protocols right now with Eigen layer being like 99% of the. The market share. But in terms of just like, what it enables, because Eigen layer is infrastructure that that enables better l two s as well. It enables things like decentralized sequencer networks, you know, decentralized data availability networks like Eigen DA, for example. Right, where the l two, it doesn't want to store its data on Ethereum.
00:41:47.520 - 00:42:11.468, Speaker A: L1, you can store it on Eigen DA, those sorts of things, and Oracle networks, really anything. There's just an explosion of things that are going to happen. So I'm just like really, really bullish on those three things, is like the main things in 2024, but there are so many other things to be bullish about as well. Right. But yeah, I'm going to digress on that point there. Move on to the next bit of stuff that I wanted to talk about, which is just a tweet that I actually wanted to highlight here from Sam McPherson. This tweet is all about makers.
00:42:11.468 - 00:42:40.668, Speaker A: So Maker is a powerhouse. There's no other way to put it. Maker is an absolute powerhouse of a financial product or a DeFi product on Ethereum here. But the reason why you may not hear about it very often is because it's quote unquote boring, right? It is not something to be excited about. It is not Degen, it is not casino. It is really at the heart of it, a platform that issues a stable coin in Dai, and there's a bunch of other things that feed into that. They've been really big in the real world asset space recently, bringing a lot of real world assets on chain.
00:42:40.668 - 00:43:03.244, Speaker A: That in itself is not exciting for DJ's as well. That's why you don't hear about it. But in terms of what I mean by powerhouse here, Maker makes a lot of money. Like they have a lot of revenue. You can actually see that in this tweet, which I highly recommend giving a read. It's, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. But essentially, I believe Maker is, is making about $100 to $200 million a year or something in revenue.
00:43:03.244 - 00:43:35.000, Speaker A: That is a crazy amount of revenue for, for a Defi project. Um, especially because of the fact that this is real revenue, guys. This is not Djen revenues, is not token revenue. This is real revenue driven by real world assets. So I just highly recommend giving Sam's tweet a read if you want to kind of get bullish on maker. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, it's kind of funny because at the end of the day, when you, when you kind of like, uh, you kind of think about the fact that what do people get excited about and what do people kind of speculate on? It's usually the dj and casino stuff.
00:43:35.000 - 00:43:57.448, Speaker A: But what has lasting value in this ecosystem is the boring stuff. And even if it's boring, it can still be exciting from from a different perspective. But you can go check this out. I'll link Sam's tweet in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, just a final couple of things here. Remember that Etherfy contest or Christmas contest that I was running with the ether five people here. You can go check out the thread that was put together announcing all the winners.
00:43:57.448 - 00:44:11.424, Speaker A: So congrats to all of you guys. There was a lot of great submissions. I really enjoyed reviewing all of them. I did a little video talking about the top winners here, so you can check that out for yourself. But yeah, you can go read the thread of the winners here. And congrats to all the winners. I know some of you are deli Gray discord community members.
00:44:11.424 - 00:44:31.860, Speaker A: So great to see you winning. I didn't pick you because you're a deadly gray discord community member. I tried to be as objective as possible on who I picked. The first place actually went to Zoffie here, who you may have seen on the refill before. They make these really, really cool kind of contraptions. You can see here these 3d printed, kind of ethereum related or theorem themed contraptions. They're awesome.
00:44:31.860 - 00:44:59.812, Speaker A: I mean, I love this stuff like so much. And I mean, the fact that they put this much effort into this stuff and the fact that they've put so many kind of like Easter eggs in it and described why they've done it and all the stuff that they've done in terms of kind of translating for ethereum.org and everything around it. I mean, there's so much. And also being a solo staker as well. So just the crazy amount of stuff that or value that Zoffy has added to the ecosystem here that I felt like it was, it was an obvious choice for first place, but definitely go check out all the other winners as well. They're really great.
00:44:59.812 - 00:45:49.224, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. So last up here, I just wanted to mention the bankless ETH Bull podcast that I did that came out, I think, last week for premium bankless members, but this week for just regular bankless members here. So this was the episode I did with obviously David and Ryan, but with Mike, Ippolito and Jordy Alexander here, who, you know what's funny about doing it with Mike and Jordy was that they aren't your typical ETH bulls. They're very bullish on Ethan Ethereum, but they come at it from a very different perspective as to what like myself and some other of the traditional ETH bulls come at it from. Obviously, David and Ryan are probably more aligned with, with my thinking with, with an 8th Bull case, but Mike and Jordy came on, came at it from different directions and we all agreed on most things. Honestly, once we kind of described how we viewed things to each other. I think at one point in the podcast Mike even mentioned is like, oh, we actually agree on a lot of stuff.
00:45:49.224 - 00:46:30.864, Speaker A: I think that maybe he thought that we didn't agree on as much stuff because maybe he just had a different idea there. But I think that's what generally happens when you kind of talk about things and people just don't know you very well and you haven't like kind of talk to them one on one, they tend to assume your views on certain things based on maybe a tweet that they saw or based on some other comments that they saw. Whereas when you actually talk to people and talk to them kind of in a, in a, on a panel or one on one, and you kind of give breath to the conversation, you can find common ground pretty much everywhere. So it was just a really great podcast and I hope you guys that have listened to it enjoyed it, but if you haven't seen it yet or listen to it yet, definitely go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So yeah. Thank you everyone for listening and watching.
00:46:30.864 - 00:46:36.984, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel you haven't yet. Give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
