00:00:00.410 - 00:00:56.558, Speaker A: Welcome back to the decentralized finance lecture. Today we're going to discuss stablecoins, what they are, why they're important and how they work. Come on, let's dive into it. We will start with a very basic background that enables us to really dive deeper into the mechanics of stablecoins in the following. One of the first things to understand, to understand stablecoins really in depth, are economic models. So an economic model represents an economic process and as models typically do, they simplify the real world, right? You want to simplify something, a system, in order to be able to analyze it more efficiently given various techniques. So a model contains variables and we will look in the following slide what example variables are.
00:00:56.558 - 00:02:02.786, Speaker A: But these variables often have a logical or quantitative relationship among them. So let's assume the example of the concept of inflation, monetary inflation. So measuring monetary inflation requires a behavior model. So a model of how users or citizens in a country are purchasing goods and services with the fiat currency provided by the government. So such behavior model might obviously not necessarily reflect like the behavior of all citizens, but it might be representative enough to be an appropriate model for the majority of a population. Now, what's important is in such an economic model you want to differentiate the relative price change from the inflation price change, right? So goods and services might, relatively speaking, change in price. So product A and product B might just change relative in price.
00:02:02.786 - 00:03:17.850, Speaker A: But that's different from an inflation that might be caused by an excessive supply of monetary assets whereby maybe an entire basket of assets is increasing in price due to monetary inflation. So these things are not always easy to capture in economic models. Now, what are different variables in economic models that we could consider, especially in DeFi and that are related to stablecoins? So, for instance, the interest rates in CFI and in DeFi could be considered a variable. Note that the DeFi interest rates might be higher at the moment at least than CFI interest rates, which is likely to come out of the premium out of the premium risks that users have in DeFi, such as custodian risks, security bugs, etc. That are less well understood than the rather well understood C Fi interest rates. A cryptocurrency price can be considered a variable. The collateral ratio of a lending or borrowing platform can be considered a variable.
00:03:17.850 - 00:04:03.366, Speaker A: The DeFi protocol fees, like for example, if you exchange assets on an AMM, on a Dex, you are paying a certain fee that's a variable. The blockchain transaction fees that depend highly on the frictions and on the current load of a blockchain. Obviously the number of users can be a variable. The blockchain transaction throughput, et cetera. I hope you get the idea of what a variable is within an economic model. Given these variables, we can now understand which variables are so called exogenous or endogenous variables. An exogenous variable, you can think of it as an outside force.
00:04:03.366 - 00:05:10.270, Speaker A: So if you have a model and system, it's really something that's outside and it's acting on that particular model. So it's a variable that's determined outside of the model and then imposed on the model. So I think a great example is actually in Meccadao, which you have already seen mechadao the asset prices of the collateral. So you're collateralizing ETH is independent of the mechado system itself, at least as long as the mechado system is not excessively great in large in comparison to the ether ecosystem. So the collateral ETH, right, this is the cryptocurrency ETH itself can be considered independent or external to the mechada system. And you bring this collateral into the system to collateralize ETH to then mint Dai. So you can think of it as an external component and hence the asset price of the collateral can be considered an exogenous variable.
00:05:10.270 - 00:06:29.926, Speaker A: An example of an endogenous variable would be something that's from inside the model. So something that's considered as part of the model or the interior. It's not an external variable, it's determined by the model. So if we're looking at synthetics, which is another stablecoin or like a packed asset so there you're using the cryptocurrency SNX which is a part of synthetics as collateral in order to mint derivatives, so called synths and this is a project internal token, hence you could say it's an endogenous variable. So I hope this really clarifies how exogenous and endogenous variable come and play and how they interact, they might interact with each other. So another quite important background knowledge to understand better stablecoin mechanisms is the reserve system, which can be a full reserve or a fractional reserve system. So in essence, bank, if you have a bank that's receiving deposits, money deposits from bank customers, then the bank has two choices.
00:06:29.926 - 00:08:11.610, Speaker A: Either it just helps the money in the bank, right? So it's basically a security deposit box and it hands out the money again if the customer would like its money back. So that's one possible model of how to operate a bank. The other model would be to have a fractional reserve bank whereby parts of this money that's deposited by customers, by bank customers, can be lent out to other customers. So this would imply that the money held by the bank, right? So this part here will actually become inferior to the money deposited by the bank customers in the first place. So the lower this ratio, obviously this bank's reserve ratio, the lower this ratio, the more dangerous this becomes for the bank itself. For example, if the majority of the bank customers are suddenly showing up at the bank and would like their money back, then the bank would not be able to pay back the money deposited by the bank customers and hence the bank might default, meaning it would go bankrupt, it would cease to operate, cease to do business. However, having this ratio, rather small, is quite a lucrative business because when the bank is lending out money that strictly doesn't belong to the bank, but to its customers, the bank naturally can earn interest on that particular loan, right, depending on the current interest rate sets set by the bank and the central bank.
00:08:11.610 - 00:09:08.860, Speaker A: Okay, so this is really important to understand some types of stablecoins and also the potential risks involved with stablecoins. The next concept I would like to introduce is the concept of an exchange traded fund, an ETF. So you might be familiar with stocks. It's just a security, it's an asset that represents a share in a company. And these are typically tradable during the day. On the other side of the spectrum, you might be familiar with managed funds. So these are companies that receive your assets, they keep them within their deposit and they invest it into assets on your behalf, right? So they're typically rather diversified and you don't have to do anything they're managing for you, they're taking a respective fee for that job.
00:09:08.860 - 00:09:52.102, Speaker A: And in the middle of these two basically options, you have the so called exchange traded funds. So these are diversified, low cost ways to invest into a variety of assets, as we'll see in the next slide. And these can be traded on a day to day basis, hence they're called exchange traded funds. So they're really tracking anything that you would like. So it can be an index like the S and P 500, it can be an entire sector, it can be a commodity, et cetera. And as I mentioned earlier, they're tradable on exchange, hence the name ETF. Then typically they have lower fees than buying individual stocks.
00:09:52.102 - 00:10:49.030, Speaker A: So fees, if you purchase and sell assets on the stock market or in general, the fees might really eat up your profit. So hence keep an eye on fees. And that's why ETFs are rather popular because they are exerting rather low fees compared to the purchase of individual stocks. There are a variety of different ETF types. There can be bonds, basically loans, there can be stocks, industry, commodity, currency, or even inverse ETFs. So an inverse would be something where you bet on the decline of the asset value of a particular index, sector or commodity. For instance, so a particular example would be of an ETF would be the SPDR SMP 500 with an ETF that tracks the SMP 500 index.
00:10:49.030 - 00:11:36.070, Speaker A: It's an index of 500 tech companies. Voila. I hope this background will help you to further understand the subsequent lecture modules that will dive deeper into stablecoin basics and how stablecoin works in general. Welcome back. Why do we even need stablecoins? What does the word stable even mean? Let's find out. We're here plotting the bitcoin price chart from a time frame before 2014 to nearly today, and you can see that within this time frame of a few years, the price of this asset changed considerably. Certainly it's a currency.
00:11:36.070 - 00:12:33.450, Speaker A: There are millions of people using it, trading it, using it to purchase goods, to buy services. But it's highly volatile. Like a few years ago, it was like near to zero. Then you can see here the significant volatility change as well as in the recent months. So stablecoins really come to kind of create cryptocurrency assets that are at least less volatile. So you might ask, what is stable? What does the even stable mean? How can I quantify the meaning of stable? And I don't have a perfect solution here for you, but I would say it's a rather relative metric, right? It's a metric that's relative to other assets. So volatility could be, for example, measured in the standard deviation of returns.
00:12:33.450 - 00:13:10.810, Speaker A: And if this number is somehow excessive past a certain threshold that you set yourself, then you could say that's an unstable coin. Or if it's below a certain threshold, you could say, well, it's maybe a stable coin. You could also consider the worst drop over a given time frame. And here again, it's really up to you to choose a time frame that you deem appropriate. But it's a rather subjective way of measuring the stability. We can always resort to looking at the volatility of the euro or the pound or the US dollar. And these are so called fiat currencies.
00:13:10.810 - 00:14:02.330, Speaker A: They also have a decent and reasonable volatility of about six to 12%. But volatility alone does not capture the range of prices. So at the end of the day, what you deem stable might not always look as stable. In cryptocurrencies, there are a variety of stable and so called pecked coins that we have looked at earlier already. I think the most famous stable coins that represent the US dollar are these three USDC, USDT and Dai. USDC and USDT are reserve based stablecoins, where you have a company that has a bank account. And here, this bank account should represent the on chain minted cryptocurrency assets.
00:14:02.330 - 00:14:46.390, Speaker A: These cryptocurrencies might perform fractional reserve banking, as we've seen earlier, but this depends on the individual stablecoin token. Dai is an example of a collateral based stablecoin. And we will also have a brief look at an algorithmic stablecoin in a few slides. Similar to stablecoins, we have packed coins. So wrapped bitcoin is representing bitcoin on another chain. So it could be a token representing bitcoin on a non bitcoin chain. It's not stable per se, but the wrapped bitcoin token should be stable compared to the bitcoin price.
00:14:46.390 - 00:15:35.110, Speaker A: So they should be one to one. Ideally, if they're no longer one to one, then we speak. We call this a DPEG. And there are a variety of other assets, like renBTC is another BTC packed coin. There are packed coins for ether, like the s ether or st ether. If you look at the current rankings as of 2021, on stablecoins on ethereum, you can see here how many stablecoins worth of US dollar were minted, at least according to these metrics. And you can see here the top ranked stablecoins USDT, clearly being the first USDC, second BUSD, Dai and PAX.
00:15:35.110 - 00:16:34.618, Speaker A: You can also look into how much was actually minted. So the financial value in US dollar that was minted on chain in this particular stable coin. And you can see like a few other metrics, such as the number of active addresses in the last 24 hours, the number of transactions and the transaction volume. Again, back to the question of what is stable or what is not stable. I would like to draw your attention to an inflation calculator. So this is if, for example, in the year 1980, you purchased an item for $1, then in the year 2021, so this year that item would cost $3.32. So there's a cumulative rate of inflation of 232% over these 41 years.
00:16:34.618 - 00:17:32.410, Speaker A: So that's quite significant. So you might say, well, this doesn't look stable to me, right? So over a longer time frame, especially fiat, currencies might not look as stable. And you might be alerted that the current inflation rates are quite higher than the envisioned 2%. So currently we are at least on the US dollar above 5% inflation, which is much higher than the envisioned 2% regular inflation rate. So stablecoins may not be that stable, but relatively more stable than other cryptocurrencies. I'm not a big fan of such qualitative statements because we don't have any quantitative data here to show you, at least in this statement, but it's still something to consider when discussing stability in general. So now we have a bit of a background.
00:17:32.410 - 00:18:33.002, Speaker A: Let's dive into how stablecoins work stablecoins on the current smart contract enabled blockchains. So we will look at five stablecoins, specifically one, which we have already seen, megado, we look at synthetics, ample USDC and USDT. So, as I've already explained in an earlier lecture, so stablecoins, the Mechadao system, is a stablecoin mechanism that allows you to deposit ether to open a collateralized debt position CDP. So what you do is you take 150% of collateral at least you shouldn't go below, and then you're allowed to mint 100% of the debt. So the debt is being drawn in die. So you have a contract. If you give him like a certain amount of ether, this contract will give you a certain amount of die in return if you pay back your die.
00:18:33.002 - 00:19:42.550, Speaker A: So if you pay back your debt at a later point in time, then this contract will unlock your ether on your behalf. So that's a very simple mechanism of how to create a US dollar backed stablecoin. In this particular example, synthetics is another pact or stablecoin mechanism in which you actually can mint any derivative asset. So you could, for example, mint a Tesla share or a representation of a Tesla share. So in the first step, you provide, instead of ether, as in the previous example, you provide SNX as a collateral so the SNX that you deposit in the contract needs to represent 600% of the collateral to mint 100% of the derivative. So you can already see the financial efficiency of synthetics is clearly below the financial efficiency of mechano. However, it gives you much more flexibility in minting various tokens.
00:19:42.550 - 00:21:08.850, Speaker A: So now if you deposited SNX, you can draw a derivative, for example, a Tesla share, and you need an external price. Oracle that basically can report, for example, the price of the Tesla share with respect to the SNX token, and then you can get the number of representative Tesla shares. If you want to pay back the Tesla share, you can then unlock your collateral, which is the underlying SNX. So one really interesting insight in synthetics is that if you want to now change exchange, for example, this S Tesla into S US dollar, then the exchange mechanism. So the process of exchanging the S Tesla asset into an S USD asset is simply a change of name of the name of the actual asset you're holding because the underlying assets are all represented by SNX. So this means that you can perform and this is what synthetix is offering you can perform exchanges at zero slippage because the underlying assets are actually not being exchanged. Hence, you have an ideal liquidity here between those two assets.
00:21:08.850 - 00:21:56.462, Speaker A: Let's now dive into the third stablecoin example, which is ampleforth. So that's a different mechanism. It's an algorithmic stablecoin where you don't need any collateral. So any idea how this could work without collateral? So maybe pause the video for a second or make a suggestion in the chat. So how could you create a stable coin, like, for example, a US. Dollar representation, without using any collateral? Well, the answer is that you can do this by simply reporting the US. Dollar price compared to a token, for example, the ample stablecoin token to a smart contract.
00:21:56.462 - 00:22:57.490, Speaker A: So you do have an external price, oracle again, and there are three design states in your contract, right? So this is again here, a smart contract that maintains the state of your smart contract of your asset. It can mint and it can destroy tokens. So these ample tokens, and specifically, if the ample price so if one ample is more expensive than $1, then you can add ample supply. So you can increase the ample supply here. So if you do increase the supply, then you're devaluing the remaining tokens, and hence it should exert a downward pressure on the ample price itself. So you should be getting closer to $1. On the other hand, if one ample token is less is worth less than $1, you need a contraction mechanism.
00:22:57.490 - 00:23:47.878, Speaker A: So you need to remove ample supply from the economy in order to make the ample tokens more scarce, which would increase the price of ample. Push the ample value of one ample towards $1. And if one ample is equivalent to $1, obviously there's no action that needs to be taken. So it's certainly quite an interesting stablecoin design or a stablecoin proposal. The adjustment. So this particular adjustment here that's being done by the price oracle was set to be once a day. So this might be maybe quite a coarse grained interval because trading in cryptocurrency is happening 24 hours.
00:23:47.878 - 00:24:48.530, Speaker A: But this was one of the design choices in ampleforth. So you must think or you should actually realize that the contraction here of an ERC 20 token is actually something that's quite critical. So this could imply a systemic risk. So it has systemic implications. For example, if you do have an AMM pool with two assets, x and ample in an AMM dex, and it so happens that there is a contraction happening, then this pool here is representing currently an AMM pool. Or the price of an AMM pool is always defined by the ratio of the number of assets that are in this pool. And suddenly we're removing ample from this pool because everyone is losing ample.
00:24:48.530 - 00:25:28.946, Speaker A: And so the price of this pool, of the assets in the pool will also automatically change, which implies that there will suddenly be arbitrage opportunities, high frequency trading, et cetera. So this type of a design has quite some systemic implications on a variety of protocols that include this particular token. Voila. Let's go to the fourth and fifth stablecoins that we're looking at today in this lecture. So these are USDC and USDT. So these are, I would say, more traditional stablecoins. They're reserve backed stablecoins.
00:25:28.946 - 00:26:19.830, Speaker A: So you do have a company which is performing full or fractional reserve. So I leave it as an exercise up to you to go into the legal agreements of these companies if you want to use these tokens. And the company basically mints at their discretion a certain amount of USDC and USDT. So you can see on chain how many of these tokens were minted. So I've provided earlier screenshot of those two tokens, for instance. But you can go yourself on a blockchain explorer such as ether scan or DBank, and you can identify how many tokens were minted by their respective contract. I want to draw attention to a few further possibilities that these token issuers or stablecoin issues can do.
00:26:19.830 - 00:27:17.730, Speaker A: So, for example, both USDC and USDT operate a blacklist functionality within their smart contract. So they have the option to add any arbitrary blockchain address to a particular blacklist. Once you're on the blacklist, you can no longer move your assets from this particular blacklisted address. So because the contract is basically blocking these assets, now USDT goes a little bit further. USDT has a function to destroy coins at a particular address. And we have looked at past blockchain data, and we found over 400 accounts that were blacklisted, representing a little bit more than 44 million USDT that was zeroed out on blacklisted accounts. So please don't trust me and don't trust my word.
00:27:17.730 - 00:28:18.570, Speaker A: Always verify yourself so you can go to the USDT smart contract, for instance, and you'll find here a particular function which is called add blacklist, where you can provide a specific address. It's only the owner that can do this. So here, this is an access control modifier that would not allow anyone to call this function or to execute that function. So if somebody is then blacklisted, they will be added to the blacklist. Now, USDT, as I mentioned, can go even further. So if you want to destroy the blacklisted funds, you simply need to provide here the address of a user that's already on the blacklist. And again, it's only the owner who can actually call this function and the contract will sort out the number of dirty funds and then it will actually zero out the balance of this particular user.
00:28:18.570 - 00:30:00.490, Speaker A: So such blacklist and zeroing out functionalities are obviously a major concern in DeFi stability and the non custodial properties of blockchain in general. Therefore, I would like to compare on a high level how a DeFi bank run could look like when compared to a CFI bank run. So in a very simplified setting, a CFI bank run is basically dangerous if a bank is operating in a fractional reserve setting with a very low ratio of assets in custody. And typically what happens if there's actually a CFI bank run is that most clients either don't receive any assets in return or they become a very constant, very minimum back from the bank in a DeFi bank run. So in decentralized finance, if there's an event such as USDT blacklists a pool, so this can be, for example, a uniswap pool, it can be an arva pool or curve pool. So if any of these pools basically are blacklisted, this means if you have, for example, if you have a USDC and USDT pool, right, so you have an IMM pool with these two assets and now suddenly the address of this pool is blacklisted. So it's no longer supposed to be able to send out assets.
00:30:00.490 - 00:31:12.590, Speaker A: Then nobody can trade or can send out the USDT of this contract, right? So the pool contract here can no longer return USDT. They're locked in this pool. So what will happen is that everybody will try to take out USDC. Now, what's interesting is the traders, they will exit the pool, but those who exit first, they receive the best prices. Because if we assume that this pool is perfectly balanced out 50 50, and you take out, like, a small fraction, let's say, of USDC and then, let's say then 49% USDC and 51% USDT left just for the sake of example here then your price that you get because you will be paying LP tokens to the pool and the pool will give you back USDC. This is the way that you can exit the liquidity pool. Now, if you simply move the pool from this state to this state, then you will likely get a very good price for your USDC.
00:31:12.590 - 00:32:31.550, Speaker A: So probably one to one. However, if you're the last one to exit the pool so if there's only 1% USDC left and there are only 99% USDT left in the pool, then the slippage formula of this pool will make it extremely expensive to retrieve the remaining 1% from the pool. Because these pools, they always want to incentivize people to balance the pool automatically. And therefore, those that come last will receive the worst prices for exiting this pool. So it might just be not worth it to even exit from this pool. So therefore, high frequency trading is again of quite of an importance. And I'm sure that professional companies already have built detection bots for the case that if an liquidity pool that you're invested in is being blacklisted, or there's a transaction on the memory pools, on the network layer propagating that will blacklist liquidity pool, you should basically directly and automatically issue an access transaction from these particular pools.
00:32:31.550 - 00:32:50.450, Speaker A: Thank you very much for your attention. I hope this gave you a good first overlook of what stablecoins are and what's the potential varieties of stablecoins, which we go much further in detail in the next lectures. Please don't hesitate to ask any questions if there's anything unclear.
00:32:51.030 - 00:33:15.850, Speaker B: Welcome back to the DFI, MOOC. I'm Mariah Clogusmont. I'm a PhD student at Cornell, and I'll be giving today's guest lecture on stablecoins. This is lecture five in the DFI course sequence. Let's start with a quick recap. Blockchain is a new way for mistrusting agents to cooperate without trusted third parties. A cryptocurrency is an asset that occurs natively on a blockchain.
00:33:15.850 - 00:34:15.358, Speaker B: Smart contracts are, as Dan Bonet described in one of the past lectures, programs that run on the blockchain computer. And now stablecoins are a cryptocurrency with additional economic structure that aims to stabilize the price or purchasing power of the coin, and is constructed using smart contracts as a bit of motivation. The space of stablecoins has grown immensely and now provides key integration points across an increasingly complex DFI landscape. Over the past year, many new types of stablecoins have come to market here, visualized on a 3D representation of design characteristics, something that we'll touch on a little further in a bit. And since coming to market, many of these new stablecoins have also broken in that time. This is perhaps best visualized here in the collapse of many algorithmic stablecoins due to speculative attacks. In this lecture, we will focus on three fundamental design problems.
00:34:15.358 - 00:35:10.110, Speaker B: These are underlying stablecoins and DeFi more generally, and this includes technical security, economic security, and economic stability. We'll break the lecture into four parts covering the anatomy of stablecoins technical and economic security deleveraging spirals as a part of economic stability and the design of algorithmic primary markets, also as a component of economic stability. We start with a high level overview of stablecoin risks. One primary distinction is between custodial stablecoins with an example being USDT and non custodial stablecoins. An example here being dai. On the custodial side we encounter risks including counterparty credit risk, censorship risk and traditional financial risks. And the good news here is that these are fairly well understood in traditional finance.
00:35:10.110 - 00:36:12.638, Speaker B: On the noncustodial side however, we end up with new risks and new types of attacks which we'll see throughout the rest of this lecture, including deleveraging risks, price feed and governance risks, minor extractable value and smart contract bugs. And unfortunately, these are not well understood. Yet. The custodial side of the tree is composed of several different categories and these range from a 100% reserve fund that holds assets essentially one for one off chain through a trusted custodian to structures that resemble fractional reserve and money market funds and also including central bank, digital currency. And these are all closely connected to traditional economic models of these different types of structures. On the noncustodial side of the tree we have stablecoins with onchain collateral types and one of these is exogenous collateral. And here we'll see that this encounters sort of market deleveraging risks.
00:36:12.638 - 00:37:44.222, Speaker B: We also see types of endogenous collateral and these have amplified feedback effects because the value of the collateral is in essence self referential with the health of the protocol itself. In other words, the collateral pricing itself is endogenous and also implicit collateral where it tries to work through incentives without explicit obligations or explicit collateralization itself. So let's dig into the anatomy of a noncustodial stablecoin a little deeper. There are more functions than we've laid out so far and a stablecoin or recipe can be thought of as any combination of these basic ingredients. So one that we've already connected with is this primary value idea or collateral value backing the system which includes the exogenous endogenous and implicit collateral types. This connects with a risk absorption function which also has a few different forms, namely equity risk absorption where there's a secondary fungible position that absorbs the risk agent risk absorption where agents can tailor their own risk positions and protocol risk absorption where the protocol is holding assets or insurance itself intending to stabilize the system. So how does this risk absorption work? One way is through a leverage based mechanism which works kind of similar to a collateralized debt obligation or CDO where there are speculators who are borrowing stablecoins into existence essentially against risky collateral.
00:37:44.222 - 00:38:37.054, Speaker B: And this is like in Dai and this can happen with exogenous collateral like in Dai or endogenous collateral itself. And it also includes a subcategory of senior shares where there's a market cap of endogenous equity shares that's meant to absorb the volatility. Another is the basis design. And here there are speculators that are meant to maintain the peg by betting on future supply expansions which we interpret as leverage on our implicit collateral idea before and they have to do this during a crisis. So in particular here there's no precommitted collateral obligation and. Instead, speculators have to bet that the supply will expand beyond the precrisis levels in order to find this bet profitable. And there's also a reserved back mechanism.
00:38:37.054 - 00:39:38.278, Speaker B: And here this works by the protocol essentially market making around the Peg using an internal asset reserve. And there are also various types of meta stablecoins that include combinations of all of these mechanisms. So this also connects with an issuance process which determines the actual stablecoin supply and this can be agent based. And this is like in Dai where agents are deciding how much to mint and redeem stablecoins to decide how much risk they're actually taking on in these leveraged positions. It can include algorithmic issuance in this way, sort of encoded in the smart contract itself. And it also includes an issuance idea around a deleveraging process that seeks to reduce the supply when the value of collateral drops. And the remaining elements here are stablecoin holders who seek stability, a governance mechanism and price feeds which provide required inputs to the system.
00:39:38.278 - 00:40:54.810, Speaker B: And the governance mechanism allows the system to evolve over time and miners in the background who are tasked with ordering transactions. Let's briefly pull all these parts together into a concrete example. Comparing Dai with traditional commercial bank money maker governance is roughly parallel to the role played by an essential bank with an important distinction here being that stablecoin governance is profit optimizing whereas we can usually assume that a central bank is stability seeking for its own right. To illustrate here, governance in maker is not necessarily always committed to maintaining the Peg. For instance, there have been past discussions in the maker community at certain times to possibly abandon it. Vaults are roughly parallel to the role played by commercial banks in this comparison with an important distinction being that stablecoin stability or sometimes instability as you have it, depends on the joint actions of all the participating agents whereas commercial banks are usually assumed to be issuing a money that is assumed to be stable. And lastly, die holders are roughly similar to the role played by depositors in these systems.
00:40:54.810 - 00:41:49.402, Speaker B: And because of these differences that we've highlighted, the stablecoin side requires new models to cover this new type of setting. And essentially we have to hope that the protocol has been well designed and that the peg can be maintained through the proper incentives. As we've seen, there are multiple dimensions to consider and the tree that we showed at the beginning is it can't really capture all of the different dimensions. So here we put forward a visualization where we can classify things according to three primary dimensions. Namely here being the asset backing on the x axis, the risk absorber type on the y axis and then issuance on the colored axes. And here we plot where existing projects fall. And we also see that there are several striking regions where the stablecoin mechanisms has been especially fragile.
00:41:49.402 - 00:42:58.914, Speaker B: And this really motivates us to understand why some mechanisms work better than others. In breaking down the different mechanisms, we encounter three fundamental design questions technical security, which involves instantaneous exploits of technical structure. Economic security, which involves the manipulation of market equilibria across time, and economic stability, which says that if you have a system that is secure, do the incentives actually lead to stable outcomes? And we're going to first focus on digesting technical and economic security. So technical security involves exploits that are atomic and instantaneous in nature and therefore risk free, because essentially the outcomes are binary for the attacker. Either the attack is successful and the attacker can profit, or it actually doesn't happen at all. The transaction reverts and the attacker only has to pay the gas fees. And examples here include atomic mev sandwich attacks, reentrancy, and logic books.
00:42:58.914 - 00:44:05.130, Speaker B: And luckily, these are at this point fairly well studied and they can be best addressed using program analysis and formal models to formally specify different protocols. And most attacks actually fit into this category, and there are many examples. In contrast, economic security includes exploits of both technical structure and economic equilibrium across time. And they are not risk free for an attacker because they have tangible upfront costs to performing this manipulation. There's a possibility that the attack could actually fail and could be misimating the market itself. And you can't recover these tangible costs that were upfront in the first place because the attack is not atomic in nature. And these are less well studied and include things such as governance extractable value, GeV, mev reorg attacks, and market manipulation exploits.
00:44:05.130 - 00:45:09.498, Speaker B: And fundamentally, to address these, we need economic models of how these systems and agents work in order to understand how the equilibria can actually be manipulated. So let's illustrate this with a couple of examples. One illustration is not a clear exploit, but describes the idea fairly well. And this is in November 2020, the Dai price spiked on the coinbase exchange from a normal price of around a dollar to a dollar 30 and held this position for just a few minutes. And this price was then incorporated into the compound protocol price feed and led to $88 million in liquidations on compound. And since these liquidations create arbitrage opportunities, it's conceivable that someone could have tried to manipulate the Dai market on coinbase in order to trigger and profit from these liquidations. And something very similar then happened this past spring, in May 2021, in what's more clearly, an exploit on the Venus protocol.
00:45:09.498 - 00:46:12.530, Speaker B: So here the market for XVs in Venus was manipulated into a higher price range, and at that high price, the attacker borrowed assets against the XVs as collateral. And when the XVs market reequilibrated to a lower price later, the protocol was left with around $100 million in bad debt. Now, a lot of our work focuses on economic security, and this includes market manipulation, liquidations and mev in our 2019 paper, and Governance Extractable value in terms of short termism and governance attacks and formulating tractable forking models and mev based reorgs. And this comes from our Stablecoins 2.0 paper. Now, we're going to go through some high level of some examples from this work to also help illustrate some of this. We first note that some new attack primitives can be used in these market manipulations.
00:46:12.530 - 00:47:03.662, Speaker B: And there's sort of new exploitable structure around deleveraging and liquidations, as we already kind of saw in some of the examples already. And in those liquidations, essentially they're automated by creating arbitrage opportunities. And so that's sort of like one of these new things that can be exploited, these arbitrage opportunities. And then we've also seen that miners can censor and reorder transactions to extract profit. And we also have this extra role of governors in these protocols who can essentially change the rules of the protocol by upgrading the code itself. So one example of these attacks comes from our instability for the blockchain paper. And in this attack, an attacker can manipulate the market to trigger and profit from liquidations.
00:47:03.662 - 00:48:08.860, Speaker B: They can also exploit some other market structure around sort of like short squeeze effects that happen in Stablecoins. And they can also supplement these sort of attacks by bribing miners to essentially freeze collateral top ups and create more liquidation opportunities. And a second attack sort of builds on this over a longer timescale as a full reorganization of the blockchain to essentially trigger and profit from spiraling liquidations, that can happen across a longer history. And here this involves changing the transaction ordering actually across the past history to extract value and basically can result in some perverse incentives for miners if the attack rewards are higher than the mining rewards. So this is kind of an interesting one actually. So let's illustrate it a little bit further. So let's say that the current blockchain history is represented in this timeline, one depicted here with the given Oracle price feed, and that liquidations are triggered at these points in the history.
00:48:08.860 - 00:49:27.298, Speaker B: And that then a reorg attacker might try to create the alternative timeline two here which inherits the Oracle price feed. And in this new timeline, the attacker seizes the liquidation arbitrage opportunities for itself and may even create new liquidation arbitrage opportunities by censoring and reordering transactions. And as it turns out, a variant on this attack has actually occurred historically on Black Thursday in Maker. And basically later investigation determined that mempool manipulation here caused the clearing of liquidations in Maker auctions to occur at zero dollar prices, essentially extracting $8 million from the Maker protocol. Now, reorg attacks are fairly complicated to model as they involve multi period setups and pretty complex incenses. And toward this, we've proposed a tractable forking model that is able to couple a base blockchain model with an economic model of the application layer and then between these models solve the coupling. Iteratively now basically an output of the base blockchain model.
00:49:27.298 - 00:50:02.762, Speaker B: Here is the success probability of an mev bribe. And this is an input to the application layer model. And then an output of the application layer model is the level of mev opportunities, which is the input to this base blockchain model. And we develop this model a little bit further in our stablecoins 20 paper. Now we also introduce a new class of decentralized governance models. And these models extend capital structure models that are originally used to describe IPO incentives. And in these models we consider three assets.
00:50:02.762 - 00:51:08.682, Speaker B: A collateral asset, sort of backing the system, the stablecoin itself, and a governance token. And then we consider three types of agents a risk absorber or a vault in this system, a stablecoin holder who seeks stability and then an outside governance token holder who is essentially the governor of this system. And then we set up a series of formal governance problems. And in the first one, we consider a system without an attack vector. And here the governance problem is essentially to decide the interest rate parameter to maximize their revenue, subject to the decision that the vault is making around stablecoin issuance. And the Vault problem is to decide the issuance of the stablecoin to maximize their expected return from leverage, such as in the Dai system, subject to a few constraints that bind how the protocol is supposed to work. And then we expand this sort of very basic model to understand various attacks that could happen in these governance settings.
00:51:08.682 - 00:52:11.238, Speaker B: And so one attack we consider is that a fraction of governors may be able to steal a fraction of collateral at the expense of of a certain share of the gov tokens becoming worthless. And some outside cost to attack that might come from, for instance, legal repercussions, although this outside cost to attack alpha may in fact be zero if we have the real, fully anonymous setting. And now the governance problem becomes deciding the interest rate and whether to essentially attack the system. And they decide between these things by maximizing their revenue, taking into account how the vault is going to react. And then the Vault decides issuance also now taking into account that the system actually may be insecure if the governance profitability is not high enough. And we further extend this into some further attack scenarios where now agents may be able to collude. We have different types of agents.
00:52:11.238 - 00:53:17.130, Speaker B: They may be able to collude to restrict the exit of other agents and indirectly steal value. And the agents may strategically decide to bid up the governance token price, which is essentially equivalent to issuing bribes to governors to maintain the security of this system. And now the governance problem also takes into account whether they're going to collude with another of these agents. The vault problem incorporates this as well, and also incorporates whether they're going to issue a bribe to governance to help secure the system. And similarly for stablecoins stablecoin holders, they have to decide sort of a portfolio allocation to sort of secure the system and decide their level of participation in the stablecoin itself. So there are a few high level takeaways from these models. The first is around governance fundamental value, which we can theoretically relate to a geometric sum of discounted fees, treating these as potential future dividends for gov token holders.
00:53:17.130 - 00:54:25.634, Speaker B: If this fundamental value is small relative to the collateral locked in the system, then we really need a high alpha parameter for security. And this leads to a new type of price of anarchy in these systems, which is the extra cost to secure a very decentralized system versus a more centralized system in terms of a high versus low alpha parameter here. And this leads us to a conjecture that in many fully decentralized settings where there's also a very flexible governance and so many attack vectors, that there may be no equilibria for long term participation in these protocols. And the reason for this is best described in an analogy. If a bank is unsecure, if its equity shares are not worth greater than two times its assets under management, then no depositors should really choose to participate in this bank. We also provide a possible solution which we term optimistic approval. And this mechanism gives users of the protocol an optional veto over governance changes in order to help align the vision of what the rules of the protocol are supposed to be.
00:54:25.634 - 00:55:31.910, Speaker B: And this would essentially introduce a new term in our model that lowers the success probability of an attack based on the probability that the veto mechanism is invoked. And if governors anticipate that the veto mechanism will be invoked, then their expectations of attack profits plummet and the mutual participation region is expanded. We're next going to turn our attention to the question of economic stability. Our first topic on economic stability is deleveraging spirals and is developed in two of our past papers. First, let's dig a little deeper into how risk absorption works in leveraged based stablecoins like Dai, this resembles a CDO structure where we have a portfolio of underlying assets. And we split this portfolio into two tranches a junior tranche, which is intended to be more risky, and a senior tranche, which is intended to be less risky. And now if there's a loss that's incurred, this is first borne by the junior tranche and the senior tranche is protected.
00:55:31.910 - 00:56:34.378, Speaker B: Now relating back to stablecoins. The junior Tranche is really these risk absorbers in the system and the stablecoin holders are meant to be the senior Tranche. There's additionally the addition of this deleveraging process, which essentially says if there's a large enough loss that's borne by this system, then the system is automatically deleveraged and scaled down so that there's still enough extra room for protection for the stablecoin to be essentially a perpetual product. We now want to model the price dynamics in these systems. And the motivation here is that the original dye supply was determined entirely in this type of a leverage market. And it is created by speculators who choose to borrow against ETH to achieve leverage. And the market here has an endogenous stablecoin price.
00:56:34.378 - 00:57:32.510, Speaker B: In particular, the supply needn't always equal demand at the $1 price. And we really have to hope that the incentives that are in place lead to maintenance of the peg. So we then develop stochastic models of what this endogenous stablecoin price actually looks like. And it leads to what we call deleveraging spirals, which cause short squeeze effects and amplify collateral drawdown in these systems and also lead to stable and unstable regions for these stablecoin systems. To describe the model, let's focus on how the speculator in this model is making decisions. So they have a collateral constraint which is over collateralization that's encoded by the protocol. In particular, the value of the locked ETH held by the speculator must be greater than or equal to a collateral factor times the stablecoins that have been borrowed into existence by the speculator.
00:57:32.510 - 00:58:17.014, Speaker B: And the speculator's decision is then to change the stablecoin supply to maximize their next period expected returns. So this is essentially deciding what is the issuance of this stablecoin. And formally, this is described in the problem here, where the speculator's value process Y includes a liquidation effect. Essentially the protocol can liquidate the speculator's position and this has costs and market effects. In this model, we prove a series of formal results using some measure theoretic tools. First, we show that the stablecoin has bounded or small probability of large deviations in its price in a certain region. And we call this region the stable region.
00:58:17.014 - 00:59:08.650, Speaker B: For the stablecoin. We also show that the stablecoin has bounded probability, again small, of large quadratic variation in this region. And here, quadratic variation describes a measure of the variation of the price process. And so in particular, with large probability, the price process is not varying very much. And then we also show very different results in what we characterize as an unstable region. So in particular, the stablecoin experiences a short squeeze or what we call a deleveraging spiral in this unstable region. And formally, this deleveraging spiral is characterized by submarting gale prices in the stablecoin, meaning that we expect the stablecoin price to increase actually in this setting.
00:59:08.650 - 00:59:55.050, Speaker B: So let's walk through how this works. Here we visualize price, demand, supply and collateral value in this stablecoin system. And importantly, in equilibrium, we have that demand is equal to supply. And let's say that starts at a dollar price. So now, if there's a liquidation that's triggered in this system because there's been an ETH price crash, say, then the system uses some of the collateral to reduce the supply by essentially buying back the supply, which causes a supply demand imbalance. And this causes the price of the stablecoin to increase and in turn causes the demand to decrease, bringing it back in line with supply. But now, because there's been a price increase if there's a further round of liquidations.
00:59:55.050 - 01:01:04.260, Speaker B: Actually the protocol has to use more collateral to reduce the supply because the stablecoin price is higher, which causes the stablecoin price to go even yet higher to bring the demand back in balance with supply. And this becomes a spiraling effect where we have increasing prices and effectively decreasing value of collateral actually being usable in this system and protecting the system. We can relate this process to an increase in variance as well. First we show that an approximation of variance increases by an inverse square of the size of an ETH return shock. So in particular this means that a higher return shock causes much higher variance increase by this approximation in the stablecoin price. We make this more concrete by also showing formally that the unstable regime has distinctly higher forward looking price variance for the stablecoin compared to in the stable regime. And in particular this suggests that these stable and unstable regimes are well interpreted as such.
01:01:04.260 - 01:02:15.350, Speaker B: This was then directly witnessed actually on Black Thursday in Dai in March 2020. And here, Ether experienced a 50% drop within the day, which triggered a large liquidation price effect on the Dai market, causing the price of Dai to increase well over a dollar ten, despite the system actually being in an emergency setting here and in a less safe setting itself, as well as inducing markedly higher volatility in the Dai price at this time. And this implies some complications for noncustodial stablecoins that these deleveraging problems exist. In particular, there's no stable region in this model when the collateral price process is not a submarting scale, in particular when people really need to expect the collateral price is going to increase for the whole system incentives to work out properly. And this leads to a seeming contradiction here. The goal is really to make a decentralized stablecoin, but this can only be fully stabilized by adding uncorrelated assets which at the moment are currently all custodial and patching. This has been a major topic since Black Thursday.
01:02:15.350 - 01:03:17.910, Speaker B: Now, a few solutions have emerged since Black Thursday and one of them is how maker has tethered their system to USDC and importing the corresponding custodial risks of USDC. So this has essentially been done by maintaining exchangeability of Dai one to one via USDC reserve and this is termed their Peg Stability Module or PSM and Dai. And this has largely worked as intended in the last crisis in May, as we can see here. Comparing the Black Thursday crisis in red to the crisis from this past May in blue and seeing that the Peg is now maintained much more tightly. However, it comes at a cost and recently over 50% of the Dai supply has become backed solely by USTC in this way. Which means that there's correspondingly very large custodial risks actually in Dai. Another approach is taken by Rye which institutes negative rates on stablecoins during a crisis.
01:03:17.910 - 01:04:50.570, Speaker B: So this means that if we're in a deleveraging spiral now, stablecoin holders are incentivized to sell their stablecoins or else they incur an insurance like fee due to the negative rate. And this leads to some further questions of what the equilibrium participation might be like in this system if rates are, for instance, expected to be negative for substantial periods of time, as well as questions of how liquid the stablecoin will actually be in different settings. Another approach, which we've suggested actually in a paper before and which Liquidy essentially uses now, is to develop dedicated liquidity pools to help absorb deleveraging as it happens. And this has worked fairly well in the crisis in liquidy this past May. Liquidy allows direct redemptions, which we saw at the beginning of this crisis, but then the stability pool really absorbed the following deleveraging, as you can see in a way here that effectively postpones and smooths the effect. One further solution is then to build new reserve backed primary markets, which we'll touch on a little bit further in the remaining parts of this presentation in how we've designed the new Gyroscope mechanism. In the final part of this lecture, we'll cover another related aspect of economic stability here, the design of what we call algorithmic primary markets, which is coming from our upcoming work on the new Gyroscope mechanism.
01:04:50.570 - 01:05:54.480, Speaker B: First, let's discuss how algorithmic stablecoins work and often break by relating to how traditional currency Pegs work. In a traditional currency Peg model, there are two sources of value in the system. One coming from asset backing, which is a tangible source of value, and another from economic usage, which is really intangible and a bit hard to measure. And the idea here with economic usage is that if this currency unlocks access to a strong economy, then there are extra reasons and value to be drawn on to help actually back the Peg. And if in combination, these two values are high enough compared to the target, then the $1 Peg can be sustained in equilibrium. But if one of these sources of value takes a hit, for instance, if the assets become worth less, then the Peg can break in what's known as a speculative attack. And it's worth noting, this is a very simplified description of how this works, and you can see a much more precise model in Morrison Shin's paper.
01:05:54.480 - 01:06:52.506, Speaker B: So how does this help us understand the recent collapse of many algorithmic stablecoins? Well, these systems try to start with under 100% asset backing, but at the same time they start with no native usage, which means that the value from economic usage is very low here. And as a result, the Peg often breaks in speculative attacks. There are also some further complications about what the asset backing looks like in these systems. In senior shares, for instance, the asset backing is really the value of endogenous equity shares, which have largely they largely have self referential price that can evaporate in a crisis. In the basis designs, there's really nothing here, no asset backing. And in reserve backed systems, this is some portfolio of other assets. Now, it's worth noting that this differs from traditional currency pegs, where the actual pegged currency can be held in reserve.
01:06:52.506 - 01:08:03.878, Speaker B: But US dollars, for instance, are inherently not an on chain asset and so this is not possible in these systems. There's a further important dimension to understanding algorithmic stablecoins. So consider that if a system is actually working, that a new user who is entering the system pays a dollar's worth of assets for any new stablecoin that's created. And an important question here is where does that dollar go? So there's a range of possibilities actually from going into the pockets of stakeholders to going to some sort of a reserve fund. And the important consequence is what happens in a crisis in these different settings when the assets go to stakeholders, like through buybacks or dividends to these stakeholders, these assets that are coming into the system through Minting, through Minting new stablecoins, they're removed from the system actually and not available later to support stability. And instead we're sort of relying on speculators to bet on future demand growth in these sort of crisis situations. And often this results in them actually abandoning the system.
01:08:03.878 - 01:08:49.700, Speaker B: When these bets become uncredible, when assets partly go to stakeholders and partly to a reserve, then the reserve is necessarily small and less stabilizing than it could have been. And in this setting, the system may be prone to bank run like effects and soros style speculative attacks as well, versus when all assets are attained by the system. In a reserve, then the system is necessarily stronger compared to these other cases and more stabilizing because there's more value retained to handle a crisis. And the market has basically worked out like this with all the basis clones breaking and many of the hybrid senior share systems also breaking, including the.
01:08:51.690 - 01:08:52.098, Speaker A: It'S.
01:08:52.114 - 01:09:41.320, Speaker B: Worth including sort of the other main dimensions here as well. One of them is that the composition of assets in the reserve is quite an important consideration here. For instance, taking into account the different risks faced by these assets and also the aspects of how the system maintains stability in terms of how it actually forms the stablecoin market. This leads us to our work on algorithmic primary markets. So here a primary market means the venue for minting and redeeming of stablecoins. And this is related to open market operations in traditional money. And we establish a redemption curve to be the price of redemption of a stablecoin as a function of the system state.
01:09:41.320 - 01:11:16.482, Speaker B: So a key factor here is what do these redemption curves actually look like? Well, we visualize them by plotting price versus the level of redemption activity that's accommodated at that price. And they range from providing all liquidity that's available at $1 pricing, backed by whatever assets are actually held in the reserve to redemption curves that may have higher curvature and thus decreasing redemption rates. How our previous discussion of currency pegs fits in here is that if we establish all liquidity at a dollar on this redemption curve, then this is really only possible until liquidity is exhausted, until the reserve itself is exhausted, at which point there may be no assets left to maintain the prices. And importantly, this can be triggered by a speculative attack if it's profitable to do so. There's a lot to draw on in traditional finance about these sort of speculative attacks. Actually, the most famous example is Soros's attack on the British pound, which maintained a relatively stable peg, actually the British pound against the Deutsche mark until what's known as Black Wednesday, when the British pound was forced off the peg by a speculative attack to a large profit for Soros's fund. And in this case, the bank of England decided at some point that the speculative attack was unwinnable and took the hit to abandon the peg without exhausting their assets.
01:11:16.482 - 01:12:04.926, Speaker B: Further. Let's now walk through a few case studies of how primary market structure has worked out in various stablecoins. So these are usually ad hoc and mostly even implicit these structures and not directly recognized in most designs. So first up are the basis type designs. And here the implicit redemption curve is that stablecoins can be redeemed, or what they call locked for endogenous coupons. And these coupons, a speculator would have to hope that these would become profitable in future supply expansions. However, when the coupon demand disappears, the implied redemption curve itself becomes flat at zero.
01:12:04.926 - 01:12:47.086, Speaker B: And this is because there's really no asset backing. And this is effectively what we witnessed then in the collapse of these types of systems. Next up is USDC and USDT. So these have flat redemption curves at $1, but they occur off chain. And so we must really trust the issuers in these cases to maintain these primary markets and access to these primary markets. And it's worth noting that the Dai PSM, which we talked about before, is essentially a wrapped version of this inheriting USDC's primary market by extension. Next, consider Faye.
01:12:47.086 - 01:13:41.086, Speaker B: Faye's initial mechanisms included something called direct incentives, which made the implied redemption curve very steep to $0. As you can see here on the green curve, when the system launched, it was actually in an unexpectedly healthy state, even though it was intended to start undercollateralized, it held ETH as a reserve asset and an increase in the ETH price meant that the system actually started over collateralized. However, it started with an oversupply of stablecoins and the system saw very large demand to redeem. But the implicit redemption curve was quickly exhausted and this left the stablecoin with effectively no support and high resulting volatility. And the reason here is that the only remaining venue for liquidity is then secondary markets, not these primary markets. And these secondary markets are. Left to price the stablecoin within the primary market bounds.
01:13:41.086 - 01:14:47.026, Speaker B: But these bounds were effectively all the way from zero dollars to one dollar. Later, direct incentives were removed and the implied redemption curve shifted to look like a constant product uniswap pool, which shown as this purple curve here, which is still a rather ad hoc choice for a primary market design, as the liquidity is still rather poor in that setting. We lastly consider senior share stablecoins. So these are redeemable for a dollar's worth of assets, but they're really mostly backed by a volatile endogenous asset, that is one that has this sort of self referential price. And speculative attacks can cause the collapse of this asset value, as we've seen in both Terra and Iron, or also known as Titan, fatally for the Iron system. So this is the same premise as before. The protocol can provide liquidity at a dollar until it's exhausted, at which point the peg must break and the system may be in a death spiral.
01:14:47.026 - 01:15:39.526, Speaker B: And this is what happened in the Iron stablecoin system, illustrating this sort of a speculative attack. So Titan was the endogenous underlying asset whose value went to zero. And this happened as a large redemptions occurred in Iron, the stablecoin. And since Iron is redeemed for a dollar's worth of newly minted Titan, this ended up causing the inflation of Titan to having a zero dollar value. And this motivates our work on designing autonomous primary markets. The current space of primary market mechanisms, as we've kind of seen at this point, is fairly ad hoc and often relies on governance processes to make quick fixes in crises. So this means like changing parameters in a crisis to change the implicit primary market curve shape.
01:15:39.526 - 01:17:02.660, Speaker B: And kind of missing here currently is how to design primary markets with desired properties, sort of from the ground up, from first principles that can adapt autonomously. And this is what we've been doing in our Gyroscope PAMM paper. So here is a quick overview of how this all works when the system is 100% reserved, the idea is that the redemption curve should be a flat line close to a dollar because that's the sustainable level of redemptions in this type of a system. Here viewing it compared to a constant product uniswap pool. And now, if the system is underreserved, however, here considering an 80% reserve ratio, say, then the idea is that the redemption curve should provide some level of liquidity near the dollar peg, but subject to a circuit breaker that brings redemptions in line with a new sustainable level so that the system can't be exhausted itself. And as the reserve ratio increases, this redemption rate should shift back toward the straight line redemption curve, providing close to perfect liquidity around a dollar. And so, in our work, we formalize this as a new PAMM, or primary market automated market maker design that has several provable properties that make it desirable from the standpoint of a good stablecoin primary market.
01:17:02.660 - 01:18:00.774, Speaker B: So this includes bounded loss for the protocol and redeemers in particular. The idea here is that reserve assets can't be depleted in the system and redeemers also get a fair price. We also show properties of path deficiency, which is a concept in AMM designs that effectively establishes that there's no incentive to subdivide traits. And in particular this makes it simple for traders to work with this curve strategically. And it can also be constructed, as we show, in a way that is efficiently computable on chain in the highly strict and expensive computational environment. One further nice property is that the shape can help to actually deter the sort of speculative attack problems we were seeing earlier by removing their profitability or lowering their profitability. And the idea here is that the shape of the curve partly adapts to account for this.
01:18:00.774 - 01:18:54.310, Speaker B: In fact, that brings us to the conclusion of the lecture. As we've seen, stablecoins are in general complex onchain currencies. They carry many similarities with traditional finance and thus many lessons learned also carry over. But they also present many new risks and security challenges. These manifest in three fundamental design problems which actually extend across DeFi technical security which relates to atomic, near instantaneous exploits of technical structure and which are by nature, risk free economic security which involves the manipulation of market equilibria. Across time and are not risk free. And also the question of economic stability, which poses the question, essentially, if a protocol is secure, do incentives actually lead to stable outcomes? To dive deeper, our work is available on archive.
01:18:54.310 - 01:18:59.490, Speaker B: The last paper here comes from our work on the Gyroscope stablecoin that is currently under development.
