00:00:02.240 - 00:00:32.460, Speaker A: So what I really want to discuss is like elders as extensions of Ethereum. Okay, so this is like a shameless fork from Vitalik's article on the same topic. I think most people have read it. Truly great article. And I think it came out like the right moment because you have this, it feels like we've come like rulers are bearing fruits and you have like so many projects. You have like six. One project on LTB already.
00:00:32.460 - 00:01:18.072, Speaker A: It feels, it was just like maybe four years ago when like the roll up central was like releasing stuff. When I roll ups are bearing fruits, you have in L2s and I have in layer threes and like other constructions. But now, like, there are issues we did not really think about before. No one really sat down and said like in a roll up centric world, what sort of like social and technological dynamics, what, so like dynamics come into play. But now we need to start like asking those questions because there are new problems that we need to solve and yeah, so we've gone roll up centric. It's gas is cheap, there's more scaling. We don't have to like compromise, bees, layer sessions, resistance like this or anything like that.
00:01:18.072 - 00:01:47.630, Speaker A: But they are criticisms. They are flaws, they're weaknesses. And some of those criticisms are that you have many roll ups, you fragmented narrative, and you leave users confused. You have some roll ups trying to be cypherpunk, you have some roll ups trying to be friendly. Like there's so much, there's so many talking points coming out and it leaves like people confused. In contrast, you see something like Solana for example, is just fast and cheap. I feel like, hey, that's simple, I should do that.
00:01:47.630 - 00:02:25.380, Speaker A: You have roll ups making different technical trade offs. So you have like validiums, you have optimums, you have some weird constructions, you have sovereign roll ups now and stuff. You have base roll ups. And all of that really convinces people. And it feels like Ethereum as a whole is weakened by having so many roll ups because now Ethereum doesn't feel like as coas it did before. Those are like some of the criticisms. And the issue is like, roll ups are like startups, they need to differentiate.
00:02:25.380 - 00:02:53.990, Speaker A: It's a positive song game. I wish more put as a positive song game, but still, it's still sort of like PvP in a sense. And that's why you have each person trying to differentiate and say, hey, I'm different, I'm doing something different stuff. And yeah, so this is some of how that definition plays out. You have ZK saying, doing like horizontal scaling. You have mega 8th doing like vascular scaling. And these are like two ends of the spectrum.
00:02:53.990 - 00:03:24.770, Speaker A: You also have like, cultural distinctions. You have Zika saying like, we want to be cypherpunk and user friendly. You have other chains, like metal. I don't like if anyone knows metal, but it seemed like we want to do something around like, regulatory compliance and finance. There's another one doing something on like, real world assets. So, like, many roll ups are trying to like, differentiate across technological and cultural spectrums. And that means many talking points.
00:03:24.770 - 00:03:56.794, Speaker A: Many talking points. What is Ethereum in 2024? Is Ethereum RW? Is it cypherpunk? Is it. There is no single narrative that's coming out of the Ethereum ecosystem. And it feels like that's like a weakness. And what we've tried to do is try to frame. So Ethereum is no longer one chain, it's no longer one l one. So you cannot, like, if you compare it to like, BTC or Solana or like avalanche, it's an apples to oranges comparison.
00:03:56.794 - 00:04:20.180, Speaker A: Because now Ethereum is its roll ups. And that's what we've tried to, like, do so far. We do all else's Ethereum optimism. Ethereum base is Ethereum. And this is largely true because, like, eltons have like, strong tech and cultural ties. But the problem is roll ups, in a sense, are not yet ethereum yet because, like, you have like, distrust assumptions. They're not really extensions at the moment.
00:04:20.180 - 00:05:31.310, Speaker A: And also roll ups themselves are saying, no, we are changing our own rights. And it kind of like leaves even me myself. Like, how can I say, like base if, like, the sequence is not, like, it's just very weird position for us right now. And what we've done so far hasn't been really effective. I communicate to both users and developers that if you're using a roll up, you're using Ethereum as well. So what can we do better? So open questions is that, like, should roll ups be independent culturally or should they be sub zoomed into the larger ethereum culture? Should roll ups be independent technologically or should they be tightly integrated with the larger Ethereum protocol and trade off innovation for alignment? Should roll ups extend culture? Should roll ups extend ethereum culturally, technologically? Or should they be treated as standalone chains? Because a lot of times on Twitter you have this idea of, like, why won't arbitrum just fork away and become an l one? And those questions are becoming, they come in more frequently because now the Ethereum culture itself is, the social layer is very fragmented. So like, it doesn't feel like there's an Ethereum social layer anymore.
00:05:31.310 - 00:06:10.120, Speaker A: Now it's like an arbitrage social layer on optimism, social layer and stuff. But my idea is the original roll of vision was supposed to be roll ups should be extensions of Ethereum. I think the division is for roll ups. And Ethereum should have like this mutually beneficial relationship. Because the truth is, if you're launching a roll up today, it costs less for you to launch a roll up than for you to launch another one. So there's no free lunch and you're getting that. And that means you also have to pay forward or pay back or something like that.
00:06:10.120 - 00:06:48.364, Speaker A: So you cannot bootstrap social capital from the community and then say, oh, well, it bootstrap the social because right now roll ups, we've sort of like tolerated roll ups being centralized because we believe they are like the long term. So you cannot get all that social capital and then say, hey, you know what, I'm just like, fuck away and become an l one. It doesn't make sense and stuff. So I feel like the end game should be roll ups and Ethereum have like a mutually beneficial relationship. Paying security fees is not tax. I know, like there are people in the audience who believe like, Wallach is sovereign. It's not fundamentally incompatible with this.
00:06:48.364 - 00:07:24.974, Speaker A: I just feel like in the end goal for us, we want Ethereum to be this base layer. So Ethereum social layer should be enough to secure all of these roll ups. That's the idea for me. And so why should you be a cultural antecedent of Ethereum? It's just like random points. But first, the idea is we want to have one ethereum. And in fact, something I've been trying to push is this something called united chains of Ethereum or the ether of us in the sense of Ethereum is just, again, it's not just one chain anymore. It's not like dozens of chains.
00:07:24.974 - 00:08:05.240, Speaker A: And I want people to come into the ethereum ecosystem and not see 40 different chains. They should see one ethereum ecosystem and that each chain is just a representative of Ethereum. And like from Vitalik's article, he says that each roll up has its own subculture. But then even within subculture, it's like you're taking part of the Ethereum culture and mixing and matching. So Ethereum is just a cypherpunk. Ethereum is user friendly, and then you can just pick your own stuff and make your own subculture out of it and lower social fragmentation. I mean, one thing at CC you had like roll ups doing this stuff.
00:08:05.240 - 00:08:38.004, Speaker A: And the social fragmentation part comes from each roll up trying to be as PvP as possible. And so you have developers coming to each ecosystem and saying, hey, they're going to build on our roll up. If you're going to get something from us, you have to be exclusive to us. And you're forcing people into this very weird. They want to build multi chain apps, they want to build on base, they want to build on premiums. It must be on Zika sync. But if you're fragmenting of social layer, you're creating problems for developers and users.
00:08:38.004 - 00:09:23.448, Speaker A: And also when it actually comes, if something were to happen, for example, let's imagine like the Ethereum community needs like fuck because of one roll up. Because roll ups are already in pvp mode, it becomes hard to coordinate because now we don't think of each roll up as one big happy family. We are like all competing. So it's possible that okay, we need to fork Ethereum because of one big roll up and the other person is like, oh, well, no, why should you do that? So we want like lower social fragmentation. But on the tech side as well is you want like enshrined roll ups are like secure against aperture upgrade risk and make more things unnecessary. This is my idea. So like I don't like going too much like too deep into like rabbit hole.
00:09:23.448 - 00:10:06.184, Speaker A: But like an I try roll up means like the roll up only fox. My idea is like the roll up only fox. If ethereum Fox and right now modseq fod is very real and that's something we talk a lot. So entry roll ups like a very straightforward path towards making multi go necessary and making sure the idea that roll ups as a secure and trustworthy scaling solution for ethereum is really true and you have base roll ups they can inherit like oh, this is me trying to find out the benefits. But visuals can inert live. Next, from a term l one, sequential centralization is like an issue. So right now a sequencer cannot steal your funds.
00:10:06.184 - 00:11:16.950, Speaker A: But if sequencer is going down, there's a liveness failure there and we don't want liveness figures. And so, I mean, Justin drink has like done great work on like getting visual ups like production and stuff. But the idea is we don't want centralized sequences, we don't want to have to trust them because the moment we have start trusting sequences and other often actors for the function of a roll up, we start to degrade the fact that the idea that if you're using a roll up, it should be live and safe. If ethereum is live and safe. So that's like a take advantage of being an institutional Ethereum. Also, these are really big points because, like I said, roll offs in their original form, we are supposed to be extensions of Ethereum in the sense of if you take an asset to l one, to l two, you should have a guarantee that if Ethereum is operational, you should be able to take the asset back to l one. But if you have a roll up that saying, you know what, I'm not going to be based, I'm not going to have a decentralized sequencer, then this feels like hypocrisy.
00:11:16.950 - 00:11:55.960, Speaker A: And that's something like other l one communities really capitalize on. They're like, hey, you're saying like your roll up is decentralized and it's better than l one, but like you have mod six, you have centralized sequences, you don't have permissionless validations and stuff like that. But we need this to be true. If it's not true, like in the end states, there's no way I can defend roll ups because they're just as, I won't say bad, but as bad as l ones. So we need like that to be true. Yeah. And so, like, also ethereum alignment feels like a meme, but like, yeah, there are positive benefits.
00:11:55.960 - 00:12:27.746, Speaker A: Like Ethereum sculpture. There's an article I can't remember, but I can probably link it. But what are Ethereum values? Decentralization, central resistance, funding, public goods, transparency, permissionlessness. If you're an extension of a cultural extension of Ethereum, then you can do all of these things, and these things are good. And doing these things is not charity. It's not you just being altruistic. It's incentive compatible for you, because when you do them, the community gives you social capital.
00:12:27.746 - 00:13:00.420, Speaker A: And that social capital translates financial capital for you. Because now developers are coming to the, oh, yes, this, it's not like people are going to like give you a rubber stamp and say, this is the community approved auto. But then we can encourage people and say, you know what, use this also because we care about decentralization. This roll up cares about decentralization. Use this one. So you displaying Ethereum values and you supporting Ethereum values is also a net benefit to you and it's also a net benefit to Ethereum. So like there's this idea of it being a mutually beneficial relationship.
00:13:00.420 - 00:13:38.602, Speaker A: So you have a protocol guild. L two should be funding the protocol guild because now you're relying on l one infrastructure. It should not be just, it should not just be the EF. I mean, if it's like a quarter of like your sequencer earnings and you redirect that back into like protocol, guild and fund layer one, R and D helps you, because if the layer one stops working, your l two stops working. And like, in a sense, once, like, avoid that coordination failure that comes from you extracting and not you. Like you not you extracting and not putting stuff back into the system. So the idea is to make this a regenerative ecosystem for everyone.
00:13:38.602 - 00:14:32.552, Speaker A: And time zones from Mr. Leaks article, you have challenges, echo chambers, you have monocultures, and you have this particular idea of the wrong vectors of competition is very important because now you have roll ups, do very PvP stuff, compete for the same developers and users. I feel like we should not be doing that. Let's go to PI, game up into the ecosystem, not trying to like get the same airdrop farmers and the same machinery devs. There's like crypto is like at like, I think like maybe 5% of the world right now. So it's not like there are not that many point ecosystem, but like, if all roll ups came together and said, you know what, they're going to bring more users into the ecosystem, going to bring more developers to the ecosystem, it doesn't have to be so adversarial in a sense. And we definitely want to avoid echo chambers more robust interacts.
00:14:32.552 - 00:15:23.730, Speaker A: I mean, you can make a different set of design choices and traders doesn't mean like, the other side is making like, really bad traders and stuff. I was at this modular security debate yesterday, and like, Ed Thilton had issues with optimism, shipping fraud proofs, even if they had issues and they were like, hey, we need to just ship something that works. It's different cultures, but then they're just like, you can learn from each other and not have this cult mindset where like, we are the good guys, the other guys are the bad guys and stuff. And yeah, it's just this, these are like, problems we need to, like, fix. And I think it's really good that the mullah, I mean, we all know molarism is yet to stay, but, like, we also need to like, solve these things. So, like, molarism doesn't become like Ethereum's achilles. Thank you.
