00:00:08.650 - 00:00:51.520, Speaker A: The organizer for inviting me. So I'm David et. I work on Ethereum foundation in a research team called Rig Robust Incentives Group. We work on mainly protocol economics mechanisms. I'll talk about roll up economic. So about a year ago, Barnaby from our team published a post called understanding roll up economics from first principles, where it was essentially laying some framework, some model to understand the value flows in roll ups. But since then, there's been a ton of progress in the roll up ecosystem in general.
00:00:51.520 - 00:01:41.818, Speaker A: So I felt that it was time for a refresh. So I wrote this post called roll up economics 2.0. Essentially, it looks at value flows for roll up, but in a broader ecosystem of mature roll ups and mature roll ups ecosystems. So I'll first go through the framework, and then I'll essentially try to focus on what are the economic drivers that determine the current structure today of the roll up ecosystem, and then how it can evolve in the future. And I also give some open problems. Okay, just setting the stage. This may be familiar for the people that work direct neuro roll ups, a little bit less for the other ones, but I want to introduce some common ground.
00:01:41.818 - 00:02:31.900, Speaker A: So what I call a roll up in this talk, essentially is like there is a layer one, which you can think about as Ethereum or like some other layer. And there is a system of smart contracts on the layer one. And then there is an off chain system, which is the l two, that lashes onto these smart contracts. So there is a sequencer that is responsible for posting data on l one and sequencing transactions that arrive to the l two system. Then there is a proposer that is posting the state route computing and posting. And then there is a prover that is posting proofs. These proofs may be optional for optimistic roll up.
00:02:31.900 - 00:03:08.354, Speaker A: They're required for validity roll up. And of course there is users that send transactions to DL two. And then one thing I want to say is that these roles are like functional roles. In maybe like early stage roll ups, these are carried on by the same entity, but in more mature rollups, these may be like separated, decentralized, et cetera, et cetera. The things that Yautchi was referring to. Okay, so this is another view of essentially the same diagram. But instead of the operations, I want to focus on the economic flows.
00:03:08.354 - 00:03:58.022, Speaker A: So like the users send transaction, but they need to pay some l two fees to the layer two. And then the layer two incurs some operational costs for running the various functions, and then some data costs for posting data and other things to the data layer. And essentially in this basic model. This was the original post. You can define the surplus of the l two system as essentially the revenue they get from fees, minus the operational data cost. So this is a very simple world. Now, maybe just two words on the structure of fees that I will essentially uncover later.
00:03:58.022 - 00:04:46.710, Speaker A: So essentially there is fees that are divided by the operational cost, the data cost, and then the congestion cost, that is directly for the layer two. And then there may be some potential mev that the l two system can extract, and this can be rebated to the user. It can be captured by the layer two itself, or it can be captured by other parties. So yeah, that was like the old framework, but since then, roll ups have evolved a lot. So essentially we need a new framework to really understand what's going on. And this is what I want to talk about mainly today. So essentially, in the past months, we've seen that these roll up ecosystems are growing.
00:04:46.710 - 00:05:40.300, Speaker A: And essentially there is no central planner, right? It's like permissionless to deploy roll ups. So in a way, there is an emergent market structure that is forming around different roll up ecosystems. And what I want to do is go over the emergent topology. So in my post, I kind of define different structure that different ecosystems are kind of following. So I define roll up cooperatives, roll up federations, and then like the l three ecosystems, and all the services that are being built to facilitate the roll up operations. So I'll go in detail into those. And then I also want to talk about the economic forces that are driving the evolution of the ecosystem to understand the present and maybe like gauge into the future.
00:05:40.300 - 00:06:27.678, Speaker A: And so these are mainly related to profitability and then the liquidity and utility that are tightly related. Okay, so what are roll up cooperatives? So this is essentially like when two roll ups come together to utilize a shared service. And the main goal there is to reduce cost. So it's a type of economic integration between two roll ups. Essentially here I'm depicting roll up a, roll up b, if they were isolated, they would be doing all their operations their own and posting to l one. Here they use a shared service. So here you can think that the shared service is perhaps shared sequencing or like shared data posting.
00:06:27.678 - 00:07:41.738, Speaker A: So essentially they use the same service to more efficiently pack blobs in Ethereum or even shirt proving. And this introduces another player, the service provider, that also has some financial balance to maintain. Okay, the clicker is not working. Can you go to next slide? The other structure is what I call roll up federations. So here, essentially, on top of integrating economically for shared services, these systems, they organize themselves around a shared token, right? So we see these emerge in many of the main ecosystems. So you've probably heard talking about Optimus super chain. Arbitrum also is experimenting with more chains, also like ZK sync, Starknet.
00:07:41.738 - 00:08:55.986, Speaker A: But essentially on top of having shared service and shared infrastructure, you also have a shared token, which essentially you can use to regulate some ecosystems activities, like allocating surpluses, making decision, et cetera, et cetera. So this introduces another flow, which now is like, okay, what is the monetary policy of this token? And it definitely changes the economic properties and also the value of all these chains. Okay, and then perhaps the third structure is all these layer trees. So essentially this is like system that instead of latching on directly to the l one, they latch on to the l two, they settle on l two, and their data ultimately gets posted on layer one. So from an economic perspective, these layer trees are an additional source of revenue for the layer two. But the model is a bit different. As Yoji was highlighting.
00:08:55.986 - 00:09:45.378, Speaker A: These are often like potentially upchains, like chains that are interested in lower cost and more programmability. So their revenue may not even come from fees, it could come from subscription or like other business models. Okay, so what are the economic forces that are driving these structures? So the first one is definitely liquidity is the most important one. Most of the applications that are deployed on these systems, they are economic or financial in nature. So they need liquidity, being it native or bridged. And why do you need liquidity? Because it makes the markets of these applications more efficient. You may have more network effects.
00:09:45.378 - 00:11:33.690, Speaker A: So the way that different systems try to improve on this direction is essentially by interoperability. So you are trying to reduce the friction of moving assets from other domains in order to get more bridged value into your domain. But this type of more tighter technological and political integrations that I describe in rollup federation may also be very valuable, because if you create an ecosystem, then you may get more native value, either because you can do more things on different chain that are sequenced atomically, or because essentially your token can start having more utility. Perhaps it can also start gaining some monetary premium. So that gives more liquidity in the form of native value. But then the other important aspect, especially for l three s, is the utility, right? So utility does not just come from more liquidity, more efficient market, but it also comes from performance, configurability and affordability, especially for products such as games, social media, like NFT, related products. So I think l three s and related services is a very interesting space that offer a different trade off between, okay, maybe the composability of l two chain that latches onto l one directly and this type of performance and ux improvements.
00:11:33.690 - 00:12:55.312, Speaker A: Okay, finally, I want to talk about profitability and I also want to talk about some related problems. We have done quite some research in this area. So the first interesting problem that is still quite open from my perspective is like on the revenue side, the revenue sharing schemes related to shirt sequencing, right? So people are starting to build shirt sequencing services, or at least research like different design for this. And the promise is that these services allow to capture more mev because now you can automatically include transactions across multiple domains. But then the question is, how are these chains going to split the additional revenue that they're able to capture in this way? And also how can they capture it? How can they have a decentralized system? These are also important questions. So the other area is instead of on the revenue side, more on the cost side. So here, essentially the name of the game for l two s and other system that need to post data to a secure layer is they want to do it in the most affordable way.
00:12:55.312 - 00:13:51.630, Speaker A: So here there are two options. Either you choose a DA layer strategically, and essentially you may be trading off like security for much lower costs on average. The other one is if you already chose your DA layer, you can still do some optimization to strategically maybe delay posting when the market is not surging in order to save on cost. And there is some research on this. We also have a very recent research on shared data posting between different roll ups. So this is essentially like strategies that you can use to more efficiently utilize blob space in Ethereum. And there is a few projects also building services on this.
00:13:51.630 - 00:14:59.092, Speaker A: And then there is the whole area of efficient proving and both from a single domain perspective, like parallelization, aggregation of proofs, but then also shared proving potentially. And finally, there is the area of pricing. So I was talking initially about the l two fees. So these l two fees include both the fee that needs to be paid to the l one or da layer and the congestion fee for l two. So here these l two s and l three s have less constraints than the layer one, so they can implement more efficient pricing. We have some research on a framework on how to do it, and this can be applied to different l two s in different ways. And then the last problem is related to the fact that l two s have this kind of delay, structural delay between the time they get their revenue.
00:14:59.092 - 00:15:42.130, Speaker A: So users are charged immediately when they send a transaction and the time they incur their cost, I'm concluding. So essentially the idea is that you want to have some systems to manage the surplus or deficit that can be incurred by the fact that at the time you charge the user, you still don't know what the cost you're going to incur is. And you can do this with some type of controller. And they know that arbitrum has some implementation of this. I don't know about other chains. Or you can do it economically by hedging, essentially with some block space derivatives. Thank you.
