00:00:00.200 - 00:00:23.294, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sano, and today's the 20 December 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode everyone. I was feeling a bit under the weather so wasn't able to record one. But today's episode will cover the news from, I guess like the weekend last 48, I guess. Yeah, 72 hours or so there.
00:00:23.294 - 00:00:50.158, Speaker A: And just for future reference, I always announce in the Discord channel when I'm not going to be doing a refuel. So if you join the Discord Channel, you can just subscribe to the announcements channel if you want and then you'll be able to see when there isn't going to be. Why? But it's rare for me to miss an episode like that with, with short notice. But yeah. Anyway, let's get into the news. So over the weekend, actually, I spun up my new solo staking pc and I posted it on Twitter. Here you can see the picture in front of you on your screen.
00:00:50.158 - 00:01:16.502, Speaker A: I basically spun up a bunch of new validators and also migrated my validators over from my old staking pc, which I've posted about before. But it was really fun. And you know, I posted this and then people were asking for I guess like the specs and things like that. And I posted the specs and look, the specs are completely overkill for staking. Like this is a bit, I mean the specs on this thing is basically a gaming pc, except the graphics card obviously. I didn't put a, you know, 40 90 nv graphics card in it. There was, there's no point in doing that.
00:01:16.502 - 00:01:38.684, Speaker A: I just have a very basic graphics card in there for, for graphic output there basically. But I don't really use the GUI. I mean it's running Ubuntu and you can see on the screen there on the right hand side, I have a monitor there, but I don't really use that, I just ssh into it. But I went overkill with it because I just like pretty things. I mean it looks pretty, it looks cool. I like having things on display. I mean obviously with all my figurines and stuff around me.
00:01:38.684 - 00:02:12.754, Speaker A: So I just went overkill with it. And you know, as I said here, I need to be clear for people, you don't need this and you can actually run validators on a very low powered hardware. I mean, I've talked about the ROK five B board before. I've talked about running validators and Raspberry PI's before. It does depend on how many validators you're running, of course, like if you're trying to run hundreds of them, then obviously you're probably going to need better hardware than something like this, like a rock five B board. But generally you should be okay. Now, the, the biggest things, I think when with staking to, I guess I concern yourself with is really the ram and the storage space.
00:02:12.754 - 00:02:40.646, Speaker A: So I've got a two terabyte SSD, which is enough because you only need to run one instance of an execution layer and consensus layer node, and you can run many validators off of that. But as time goes on, you're going to need more and more storage space, obviously. So you can buy multiple SSD drives and connect them up together, or you can just have one, which is what I've got right now, just one, two terabyte drive. And, you know, when that kind of hits capacity there, I'll probably upgrade. But I've got 32 gig ram in my solar staking pc. I don't think you need 32 gigs. 16 gig should be enough.
00:02:40.646 - 00:03:05.422, Speaker A: My rocket pool staking pc right now is running 16 gig of ram. I do want to upgrade to the 32. 32 gig. I feel like 32 gig is definitely more future proof, but I got, I got 64 gig in, in this pc. Yeah, my new solo staking pc. Definitely overkill, right? Again, again there. So, yeah, I just wanted to clear that up for people because I know a bunch of people ask me, it's like, you know, do I need like really powerful hardware for this? Like, you don't, right? You really don't.
00:03:05.422 - 00:03:35.910, Speaker A: And as I've shown before, you can run staking or run validators off of nux, like little mini PCs. You can run them off of Raspberry PI's or rock five b boards. You really don't need a lot of hardware for it. The biggest expense for as a solo stake is obviously that ETH requirement, right? Like 32 ETH is still worth, even at today's price is around, what, 33,033? 33 and a half, $1,000 or something like that. US dollars. That's not cheap, but that's going to be the big outlay for you for becoming a solo staker rather than the hardware cost. The hardware costs are very, very cheap here.
00:03:35.910 - 00:04:07.302, Speaker A: And also there are other options with, I guess like solo staking. You can spin up rocket pool mini pools as well, right? So I basically joined the rocker pool Oracle dell over the weekend as well. And I put another picture up here on, on Twitter with this. So you can see here this pc is much smaller. The specs, I mean the specs again are still overkill, you can see on your screen here, but definitely not as overkill as my solar staking pc. And being part of the Oracle Dao is something that you have to get voted in to be part of. So not just anyone can be part of it, but it doesn't add that much overhead to running like things like mini pools.
00:04:07.302 - 00:04:36.166, Speaker A: Like I spun up a couple more mini pools over the weekend. I have three running off of this box right now. So you don't need something like extravagant, right, to do this. And spending up a mini pool only costs you 16 ETH plus about, I think it's 105 RPL or something right now, which isn't, which isn't too expensive there as a bond. And then you earn rewards. You earn the normal staking rewards, but you also, as part of the smoothing pool and you also earn RPL in inflation rewards on top of that as well. So there are various options here for you.
00:04:36.166 - 00:05:04.618, Speaker A: Now, I've had a lot of people ask me for guides on getting started with solo staking or staking with rocker pool for me to do a guide. Maybe one day in the future I will like do a full process run through of it. But honestly, guys, like, there are so many good guides out there right now. And what I followed for my solo staking pc because I actually changed from Windows. So my old solo staking pc was Windows actually changed to Ubuntu. I followed Summer Esat's guide, which I've highlighted on the refill before you can just search summer esat. So s o m e r e s a t.
00:05:04.618 - 00:05:24.978, Speaker A: It's his full name medium. So his medium blog on Google and you'll find guides for pretty much like every combination of an El Cl client. And I just followed that to basically the letter and it was fine. Like I got spun up really well really easily on Linux. It didn't take very long, maybe, maybe a couple hours to get everything going. Like I synced a fresh execution consensus. I started from.
00:05:24.978 - 00:05:51.842, Speaker A: I started from basically zero again. All I did was import my existing validators. But you can create, sorry, my existing validator keys. But it shows you how to create keys, it shows you how to lock down your, you know, do some basic security stuff. And on top of that, I supplemented with the, those guides with guides from Eats taker. So if you search Eats taker GitHub, there are guides on there and they were really helpful too, particularly with getting the dashboard monitoring set up. So they use Grafana dashboard, same as rocket pool.
00:05:51.842 - 00:06:10.048, Speaker A: But I don't think Summer has a guide for that for Mainnet. He's got guides for that for testnet. So I just looked at the east taker guides and that was really easy to set up as well. So you just use those, you should be fine. I mean you can literally just copy paste in the commands into your own terminal. You don't need to learn the terminal, need to learn the command line in order to do it. You can just copy paste things.
00:06:10.048 - 00:06:35.626, Speaker A: Now obviously if you want to maintain it, if you want to be more self sufficient with it, it's worth learning, but it's not too complex. And on the rocker pool side of things, I mean their documentation as I've mentioned before, is very very easy to follow. I followed it like starting from basically zero to spin up a mini pool. Spin up and you know, basically create everything like a node account. And also joining the Oracle Dao, it was very easy. And if you run into any issues at all, the rocker pool discord is extremely active. There's a support channel in there.
00:06:35.626 - 00:07:28.902, Speaker A: You can go in there and ask any question and there'll be someone there to help you with it. So those are your options basically. And as I said, the guides that already exist are very good, but maybe in the future I will do a video guide and you know, step by step for people to follow along with. But yeah, it's going to get easier over time as well to do solo staking, to stake with rocker pool and, and generally, obviously it's, it's still like the easiest way to stake is still with like a centralized exchange or just buying like reth or STE or one of these tokens on, on market. But it's very very different to being a solo staker or a rocket pool staker, right? Like they're very different things. It's not even worth comparing them. I mean there is solo staking and staking via a mini pool and then there is just buying a LSD, but there's also, you know, decentralized LSD is like re and then there are centralized LSD's and then there's even just putting your ETH into centralized exchange directly and converting it into an LSD, I guess, but still keeping it on the centralized exchange.
00:07:28.902 - 00:07:56.130, Speaker A: So there's different tiers here. And the reason why it's so easy to do on a centralized exchange, like literally they, it's like one click staking is because they do all of this stuff for you. But you're taking on custodial risk you'll take of both your funds and the validators themselves. And you're taking on exit risk too. I mean, post pre withdrawals, you're taking on that exit risk because these LSD's trade at a discount too, to eat. But I guess post withdrawals is probably not a big deal. But really the biggest deal is that that custodial risk.
00:07:56.130 - 00:08:32.986, Speaker A: And as we've seen with the FTX fallout and the Celsius fallout and all these other collapses, custodial risks are real guys. Like, it's not just something that people say just for the sake of it, they're very, very real. So if you have the ability to solo stake or you have the ability to spin up a mini pool, you should definitely look into it, especially solo staking. I mean, as I said, you don't need beefy hardware. For less than $500 of hardware, $500 you can get a pretty decent or pretty good setup going with either a ROk five b board or a raspberry PI mux are a bit more expensive. I guess it depends where you are in the world. But still, I mean, if you've got the 32 ETH, it's worth it.
00:08:32.986 - 00:09:21.654, Speaker A: And you can get spun up with that. The guides are out there for you to do so, and you should be fine there. But anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that. I just wanted to talk about the two things that I did over the weekend here because it was a lot of fun and I just love watching the reward, like the dashboards, watching the rewards roll in, watching how my attestations are going and if I propose any blocks and things like that. So, yeah, just exciting times for me as an e staker, and I hope some of you join me on this journey. All right, so speaking of the Ethereum core protocol, Tomas here from Nethermind put out a screenshot saying 2023 incoming, lots of goodies from Alexei and the team at Nethermind. So this is a screenshot of a bunch of command line interfaces with Alexei saying Geth and Prism and Nethermind together have survived withdrawals and 48, 444 forks and process blob transactions smoothly in a local version.
00:09:21.654 - 00:10:18.872, Speaker A: It's remarkable because timestamp based forks and withdrawals and 4844 and a new setup shows positive results. So basically what this is showing is that all these, you know, major upgrades that are coming next year, working in a private testnet that Alexei has spun up here using some of the most popular clients on Ethereum, geth, prism and Nethermind. Right? And the fact that this is working so smoothly, as he says, and showing positive results is remarkable because these are major upgrades, isn't definitely very new things to, to Ethereum. And for those of you who don't know, 48 44 is actually mostly a consensus layer upgrade where these blobs are gonna kind of get stored or get processed by the consensus layer rather than execution layer. So that is a, it is a pretty major change to how things work on Ethereum, but the fact that we've got it working in these private testnets, got them working on devnets, it bodes well. Bodes very, very well for a next year delivery. As I've said before, we can expect withdrawals in Q one, Q two, and we can expect 48 44 in q three, Q four.
00:10:18.872 - 00:11:15.986, Speaker A: I would say q four more likely for 48 44, but it seems March, April, I mean, we're on the edge of q one, q two there for withdrawals coming then as well. So yeah, just great to see an update here from Tomas and Alexei. And speaking of 48 44, Terrance had from prior labs put another thread out over the weekend where he said how does ERP 4844 change the current scheme where the validator outsources block construction to the builder to through lit relay as an mev boost? So as I just mentioned, this is 4844 has got to do mostly with the consensus layer. If you want to learn about how that affects things like relays and MeV Boost, this thread from Terence is the one for you. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. All right, so speaking of those upgrades that I just spoke about, I put out a tweet over the weekend where I said most exciting end user facing Ethereum upgrades coming in 2023, staking withdrawals, which completes Ethereum's long time coming rollout of proof of stake and unlocking a world of freedom for stakers. And as I said, that's due Q one, Q two.
00:11:15.986 - 00:12:15.064, Speaker A: Now the reason why I say this completes Ethereum's Pos rollout, proof of stake rollout is because I don't believe that proof of stake is fully deployed on Ethereum until we have withdrawals. Right now we have, as I mentioned before, like about 90% of the way there. But we need to close that loop with withdrawals. And contrary to popular belief, I think that withdrawals being enabled is going to get more each staked than there otherwise would have been because it's again another massive de risking event here, even though we're in a bear market, even though you know the price is doing what it's doing, who really cares, right? I think that people are going to continue stacking ETH, they're going to continue staking it after they stack it. And withdrawals really does de risk that for people. So, and this is an end user facing thing because as I said, the merge wasn't really an end user facing thing, right. The, the merge didn't really affect anything for people using the network, didn't affect anything for stakers themselves besides having to obviously make sure that they were running the correct node configuration, having an Al and CL locally and running their, running the correct flags and worrying about mev boosts and stuff like that.
00:12:15.064 - 00:13:02.492, Speaker A: But in terms of them actually doing something on chain through the execution layer, there wasn't anything different there. But with staking withdrawals there are. And end users are affected by this, especially if end users want to play around with Defi and hold onto these LSD tokens that are riskier to hold now because they can trade at a discount, whereas post withdrawals you wouldn't really expect them to trade at much of a discount if anything, because there is that ARb loop there that, that can be closed. So you still will see them trade at discounts or premiums based on a variety of other factors. But the biggest factor and the biggest reason why there has been a discount or a premium is due to this Arb loop not being able to be closed with the beacon chain itself. So it's kind of acting like a close ended fund right now, right. Where, I mean this is similar to kind of grayscale GBTC where or ethy where money can go in, right.
00:13:02.492 - 00:13:33.908, Speaker A: BTC and ETH can go in but it can't come out. That's what, that's what's happening with the beacon chain right now. ETH can go into the beacon chain but it can't come out. I mean obviously execution layer rewards are unlocked, but staked ETH and consensus layer rewards can't be unlocked yet. But once they are you're going to see those, those, you know, the, the staking be re de risked. De risked and you're going to see those premiums or discounts on the LSD's collapse basically. And secondly, here I said proto dank sharding slash ERP 4844 stands to reduce roll up fees by ten to 100 x, which is due Q three, Q four.
00:13:33.908 - 00:14:11.716, Speaker A: Now I will caveat this by saying that to take advantage of this, the L2s need to upgrade themselves as well. So some of them, I expect like a lot of them will be ready by the time 48 44 rolls out. But then some of them will have to still add these upgrades in, add these changes in for users to be able to take advantage of it. But this is definitely the biggest user facing upgrade to Ethereum in quite a while. Like this will be felt by everyone on L2s, right. And on rolla specifically, I mean, there are other things that people call L2, such as validiums, which won't really be affected by this too much because validiums already store a lot of their stuff, their data, kind of like off chain, right? Whereas roll ups don't. They store it on chain.
00:14:11.716 - 00:14:57.714, Speaker A: And that is like 97% of the costs for them. There's approves and then there's the core data and then we can replace the, they don't have to use core data anymore, they will be using 4844 blob transactions. So end users will definitely feel this the most out of anything in a very long time that's come to Ethereum. So I'm looking forward to that more than anything. I mean, but probably not as much as the merge, but like in terms of, of hierarchy here, definitely 48 44 over withdrawals, even though I believe withdrawals should come first and they are coming first and it's necessary for them to come first, and I understand that. But in terms of like an end user facing upgrade and something that excites me the most, 48 44 or proto dank sharding is definitely up there. So I just wanted to highlight those two things and some reasons behind why I'm excited about them and why end users should be excited about them as well.
00:14:57.714 - 00:15:53.274, Speaker A: All right, so as the biggest news, I think, from the last few days that came out of visa is that visa is actually experimenting with account abstraction. So I've talked about account obstruction before and how Argent wallet has been building with account abstraction in mind for quite a while now, has been a big champion of it as well as the stocknet ecosystem. Well, Visa announced that they've actually been exploring using account abstraction techniques on starkware using argent wallet. So and they're actually not just kind of, this isn't just a research thing, they're actually implementing these things from, I guess, the thread here you can read and from their, their blog post, actually implementing these things and working with them within, I believe, kind of like private or test networks for themselves rather than on public Ethereum. But this is obviously a stepping stone towards that. And as Polynar correctly points out here, they say, more of this, please. An application clearly defined with surveyed market demand that he's done best on blockchains and he's using the best tech appropriate for the task.
00:15:53.274 - 00:16:25.992, Speaker A: No Ponzi's, no token shield, no conspiracy theories, just a real world problem with a viable solution. And they're completely right. Like, this is what we want to see more of. We want to see real businesses adopting this technology, using it within their own network, and also experimenting and working with the existing technologies such as account abstraction, Starknet or Star Quest technology, and Argent wallet, which has been around for a while now. So I think this is just really cool. It's a huge announcement and it's a huge, I guess, like vote of confidence to see Visa working directly with Ethereum or continuing their work with Ethereum. They have done stuff in the past.
00:16:25.992 - 00:16:48.448, Speaker A: They bought the, I believe, I think they bought a crypto punk, I believe it was. And they, and they kind of done some, did some stuff around creating a roll up or a L2 on a theory. I believe that was Visa. It might have been another company, but I believe it was. It was Visa. They're all experimenting with payments networks using crypto. So they really do have, I think this, I guess, like research and development arm of visa that is looking into all this stuff, which I think is very positive.
00:16:48.448 - 00:17:28.737, Speaker A: As I said before, DeFi, as it exists today is awesome because of the infrastructure that is providing for people to use. It's not awesome because of the Ponzi's or because of the high Apy's you can get during bull markets or anything like that. I believe those things are fun and whatever, but they're not what I regard as finance. It's more what I regard as kind of like a casino. When I think of finance, I think of payments, right? I think of loans you can get. I think of exchange, like foreign exchange of currencies or exchange of different assets. And that's why the most, I guess, resilient and longest lasting and most used and popular DeFi protocols are those ones that do that, like uniswap maker, compound rv, right.
00:17:28.737 - 00:17:47.172, Speaker A: These and payments. I mean, payments hasn't really taken off yet because I think their lack of scale has definitely affected payments on Ethereum. I think that's pretty much the number one reason. Because obviously if you're trying to do payments, you know you want to. I don't know. The classic example is buying a cup of coffee. Say it's going to cost you like $4 or something like that.
00:17:47.172 - 00:18:37.060, Speaker A: And if you're doing that on layer one, Etherium, even that the fees where they are now, it's still gonna be that the fees are still gonna eat into that, right? And then to move that around on Ethereum, layer one, to consolidate it and everything like that, and to cap and to cash it out if you're a merchant, adds more fees. So fees really eat into it there. But if you're doing it at L2, especially if you're doing payments on something like a validium, where you can actually store the data off chain at least until 48 44 comes in, you have basically negligible fees, which is exactly what we need for a global payments network. You can't. I mean, I know that Visa and Mastercard and other, I guess, credit card companies or digital payments, I guess like providers, they do charge a fee. I believe in Australia at least, Visa and Mastercard, on fpos transactions, not credit transactions. So like out of your savings or your bank account directly, they charge like a 30 cent fee.
00:18:37.060 - 00:19:15.880, Speaker A: And that's charged to the merchant unless the merchant passes it on to you. But that's a 30 cent flat fee. It doesn't matter what the amount of, I guess, like you're sending is. And it works similarly to Ethereum where you can send like a million, $8 worth of ETH, or $1 worth of ETH, and it's going to cost you the same in gas fees. But the problem is that the volatility as well, like even in this low fee environment, it's still, it's still not great, right, for these payments. And also when, because of that volatility on layer one, fees can go up really easily, and then you have this kind of thing where I guess merchants would have to do like load balancing and things like that, whereas you don't have to worry about these problems on L2. They're easily built around or, or create, you know, you can create different technologies to deal with this.
00:19:15.880 - 00:19:43.582, Speaker A: So anyway, very cool to see visa experimenting with this. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out for yourself. All right, so speaking of L2s, Declan here from consensus, he's up. He's the product lead on the consensus of ZKVM. Put out thread where he started with multiprover. ZKVM is the fastest route to a no training wheels roll up. A roll up that gives businesses and consumers confidence to deploy protocols and dollars.
00:19:43.582 - 00:20:21.044, Speaker A: A roll up that accelerates web3 adoption. So if you're interested in learning about a multi proving and how that applies to ZK tech, specifically ZK vms. This thread from Declan gives you a brief overview of that. So I just wanted to highlight this for you guys, which you can go check out in the YouTube description below. But yeah, it's a very short thread, so definitely recommend giving it a read. Moving on, staying on the L2 topic here we have a new blog post from Arbitrum, which is called which is part of a series called the Block Explorer. So they dived into something called the delay attack problem and discuss how it was handled in various versions of the Armin Arban arbitram rollout protocol.
00:20:21.044 - 00:20:59.628, Speaker A: And this was written by Ed Felton, one of the co founders of off chain Labs, the people behind Arbitrum here. So a bit of a technical read, not no fancy math or anything like that. But if you're interested in, I guess, like reading about how arbitrum works under the hood, this new series looks like the place to be. So I'll link this as well in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so we have a thread here from Liam, who starts off by saying maker recently experienced an increase in revenues over November, driven by the real world asset category. Let's explore what's happening here. And this is eleven tweet thread looking at how real world assets integrated with Maker is leading to increased revenues.
00:20:59.628 - 00:21:31.902, Speaker A: Now, I've talked about Maker and their approach to onboarding real world assets before, and what I mean by real world assets here is basically assets that are not natively on chain. So for example, like. Like a house, right? Or real estate, generally gold, for example. You know, deeds to, I mean, I guess like the deeds of the house would probably be the thing that gets brought on chain. And you can have like an on chain representation of it. But like anything that just commodities generally, anything that exists within the real world that is not natively issued on chain. So for example, ETH is obviously natively issued on chain.
00:21:31.902 - 00:22:13.794, Speaker A: ERC 20 tokens are natively issued on chain if they're part of a project. Like you can issue an ERC 20 token for something like a stock, but that stock is not native on chain, it's native to where it was first issued. So if it was issued in the US on through the New York Stock Exchange, then it obviously only exists as like an IOU in ERC 20 form. It's not native, whereas something like the speak of random ERC 20 here. The link token, for example, exists natively on ethereum, and so does obviously things like ETH and then that it goes for other things as well that don't fit into the native category, like rat bitcoin, for example. That's not a native asset on Ethereum. That's a IOU IOU that has been issued by BTC that's backed on bitcoin.
00:22:13.794 - 00:23:10.612, Speaker A: So if the beat the BTC on bitcoin is backing it, but if for some reason that wallet was to, I don't know, if they lost the private keys to it and it came out that they no longer had the BTC backing it up, then WBTC would logically go to zero because there'd be nothing backing it. So that's what I kind of mean there. But I think, and as I said, I've said this before, I think makers approach here to onboarding real world assets is one that I can really get on board of. And I know Maker has come under criticism before with centralization vectors around Dai because of this, but I really think that if we want to build a robust, you know, strong, very much used and, and value driving ecosystem for millions of people, tens of millions of potentially billions of people, and we want to bring like the defi stuff to them, we're going to need to integrate with real world assets, right? Like you can't just rely on the stuff that's natively on chain. You need to bring real world assets on chain. And the biggest success that we've had so far with that is stable coins. I believe stable coins is probably Crypto's killer use case, at least right now.
00:23:10.612 - 00:23:39.322, Speaker A: And that falls into the money category as well, of what blockchains can do. But cryptos, I mean, the most used thing, right, is stable coins. Like, you can see that they're used in centralized exchanges, they're used within DeFi, they're used for payments, these, for many different things. And the fact that we brought them in and they became so popular is due to the fact that they integrate with things very easily. People want uS dollars, right, but it's still a real world asset. So we need to bring more of that stuff on chain. And yes, it's not going to be decentralized.
00:23:39.322 - 00:24:22.566, Speaker A: Yes, it's going to lead to centralization in parts of Defi. But I think the point is, is that there is not going to be a world where all of Defi and all the assets within DeFi are decentralized. We don't live in that world today, and I don't believe we're going to live in that world in the future. It's just not how it works because there is no way to have a decentralized registry of real estate assets, for example, because at the end of the day, if you have like a deed to a house, what is defending that deed? Right. The government that that house is, I guess so the nation state that a house is part of, and then ultimately it's the government of that nation state. Right. You, the Ethereum chain is not defending your house, for example, whereas the Ethereum chain is defending your native ethereum assets, but it can't defend something in the physical world.
00:24:22.566 - 00:25:06.410, Speaker A: So there are limitations here, and the physical and digital worlds definitely need to come together. But by coming together that it's all going to just be some, some form of centralization, because there has to be an ultimate source of truth there. Ethereum can't be the ultimate source of truth of your house deed because your house deed wasn't issued on Ethereum. And even if it was issued on Ethereum, if it's not defended by Ethereum, because it's ultimately defended by the issuer, which is the, the nation state that you're, I guess, like that your real estate belongs to, essentially, I mean, not belongs to, but like lives in. So in this, in their scope of influence. And I've gone through all this before, but I feel like it's worth kind of reiterating here why real world assets are so important and why they can't just be natively issued on chain. There has to be an intermediary there.
00:25:06.410 - 00:25:55.906, Speaker A: There has to be a kind of someone managing it. There has to be someone to go to, because if you lose the, you know, say, for example, and this is, this is a classic example, people, people use, say you have your house deed on Ethereum and you lose that access to that wallet, what does that mean? You don't have ownership of your house anymore? No, it doesn't. The ownership of your house, the deed exists in meat space first, and you've just got like a digital representation of it on chain. But that digital representation can be reissued to you if you, in the event that you lose it. Whereas if you lose your ETH on chain, if you lose access to that ETH, say you lost the access to that wallet that was holding the ETH, there's no one to go to, because ethereum is that ultimate source of truth. You can try to go to the Ethereum chain, you could try to start an eip that says, hey, I lost my ETH. Can, can we, you know, do, in a regular state transition to give him giving my ETH back? But no one's going to be for that.
00:25:55.906 - 00:26:18.732, Speaker A: You're not going to get that through, it's not going to happen. So there's not really anyone that you can actually go to. Whereas if you lost access to the digital deed to your house, you can just go to the registry office and be like in the real world and be like, hey, I need another deed, right? Or I need a physical copy of my deed because it exists physically first and then digitally second. There. Hopefully that is clear for people. But let me move on from there. You can go give this thread from Liam a.
00:26:18.732 - 00:26:44.610, Speaker A: Reid. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so a few DeFi related upgrades over the weekend. So perpetual protocol has introduced fee sharing. So the launch of USDC fee sharing aka Lazy River 2.0, you can lock your perp tokens for a real yield tier. This is pretty cool that this is basically being distributed, sorry, the trading fees here is being distributed via USDC instead of perp.
00:26:44.610 - 00:27:25.544, Speaker A: The perp token itself, I think one, I mean, that's, it's a better way of doing things just generally from what I've seen, because if you inflate the token, then obviously the token is going to be down only. But two, it may have been done for regulatory reasons as well as we've seen like fee sharing can make your thing look like a security, but I mean, I'm not going to wade into that for today's discussion. But I think this is really cool. I really hope that I see we can see more projects doing this, like basically having people lock up their tokens or having people stake their tokens and getting fees distributed to them in another token such as USDC or maybe even like Dai or ETH or something like that. But yeah, this is really cool. You can go check out the thread explaining how this all works. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:27:25.544 - 00:27:56.608, Speaker A: All right, so Uniswap announced today the Uniswap Foundation's second wave of grants. Now I remember I covered their first wave a little while ago. This is the second one. They've awarded almost a million dollars to 19 grants. So $946,000 to 19 grants covering a bunch of different categories such as protocol growth, research and development, community growth and governance and stewardship here. So you can go check out this blog post for a full list of the grantees essentially, and check out what they've been working on. But yeah, this is awesome.
00:27:56.608 - 00:28:39.190, Speaker A: I love these foundations, or at least these kind of like projects that have massive treasuries even though they're in their native token, giving out these, I guess, like tokens to projects and actually sticking by what they said when they started their dao. I know there's a kind of a meme right now that these projects, they start a dao, they have a token. They put like 50% of their token in this Dao treasury and then it just gets raided and just gets looted by unscrupulous individuals or projects. Whereas it seems uniswap is, is doing relatively well with their treasury. I must say, they're, they're doing these grants, they're giving them out to legit projects, they're vetting them. I think optimism is doing really well here and ens as well. There's, I mean, pretty much every project's going to be doing this, but also the, the size of the treasury.
00:28:39.190 - 00:29:37.292, Speaker A: Since it's a lot of time in the token, it's kind of hard to call it a strict treasury because the token price can, can vary so much. Because I guess like token prices can go down 90% in a year as we've seen. Right? So say you issue a token and it's a bull market and you have like $10 billion worth of a treasury and then a year later your treasury is like 500 million because your token price went down 95%. So you can't really market at 10 billion and be like, okay, we have $10 billion to give away and then a year later you've only got $500 million. And this is why some treasuries will actually cash out or sell tokens from the treasury to, you know, public market participants that put in USDC or put in a stable asset, which I think is a prudent thing to do. But generally, outside of that, I just think even though, you know, you're still paying out tokens, even if it's the native token or something else, it's good to see the love being shared here and good to see the money being shared around the ecosystem. All right, a small update here from cow swap today, but an important one.
00:29:37.292 - 00:30:11.204, Speaker A: They announced a feature long requested by the community, or cow munity. As they say here, traders can now swap ETH natively on their favorite MEV protected Dex aggregator, aka cow swap, without having to wrap it. This is really cool, as you guys know, like to use ETH within most of defi, you have to wrap it into weft, sorry, I should say wrapped ether, which obviously adds another, an extra step and obviously adds more of a, more of a gas fee here for you. But now on cow swap. You don't have to do that anymore. You can swap with using ETH natively. So very, very cool feature.
00:30:11.204 - 00:30:37.628, Speaker A: Cow swap just keeps doing these quality of life features, which I love seeing. But yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'm sure if you're a regular cow swap user, you may have already noticed this, but just wanted to highlight it for you guys. All right, so last two things here, just a shout out, my talk from NFT fest, which happened last month, is now live. This was the talk I did about censorship on Ethereum and Mev boost and all that sort of stuff. I think it's a pretty good summary, guys, about 30 minutes. Pretty good summary of the entire thing.
00:30:37.628 - 00:31:03.540, Speaker A: Got to do with censorship on ethereum, Mev boost, ofac sanctions, all that good stuff. There's. You should definitely go check it out if you're interested in that stuff. It gives you a nice concise summary. It's probably something that you can send to someone else or someone who's asking you about this to kind of watch and get a feel for these issues that we're facing. I will kind of warn that it is like not totally new friendly. I tried to be noob friendly, but honestly, these subjects aren't for noobs, to be honest.
00:31:03.540 - 00:31:46.386, Speaker A: Like because of the fact that there's so much nuance to it, because there are so many moving parts, because you actually have to have so much prior knowledge to even understand what's going on to begin with. It's very hard to dumb it down to a noob level, but I think I did a pretty decent job. But still, you should show this to people who are asking and then they can ask you questions and then maybe I can answer them for you as well if you would like. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, to round out today's episode, I wanted to talk a bit about the binance, I guess, like fud, I guess depending on what side of the the aisle you sit at here, it's fud or it's truth or whatever. But anyway, I put out a tweet over the weekend where I said a simple way to test Binance's solvency. Everyone withdraw their assets from Binance into a hardware wallet right now.
00:31:46.386 - 00:32:05.218, Speaker A: You get self custody and everyone gets to see how solvent Binance is. It's a win win. Now, I know obviously Binance has withdrawal limits, but they're very, very generous. If you haven't KyC'd on this is Binance. Not Binance, us. I don't know if they still allow you to withdraw if you haven't KyC'd. I believe they do, but it's a very small amount.
00:32:05.218 - 00:32:38.982, Speaker A: But if you do KYC and you do the standard, the standard verification, I think you can still withdraw up to like 100 BTC per day, which is $1.6 million per day. And I'm going to assume that almost everyone that uses Binance does not have that much money on there. Right. And the whales that do have more than that on there probably are verified beyond just a standard verification. So that shouldn't be an issue for people to be able to withdraw their funds. We've seen a lot of funds actually being withdrawn from binance lately, which has tested their solvency.
00:32:38.982 - 00:33:02.166, Speaker A: But what I'm trying to get across here is a more important point. Regardless of if binance is solvent or not, I think they're fine. By the way, I've said this for a while. I don't think that their situation is the same as FTX at all, to be honest. They don't have a Degen trading arm like Alameda that they will commonly deposits with. And CZ is a, is a pretty ruthless operator, but he's very different to SPF. He has a very different way of doing things.
00:33:02.166 - 00:33:40.130, Speaker A: So I don't think, think that there's any cause for concern here, honestly, like, and I'm happy to say that, like, maybe I'll be wrong, maybe I won't, but I don't think I am on this one. I've, I would be warning about it if I, if I thought I was wrong. But in saying that my number one rule above everything else, whether that someone's solvent or whether a company solvent or insolvent, doesn't matter. Get your funds off centralized exchanges. If you are just keeping it there as storage, like I've said before, if you're an active trader, if you're trying to trade in size that maybe Defi doesn't let you, then fine, you understand the risks by keeping them on a centralized exchange. You're doing it because you're getting something out of it. But if you're literally leaving these funds on a centralized exchange only to just store it as a.
00:33:40.130 - 00:34:01.338, Speaker A: As a cold storage solution or as a long term storage solution, you're insane. I'm just going to be honest here. You're insane. Especially if it's a material amount that you couldn't stand to lose, which, honestly, you shouldn't be that invested in crypto in the first place, but that's a different discussion. But generally it doesn't cost much to self custody. Yes, there's a bit more extra steps. You have to buy a hardware wallet, you have to secure your seed phrase, but it gives you lots of peace of mind.
00:34:01.338 - 00:34:24.802, Speaker A: You don't have to worry about doing verification or, you know, doing extra verification on decentralized exchanges which ask for that sometimes, like Coinbase, for example, will constantly ask you to verify or reverify yourself. You don't have to deal with any of that. You have peace of mind that it's. It's in your custody, it's on there. You can sleep well at night knowing that even if any of these exchanges blow up, you're not affected by it. And it's just a good hygiene. Not your keys, not your coins, as they say.
00:34:24.802 - 00:34:53.722, Speaker A: And I think that that is just generally a rule that everyone should follow regardless of if you think something solvent or not. Like, I honestly, I have exchanges that I use very regularly and I've used for a very long time. So I've mentioned Coinjar before, which is an australian based exchange. I've used them since 2013, since I first got into crypto, I haven't really ever left anything material on there. But at the same time, I don't think that there's any risk of me leaving funds on there. They're fully regulated, they're legit, as legit can come. Same with something like Coinbase.
00:34:53.722 - 00:35:19.808, Speaker A: But still, I wouldn't leave funds on there. Doesn't matter how much I trust them. At the end of the day, I trust myself more and I trust myself to self custody more. And I know that self custody isn't going to work for everyone. I know there's a lot of. I guess we call them normies, right? Or retail investors that are always going to use centralized exchanges to custody of their funds. But if you're listening to the refuel and you've been through this year, and you've seen all these blow ups then, and your funds are still on centralized exchanges, in my humble opinion.
00:35:19.808 - 00:35:51.256, Speaker A: I think that's dumb, right? I'm not calling you dumb. I think that action of keeping those funds there is dumb. And I think that you can easily rectify it by purchasing a hardware wallet and storing yourself. Now, what hardware wallet to buy? I've personally only used ledger and grid lattice one and I. Those only ones I've used are the only ones I have experience with. They both work really well. They both come in different form factors, obviously, and depending on your needs like if you're a power user and your power on chain user, maybe a lattice one will be better for you because it's got that bigger screen for you to sign transactions on.
00:35:51.256 - 00:36:21.574, Speaker A: It's got better, it's got better security for like active users. But if you are something, someone who just wants to hold your crypto and not do anything with it, then probably maybe a ledger is better for you because it's smaller form factor. You don't have to keep it, you don't have to worry about it too much. You don't have to worry, you can just keep it away, put it in a NSA for wherever you want to store it, and that's it. Either option is way better than keeping it on a centralized exchange, at least in my opinion here. But yeah, anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that. And just my final comment around just binance specifically and their solvency.
00:36:21.574 - 00:36:59.814, Speaker A: I think when looking at these centralized exchanges, you need to really weigh up where there, I guess, insolvency could come from versus where it came from for other exchanges with FTX is very easy to know where it came from. Right. It came from Alameda. It came from SPF trying to run a centralized exchange while also trying to run a degen fund where he just yelled into everything and then blowing himself up in the Degen fund, but then having access to this, I guess he thought it was a line of credit from customer deposits to cover that. And that's how everything blew up. Right. And then you can kind of look at everything that was, that was affected by that, by the contagion of that.
00:36:59.814 - 00:37:37.444, Speaker A: Well, Blockfi, right. 3 hours capital that's borrowing from everyone and then getting blown up on FTX and then obviously Celsius and like all these leverage stuff going on, all these bad trades that were, that were happening. Could Binance and CZ be exposed to that? I'm sure they could, but if you look at the way they operate, it's very, very different binance from, from the outside. And I'm not trying to praise binance here. I think that obviously, as I've said, like CZ is a villain in his own right. I don't think that anyone should be simping for him or praising him or any of that sort of stuff. But when I look at CZ and I look at SPF, I see two completely different people, two completely different operators working towards two completely different goals.
00:37:37.444 - 00:38:28.808, Speaker A: SPF wanted to, I guess like inflate his ego. He wanted to enrich himself, he wanted all the power and you saw, from his donations as well to politicians, he much more cared about power than he cared about money. And money for him, was a means to get that power, whereas CZ, he does care about power, don't get me wrong, but it is not his main pursuit from the last few years, watching him, watching how he's operated, I think, and I truly believe he cares much more about just growing binance as a company than he cares about giving himself more power. He wants binance to be the biggest centralized exchange, which it is, and he wants to continue to be that. And he probably wants a monopoly, which is obviously bad in of itself, but it's very different to what SPF wanted, and that leads to different incentives, that leads to different actions taken by these, these different parties here. And I think comparing the two doesn't really make much sense. Right? And that's.
00:38:28.808 - 00:39:00.406, Speaker A: It's the same with comparing to Coinbase. I don't think Brian Armstrong cares about, you know, money or cares about his own personal wealth as much as he cares about advancing the coinbase mission, advancing the crypto mission, advancing, you know, making his company bigger and better and stronger. So whereas I don't, I think FTX and Alameda was literally just a stepping stone for SPF to accumulate wealth and then accumulate power from there. And his personality literally fits in with that. To me. Anyway, I'm going to digress and leave it at that one for today, so thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:39:00.406 - 00:39:05.574, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
