00:00:03.680 - 00:00:24.205, Speaker A: Awesome. And we are live with Josh, founder of astria. Josh, welcome. You're coming on on an auspicious day, which is the one year anniversary of the Celestia Mainet launch. Last year, it's also Halloween. You don't seem to be wearing a costume though. Neither am I, but I will be later.
00:00:24.205 - 00:00:30.073, Speaker A: Anyway, welcome. Josh, why don't you give us a little background of yourself and Astria before we jump in.
00:00:30.249 - 00:00:57.045, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having me, Nick. Great to be here. Obviously a very busy week for us and exciting to get the mainnet launch out, get Flame on top of that, obviously. We had the Celestial one year anniversary, I think in Berlin this time last year, watching the big screen there as the network went live. And so that's a super exciting event. Just giving some kind of background and history on myself. I've been in crypto almost four years now in a full time capacity, which feels like an eternity.
00:00:57.045 - 00:01:10.637, Speaker B: But you know, ASTRIA really started my time at Celestia. Right. I joined Celestia in November of 2021. So, you know, almost three years now, you know, maybe a couple weeks away from like three years ago.
00:01:10.701 - 00:01:12.265, Speaker A: Wild man. Time flies.
00:01:12.765 - 00:01:46.925, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that was crazy. And you know, I think, you know, we met first actually at Solana Breakpoint in Lisbon. The first Solana Breakpoint, you know, and that's actually kind of like useful context on kind of how I think about crypto. Crypto and like what ASTRIA is and like, you know, why we think, you know, the, the modular native or the celestial native ecosystem is such like an important concept is, you know, I was considering joining, you know, Solana or trying to kind of find a job in the Solana ecosystem. Solana Labs. That's why I was at Breakpoint or I was also considering kind of Celestia. And I picked Celestia, you know, primarily because it was new.
00:01:46.925 - 00:02:33.105, Speaker B: I think was like my big reason right at this time, you know, Solana was trading 250. It was a relatively large kind of organization. You had Solana Labs at 100 people. Breakpoint was a very high thing and I wanted to do something new and say, like, you know, what is the opportunity we have for like new stuff in the kind of crypto ecosystem from an infrastructure perspective. And I think Celestia has this great vision for like kind of being more scalable. You know, we're seeing, you know, chatter on Twitter this morning where people think, oh, Celestia is too cheap kind of thing. And I think that's a very kind of like, you did like this decel kind of adjacent mindset, right, to saying, oh my God, what happened if we have too much abundance, right? Like what will we do with all of this kind of abundance? We need to be, you know, price controlling and, or like, you know, restricting supply so that we have higher kind of pricing things rather than just like kind of having an abundance.
00:02:33.105 - 00:02:42.365, Speaker B: And so I think really Celestia's view of like abundance in block space was like very motivational to kind of my origin of like joining Celestia and then Astria kind of coming out of that.
00:02:43.505 - 00:03:32.865, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean I remember what we first connected when you were at Edge and Node, also known as the Graph, doing research and I had a call with you and you were the first person or one of the few people at that time who had actually read and fully digested and understood both the DAS white paper as well as the lazy ledger white paper. And I was just blown away and I was, you know, then we met in person at Breakpoint and the rest is history. But why don't you tell us a little bit more about like what ASTRIA is? You know, it's the first decentralized sequencing layer. I know you guys also have launched on top of Astria 2 native, like roll up applications, Forma and Flame. So give us a, you know, 10,000 foot view of like Astria, what you've built over the last three years and, and the different applications that are running on top of it currently.
00:03:33.205 - 00:04:09.801, Speaker B: Yeah, so, right. ASTRIA started as, I guess what was called like, like Sevmos, that is like the like ideological kind of like, you know, predecessor was like this idea of Sevmos and like an EVM on top of. So it's like a celestial native EVM and we call it a decentralized sequencing layer because we think it's important to be conscious that there's a layer, there's a physical representation of a thing in between. It's not this purely abstract thing. There is this layer, that sequencing layer, and we use it because it does two things. It does shared sequencing, but it also does settlement. And when we say settlement in this context, I usually mean bridging.
00:04:09.801 - 00:04:54.037, Speaker B: And this again goes back to this kind of like Sevmos day of in 2022. The topic was around settlement layers and Celestia having a settlement layer or doing what was called enshrined settlement or enshrining a settlement layer. And so Astria largely comes out of kind of that discussion of okay, we want to have kind of Settlement and bridging and we want this native ecosystem. How is the TIA token? At the time we weren't even talking about token then. That was so early, right? But it was like, okay, what do we want this ecosystem to look at? What is kind of the monetary exchange going to happen? We thought settlement was a necessary component, adding bridging. We wanted a separate layer. And then when we looked at that, we said, okay, the roll ups that are at that time pretty early and roll up roadmap there, they're all running these centralized sequencers.
00:04:54.037 - 00:05:22.817, Speaker B: And we looked at it and said we don't really want those tab in that way. And so relating this to Forma and Flame, I have this picture. The first deck we sent out for Astrea in May or June of 2022, it had this diagram in it where we had Celestia and we had Astria. The idea was on top of that, where we put these roll ups on top of it. You know, we were calling smart contract roll ups distinguished from sovereign roll ups. And really we had like two main categories where we thought there were logical things. We had like a DEFI roll up and we had like an NFT roll up.
00:05:22.817 - 00:05:49.957, Speaker B: And actually the like labels we put in those, we put NFT in one roll up and we put literally like Uniswap and AAVE in the other roll up. Because to some degree even then, and I think it continues now, the majority of DEFI is that and so going to kind of the applications we've deployed. So we have Forma. Forma is not running on the Astra mainnet. It's on its own kind of distinct network right now, but using like the full Astra stack of stuff. And it still writes all the data to Celestia Mainnet. You can go see Selenium and it has all that data there.
00:05:49.957 - 00:06:04.525, Speaker B: And that's really our NFT focus chain. Right? Very much kind of creator economy and focused on that. And we think kind of Forma's had, you know, pretty great success. Right. Obviously it's like a hard time for like NFT projects generally. But you know, we've seen 3.9 million like primary mints on Forma.
00:06:04.525 - 00:06:26.403, Speaker B: Right. You know, we've seen you know, $70,000 or 70,000 TIA of like primary volume on it. You know, we've seen 38,000 secondary sales. You know, so we see people like using this, interacting with the chain, which I think is great from it being this first kind of like, you know, Celestia native chain. Right. You use TIA as a Gas token, right. All of the things are denominated in TIA and really kind of kick starting that ecosystem.
00:06:26.403 - 00:07:28.245, Speaker B: And then we also have Flame, which we launched yesterday and very similar technically to Forma and that running, you know, Astria gas, which are a modification of Go Ethereum, using the Astria stack to communicate with like an Astri Net network and thus Celestia. But it's focused on defi. Again, going back to the origins when we think defi, we really think kind of swaps and we think lending, right? And so right now we have swaps, you know, we're working on lending, we've got to get an Oracle built in there, you know, and then get a lending market. But right now we have swaps. And again it's this, you know, celestial native defi ecosystem, you know, denominating the chain's gas token in tia but also trying to build up kind of TIA as this kind of core asset to a defi ecosystem. And so the assets we have right now on that chain are, you know, TIA itself, you know, stride stakes tia, you know, Milky Way's milk, TIA as well as usdc. Because if we look at defi ecosystems, it's really the kind of core of these things is, you know, these LSTs against the native asset pair, having deep liquidity in that and then having the kind of core asset swapped against USDC and that is the kind of primary core.
00:07:28.245 - 00:07:41.735, Speaker B: So we're taking this kind of bottoms up approach I think of saying what are the foundational elements of kind of an ecosystem and build those first and then expand into the kind of like more kind of like niche, I think, kind of targeted ecosystems.
00:07:43.035 - 00:08:08.155, Speaker A: Absolutely. And I'm actually a heavy forma user. I've minted pretty much every single mint that's gone live. I haven't sold anything on secondaries. I'm a hodler. But the cool thing I remember when Astria launched was it was the first truly native Celestia app. Mints are done with tia, the gas is paid in tia.
00:08:08.155 - 00:08:47.495, Speaker A: And also if I recall correctly, it's technically a sovereign roll up. And it was kind of, I think the first of its kind. Sovereign roll ups were like this idea but no one had really built one in practice. And I think the cool thing for me when I was, when I used, and I think for everyone when they saw Forma live and they used it, they realized like, wow. Actually you know, sovereign roll ups, the UX is great and we don't necessarily need this enshrined bridge you know, like roll ups can be kind of independent. There's not, there's, there's not a need for this tie in. And in fact like.
00:08:47.495 - 00:08:57.515, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think like Ashley has also been just a pioneer of that notion of sort of like sovereign roll ups. But they're very functional.
00:08:58.135 - 00:09:43.405, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean I think I've spent so many years of my life, you know, even going back to like, you know, when I found Celestial was like reading all the white paper then what is a roll up, right. This has been a debate I've been a part of for like three and a half years now, right, of like what is a roll up as defined by the bridge? You know, and I don't fall in the camp like defined by the bridge. I think there's some like kind of more practical reasons why that narrative has kind of persisted and I think actually like, you know, without getting too much in the weeds really a lot of it's like EVM driven. And what I mean by that is like fundamentally the EVM as like just like a piece of code, right? As like a, like a protocol into its own. It has one concept of like a fee paying asset that's like a core asset. There's no concept like a denom in the evm, it just has like an asset that is like the core fee paying asset that is not like labeled with an asset type. It's just like a number.
00:09:43.405 - 00:10:09.561, Speaker B: And because of that, that's what led to a lot of the account abstraction work. Because it's very hard to pay for gas on an EVM in more than one asset, right. It's like, it's very non trivial. That's why I get the account abstraction. And what that led to is when you're building a roll up that is like an EVM based roll up, you have to like pick which asset is your fee paying asset. And this is a very difficult thing to change and you don't have optionality. Whereas if you look in the more kind of cosmos ecosystem space, right.
00:10:09.561 - 00:10:58.413, Speaker B: If you look at like osmosis and like stride and a bunch of these other chains, fundamentally it's not that hard to pay in multiple assets, including IBC bridge assets, right? It's not difficult. And so you know, on astria, you know, our fees are paid in like in tia, but it's IBC bridge T, so the actual asset denomination is this like IBC thing. It's like, you know, channel zero, slash. It's like slash, channel slash, zero slash, like you know, UT or whatever like that, right? But we could change that to something else relatively trivially. So I think there's an interesting kind of like past dependency and limitation of like the EVM as an environment that led to everyone saying, oh my God, this enshrined bridge is like super, super important. Where if you kind of go into this, hey, the Ethereum people are like two years behind the Cosmos people or whatever on their designs. You know, we're getting to this space.
00:10:58.413 - 00:11:24.641, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly, right. We've seen this happen. You know, again, it's been three and a half years, right? So many times, so many cycles. The idea of paying in multiple assets was like never a big discussion point in Cosmos because it was just like, you can just do that. If you want to do that, you do that, right? It's not a difficult task. Whereas in Ethereum land it's very difficult. So when we look at like sovereign roll ups, right, you know, I think it's this idea of saying like, you know, people have the option to pay in kind of like what they want or what the chain wants them to pay in.
00:11:24.641 - 00:11:54.277, Speaker B: That doesn't have to be something that is like, oh my God, I made this decision once and I'm never allowed to change my mind about the decision. Right. You know, it's mostly this kind of EVM constraint thing. And you know, I think we're seeing a lot of interesting attention in, you know, Solana and SVM and move VM and generally like, you know, alt VMs. I don't think we should necessarily use like alt VMs. I think it's like a little bit too much kind of clout maybe to the Ethereum people to say, oh, that's like the blessed, you know, virtual machine. But I do think there's an interesting path, but sovereign role trade, again, like it's in the name, right? Sovereignty.
00:11:54.277 - 00:12:38.565, Speaker B: I do think these roll ups should fundamentally have a lot more control over what they're doing and we shouldn't be trying to do, you know, similar to this kind of decel thing, right? Oh, we've locked these people in, we've artificially constrained the supply so that the price is high. That's like the exact opposite what you're doing, which you think, you know, if these people think this is the correct asset for them to use because it provides them the best benefits, ecosystem, you know, politics, whatever, they should use that, but they shouldn't feel like they're forced to use that kind of against their will. And so that's the sovereignty thing, right? And we've seen discussion around application specific Sequencing be kind of similar to this. Right. You know, the apps and maybe it's like app chains, we want to give the people who are building in these ecosystems more control over what they want to build and not be artificially constrained. And again that goes back to Celestia's overall abundance mindset.
00:12:39.145 - 00:13:43.965, Speaker A: Yeah, to me sovereignty is about control and choice and giving the developers, the builders, the users the maximum control over their application because ultimately they are the people that matter. Without, you know, users, without people actually building these things, like we don't have an ecosystem, we won't have anything essentially. So that goes, comes down to the gas dose token. Whether that comes down to the like sequencing and the MEV and the fees and the revenue and stuff like all of that I think should be ultimately controlled by the users and builders. And you know, it's funny when we, you know, mentioned earlier about sevmos and being a settlement layer and I remember early on talking to some of the roll up teams, this is like 2021 or even early 2022, the Ethereum roll up teams, because that was all that kind of existed at that time. We tried to explain to them the fact that you could build a roll up without settlement on another chain, like another L1 and none of them really got it. They were just so stuck in this mindset.
00:13:43.965 - 00:14:42.515, Speaker A: Like we need to, you know, there needs to be an enshrine bridge, There needs to be a place where we post our proofs and things like that. And I think partly due to the fact that there was interactive verification games where like you kind of do need that. But now that we're in like a world post op succinct and with the progress of zk, I just feel like there's no longer really a justification for that. So I'm excited to see ASTRIA really in my mind kind of leapfrogging a lot of the infrastructure that's been built in other ecosystems to provide like really robust infrastructure for like this next generation of roll ups. So more getting more like specific, like what, what are some of the concrete features that ASTRIA provides that for example you can't really find in other, other stacks or other ecosystems? Like I was reading your blog post. I know that your bridging gets, is a big part of this. Like you get when you deploy roll up on astria, you get bridging for free essentially with the Celestia base layer.
00:14:42.515 - 00:14:50.155, Speaker A: Fast confirmations. I don't know, tell us a little bit more about like why Astria, like with the benefits that it provides.
00:14:50.735 - 00:15:57.059, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, again, so a lot of the Astria thing, you know, when we think about like the project, you know, the core development and like what we focused on, you know, it's again similar to this kind of celestial origin of saying like, hey, look, we're going to do things that aren't kind of just explicitly downstream of like the past dependency of like. I think a lot of the Ethereum settlement layer discussion is kind of the saying, like we have this like golden calf and like every thought that goes through your mind must be kind of contextualized by like we cannot harm the golden calf here. And that kind of like perverts your kind of thinking process. And so we wanted to go very first principles and say like, what are the things people are trying to do? What are the things they want? Whether it's a role developer, whether it's user, whatever, right? And so one of the core things was like, you know, single slot finality, right? We see a lot of discussion around this, right, over like, you know, how much of the code base of optimism or arbitrum or whatever is dealing with like forks, right? Fundamentally, dealing with re orgs in like a forking environment is just an enormous pain point. And that was something that was very, very important for us to say. It's like, we're not going to deal with forks, we're not going to do a liveness bias thing. We're going to use common bft.
00:15:57.059 - 00:16:20.927, Speaker B: We're going to have a safety biasing because the mental overhead and complexity of dealing with that is so hard. So when we have roll ups using kind of Astria for their, we call them soft commitments. We batch and post all of our data to Celestia. It's important that they get single slot finality. They're not worrying about rewards. And that provides us a much, much simpler say like roll up protocol. The node, the roll up node.
00:16:20.927 - 00:17:04.771, Speaker B: So Flame is this roll up node, but doesn't have a sequencer of its own, right? It is in a, to use the Ethereum ecosystems terminology, Flame is a based roll up of Astria's decentralized sequencing layer in that it reads all of its data out of Astria. It doesn't have some other kind of input stream of data from some other sequencer. It's just deriving data and kind of contextualizing into its state machine there. And so we think it's important that people get decentralization by default out of the box, but that decentralization is also going to Give you the single slot finality, right? So you can kind of have confidence in that. Right. And the decentralization being important, you know, I think there's been a lot of debate over like, do we care about that, right? To some degree the market doesn't care. Right.
00:17:04.771 - 00:17:30.815, Speaker B: You know, we've been running centralized sequencers for what, three years now. You know, clearly it's not kind of like a huge kind of concern from like users, but we think it's like an ideologically important thing. And one of the reasons why we thought it was necessary to launch with something that is kind of, kind of, I'll say architecturally decentralized because I don't think like Astrid is like politically decentralized. And it's important that people are like aware of that. Right. We're running a proof of authority network, right. You know, we as like the core development team are running four out of the 11 validators.
00:17:30.815 - 00:18:17.887, Speaker B: You know, we have like seven other validators. That's not a huge validator set, right? But it is giving us this decentralization at like an architectural level and that it is like, you know, we are doing a leader rotation, right. And the important thing about that is that anyone who builds on top of it is already having to kind of like day one confront that reality, you know, because fundamentally decentralization is like. It's not that decentralization is the point of crypto, it's that decentralization is the thing that enables censorship. And I still view like censorship resistance as the point of crypto. It's what makes a crypto app different from another app. It's like we have this kind of like, you know, this idea that there is like this like trust minimized counterparty that you're dealing with this protocol, right? And so you can have kind of two entities kind of like interacting with one protocol in like a trust minimized fashion.
00:18:17.887 - 00:18:58.743, Speaker B: So the decentralization by having it day one, right, we use the term like decentralized by default means that anyone who builds on it doesn't have to think about that later right there. And to some degree it's like a forcing function, so you're not allowed to think about that later if you build on this ecosystem. But also being able to demonstrate that like it's not like a horrible trade off, right? It's not like you're just like throwing out any reasonable user experience with it. You're still getting your single slot finality, right? On our, on our main net right now we're running like average 2.3 second block times. Right. You know, so we're in this competitive kind of positioning to like a centrally sequenced optimism roll up from a block time and you're getting these kind of, you know, fast finality, you know, single slot guarantees.
00:18:58.743 - 00:19:49.525, Speaker B: But you know, that you don't have to say, oh, I'm going to go put, you know, on my roadmap doc, you know, my progressive decentralization, I will decentralize the sequencer at some unbounded unknown period in the future. And that's always just going to be down the roadmap of the P2. You have that day one and that puts you in a much better position, we think, for kind of having a long term, kind of sustainable ecosystem. You're not half assing it from the start, but also kind of it's a forcing function on us to make sure that, you know, we're competing and we uphold kind of decentralization as this kind of like core thing that we're not going to give up, but we have to provide a competitive user experience rather than someone who's saying, hey, I have centralization, I have shortcuts I can take if I want to short my block time. So I'll prioritize shortening the block time in a centralized fashion rather than going to decentralization and then improving it. We just think it's kind of important to keep ourselves honest in that ecosystem because that's the whole goal of we think, this industry.
00:19:50.105 - 00:20:12.643, Speaker A: Yeah, I could not agree more. And you know, the way that we've started thinking about Celestia is as a platform for unstoppable applications. And unstoppable basically is another word for decentralized. Right. And decentralized can mean a lot of things to me. There's like four important parts. One is, you know, needs to be verifiable by end users.
00:20:12.643 - 00:21:08.687, Speaker A: It needs to be to have like strong sort of like settlement guarantees from consensus. It needs to be have censorship, resistance and liveness. And I think like, basically what you're saying is a lot of the rolls that are built today, if, you know, if you're using a centralized sequencer in a lot of ways, you're sacrificing that quality and you're not truly unstoppable. You're an application with, you're interacting as a user with an entity that actually has some degree of control over the system. And when you build on Astria, you get all those things by default. So it's like kind of unstoppable by default, which I think is very Powerful. And part of the thesis behind this is that the most disruptive use cases for crypto and blockchain are things that people are not going to want to see in the world necessarily.
00:21:08.687 - 00:21:58.231, Speaker A: They're going to be people who are opposed to these things. A lot of people don't want free private money, you know, for everyone to be able to pay each other. They don't want to see true end to end encryption like what Ryan is now building with Prism. There's just like all those things need to be built on infrastructure that can truly withstand, you know, nation state level type of kind of opposition. And so anyway, I'm just very, very aligned with that. And like we need, we need more people to be building with this in mind rather than this sort of like paper over, hey, this is like you know, a decentralized application. And when actually like under the hood it's a data availability committee and a centralized sequencer and it's kind of like okay, well what's, what's really going on here? And then to my knowledge, I don't know if I don't think.
00:21:58.231 - 00:22:08.737, Speaker A: Are there any other roll ups that have decentralized sequencers? I mean there are some based roll ups on Ethereum, maybe one, but I.
00:22:08.841 - 00:22:40.813, Speaker B: Would, I would count Tycho and Metis has, has at least they've stated they're like a decentralized sequencer. Metis, I feel like, you know like, like drag them or anything. But like they're somewhat out of the kind of discussion here, right. They're not kind of put in like the kind of broad range of like you know, like the, you know, the kind of dominant, you know, Roblox really at base arbitrary, you know, starkware, you know, optimism, et cetera, et cetera. But they claim to have a decentralized sequencer. I think it's like loosely based around like a Polygon POS kind of work or something like that. So I'm not that familiar.
00:22:40.813 - 00:23:09.211, Speaker B: And then obviously like Tyco is like a base roll up, right. But I know Taiko is also working on like another network that's doing something like pre comps or whatever, something like that. But I do think it's like relatively novel. And you know there's also a question of like kind of the prioritization level. Right. And what I mean by that is like when we think about you know, being Celestia native or being sovereign, right. I think it's important to think about like what are the priorities of the organization or the ecosystem, right.
00:23:09.211 - 00:25:12.375, Speaker B: Like what is the first priority? And that's what we see a lot of like, I think disagreement in like Ethereum, right, Is like, it's gotten like very large, right? And there's benefits to that, right? And it's very decentralized, right? So that means you have different people who have different perspectives and different preferences, right? And so, you know, when we think about, oh, what should people kind of keep in their mind when they go to astria, right? Like they should be conscious that like, you know, decentralization, right? And this like unstoppability and the censorship, resistance, that's like a priority for us, right? And so, you know, that's going to have implications, both positive and negative, right? If someone comes to us and says, hey man, I'd really like to run like one sequencer and run it at you know, 100 millisecond block time or 200 millisecond block time or whatever the hell, the 1 millisecond block time, the mega use that people are saying, right? You know, we're going to say like, look, that's not our priority, right? Our priority is to provide the highest performance, highest quality user experience while maintaining decentralization. And that's going to have fundamental trade offs, right? But they also know if they say, hey, we're going to build something and we think, you know, there might be opposition from a regulatory perspective, right? Whether it's, you know, explicit or they just say, you know, we don't think, you know, regulators are going to be happy with this, right? Then I think, you know, they're going to say, hey, look, that's going to be something that is like important to us to kind of support here, right? That is a use case that we want to be able to be used for. And that's one of the things that we think is like really, really important is to be able to say, you know, we're not kind of being like maximally cynical and extractive to say, hey, the only thing we care about is running a server and optimizing the hell out of like one box and running it as fast as possible and then saying that's going to give you the highest quality, you're like, yeah, sure, I mean, James street does that, right? You know, but like there's a degree at which, like I am not, you know, trying to compete with James street from like a performance perspective, right? We're working in a different place where we have kind of different requirements and different expectations and we want our users to be aware of that kind of going in, right? And so I think that's Something, you know, again, by being kind of, you know, ASTRIA itself is like somewhat sovereign. Right. We write all our data to Celestia, but fundamentally we have the ability to kind of define our own priorities for how we build things. And we think that's very, very important to kind of have people be aware of.
00:25:12.875 - 00:25:28.261, Speaker A: Absolutely. So you're coming up on time here. I have a couple last questions for you. One is, you know, we touched on the origin of. You consider building the Solana ecosystem. Ultimately you chose Celestia and the modular ecosystem. You're betting very heavily on it.
00:25:28.261 - 00:26:01.065, Speaker A: But also, you know, you gave a very famous talk now at Research Day earlier this year called we are all building the same thing. So I'm curious, like, how, how do you sort of reconcile those two opinions of like you're very, you know, Celestia opinionated and believe that you're doubling down and investing everything kind of in the sassy ecosystem, but at the same time saying that every ecosystem is building the same thing. So how does that add up?
00:26:01.925 - 00:26:36.179, Speaker B: Yeah, it's like a question of how abstract do you want to think about things, right? You say the same thing, right? You say, oh, we're all building distributed systems, right? We're all just building like they used to dlt, right? Like distributed ledger technology or something with some like broad. It's not just blockchains, it's distributed ledger technology or whatever. Right. But I think really when we think about who do I think are the players right now? I think the players really are. You have Solana and you have Ethereum and the roll up ecosystem on top of that and you have Celestia. And I think what we're all kind of shooting for is again, I love the Solana people. I large bag holder of Solana.
00:26:36.179 - 00:27:08.229, Speaker B: I still like the Solana and respect the hell out of that community. I don't unfortunately have time to participate in multiple communities and so I'm betting on Celestial as kind of my working hours in my professional career. But fundamentally I think they have this good idea of what are they putting on. Increasing throughput, reducing latency to some degree. I think again, Mustafa's tweet this morning was like, what are we trying to do? We're trying to create abundance. We're saying we think this ability to have this decentralized, censorship resistant block space is good. We should try to just max out the supply of this in a way everyone should.
00:27:08.229 - 00:27:48.931, Speaker B: We're just trying to make the highest throughput and there's going to be nuances. Again, I think About John Adler, he's like, it's an implementation need, right? That's always what he's a discussion with John, he's always going to abstinence absent implementation. That's his job, right? Pump that to the engineers. We're on the research side here. We're thinking in broad abstract terms. So we do think we're all trying to create these high throughput networks, but the implementation details and the path dependencies matter, right? Why I think kind of, you know what I wanted to get out of that talk, right? You know, I had this slide, right? Like I got viral or whatever, right? You stop gaslighting each other, right? It's, it's stop trying to pretend about the differences between yourself. There are practical real world differences that have, you know, implications on product and performance and user experience, right? And we should be aware of that.
00:27:48.931 - 00:28:35.095, Speaker B: But also be aware when you're saying, look, you and that guy are trying to do the same thing. You're both doing things in decentralized and open source ecosystems. So maybe you can borrow some learnings from that and the overall ecosystem as a whole can get better. Because what I don't want to see is some world where, you know, we have one ecosystem that is the only ecosystem that has any kind of competitive product and you have no competition. It just ossifies, right? It just is allowed to sit there and be stagnant. I think you see a lot of discussion in the Ethereum ecosystem right now where they're like waking up, they're like, oh shit, the Solana guys are actually going to take our lunch because we just sat on our ass for like three years and like it didn't do anything and the thing still was like mediocre. And now they're kind of trying to rapidly accelerate and kind of get back into it.
00:28:35.095 - 00:30:00.023, Speaker B: And so I think it's good to say, look, there's similarities between these ecosystems. It's good to know the market you're in and it's good to know who your competitors are so that you don't kind of like, you know, sit on your hands and become kind of uncompetitive in the market. You got to know that you have competitors and you got to create a competitive product, right? And so when I think about kind of Celestia, again, my broadest category of separation of like Celestia and like Solana, how are they? Solana bit the bullet on big blocks and I think they've done phenomenally, right? They have like whatever, like 1400 validators, but they're Running big blocks, right? They're running fast block times, but they bit the bullet, said we're just going to solve the hard engineering problem and just get that throughput. What Celestia said is Celestia looked at, you know, essentially, right, like a BitTorrent style torrent network, right? I think about it, BitTorrent with like a consensus protocol on top of it, right, where it's saying we're going to create all this abundance and we're going to have a million or 10 million or whatever light nodes in this network and each of them is going to be able to contribute to the additive kind of amount of bandwidth in this overall network. And that's kind of two things, right? But fundamentally you're trying to make a large network that is censorship resistant, that has high bandwidth, right? You can do that by trying to have a smaller number, which still is 1400 nodes with a lot of nodes, right? But all of them are large, right? They cost you $10,000, $20,000 to run versus Celestia having a million or a billion light nodes that are all contributing obviously, a much smaller fraction of the throughput to the network than one node in Solana. But because you have more of them. But again, they're all in service of.
00:30:00.023 - 00:30:56.175, Speaker B: We just want to have max throughput on a censorship for this network so we can have these unstoppable apps. And I think both are legitimate approaches and I just bet on one. But I'm all in there, right? You know, I mean, we, you know, we've got 19 people now at Astro, which is, you know, insane to say now, you know, and it's been three plus years of my life, you know, with this kind of being the core focus of it, you know, and we're just getting started, right? We just got our main net out, we got flame out. Now things are kind of real right? Now we can get real user feedback and actually kind of iterate on that to make, you know, again, we want to be competitive, right? We want to make something better than Salon. We want to make something better than every roll up on Ethereum, right? We don't want to, you know, kind of add, you know, adjectives to say we're the best, you know, but with qualifiers, right? We just want to build the best system. And we think Celestia gives us foundation to build fundamentally, you know, the best system in crypto for doing whatever it is people, you know, in crypto want to do. Whether that's, you know, trading, whether that's lending, whether that's meme Coins, you know, whether that's NFTs.
00:30:57.275 - 00:31:19.241, Speaker A: Could not have said it better myself. Well, Josh, congrats again on the launch of Azure Main Net on Flame. You know, Forma has also been a huge success over the past few months. So what can people look forward to, you know, as we close out? What. What's next on the roadmap for astria? What do people have to look forward to in the coming month and in 2025?
00:31:19.433 - 00:31:40.225, Speaker B: Right, so we got, we got Flame out, right? We always have Forma, you know, big kind of practical things that are like, hey, these are just, you know, tasks to do, right? So we're going to bring, you know, Forma onto ASTRIA mainnet, right? And we think that's going to be a big milestone because it's going to mean that we, we have this like, you know, the shared sequence actually doing sequencing, right. We actually have two, you know.
00:31:45.205 - 00:31:45.493, Speaker A: But.
00:31:45.509 - 00:31:46.785, Speaker B: I'm assuming it's still working.
00:31:47.725 - 00:31:50.465, Speaker A: I can hear you kind of.
00:31:51.485 - 00:31:55.781, Speaker B: Okay. Uh.
00:31:55.813 - 00:32:47.025, Speaker A: Oh, Josh's centralized sequencer went down. Josh. There we go. Well, I can kind of hear you. I'll give you like another minute and if you come back, we can wrap up. Otherwise, I'll just close out. Oh, there you are.
00:32:47.185 - 00:32:53.475, Speaker B: Okay. Sorry about that. I get the coworker, the CO working space, WI fi decided to drop, so.
00:32:55.615 - 00:32:56.915, Speaker A: But we're back up.
00:32:57.415 - 00:33:39.643, Speaker B: Okay, well, we're just wrapping up, right? So like, what, what is next on like the roadmap for like, Astria Flame? Former. Right. So, so practically we're going to migrate Forma over to the ASTRIA main net, right? So we'll have Flame Informer running on literally same validators, right? Same kind of like sequencing layer here. That'll be cool because it'll allow us to kind of, you know, I guess like test and prod kind of things, right? Of saying, like, okay, there's been a lot of academic discussion about, you know, atomicity, synchronicity, right? Shared sequencing, right? What benefit from composability? We got to go test, right? Go make an app that says, hey, I'm going to be an app, a front end, right? And I'm going to do a thing. And that thing's going to interact with both Flame and kind of Forma and actually see, like, is that actually a thing that creates kind of interesting product categories, Right? I'm interested to kind of find that out, you know, for Flame, right. You know, Relatively minimal kind of environment, right. Not.
00:33:39.643 - 00:33:50.811, Speaker B: Not really like a defi ecosystem. But you. We've got the kind of core assets here, right. You know we've got like a Uni V3 clone, right. We're aware of some, some issues on the kind of front end here. Right. You know, things with like ledger support, Metamask, ledger support and Kepler.
00:33:50.811 - 00:34:17.463, Speaker B: So you know we have like a bug list of like stuff that we're just going to kind of be polishing now that we have a product out that's going take an amount of our time here. You know, we're obviously kind of like a very MEV interested shop. You know a lot of my, my kind of like, you know, nerd snipey kind of, you know, stuff is, is MEV adjacent. So we have a product we're calling like the ask your auctioneer. We're going to try to get that on to Mainnet as soon as possible. Essentially it's going to be a top of block option. Again similar to a lot of the past dependencies.
00:34:17.463 - 00:34:45.087, Speaker B: Right. When you look at PBS and Ethereum, it's selling the whole block. If you look at the kind of mechanics of it, right. By and large it's the top transaction people want to buy and they want to buy it for like a, you know, centralized exchange, decentralized exchange arbitrage. We're going to see what happens if we just auction off the top transaction. And our roll up design allows us to have that option of just saying look, it's just the top transaction, the rest of the blocks normal, right? We're just going to auction off the top transaction, see what that is. So that's an interesting kind of having kind of research in production thing, right? Having a med thing out there that'll be interesting, get some feedback.
00:34:45.087 - 00:35:19.671, Speaker B: Since we've been participating in those. Unlike an academic discussion for a long time, you know, in Oracle we're going to integrate an Oracle and then we get a lending protocol. We do think a large amount of demand from like a kind of business perspective is going to be, you know, people want to get, you know, this taking rate on Celestia. So we think they're going to do LSTs, but they're open to having you know, their LSTs, you know, whether that's stride, whether that's Milky Way, whether that's drop earning, additional yield. So we think lending is kind of a potential market for that people to take their LSTs, you know, kind of lend that borrow, USDC, whatever. We're well positioned on that. So that's one of the big next things we're looking at.
00:35:19.671 - 00:35:39.167, Speaker B: Those are the more immediate Things. There's a lot of things that I would say are behind the scenes things, technical optimizations. Right now we're running 2.3 second block times. We haven't really spent any time trying to improve that in a practical sense. Just use comment bft. We just use comment bft.
00:35:39.167 - 00:36:17.623, Speaker B: Now we're going to see what are the modifications we can make to come BFT or optimizations to our networking architecture. You know, and we talked to, you know, you, Evan Forbes from Celeste, you've done a lot of the great writing right around kind of like vacuum and you know, various kind of optimization you guys have made from, you know, network propagation of blocks and transactions and et cetera. You know, what can we do to reduce block times? Right, because we do think, you know, people would prefer, you know, slightly faster block times. I'm not sure how fast you want to get here, but there's definitely kind of low hanging fruit there. And that's more behind the scenes technical work, but all just making ASTRIA itself kind of a, a platform that's better to kind of build on. And then related to that, we have a bunch of dev tooling. We really haven't marketed a lot of dev tooling.
00:36:17.623 - 00:36:58.545, Speaker B: We have a very, very cool command line interface, terminal user interface for running our network locally that we think actually provide really good development experience that both the form and Flame guys use to do their development. So we're going to market a bit of that and just generally kind of start ramping up our efforts on making ASTRIA an ecosystem that third parties can build on. Because to date we focused more on kind of form and Flame being the primary kind of customer consumers of the sequencing layer, starting to kind of build up the resources, you know, both on, you know, whether it's like an individual devrel, whether it's kind of like a customer support style kind of thing, whether it's a documentation so that other people can actually build on top of ASTRIA and start building out this broader ecosystem using the sequencing layer.
00:36:59.485 - 00:37:36.953, Speaker A: Beautiful. Yeah. Adding MEV support, adding Oracles and continuing to dog food and debug and make the ASTRIA sequencing layer even more robust and dropping block times. These are all super exciting and clearly the future. And the cool thing, again, going back to what we talked about, you're already decentralized so you have that checked off. Whereas I feel like most other teams are kicking that down the road and may just build up a extreme amount of tech debt before they can really get on top of that. So anyway, Josh, thank you so much for coming on.
00:37:36.953 - 00:37:51.205, Speaker A: Congrats again on the launch. I saw your tweet. You said, in this moment, I'm euphoric. You deserve it. So congrats to you and the team and looking forward to following you guys as Flame and Forma and the Astro ecosystem continues to grow.
00:37:51.545 - 00:37:59.065, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much, Nick. Appreciate you having me. And again, congrats to you on the anniversary of the celestial mainnet. It's been great to be on this journey for all of these years.
