00:00:00.640 - 00:01:01.900, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today is the 21 december 2020. Alright, let's get into all the news from the weekend and from Friday, everyone. So this news came out today or yesterday, actually, I think this was the biggest news from the last few days. Basically, for those who don't know, Ledger, the hardware wallet manufacturer for basically the legend nano S and legend Nano X, had a data breach a few months ago in June of 2020, where customer details were kind of leaked out and they were being sold on, I guess, the dark or deep web, whatever you want to call it. Over the last few months, I saw somewhere that the prices of these kind of databases were ranging anywhere from five bitcoin to ten bitcoin per purchase, which is obviously a lot of money right now it's over $100,000 on the for five BTC. So it wasn't readily available to everyone.
00:01:01.900 - 00:01:50.960, Speaker A: It was kind of being purchased by people who thought that they could use that information to conduct like phishing campaigns through emails or through SMS. I personally got a lot of SMS phishing attempts from some contact name Ledger, which I thought was silly because I was like, you know, I'm not going to obviously click on that, but unfortunately a lot of people do. And, you know, since then, I guess it's been a few months now and people kind of gotten over buying it. So it just got kind of leaked out onto the dark web or the deep web. And anyone can kind of like view this database now. And the worst part is for those, I mean, you're probably aware of it by now, but I think the worst part of this whole breach is the fact that physical addresses were leaked. So people's home addresses or PO boxes, if they use them, I guess, were leaked.
00:01:50.960 - 00:02:58.964, Speaker A: Anyone in the world can now see this and what the kind of like the worst thing about this is that these are physical addresses tied to a purchase made on, you know, a hardware wallet for cryptocurrency. So basically, you know, your address is only on there because you purchased the hardware wallet, obviously because you have cryptocurrency. So if, you know, if someone wants to look at that and check your address, they know for a fact that you own some amount of cryptocurrency and that you're someone that could possibly be targeted by them if they wanted to come to your physical location and steal your assets or something like that. Now, I don't think this is like, a huge risk for a few different reasons. One, if someone actually really wanted to target you and come and steal your assets, they would be able to get your address through a few different other means if they, like, were really intent on stealing your kind of assets. There's that. There's also the fact that the risk of going to someone's physical address, breaking into their house or attacking them and forcing them to give up their, you know, pin to their ledger or their password or whatever would be incredibly risky because you don't actually know if they.
00:02:58.964 - 00:03:35.156, Speaker A: How much money they have, for starters, right. They may only have a small amount of money, and they just bought a hardware wallet because they wanted to try it out and. Or that they figured that, you know, they wanted to keep it safe and not on an exchange or on their pc. They could have moved all their money into one of the DeFi protocols, for example, and not use their ledger. Maybe they moved it to their metamask and then into a DeFi protocol so that ledger could have nothing on it. They could have multiple ledges. So if you kind of take one of them and then, you know, you get, you know, you leave, and then you kind of discover that it wasn't actually the right one, you're not going to go back to the same place.
00:03:35.156 - 00:04:00.002, Speaker A: Right. Because at that point, you know, the authorities have been alert, alerted. Right. The risk of going back is just, like, really great. So I don't know how many kind of, like, quote unquote, $5 wrench attacks we're gonna see come out of this, where people literally go to someone's house with a wrench and say, give me your password before I, you know, beat you to a pole, basically. I don't know how often that's gonna happen. You know, it might happen to the really high net worth kind of individuals, maybe.
00:04:00.002 - 00:04:19.462, Speaker A: I don't know. But the thing is, though, if you know that the database leak doesn't have kind of like, your. Your. Your addresses on there, right, your crypto addresses, so you don't know who has what. And for the people that you do know, a high net worth individuals say, like the Winklevoss twins, right? You already know that they're. They're rich. You're right.
00:04:19.462 - 00:04:45.488, Speaker A: You didn't need this database, and you already know they hold crypto. You didn't need this database leak to tell you that. So if you look at the nuance behind it, you know, you feel a bit better about this. And I say this as someone whose personal details were leaked completely in this, unfortunately, I mean, there's no point me hiding that, since you can go see it anyway. I had so many people damning me about this, basically. So I must have been one of the first people they looked up. But that was quite, quite, quite a thing to wake up to this morning.
00:04:45.488 - 00:05:19.136, Speaker A: But anyway, yeah, I just, I don't think it's a concern for most people on this list. I think the risk of someone coming to a house is quite low. I was joking to my friends that, you know, in Australia right now, the borders are all closed. Uh, the international borders and the state borders are actually closing again due to another outbreak of coronavirus. So really, I mean, I only have to worry about, like, the people in my general vicinity. Um, so, you know, just, it's just, uh, maybe, maybe a bit of a saving grace there. But unfortunately, uh, that's kind of what a lot of people have to deal with right now, and it's.
00:05:19.136 - 00:05:54.044, Speaker A: And it's unnerving. Right. It's just because there's a low chance doesn't mean there's no chance. Like, you know, people don't feel comfortable with the, the Internet knowing where they live, basically. So that, that sucks a lot in that regard. But I think, in general, yeah, I don't know if we're gonna see a lot of these kind of wrench attacks happening. Maybe people get kind of like their houses get broken into and people manage to get their ledger wallets or their seed phrases, you know, if they get the ledger wallet, it's kind of pointless without the pin, if they get the seed phrase, I mean, you know, that, that, I mean, gives them everything, right.
00:05:54.044 - 00:06:44.702, Speaker A: The seed phrase is the kind of password, I guess, to all of your addresses. So I think that the takeaway here for me is that store your seed phrase away from your, your wallet, if you can, your hardware wallet, if you can, in another residence, if you can. I think that would probably be the best kind of course of action here. I also think that if your kind of details were leaked, then maybe consider using a pair of box next time instead of your home address. Like, that's what I'm going to be doing from now on, a po box for, like, shipments and stuff and stuff, instead of my home address and things like that. So, yeah, I think it's a, it's a lesson for a lot of people here, a harsh lesson, and I'm really disappointed in ledger. Obviously, they didn't mean for this to happen, but this is pretty much one of the worst data breaches that could have happened, given the data set here, right.
00:06:44.702 - 00:07:00.470, Speaker A: People who, you know, own crypto. Right. And their home addresses freely available on the web. Not a good mix, but it is what it is. And, you know, I guess it's out there now. Not much we can do about it. As I said, this, I guess, is more of my thoughts in the Daily Gwei newsletter.
00:07:00.470 - 00:07:23.060, Speaker A: And there's a few other tips in there as well of how to stay safe. But basically, yeah, if you are affected by this, know that I'm right there with you. I know how you feel, but there are, you know, it's not, to me, it's like not the world is ending kind of thing. That kind of Twitter made it out to be today. At least that's my opinion of it. I think there's more nuance to that, as I just explained. And I think in general, most people are going to be going to be okay.
00:07:23.060 - 00:07:56.252, Speaker A: They're not going to get, like attacked or anything or, or their house broken into or whatever. But maybe I'm wrong. I mean, I don't, I hope I'm not wrong, obviously, but we'll see as time goes on. The other biggest piece of news that came out over the weekend was those regulations that I was talking about, I think, last week or the week before. I think I've been talking about them for a couple of weeks now. Those regulations out of the US around self hosted wallets and people thinking that they were going to ban self hosted wallets and all this sort of stuff. And, you know, I never really believed that they were actually going to ban the self hosted wallets.
00:07:56.252 - 00:08:43.364, Speaker A: I thought that was kind of like way too far, and I mentioned that. But basically what actually came out and what the proposed kind of regulation was is that, and Jake, Jake Trevinsky's thread does a really great job of summarizing it here. But basically the TRDR is that for deposits and withdrawals over $3,000 involving a non custodial wallet, VASPs, which is virtual asset service providers, which is basically centralized exchanges and custodians would have to record the name and physical address of the wallet owner. I mean, as I mentioned last week, the exchanges already have this data. They literally have that as part of their records on their database. They tied to your KYC on the centralized exchange. So I think these are really, I mean, I don't think this is really well thought out regulation.
00:08:43.364 - 00:09:24.030, Speaker A: I think all this does is basically make it more costly for exchanges to keep track of this stuff because not only do they have to record all this stuff for anything over three k, they also need to report any deposit or withdrawal over $10,000 to FinCEN in the form of a currency transaction report. Now, this is basically, uh, gonna increase the compliance cost for exchanges by a lot, right? Think about how many customers they have. They have to make sure that they get this right and abide by this law they've got. There's no way around it for them. They have to do this. It's not law yet, but if it was to be law, they have to do this. And Jake goes on to say that FinCEN says those requirements are necessary to combat the.
00:09:24.030 - 00:10:09.304, Speaker A: To, quote, combat the financing of global terrorism, end quote, open quote, address transnational money laundering. Close quote. And then Jake says, you get it. Anyway, this is always the way that the government likes to tie things up in, right? If it's not, you know, terrorism, it's saved the children, it's money laundering. It's always the same kind of frank, frankly, bullshit excuses that they make up in order to rush these things through. And, you know, if you've been paying any attention to the traditional finance space and all the stuff that goes on there, there's tons of dodgy things that go on there, and these banks and stuff get just a slap on the wrist for it. A few of you might remember, some of you might remember a few years ago, there was a massive HSBC scandal with drug cartels laundering their money through there.
00:10:09.304 - 00:10:38.892, Speaker A: And I think the fine ended up being less than the profits that were made by HSBC. And there's numerous examples of this, right, all the time. So I just. Yeah, these, these regulations are just like, so pointless, um, for what they're trying to do. I think it's just, you know, obviously the government trying to do what the government does best and assert more control onto the population. But as Jake notes, this could have been a much kind of worse set of regulations here. It's not the worst that could have happened.
00:10:38.892 - 00:10:49.172, Speaker A: They could have banned south custodia was. That's like the. Probably the worst, but yeah. So I'll link Jake's thread because it's quite long here. I'm not going to go through the whole thing. I'll link his, his thread. It's really great.
00:10:49.172 - 00:11:27.516, Speaker A: Jake is one of my favorite lawyers, or within the crypto space, he is. He's constantly on the ball with this stuff and he knows exactly what he's talking about. So I'll link this thread for you to go check that out. Jeremy Allaire from circle, the issuers of us DC, also put out a kind of thread here. I guess he was more critical than Jake was, I think, in terms of how much crap was in this regulation, to put it put it mildly. He basically says a lot of the same things. But he goes on to, I'm not gonna read the whole thread, but he goes on about how there wasn't enough time put in for like review of these regulations.
00:11:27.516 - 00:12:07.234, Speaker A: I think they've only given like 15 days for comment, I think till January 4 or something like that, until they basically are gonna try and, you know, shove this into, into kind of law and to make this a binding. So yeah, I'll link this thread as well. I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna go into it here, but another great thread, great three great thread to read on this. But TL doctor, if this goes in, it's not the worst thing that can happen. It's actually just really crappy for exchanges and, you know, custodians and general centralized service providers. It doesn't really matter for you as an individual if you already use these services, because all this information was already available to law enforcement. They just needed to request it.
00:12:07.234 - 00:12:38.466, Speaker A: So it's, this is just like one less hoop that they would have to jump through, I guess. Um, but if they really wanted to come after you for something, then they could easily have gotten this information anyway. So that's that interesting tweet from Hayden Adams over the weekend. So he goes on to say, you joke, but legit. The coolest thing about this page is not uniswap competing with centralized exchanges. It's uniswap being the only one with the country sanction blank. And he goes on to say, ethereum is the closest thing to a country that Uniswap has.
00:12:38.466 - 00:13:12.340, Speaker A: Now this is what he's talking about. For those who are watching the video, there's a screenshot here of Massari's kind of dashboard where they link these centralized exchanges and they have a column for country. And you can see binance is based out of the Cayman Islands, Coinbase is in the United States, hobby is in the Seychelles. And, you know, you got the rest of the countries here. Then you get down to Uniswap and it's just blank, right? Because obviously Uniswap doesn't have a home country. Even though the Uniswap team is based in the US, the Uniswap protocol is not controlled by that team. Ergo, the Uniswap protocol is not controlled by a country.
00:13:12.340 - 00:13:39.564, Speaker A: Now, Hayden does bring up a good point that Ethereum is the closest thing that Uniswap has as kind of a country. And that's true, because if Ethereum, I don't know, was attacked or something or hacked or 51% attacked, that could actually control the outcome of Uniswap. But that's the only way to control Uniswap. You cannot do it through an admin key. There is no centralized backdoor. There is no, there is not any of that. So I thought that was an interesting tweet from, from Hayden here.
00:13:39.564 - 00:14:22.980, Speaker A: And this is exactly what, what we're trying to do with Defi. Right. Eventually, every DeFi protocol should have a blank country kind of row there because I think a lot of them still have admin keys, right? A lot of them still have backdoors. And obviously that doesn't make them decentralized because a lot of the law enforcement in that country can basically force the, the team to do things if they have like a central admin key or something like that. So, yeah, really interesting tweet from, from Hayden here. So this caught my eye. Didn't really get much attention, but the reason why it caught my eye was because Morgan Stanley's head of digital asset markets apparently said that DeFi is poised to keep its momentum in 2021.
00:14:22.980 - 00:15:23.022, Speaker A: Now, you're probably thinking, well, yeah, no, you know, no shit, right? Of course this is gonna, this is gonna happen, right? We all know DeFi is gonna keep growing. It's not slowing down. It's getting so crazy that I can't even keep up with it anymore, which means that I don't think anyone can because I try to keep up with everything and spend all day looking at these stuff. But, yeah, the fact that kind of Morgan Stanley's head of digital asset market says this was really cool. I think as I've been talking about on the show, I guess the past couple weeks, we're going to see more of these kind of like centralized players blur into the decentralized world and come into it and kind of see how they can make the most of it. I wrote a newsletter on this last week in the Daily Glare where I basically said, you know, CeFi on Defi was the title of the piece. And I went through how, you know, centralized finance is going to tap into the DeFi rails because they're just going to offer them so many opportunities to make money for themselves and their customers and to offer their customers different experiences, too.
00:15:23.022 - 00:16:09.794, Speaker A: So I think you're, you know, we're not there yet in terms of getting, I guess, the mortgage Stanley's of the world to offer their customers. A defi solution in terms of like saying, hey, you can get like 5% yield on your dollars through us. And in the background the bank's actually using compound or y earn or something like that. That's not going to happen for quite a while, mainly for regulatory reasons, I would suspect, and security reasons. They're not going to put like mean and liquidity reasons too, right? They're not gonna put billions of customer deposits into wiren or something like that, or to compound, right? That's just not how it's gonna work. It's gonna be a slow kind of scaling in from these centralized players, but it's definitely gonna happen. I have no doubt, there is no doubt in my mind that we're gonna see this play out over the next few years.
00:16:09.794 - 00:16:55.784, Speaker A: The bankless guys like to call this the protocol sync thesis if you want to google that and check that out. And I think it rings true. We're not going to have defined mass adoption without CEFi layers sitting on top, but that doesn't mean that this stuff still won't remain decentralized. It just means we're going to have basically a broader set of users tapping into this stuff without even knowing about it, just going through their normal kind of like interfaces that they normally do, normal kind of providers that they normally do, which I think is totally fine. Not everyone wants to be their self sovereign bank using metamask and, you know, ledger hardware, wallets and all this sort of stuff, right? Some people just want the kind of easy, simple thing to do. They don't have time to research these things, and that's fine. And that's, I think, what these kind of institutions and companies are going to offer to them.
00:16:55.784 - 00:17:30.694, Speaker A: Interesting tweet from Chris Berniske here today I thought was quite funny. So he basically says, for those that argue ETH has underperformed BTC. Remember that in the original permissionless sale, one BTC bought you 2000 ethanol, and one BTC today is worth $24,000. 2000 ETH today is worth $1.3 million. And then he says, no wonder they're so bitter. I have brought this up before as well, and I actually made a joke that if ETH has been a better story value than bitcoin since it launched, but yeah, the growth here is just insane.
00:17:30.694 - 00:18:25.286, Speaker A: If you had bought ETH at the sale, which was, I think it was about $0.30 ETH at its original kind of ICO back in 2014, I believe in mid 2014, yeah, you would have basically been able to purchase it for one BTC, which was around $500 or $600 at the time, if memory serves me correctly. And obviously now it is worth, I mean, when I'm recording this at $600, it's dropping a bit quick there. Maybe it's less about the time this video goes out, but it's around dollar 600 right now. So that is an incredible gain on your capital in just five years, right? Um, or I guess like six years if you count like the original 2014 investment as the start date there. So, yeah, uh, I guess if you were just to hold your bitcoin through all of that, you still would have made money, right? If you bought bitcoin at $600, I don't think you're bitter about it being at over $20,000. Or I guess maybe you are because you should have bought ETH instead.
00:18:25.286 - 00:18:59.092, Speaker A: Um, but yeah, this was just a great way to visualize that. And, you know, a fun fact, I actually, um, when I first discovered kind of crypto was in 2013, it was just bitcoin back then, right? I bought some bitcoin. I kind of wrote up that first wave from one hundred dollars to one thousand dollars, and, you know, I thought it was a genius and everything. Hahaha. And then it kind of crashed and I was like, okay, maybe, maybe I'll just kind of sell what I have. And then, you know, this is over, right? I actually fell for the narrative that bitcoin had died back then. For those who ran around in 2013 and 14, it was totally, totally different to what it is today.
00:18:59.092 - 00:19:21.644, Speaker A: Like 100,000% different. You know, the biggest exchange at the time was Mount Gox. It wasn't coinbase, and that obviously collapsed at around that same time. So yeah, it was totally different. But the funny thing is, I sold my BTC and kind of exited crypto just as Ethereum was going into the limelight so early 2014. And then I obviously missed the sale. I missed Ethereum.
00:19:21.644 - 00:20:08.756, Speaker A: I actually didn't hear about Ethereum until early 2017, even though I had been in crypto beforehand, even though I was active online and things like that. I was like a huge gamer and stuff like that. It's amazing to me that I didn't hear about it until early 2017, still, not once. So that's quite, I guess, funny to think about because you kind of think about the bubbles that we might be stuck in, whether that be crypto bubbles or other bubbles, and how social media algorithms will tune themselves to your own little bubble, and you can miss a lot of things. So regret, regret from me, but you know, luckily, I bought into early 2017 bit of ETH and kept buying since then. And, you know, it's been fine. But yeah, maybe a lot of the early bitcoiners who didn't buy into ETH and just held their BTC all the way through a bitter that they could have made a lot more money.
00:20:08.756 - 00:20:24.780, Speaker A: But that's the aim of the game. I don't think you should hate something just because you didn't make money on it. That's not. I mean, I don't really hate anything because I didn't make money on it. There's plenty of things I missed out on, didn't make money on. I'm not resentful towards it, but some people like that, right? Some people get. Get annoyed by that and use that.
00:20:24.780 - 00:21:11.714, Speaker A: But it is what it is. But interesting tweet out from Chris today. Pull together announced over the weekend that they have raised a fresh round of capital led by parafy capital, and with kind of participation from nascent, which is a very active defi venture. Defi fund robot Ventures, which is run by Robert Leshner, from Compound Metacartel, which is the Dao incubator kind of platform, the Lao, which is similar to Metacartel, Huawei, Defi labs, which I didn't. Didn't even know it was a thing. But apparently Huawei has a, I guess, fund centered around Defi now and the usual angels that you see, like Starney from RV and came from Synthetix. These two guys are literally on every raise that I've seen these days.
00:21:11.714 - 00:21:44.228, Speaker A: Like, pretty much all of them, especially in Defi. So it's quite funny, whenever I look at the angel list, you know, the angel investor list, I'm like, okay, yeah, Stani, you know, Kane, that's fine. That was expected. And Jordan is listed here as well. Jordan's the COO at Aave, which is pretty cool to see. So, yeah, for those of you who don't know, pull together is basically this no loss lottery platform where you can put in capital and buy tickets. And basically, the prize is not from the capital that people put in, but it's from the interest earned on that capital.
00:21:44.228 - 00:22:19.412, Speaker A: So this has been. I mean, this is one of the really. This was one of the really popular Defi legos early on, and I still think it's quite popular now. It's not as big as. As I guess people would hope it would be, but I think this is one thing that would actually appeal to mainstream a lot more than people in the Defi space, because in the defi space. There's so much like if you're in Defi, right, and you understand what's going on, there's so much kind of stuff you can do with your capital that locking it into this kind of, like, I guess, pull together lottery probably isn't the most efficient thing. But it is safe, right? It's much safer than the other stuff.
00:22:19.412 - 00:22:45.794, Speaker A: And it's much. It's on autopilot, you don't have to worry about it, whatever. Whereas people that aren't in Defi and aren't in crypto, I think this would appeal to them, right. It feels like a lottery, but it's a no loss lottery, and it's like a savings account for them too, where they can basically put the money in here, save their money, right. But also have a chance at winning a prize every week. So yeah, congrats to pool together on raising this money. I actually think they're gonna do some really awesome things going forward.
00:22:45.794 - 00:23:26.320, Speaker A: I hope to see them tap into the more mainstream audience because that's where I think they're gonna get a lot of their users. But that's hard, right? I think that's gonna take like a whole ecosystem wide push to get out there, not just pull together. I need to define it to kind of go mainstream altogether for this stuff to happen. A new website that was created by David Mihal, who created cryptofees dot in Fo as well. This one tracks money movers. Basically what it tracks is the amount of value flowing on each chain over kind of period of time. You can see here that he's tracking bitcoin and ethereum, which are on par with each other.
00:23:26.320 - 00:23:39.078, Speaker A: Basically. Bitcoins move $10.4 billion since. What is it? Since July 2020, I think. Yep, yep, that looks right, I think. And ether is $10.7 billion.
00:23:39.078 - 00:24:00.078, Speaker A: So I would actually like to see this go back further than mid year. I would like to see it go back like, I guess like one year plus. Maybe he'll put that in. But I thought this was cool. I don't think anyone was tracking this in real time before. I think this Ethereum value settled only counts each. I don't think it counts all tokens, maybe.
00:24:00.078 - 00:24:13.966, Speaker A: Unless this is like every 24 hours or something. I'm not sure. Or is it cumulative? And I think it's cumulative. It looks like it is. No, no, you can see here Ethereum is higher. Yeah, must be. Must be every 24 hours or something then.
00:24:13.966 - 00:24:36.020, Speaker A: Okay, maybe. Maybe that could be clearer. Maybe I should give him some feedback on that so yeah, it seems to be every 24 hours because you can see here a theory. I'm kind of like spiked up here during Defi summer and it's come back down. So that means it would include I guess like the tokens on Ethereum as well, which makes sense. So yeah, really cool kind of tool from David here. He's actually built a few cool things lately.
00:24:36.020 - 00:25:10.814, Speaker A: Like I click through here, crypto fees and Ethereum nodes. So I think I've shown crypto free fees on the episode before where it tracks the different kind of fees that blockchains generating and the apps on those blockchains as well. And then you have Ethereum nodes.com, which is basically a way to check for different API providers other than infuria. This was spun up after the kind of infuria outage that happened a couple of weeks ago. But basically, yeah, this is, this is good. I actually was looking for this like at the time of the, at the time of like the kind of incident and I couldn't find anything.
00:25:10.814 - 00:25:39.034, Speaker A: And then David came out with this. So yeah, kudos to him for that one. All right. Superfizz from the ETH staker community has come up with idea of a staking traffic light system. Basically what it is, is it's kind of got the goal to rank staking solutions in a way that benefits users and the beacon chain. So he basically ranks them in kind of like, I guess, you know, amazing to. Not amazing, right? So good to bad.
00:25:39.034 - 00:26:04.934, Speaker A: So he says at the top here, solo staking on your own hardware is like the green traffic light. And you know, that's, that's, that's really, really good and really safe. Much safer than a custodial kind of staking. The, the yellow light here is non custodial for 32 plus ether staking. So you have a couple of service providers on the right hand side there. And then non custodial pools, less than 32. Ether like rocket pool is also there.
00:26:04.934 - 00:26:37.016, Speaker A: Then orange is custodial pools as evaluated and ranked, ranked by this website, ethdd, ddc.org. And then he's just got like examples of pools there. He doesn't have any names there. And then he has a red traffic light saying that staking via centralized exchanges like Coinbase and Kraken are not great for the user in terms of like, I guess like what benefits users the most and not great for the beacon chain as well. So he's got a video explaining here that you can go watch. I'll link it in the show notes. But basically I really like this.
00:26:37.016 - 00:27:06.096, Speaker A: I really like this idea. Super fierce has been amazing within the ETH staking community. He has helped onboard so many people into staking and into ETH two in general, and he's really passionate about this stuff. So he's a great follow on Twitter as well. And his YouTube channel is actually not just his video. He's got a YouTube channel called, a series on a YouTube channel on the Eavestaker channel here. If I load this up, eavestaker, and he's got a series called State of the stake.
00:27:06.096 - 00:27:35.804, Speaker A: So it's a good way to keep track of like ETH two and staking and all that. So yeah, definitely recommend subscribing to his channel there. All right. Second last thing is an update about 1559 that came out this week. So this is update number five. So the TL doctor here is that the team has opened a preliminary 1559 pull request against the geth code base. This is like the first stages of getting it into the go Ethereum client, which is really, really hyped to see and really cool to see.
00:27:35.804 - 00:27:58.008, Speaker A: The large state testnet that I spoke about last time is growing slowly but surely. Early results for transaction pool management are very promising. Never mind. Another ethereum one client is going to release a new R and D notebook analyzing minor collusion very shortly. And there's lots of new 1559 papers and talks. I will link this in the show notes. You can go check it out.
00:27:58.008 - 00:28:35.182, Speaker A: I'm not going to go through the whole thing on this, but yeah, you can go check it out for yourself. Lastly, a very interesting tweet from Proto Lambda. For those who don't know, Proto Lambda is a ethereum two researcher at the Ethereum foundation. He is constantly praised as one of the kind of like top researchers within ETH two that no one really knows about you outside of like the people that are in the weeds. Like you might have heard of like Danny Ryan before, right? Because he's kind of like in the news and seeing things like that. And Justin Drake, obviously you've heard of Vitalik. I'm not even gonna go into that, but yeah.
00:28:35.182 - 00:29:27.274, Speaker A: So proto Lambda put together this thread that eave to stuff is still happening. So there's a lot of stuff that is being worked on from basically doing code reviews for preparing for phase one with building blocks, syncing the beacon state and serving arbitrary state Merkel proofs, which is SSD, which is super technical. And I'm not going to try explaining it to you because I don't even understand it. But a lot of technical stuff here, but basically a really good little update about where ETH two is right now and all the different things that are being worked on. You know, now that the beacon chain's live, I guess what the researchers are kind of waiting for is to see that the beacon chain is running for a few months nicely, while in parallel the research and developers and implementers are working on all the stuff that needs to be done as part of the roadmap. Sharding. Right, the merge.
00:29:27.274 - 00:30:04.118, Speaker A: Well, what is it? Stateless clients and stuff like that. And then if the beacon chain is fine, we'll just do it. We'll just merge it all in. So we might actually see the merge happen late next year, early 2022. And then once the merge happens, that's basically, I mean, sharding should be in by then as well. So that's basically it. That's basically like ETH two rolled out and then we can have a nice to have later on of phase two, of ETH two, which isn't actually required because with, with the merge happening and everything, and with L2, with optimistic roll ups and stuff like that, we can actually get that full scalability and usability benefit.
00:30:04.118 - 00:30:33.340, Speaker A: So yeah, that's really, really cool. And I'm going to be monitoring this closely. I think it's the holiday period now, right? So updates are going to be kind of like scarce on this sort of stuff. People are going to take a well deserved break, especially the ETH two research and developers are going to take a very, very well deserved break after launching this thing that has over a billion dollars of value locked in. It's chugging along really nicely. So yeah, kudos to Proto Lambda for putting this thread together and I think that's it for this episode. This is probably be my longest one.
00:30:33.340 - 00:30:48.548, Speaker A: I don't actually know how long this has been. I think it's over 30 minutes now. But yeah. Thank you all for sitting through. There was a lot to get through. I hope you enjoyed it. Give the video a thumbs up if you did subscribe to the channel, if you haven't already, subscribe to the Daily Gwei newsletter and join the Discord Channel and I will see you all tomorrow.
00:30:48.548 - 00:30:49.004, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
