00:00:00.440 - 00:00:29.926, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delibay refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 28 July 2021. Alright everyone, let's get right into it. So I announced today in the Discord channel that I'm going to be doing an AMA with Daniel from cryptocurrency jobs in the Discord channel this Saturday. The what's the date? The 31 July at 11:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time, 03:00 p.m. Central Eastern time and 09:00 a.m.
00:00:29.926 - 00:01:15.806, Speaker A: Eastern daylight time in the US. So this is the same time that I normally do the Daily Gwei Ama's, but this one is going to be done with Daniel from cryptocurrency jobs, who I mean, I've spoken about him before and I've spoken about cryptocurrency jobs before. Basically, it's going to be a text based AMA in the general channel in Discord. And Daniel and I will be answering all of your questions about like how to get a job in crypto and everything related to that. And I mean, Daniel's helped so many people get jobs over the, over the years and he obviously runs the cryptocurrency Jobs website, which is a big help and an amazing resource, people looking for jobs. So if you have any questions, you can jump into the Discord channel and ask them in the new channel that I've created in there called the crypto Jobs AMA channel. And then those questions will be answered on Saturday in the general channel.
00:01:15.806 - 00:01:47.924, Speaker A: And you can also ask them live and everything like that. And of course there'll be a transcript, transcript available after the AMA is done. So if you aren't available or during that time, they'll be, I'll publish that somewhere and you can go check that out. So, yeah, just giving you guys a heads up with that. Be sure to join the Discord channel if you haven't yet to kind of participate in this on Saturday. So a few of you noticed this digital frame behind me yesterday, and I didn't actually explain it yesterday. So this is the digital frame, digital picture kind of display frame called mural two from Netgear.
00:01:47.924 - 00:02:11.602, Speaker A: And I bought this after seeing it on Twitter. But essentially what I've got displaying on it right now is the EIP 1559 supporter NFT. And it looks awesome. I mean, the video compression on Twitter is really bad, but essentially in real life, I mean, even on the video here on YouTube, you can see it just looks stunning. And unfortunately, this room is, like, really, really small. So I haven't really got much space left to put it, like, on the wall or anything you can see around me. I mean, like, I have so much stuff around me.
00:02:11.602 - 00:02:36.084, Speaker A: And this room, it really is, like, tiny. I mean, I don't even think it's three by 3 meters or something like that. It's absolutely tiny. But, you know, hopefully when I get my own place in a few months, I'll definitely be able to hang this on the wall and. And display a bunch of other NFts that I own as well. I really do think that being able to display them, like, in a physical location and also being able to kind of like, you know, when you have people over, explain to them, hey, they'll ask like, oh, no, that's awesome. What's that? And you can explain to them, oh, well, you know, I actually own this.
00:02:36.084 - 00:02:49.532, Speaker A: It's digital. And, you know, you can probably load up your ethereum wallet. I mean, I own this one at sassle e. So I could load up my ethereum wallet and say, you know, I own this. I could sell it if I wanted to or send it to other people. So I just think it's really awesome. And, you know, from now on, it'll be on the background of the refuel videos.
00:02:49.532 - 00:03:22.464, Speaker A: I might add more to it, so you might see it change over time. But, yeah, I basically just wanted to kind of, like, cover that because I saw a few people commenting about it. All right, so I saw a bunch of confusion on Twitter today for some reason about London EIP 1559 being delayed. Now, this was obviously something that was discussed last week on the refuel. And, you know, the core devs came to consensus that they wouldn't delay it due to the Ropsten bug. So it's still going live in around eight days. At the same time it was scheduled to go live at, I blocked 12,965,000.
00:03:22.464 - 00:03:52.422, Speaker A: But then I later discovered that this kind of confusion was being spread by the Cardano community. For some reason, they were spreading this narrative that 1559 had been delayed. And there was also people saying that it means that Ethereum's triple halvening got delayed or something. And I was like, okay, where is all this confusion coming from? It's just, it's bizarre to me. And I know not everyone can pay attention or pay close attention, as we all do. Um, and I know a lot of mainstream media sites get things wrong all the time, but it was just bizarre for me. So I wanted to clear that up.
00:03:52.422 - 00:04:40.178, Speaker A: But the other thing I wanted to clear up is this triple harvening thing. Now, you may have heard of it before, this. This notion that Ethereum will undergo something called a triple harvesting, and that refers to bitcoins, harvening and basically having three bitcoin halvings at once. Now, this term was coined by squish crypto or squish chaos, in his long report, where he called for like an ethereum price of $130,000, something like that. I went over the report when he published it, but essentially what it describes is got nothing to do with 1559. Absolutely nothing. It describes the merge and the merge alone, because essentially what the merge does, the ETH one to ETH two merge, as I've described before, is it lowers the issuance of ETH, like the new issued ETH, by about 90%, which if you kind of like, calculate it, equals three bitcoin harvestings because you say like 4.5%
00:04:40.178 - 00:05:00.388, Speaker A: today is the current issuance on the proof of work chain. You halve that once, halve it again, and then halve it again, and you'll get to the current proof of proof of stake issuance on. On the beacon chain. So that's why it's called the triple halvening. And as I said, that has nothing to do with 1559. It has only got to do with the merge, and it only happens once. So I just wanted to kind of clear that up as well.
00:05:00.388 - 00:05:58.158, Speaker A: Now, when these kind of two things come together, that's when we get what's called ultrasound money, where essentially 1559 could potentially lead to burning more ethan. We're issuing per year post merge, which makes means that it could be net deflationary and have a decreasing over time. So those are the distinctions that need to be made. And if you see anyone maybe kind of like pushing the fact that 1559 has anything to do with the triple harbing, it might be worth correcting them. Because I don't like these narratives getting ahead of themselves because then for some reason, people like me get blamed at the end of the day for saying that, oh, you know, you guys were spreading these narratives about, like, ETH being ultrasound money, and everyone's confused. Well, all the people that I know that have kind of like talked about ultrasound money or talked about triple harvening and stuff like that, they've never kind of like, misled people. They've always, it tried to be truthful to it, but then, you know, various people, like, whether they be youtubers like, crypto youtubers or people on Twitter, they just twist this narrative for some reason and they kind of get it wrong.
00:05:58.158 - 00:06:14.096, Speaker A: So, you know, I always try to stick to the truth as much as I can, but it get, it gets ahead of me. Like I don't have the reach that some of these crypto youtubers have. And people get ahead of themselves. So I just wanted to clarify all that. But again, back to the main point here, 1559 London. Not delayed. Happening next week.
00:06:14.096 - 00:06:42.164, Speaker A: Really looking forward to it, obviously. And today's Daily Gwen newsletter is an AIP 1559 explainer. Actually, you should go check that out. It's a 300th edition of the newsletter. It was the only one that I've co authored ever, and I co authored it with my good friend Nader. But essentially, if you still don't understand how 1559 works outside of the fee burn, you should definitely read this piece. I think it is actually one of the best, if not the best, simple explanations about how the new kind of gas fee mechanism and market will work.
00:06:42.164 - 00:07:16.188, Speaker A: And obviously, it's not going to give you like a deep dive, comprehensive overview of absolutely everything, but it's going to give you enough knowledge to understand how this new mechanism works. So definitely go check that out. It's published by now and it's out there, the link in the YouTube description for you to check out. So Coca Cola is going to issue their first ever NFT on Opensea very soon. And I put out this little fun tweet today where I said, I wonder if Warren Buffett still thinks crypto is rat poison squared, considering his favorite brand is now issuing nfts and built on Ethereum, of course. And for those who don't know, Warren Buffett absolutely loves Coke. Coca Cola.
00:07:16.188 - 00:07:44.676, Speaker A: He is the top shareholder in Coca Cola, and he drinks it every day, apparently. And if anything's poison, it's Coca Cola. I mean, come on. But, you know, obviously he hasn't been a fan of crypto in the past. But this is just, I guess, like going back to my point about how even if people hate crypto, they're going to use it. And in some roundabout way, Warren Buffett is using crypto and is because of the fact that he's a majority shareholder in Coca Cola and they're issuing NFT. So even if he absolutely hates it, he's still getting value out of it.
00:07:44.676 - 00:08:29.714, Speaker A: I think obviously what Coca Cola is doing here is going to be a little bit of a, a pr stunt, but they are doing it for a cause, like International Friendship Day. And I'm pretty sure they're going to donate the proceeds from the auction to the Special Olympics International, which is, which is really cool. I mean, I obviously, you know, Coca Cola is massive multinational corporation. Nothing they ever do is, is from the good of their heart. But the thing is, is that I'm just glad to see that they're doing an NFT on Ethereum and that the proceeds are going towards the Special Olympics kind of international committee here, which is, which is absolutely awesome to see. And it's funny because, like, I've been saying it for a while on the refuel, that NFTs are basically making crypto and ethereum mainstream. And I still don't think enough of us have come to terms with the fact this is going to be way bigger than any of us can even conceive.
00:08:29.714 - 00:08:55.970, Speaker A: I mean, you know, there was this thing, stoner cats, that launched today, which was, which is pretty funny. I'm going to talk a little bit more about that in a bit. But that was made by celebrities like Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis. And I think Vitalik was involved to some extent. He was voicing one of the, one of the stoner cats or something. But, and I've spoken about it before, how NFts just have, like, such a, such a broad appeal and a much more broad appeal than the things like defi do. But that doesn't mean that Defi isn't going to be absolutely massive.
00:08:55.970 - 00:09:30.342, Speaker A: It will. But in terms of bringing in new people and getting people involved and staying involved during, like, I guess, bear markets and down markets, I think NFTs are going to play an absolutely massive role there, and already is playing a massive role there. And I was speaking to people every day who asked me about nfTs. You know, it's new people as well, that kind of not necessarily into crypto. Um, you know, they're asking about nfTs, like, what is it? You know, what's all the fuss about it? Like, why is it so big? Uh, you know, why is it a big deal? All these sorts of stuff. So, yeah, I guess Coca Cola is just lending their brands to the NFT kind of, um, movement here. So that's kind of big.
00:09:30.342 - 00:10:05.844, Speaker A: Even if they haven't got, like, the best reputation out of companies because they're massive, multinational, and they serve, uh, beverages that are not known for being healthy. Um, I still think it's a pretty big signal to, like, other companies and to people in general that NFTs are here to stay. And Ethereum is the premier platform to issue them on, even though, I mean, I'm going to talk about this in a sec. I think I've got the tweet here I want to talk about. Even though the gas fees are high, I still think Ethereum is going to remain like the home and the hotbed of nfts. And actually, I'll talk about that now. So I put out this tweet where I said it would be great if all these NFT projects waited until after 1559 is implemented to launch.
00:10:05.844 - 00:10:37.600, Speaker A: And that's because every time there's one of these NFT launches now, everyone tries to, like, ape into it and the gas fees go absolutely ballistic. I mean, I woke up and I saw screenshots of the gas fees going up into the high hundreds again, which is what we saw during that massive crash from 4.4k ETH to like 1700 ETH. But like this time it was just people trying to ape in. And obviously, once 1559 is implemented, a lot of this fee revenue is going to be burned. So let's just wait. Let's just wait a week or so left until we got 1559.
00:10:37.600 - 00:11:03.660, Speaker A: Then you can launch as many as you want because any gonna get burned and it won't be as painful. But outside of that, I think there are so many L2 platforms now that support nfts that it's just a matter of time. I mean, not even just L2. You also have like side chains, but essentially something like polygons, Pos chain has like full support, has like Opensea on there. You can do nfts. You can do crypto gaming, zksync, I just spoke about them a lot recently. You can issue nfts on there.
00:11:03.660 - 00:11:30.930, Speaker A: I mean, Xerox Mons is leading the charge there with, with Zknft and stuff like that. You have immutable x going permissionless soon. They've already got their gods unchained stuff on there. They're partnered with a bunch of different people. So these high gas fees are not like a death now for Ethereum's ability to be home of the nfTs. And at the end of the day, NFTs is capturing culture. And Ethereum has, culture has a monopoly on crypto culture, I believe, at least in terms of what appeals to people who want nfts.
00:11:30.930 - 00:12:04.014, Speaker A: And, you know, there's a lot of history there with crypto punks, with a lot of the other kind of like original nfts. Like there's some cat nfts and then there's some other ones. But crypto punks really is the center there. And then generally a lot of the nfts are priced in eat. So people are used to paying that and people are used to obviously kind of like using the Ethereum network and stuff like that. But as soon as we get more like these, these NFT projects start doing more and more stuff on L2s and more these side chains. I know Polygon, kind of like announced Polygon studios and stuff, I think people are just going to realize that ethereum is, is the nexus of all this kind of stuff.
00:12:04.014 - 00:12:27.444, Speaker A: Like, yes, there's other kind of blockchains that are trying to capture at the NFT ecosystem, like tazos for example, and, and flow. I actually don't consider what flow has to be nfts. It's, it's got so much centralization around it. I don't even call them nfts. They're basically just like digital collectibles. Like something you would collect on like a steam marketplace or something. But tezos has like a bit of traction because they appealed to people concerned about the environmental impacts.
00:12:27.444 - 00:13:03.916, Speaker A: But with L2 and with like the merge going through, I think within the next like six to twelve months, we're going to see if you're just like completely monopolize the NFT space. Like I know there are, there are kind of like some, some projects working on other chains and things like that. But I think that they are misguided. I think that they've been sold a narrative. And I do think that the more and more that launch on Ethereum, I guess like the more those network effects grow and liquidity begets liquidity and all these sorts of stuff. And at the end of the day, as I said, ethereum has a monopoly on the culture and most people just like wants to have them on Ethereum. They don't want to have the nfts on another kind of like chain and stuff like that.
00:13:03.916 - 00:13:27.044, Speaker A: That's not to say that these other chains may not gain traction or anything like that. I think some of them have already and everything like that. But you got to contextualize it too. As I said, I don't think what flow has is actually nfts. It's extremely closed off. And really the only people building on it right now is dapper labs, which created flow. And also like, the fact that they have so much centralization everywhere is just like a downer.
00:13:27.044 - 00:14:00.564, Speaker A: Tezos doesn't really have much activity or community on there. I think there's only one project that really took off on there. Whereas on Ethereum there's literally hundreds of projects and on layer one and L2, soon to be more and more on L2 that it's just going to be really hard to compete there. So. Yeah, and I don't have to preach it to you guys. I mean, I talk about this sort of stuff all the time, but I just wanted to kind of like comment on nfts in general there. So speaking of L2s and things like that, I'm going to talk about, actually, I'm going to talk about this kind of like crypto fees update first and then how it relates to L2s.
00:14:00.564 - 00:14:50.924, Speaker A: But essentially crypto fees added a new feature today that supports bundling. So now you can bundle the different versions of, say, uniswap into one kind of a line item on cryptofees info here. And you can see how many fees are being generated across the different versions. So you can see here that essentially uniswap is generating so many, I mean, in the picture, like, it's an insane amount of fees across version three, version two, optimism and version one, version three is doing more than version two now and then on optimism, it's growing as well. And that's what I wanted to talk about with the L2 stuff here is that if you actually go to cryptofees dot in fo and you scroll down a bit here and you can kind of see optimism. Optimism came out, what, two weeks ago? It is very limited right now. It's really on the uniswap and synthetix on there and they're very limited in what you can do on them.
00:14:50.924 - 00:15:38.342, Speaker A: But optimism is already generating more fear of a new than all these other kind of ethereum competitors. Terra Cardano. I mean, it's not hard to outperform Cardano, avalanche, Phantom, Zilliqa, Tezos, Polkadot. I mean, really like the fact that just one L2 that came out two weeks ago that really hasn't even tried to market itself or do any kind of like business development or any kind of like onboarding or stuff like that in any big way because it's still early days for them, is already doing more fear revenue, which I consider to be the best measure of activity on a chain because very hard to fake is just incredible to me. I think that it's just like so funny that people can't see this, they can't see that all these other chains, at least most of them, are just completely useless. They don't mean anything. They don't.
00:15:38.342 - 00:15:51.646, Speaker A: The activity on them, it just isn't enough to justify their existence. So I just wanted to kind of point that out. But I think this upgrade is great from. From crypto fees. You can see here, like, uniswap is. Is three here. Binance smart chain is second here.
00:15:51.646 - 00:16:25.234, Speaker A: And Ethereum is obviously first by a large margin. And I actually wanted to make a comment about binance smart chain here. I was looking at this, and I'm like, okay, well, I don't. I was kind of like, okay, well, binance smart chain, the only reason people were using it was because the fees were lower than Ethereum. And, you know, these fees are, like, what, 3.1 million over the last 24 hours? And obviously, BSC can process more transactions per day than Ethereum can because its block size is larger, because it's centralized and all that sort of stuff. But I also was looking at this, and I'm like, okay, who's actually getting the fees from on BSC? Is it.
00:16:25.234 - 00:16:52.276, Speaker A: Is it, like, the validators? Yes. Okay, well, who controls the validators? Well, binance controls the validators. Okay, so really, what's stopping binance from, like, faking the fee activity here? And it doesn't cost them anything because the fees are going to themselves anyway. Now, I'm not saying that's exactly what's happening. This isn't me trying to cope and say that BSC doesn't have activity on it. It obviously does. But, you know, I said before how I think fee revenue is the best measure of a blockchain's growth because it's very hard to manipulate.
00:16:52.276 - 00:17:45.072, Speaker A: But when you control all the validators, what's stopping you from manipulating it? By just paying yourself the money and to fluff up the metric? Because this metric has been used to basically shield ethereum a lot by various people in the industry. And then there's a saying that says, and something becomes like a target, then it ceases to become a good measure. So basically what that means is that when everyone's looking at something as, like a target, as something, like, positive, then it becomes basically something for other projects to target, and it ceases to become a good measure of anything, really. And I think that, to an extent, that applies to some various projects here, if they're faking their fee revenue or not, especially, you know, things like this where the validators are all controlled by one entity and they're not losing any money by doing so. But there's a lot more nuance to this than just, like, faking it. I mean, fees exist for various different reasons. You know, there's wash trading everywhere.
00:17:45.072 - 00:18:13.914, Speaker A: There's, like, mev stuff. I mean, there's so much nuance here that's kind of hard to say one way or another where it goes, but at least when, I guess, 1559 is implemented, most of these fees are going to be being burned. So it's going to be a positive for ETH holders at the end of the day. But, yeah, just good to see optimism kind of like gaining traction here. And even uniswap on optimism. I mean, I've got it bundled here. You can see uniswap on optimism is, is doing some, some great kind of volumes here, but still, like, much, much less kind of like fee revenue than v two or v three.
00:18:13.914 - 00:18:52.436, Speaker A: But early days, no liquidity mining, only six trading pairs, all that sort of stuff. So we're going to see how that grows there. But great new feature from crypto fees here. And, yeah, I guess, like, speaking of the daily revenue of optimism, you can see that it's been growing over time. And as I said, they've only been around for a couple of weeks now in terms of, like, uniswap being on, their optimism has been live with synthetix for a little while, but you can see, like, they've been growing, you know, as time goes on. But also as the market heats up, more and more people will trade so that free revenue can be expected to grow from there as well. So speaking of L2s, stockware has their stock x 3.0
00:18:52.436 - 00:19:18.912, Speaker A: that is now live on Mainnet. So I've been talking about this for a little while. So what this stock x 3.0 introduces is a couple of new features here. L 1 Volt, which supports Defi pooling, and this new thing called dam or dam, which I'll go into in a bit, and something called sharp, which is independent dapps, share the proof and split the gas bill. So lower gas transactions for all, essentially. You know, obviously with these L2s, you have to put proofs onto layer one.
00:19:18.912 - 00:20:19.334, Speaker A: So if you split the bill with all the different apps on the chain, then you can kind of like, bring the cost down and average it out like that. But essentially what this dam is, and this is something I've discussed before, but I think this is what, the most interesting thing here is this kind of like l 1 volt defi pooling and dam, which used to be called Caspian. And that's what I discussed on the last refuel. But it's essentially this notion of being able to use l one liquidity at L2, which is, like, incredibly important because there's so much liquidity on l one and basically allowing people to tap into that on l two to do conditional orders and things like that is going to be really, really good for adoption and get more people to kind of use it here. So they kind of like explain it how it kind of works here. So, you know, why is this important or why is this a novelty? You know, up until now, users have to choose either participate in the scalable l two environment or participate in l one strategies. So you have to kind of like split your, your kind of like time up there, such as liquidity mining, sorry, such as supplying liquidity to an amm or a y vault.
00:20:19.334 - 00:21:16.420, Speaker A: Now users can do both the same funds without having to pay expensive deposits to l two and withdraws back to l one. So this stock xl one vault allows smart contracts to deposit deposit funds to any ethereum address, publish, limit orders relating to these funds, and withdraw these funds. So, and you can see a bunch of potential use cases here, and I'll let you read through this on your own. But the first one and the most important one in my mind is defi pooling, which basically means that defi strategy contracts can now own an l one vault. This allows stockx users to easily and inexpensively participate in defi strategies such as lending money on Aave and compound investing in Wifi, et cetera. The cost to the user participating in l one strategy is significantly lower in stark x than doing so directly from l one, enabling small accounts the chance to participate for the first time here. So this, I mean, I've discussed this before, like pooling, being able to do like l one stuff at l two, this is going to solve all of those issues between composability and fragments and liquidity and all that sort of stuff.
00:21:16.420 - 00:22:04.852, Speaker A: And stuck where. And, you know, the various bridges are leading the charge here. So really cool to see that. I'm super excited that this is live and I can't wait for developers to essentially kind of like build more and more stuff on here and get more of these features in front of users. So Mihailo, one of the co founders of Polygon, kind of announced today that binance is, it supports withdrawals and deposits to the Polygon Pos chain now, which I think is really cool. I mean, as much as I, not a big fan of binance, you know, any centralized exchange supporting an ethereum scaling solution is, is good in my books because we need these centralized exchanges to support, you know, things like Polygon, things like german optimism to get users to adopt them. You know, there's, there's a few different ways you can get adoption, right? I've discussed them at length before.
00:22:04.852 - 00:22:49.468, Speaker A: One of the biggest ways is liquidity mining, but that's fleeting. That's also kind of like, you know, you could have, like, large spikes, and then it'll go down a lot, and then do you really get much adoption from that? But I think the biggest one, and the one that BSc really showed us was really important was having a nice centralized exchange. Exchange bridge into this network. Because at the end of the day, everyone onboards to a centralized exchange, or at least most people do when they buy with fiat and then they withdraw to their Ethereum wallets and participate in the ethereum network. Well, we need to be able to let them withdraw from the exchange to polygon, to arbitrary, to optimism, to stockware, whatever, whatever it is. So it's great to see binance supporting polygon here. Um, and I think that this joins, like, OKX.
00:22:49.468 - 00:23:09.596, Speaker A: There's a couple of exchanges, ok, coin, that support polygon. You know, arbitram is being supported by OKX, I believe. I'm curious to see if binance will support arbitrary and optimism and all that sort of stuff. We'll see what happens there. But binance as well, is coming under scrutiny, too. Like, I don't know what's happening with them. You know, I don't think this kind of scrutiny is going to kill them or anything like that.
00:23:09.596 - 00:23:52.284, Speaker A: But, like, you know, it's going to be curious to. I'm going to be curious to see, like, what their next movie is. Because I basically said here, you know, short Binance, long defi. And I was quoting this tweet from Hasker here, who said Binance's non KYC daily withdrawal limits are moving down from two BTC to 0.06 BTC, which is an end of an era. Now, for those of you who've used Binance in the past, you'll know what kind of like he's talking about here, where essentially, you know, Binance had this for quite a while, and I was actually amazed that they had a two BTC daily withdrawal limit without KYC. So that meant that you could, you could essentially withdraw $80,000 from Binance each day without having to do KYC, which was, I think, the largest of any exchange, any centralized exchange.
00:23:52.284 - 00:24:33.506, Speaker A: There might be some other, others out there, but in terms of, like, the biggest exchanges, binance, you know, having this withdrawal limit was, was huge. And the fact that they've changed this, along with a string of other regulatory stuff that's been happening at binance, like, you know, them kind of bowing down to regulators and saying, we want to work with you. And even CZ kind of like saying today that he would be open to being replaced as CEO with someone that had more regulatory experience. I do think that, like, binance is finally feeling the wrath of the regulators. And at the end of the day, this is, I think, a positive for the ecosystem because it will push more people to defy. And that's why I said long DeFi, short binance. But I don't think centralized exchanges are going away anytime soon.
00:24:33.506 - 00:25:00.166, Speaker A: I think they serve a critical role in being a fiat on ramp, an off ramp for now. Maybe we can decentralize that in the future. It's a lot harder than decentralizing the other parts of the crypto economy. But, you know, this is just like another signal to people that if your funds are on centralized exchanges, get them off, get them into defi, you, you know, one, you don't own them if they're on centralized exchanges. You own an IOU and you're not really in crypto at that point. You're. You're just kind of like trading tickers on an exchange.
00:25:00.166 - 00:25:18.894, Speaker A: And also with Defi, you don't have withdrawal limits. You can trade as many, as much as you want, whenever you want from your own wallet. It's, it's non custodial and everything. So there's no withdrawal limits, there's no deposit limits. There's none of this kind of garbage on here. You can trade tens of millions of dollars and whatever you want every single day, forever and with. And it all stays within your wallet.
00:25:18.894 - 00:25:35.656, Speaker A: That's why there's no withdrawal limits is because it's all done from your own wallet. So I think that this is just going to push more and more people to kind of adopt defi. So, yeah, we'll see how this plays out. I'm sure there's going to be more and more regulatory stuff coming for centralized exchanges in the future. But oddly enough, and not. Maybe not oddly, but funny enough, Coinbase is. Is.
00:25:35.656 - 00:25:57.656, Speaker A: Has kind of like, escaped all of this. And I think that's because Coinbase has played nice with regulators since day one, whereas binance hasn't at all. They've been, you know, antagonistic towards regulators. They've been skirting regulations, they've been lying, saying they have no physical location, when in reality they do. So there was a reckoning coming, and it finally came for them. So I'm going to keep an eye on this, see how it. See what happens here and also with things like tether and stuff.
00:25:57.656 - 00:26:47.276, Speaker A: There's been some news around that. I think just any centralized points of failure within crypto, we need to stop relying on just, we have the tools to go, you know, Defi, to do defi stuff, to be decentralized, to be, you know, self sovereign, to self custody your assets, to start doing that for all of your activities. I know fees are still high on layer one, but we have L2s coming too. I mean there's the perfect storm right now for, for the actual kind of crypto economy to take off. So let's take the, let's make the most of it really at the end of the day. So reality cards, a project that is a, basically a prediction market project that I've known about for quite a while, announced today they are moving to zero x polygons. So the reason why is because obviously they've been priced out of layer one because they're an NFT based prediction market and they're going to Polygon to kind of like scale out their system and opensea's on Polygon, which just makes it easier for them to do, to do this as well.
00:26:47.276 - 00:27:23.646, Speaker A: So if you haven't checked out the reality cards project, I highly suggest doing so. They have like a novel approach to prediction markets where you can basically own the outcome either way. They've been building for quite a while. I mean I heard about them a little while ago now, probably almost a year ago. They've got a guide here on how to access this and kind of like how to migrate your tokens from like Xdai and your winnings from there and stuff like that. So yeah, it's great to see them on Polygon and it's great to see them kind of like scaling via, via Polygon as well. All right, last up is this thread I wanted to talk about from Chris Dixon, who I think he used to work at a, still works at a 16 z or is still a big part of that.
00:27:23.646 - 00:27:49.298, Speaker A: But he's basically a famous Silicon Valley VC and he's famous for a few different things. One of the things is he put out this blog post, I think it was only a couple years ago. When did he put this out? It was a while ago now, not a couple of years ago. This is, this is like eleven years ago. Basically he put out this blog post describing that the next big thing will start out looking like a toy. And in this thread he talks about that. He talks about how people dismiss all types of technologies and kind of things like that as toys.
00:27:49.298 - 00:28:25.066, Speaker A: To begin with, he talks about how people dismissed things like the telephone as like a toy or things as being too expensive or things as being like something that people didn't want to use. I mean, it sound familiar? Right? Like this is exactly crypto. People think that NFTs are a toy and it's a fat, it's going away. People saying that ethereum is expensive, so it's always going to be this way. And they miss, they're missing the forest for the trees. And I've discussed, you know, this at length on the refill before, of course, but over time, costs come down, right? Like costs come down considerably. I mean, he gives some really great examples here where he says sequencing a human genome went from costing $100,000,000.20
00:28:25.066 - 00:28:55.906, Speaker A: years ago to under $1,000 today. That's an insane kind of level of growth. Sorry, level of, I guess you could call it growth, basically cost savings here. And I think the same thing is going to happen to something like ethereum fees. We're going to go from a decentralized exchange swap costing like $20 to costing very little. I mean, we already have the technologies out there, but more and more people are going to use that and eventually those kind of like high costs are not going to be something that end users are going to have to pay. Anyway, I recommend going and giving this twitter thread a read.
00:28:55.906 - 00:29:24.796, Speaker A: It gives a really great picture about these sorts of things. And I think that this is the sort of stuff that, like these, I guess, like long term thinkers think about. And as I said, this post was published eleven years ago, they kind of realized that this stuff is all a long term game. There is no shortcuts here. There is no short termism here. If you want shortcuts and short termism within crypto, and that's what your investment thesis is, or really you're just gambling or you're a trader. At the end of the day, if you're a long term investor and you want to be in this ecosystem for the long term, then you need to have a long term mindset.
00:29:24.796 - 00:30:09.138, Speaker A: You need to look at these things as technologies that are very new. They're going to take time to develop. You are a pioneer of these technologies. And being a pioneer means that you deal with the clunkiness, you deal with the expensiveness, you deal with things not being kind of mainstream or up to scratch or up to the same experience that you would expect considering you come from like the web, two world web, three, Defi, crypto, nfts, ethereum, whatever it is, is going to take, you know, a while to roll out completely to get us to a point where we have, like that mainstream adoption. But by being this early in the ecosystem, you get to capture all the upside and get to capture all the opportunities that are awarded to you that will not be available to the people who come in later. So make the most of it. Don't, you know, don't, don't doddle about all the problems that we have today or do dawdle on them and fix them.
00:30:09.138 - 00:30:19.074, Speaker A: Do something about it. I think, you know, don't just complain on Twitter about it. Do something about it. But anyway, go read this thread. I'm going to leave it at that. So that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching.
00:30:19.074 - 00:30:26.074, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
