00:00:00.240 - 00:00:34.410, Speaker A: Apps onboard millions of users and simplify the web3 user experience. So by Colombie they offer a full stack account abstraction flow for Dapps and wallet in a non custodial manner. So through an account extraction compliant SDK, it provides smart accounts, a pay master and bundler that powers sponsored transactions, paying guests in any token, automated transactions, session keys, account recovery and much more. So I'll just let Anika share.
00:00:34.562 - 00:01:26.748, Speaker B: Thanks a lot. Thanks javan GM everyone, this is Anike one of the founders of Pyconomy before I just get into it, just a show of hands, how many of you guys use smart contract wallets on a daily basis? I see Luke is there, but I hope this number is going to change next year. But yeah, just a bit about biocondy, even in the US space for last four years is trying to make sure that becomes simple, like people use applications before getting into the complexities of web3 and make sure that it's pretty seamless. There's been a lot of buzz around the last one year. People have different frequency notions about it. But what I was saying is that instruction is kind of not aimed. This has been outgoing for last several years and they be like in different shapes and sizes.
00:01:26.748 - 00:02:02.990, Speaker B: So convex action 1.0 has been fine. It was basically, you know, I'll say like led by a gas station input network. These are the guys who are currently identical, but basically it was like a relay network that was using metacognitions to do caches, summations. The few keywords in the industry back then was like castation and pro arch and back on, but it kind of worked. But the problem there was that the operation cost was a bit high, so people were not like very key peas without section 1.0. And secondly, the dev excellence was kind of limited.
00:02:02.990 - 00:02:38.214, Speaker B: It was pretty good for gasless transactions or like paying lease and gas tokens, but that was kind of the limitations of a contract. 1.0. My economy had 1.0 and many things as we can see in the numbers here. For the last couple of years we have done over 40 million transactions work with web3 projects. Some of the key players that we work with in the industries are both a combination of web3 and web3. In terms of web3, we work with sandbox in Cinderland, DYDX, basically a mix of gaming and operations.
00:02:38.214 - 00:03:11.686, Speaker B: In web two we worked with most of these Archikawana, JPMorgan, you guys are not familiar about Jkwelin. They did the first year that was all powered by Maconomy's foundation from so what all together is gases, foundations is needed, us is definitely needed. People needed a product. But our scope was not just limited to gases on this level. Like definitely break much more deeply. And then like a counter section and four, three, seven kind of came in. So this is how 4.2
00:03:11.686 - 00:04:03.702, Speaker B: kind of occurred. This is around two weeks ago when like there was Vitalika. And so that was about how end to point can be created and they can be like new flow foundations where we will be using smartphone wallets overall, just to simplify the productions. So this was like a sort of engineering moment overall for everyone in the industry. When I work in similar space, just imagining the foundation that can be done without even doing hard work, while there's no hard work needed for that, probably be able to go a bit backwards and understand how the transition. So this is like a normal foundation for works in our UA. When I say eos, like Metamask, etcetera, where many of you guys might be familiar about this block, but just reiterating it, where a unicycle comes into this room, builders kind of take it up from there and summits like a bundle and give it to the validator.
00:04:03.702 - 00:04:46.134, Speaker B: And then productions goes on. And then we have different characters, like searchers, and we have private meetings as well, just to like save the meaning of that. But this is how like a normal transition flow works. What happens in our 467 flow is that. So benpool kind of gets segregated like, and I think so a different version of mempool gets added before function goes to the builder. And instead of like sending functions, they submit user ops. So user ops are like intense, or like pseudo transactions back then that user submits before and the function gets added to a.
00:04:46.134 - 00:05:30.806, Speaker B: Where it gets to a bundle. Bundle is like a similar actor as that of relay 1.0, where it gets transitions and bundled in and submits to the builder. In the normal, there's a new character also that's added here. It's not mentioned Paymaster, where that basically adds to the gas tank that is used to pay the gas fees on behalf of the users. So basically, what results into creation of all smartphone wallets, where it's like, if we have to simply define it, how it's different from an EOS, more of a programmable wallet, where signing and the key is kind of different. But in here, what happens is that that anyone who has a team is the only person who can sign.
00:05:30.806 - 00:06:09.894, Speaker B: But in sparkling water, it's a lot more than that. Like we can program the foundations and signing can be delegated to multiple peers. If you have to further like, you know, simplify, it kind of looks like this where you have like, and you get like a new set of experience code. So kind of call it like iPhone. One moment. So this, this picture is kind of very powerful in general just to, you know, have like more programmable transitions and like simplify the piece of flow for anyone that using like a blockchain application. So yeah, pipeline has been working on this for the last two years and decided to launch our micron.
00:06:09.894 - 00:06:44.176, Speaker B: Why do we call it modular? Is because we were like looking at this architecture here and explain what model actually means. So what happens in a modular condition. What modelers want to do is that like two components, the baseline is like in front. That is where we have our paymasters and bankers. These are the guys who are just like doing the functions. Basically what we saw in the flow team paymaster is basically used for gas sponsors. Like you can either do gasless transactions, they can program the cash transactions, or you can also pay fees in other transactions.
00:06:44.176 - 00:07:17.924, Speaker B: Bundlers act as a pseudo relay where it kind of bundles the transactions and takes it builder. On top comes the smartphone wallet. And why it's called modular is because it has different flow storage. It can have different buttons and different modules can be built on top of it. Some of the modules mentioned here are session key, social login pass keys. They can be in this module depending on the customizeability, depending on how that what you see the user experience should be, that makes it super powerful. And that's why like, you know, more customized can be imagined future applications.
00:07:17.924 - 00:08:04.716, Speaker B: So basically like what the major components that unlock smartphone worlds are not really basically like anyone who wants to like have a customized user experience and build their own models, you don't have to like have like a wallet experience where it is just hanging on a chrome browser and people are just having a detached experience where wallet experience, like different from the app experience. So in this way it can be customized. As to the Dapps, you know, it can be upgradable. Like if you know, like in future means you want to have more modules or more custom flows can be available the way Dapps want to make it happen. And it's programmable as well. Like what I mean by programmable is that, you know, you can delegate transactions into third parties. We can also have limits.
00:08:04.716 - 00:08:54.924, Speaker B: We can also have automation within the wallet itself so that things cannot happen automatically without user intervision. So yeah, and some of the other key facts of model architecture is that, you know, it is very developer efficient. Like the developers can build new modules on top of it and sort of different applications out there. You know, there's a better UI as we all know and we all kind of, it is easily like a plugin plan where like people can easily like kind of modules and it's customizable as per us for the. So what are the different kind of modules that can be plugged into like just mark, there are basically three modules out there like solution module and hooks. Hooks we haven't made live. It's going to be live pretty soon when implementing and how these two modules are.
00:08:54.924 - 00:09:26.132, Speaker B: So validation modules are basically like more of a delegation model where like. And give it 102 goodbye to our behalf basically. And some of the examples of these modules are session keys. We'll see you see in the upcoming demos like how these modules actually play into experience. Execution module is basically like a custom module that can be within that app itself. Like simple example. And hoops is basically like a car trace just to check the foundations before and after.
00:09:26.132 - 00:10:29.634, Speaker B: Like it's done by like a user and it is a very powerful user in order just to test like if there's any niche activity happening within action like the demo feature. But like this is how it's going to look like where we got to be building like different modules and we will also getting like commonly people to build modules for us. So there can be endless modules and from so here probably going to be showing like a name of how exactly like modules come into action. Sorry guys. Yeah, there was expected, right, okay, so.
00:10:35.294 - 00:10:47.394, Speaker A: I believe bichon me. You guys are also bringing infracon to do you have city next week. So do you have anything that you just want to give everybody here? Just a little sneak peek about what's happening?
00:10:48.594 - 00:11:26.062, Speaker B: Yeah, this is sort of like our event and you know, pretty excited about this, guys. Anyone wants to collaborate with us, more things with us, really happy talking, guys. It's all fine. Like so this is what we expect from nemos, but we will share more and more. So probably a good chance for me to increase my twitter followers. So yeah, so this is a demo where he kind of presents session keys where like English can do answers without doing any signing. This is going to go live with some of the applications in the future, but to see more, just log into Android.
00:11:26.062 - 00:11:57.378, Speaker B: Follow me. You'll probably post it soon. So it's a case study. I mean this is something I was very excited about. This is I think like one of the two applications of abstraction that is actually going to go live pretty soon. And one of the modules that we have built over the last several months. It's like a signal signature multiple execution model where it unlocks the two features of multi chain transactions where if anyone wants to do transactions on one chain and wants to get multiple chain, this is all we're trying to do in this model.
00:11:57.378 - 00:12:48.550, Speaker B: And we are really excited to launch it with the co partner that's going to live pretty soon registered where it's a decentralized platform where they want to aggregate different platforms across multiple hqs and want to have users like a single account from where the transactions that are connected and related to multiple chains. So yeah, this launch is going to be happening pretty soon and this is going to be one of the sort of game changing moment in a conversation space in terms of the UX also want to be for platform like this. So here are some of the sacks. Like let's probably get in the numbers. Like we all know this slide exactly. Of all what we said, like what exactly is happening? So the numbers are growing, but it's not there yet. Like overall we have seen only that 1.6
00:12:48.550 - 00:13:35.118, Speaker B: million user of silhouette, whereas like a daily transition of ethereum is way more than that. So we're pretty early in the series, but what he has come to observe in the last seven years, exponential don't happen. So if you see the stats of July and August, like these are the months where it seems like most of the transactions happening. And it's not like dominated by each of sometimes polygon is again then optimum is again we see like good actions as well. So we'll see it is like a 1.0 moment in terms of adoption and yeah, I mean like I think it's a very new space. In terms of iconic report card, in terms of entire we've been like sort of 20% capturing the market share where we have done version at keys and dogs.
00:13:35.118 - 00:14:32.544, Speaker B: This sort of number that we call it like. So this number's going on won't even matter. Sort of applications that we're seeing, some of the partners that we are working with, many of these guys are here already, many of the more guys are coming. And basically any event stream you can rely on in three days. What is the road lie ahead of us? There are a couple of things that we are working on. Standardization. This is where different sessions around it, but this is where we are actively working on security aspect like whenever.
00:14:32.544 - 00:15:29.536, Speaker B: So we will have a little bit security practices there to make sure that things are very safe to use and people are able to user without like anyway we had like a presentation of searching for that you can already see like, how hacks are intense. Like, so four 30 is kind of like a subset of intents, but going deep into it, like, how can mobile, like, I think most of the applications that we have seen are highly mobile users and their. So we'll be spending a lot of time making sure that mobile experience becomes. Yeah, I mean, here we are. Like, this is what we're working on. We are like super deep into smart accounts. And if anyone wants to help us in the journey, want to work with us or just want to collaborate, just picture account, just follow anytime.
00:15:29.536 - 00:15:33.924, Speaker B: And we are all here the entirety, for example. Thanks a lot, guys.
00:15:34.904 - 00:15:35.824, Speaker A: Thank you so much.
