00:00:00.200 - 00:00:34.502, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where we kept the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano. And today, 24 November 2022. Right everyone, let's get into it. So a lot to get through today. So I'm going to be running through each item rather quickly. I'm not gonna, I'm gonna try not to ramble on about it, but to start us off, we had an announcement today from Consensys, or at least consensys changed their privacy policy to announce that when you use Infuria as your default RPC provider in Metamask, you infuria can will collect your IP address and your Ethereum wallet address when you send a transaction.
00:00:34.502 - 00:01:17.436, Speaker A: Now just a quick background here for those who don't know, when you are using metamask as a wallet, you are using a third party RPC by default, and that is Infuria, which is owned by consensus, and consensus also owns metamask as well. For those who don't know. Now you can change your RPC to something else, and you do change your RPC as well when you go on other EVM networks, whether they be L2 sidechains or other layer ones, but for Ethereum mainnet it's defaulted to infuria. And then you can manually change it yourself if you go in there. And obviously most people don't manually change it because it's just not something people do, so something they think about. And you can also change it to use your own, your own full nodes. You can change it to another third party node or your own full node to relay your transactions to the Ethereum network.
00:01:17.436 - 00:02:03.602, Speaker A: Now this is obviously not great for Infuria, and I linked here an alternative list of alternatives you can go to@ethereumnodes.com to check out, but I hope inferior reverses this decision because it doesn't really make sense for them to be collecting IP addresses and connecting those to wallet addresses other than maybe for some, I don't know, weird regulatory KYC AML stuff. But even in that scenario, I don't know, it seems, it seems kind of unlikely. And Dan Finlay actually from Metamask put out a tweet saying, I think we can get this fixed soon. We are not using IP addresses even if they are being temporarily stored, which they don't need to be, and we're not using them for anything as we're not using them for any anything. So as I said, like, they're not actually using them. So what's the point of collecting it now? Maybe Dan isn't privy to what they're using it for.
00:02:03.602 - 00:02:29.672, Speaker A: Maybe they are using it for something, they being inferior. Dan is at Metamask, not at infuria. But I don't know, I'm not sure. I'm just speculating here on, on my behalf on this one, but yeah, just not great to see, as I said, like you can use an alternative RPC right now@ethereumnodes.com. Some of them will have the same privacy policies, or similar privacy policies. If I go to the website, I could already point out that alchemy probably has a similar policy to infuria. Flashbots.
00:02:29.672 - 00:02:56.680, Speaker A: I'm not sure what their policy is. And there's, I mean there's heaps here, right? And this isn't all of them either. There was some, there was another one that was mentioned in the discord today that I forget the name of. But you can check out their website, check out their privacy policies if you want to see what they're, what they're doing. But also you can just run your own full node, and if you are running your own full node, you can just connect that as your RPC. There's some guys to do that online if you, if you need that. But that is the best way to do it because then you don't have to worry about any of that stuff.
00:02:56.680 - 00:03:43.160, Speaker A: Like you're fully, you're basically a fully sovereign ethereum user when you are using your own full node to process and relay your transact, to relay your transactions to, to the network. So yeah, you can do that. But yeah, I'm hoping to see this decision reversed. But if not, I mean, it goes back to what I say about centralized, I guess, some infrastructure and centralized things in general. In crypto, if you're using something centralized, just assume that it's doing stuff that you wouldn't probably agree with, such as collecting your information or censoring certain things, and just expect that from centralized tools, because that's, that, that's basically what they're going to do for one reason or another. And I don't think we should be expecting anything else. Now, how do we address this? Well, in various different ways, obviously, building better, decentralized tools is the, is the surefire way to address it, but that takes time.
00:03:43.160 - 00:04:36.324, Speaker A: But it's been funny seeing all these things come out and all these centralized points be attacked and all this stuff comes to the surface and then decentralized alternatives pop up. I think the ecosystem in general is going to be much better off over the next few years than it would have been without decentralized points, kind of ruining their ugly head because we need to see them in practice before people actually believe that it can happen, and then we can work on fixing them. All right, so someone might have told you that speaking chain beacon chain withdrawals aren't coming anytime soon. Well, they're wrong, because Marios from the Geth team shared out that there's now a multi client withdrawal Devnet with a lodestar, Teku Lighthouse, Nethermind and Geth here. So prism should also work. But they had a config issue, and then he followed up saying, prism now updated and happily following the canonical chain withdrawals are coming. Guys, there's so much fud right now, and I've talked about this fud before, but withdrawals are coming in Shanghai.
00:04:36.324 - 00:05:15.346, Speaker A: That is, is pretty much certain at this point. And as I said before, my estimation of Shanghai is h one or first half of, of next year. Hopefully we can get it in, you know, in Q two. I don't think it's gonna happen in Q one, but q two seems, seems more likely there. But, yeah, I just wanted to highlight this because I know even people that I've spoken to about this directly before, they're still, like, you know, where withdrawals, like, all these people are saying that withdrawals have been canceled. Why did the Ethereum foundation take, or why did the ethereum.org website take away the estimated date for withdrawals? And it's like, well, because they shouldn't have put that there to begin with, because there was no estimated date given out by the core developers.
00:05:15.346 - 00:06:02.642, Speaker A: Like, I've given my own estimates, but, like, that's just me. Like I keep saying to everyone, don't quote me on things, right? I just give my estimates based on what I'm seeing, and I, and I think that the reason why core devs wait to give an actual date or give him in a window is to make sure that we can actually hit that target and to prevent people from saying stuff like, oh, I got delayed. It got delayed. Like what we saw happen with the merge, right? So I think this time around, they're definitely sticking to their guns of, we'll keep building this stuff. We'll get, you know, we'll, we'll send signals about where we are in the, I guess, development pipeline, but they're not going to give any kind of time windows until they're relatively short of it. So I think that's the better approach anyway. All right, so a bit of drama over the last 24 hours in the Ethereum client land, specifically on the execution layer client.
00:06:02.642 - 00:06:30.546, Speaker A: So Akula has announced that they are winding down the project. So Akala is an Ethereum client. Ethereum execution client, written, written rust. And one, the lead Dev, his name is Artem. He shares a thread which I don't have handy right now. If you go to his profile, you can see there's two. Yeah, there's a, there's a thread with screenshots of his conversations with Georgios from paradigm, which I'll, I'll talk about the context of that in a sec.
00:06:30.546 - 00:07:15.802, Speaker A: But also his announcement saying, you know, he goes, sadly, we cannot out compete multi billion dollar vc's who copy paste their architecture and code. Akula is winding down and I'll be taking a break from Ethereum core development for the foreseeable future. So item is obviously frustrated that about what paradigm where, which is where Georgios works has been building, which is what George Os announced today, which is called Reth, which is a rust Ethereum execution layer client very similar to Akula. Now, the reason why Adam's frustrated is because George Jose was asking him a lot of questions about Akula and how it does things. And, and obviously that was to, to, you know, get information on, on things to apply them to ref. Here. Right now, I'm not going to make any comments on whether this is fair or not fair.
00:07:15.802 - 00:07:58.806, Speaker A: I'm not going to make any comments on anyone's personalities here and why they may or may not have wanted to work with each other. I've been talking about it in the discord a little bit, but I don't want to spend too much on it, too much time on it. I felt it was worth mentioning because I think what we've done is basically a swap here. We've gone from Akula to Reth and they're both built using rust, but they're very different teams now. I don't think. Look, I have some opinions on the building of clients themselves, and I've given a lot of these before, but I think that Akula could have still built out their client and it would have just been up to the, I guess, free market to adopt the one that they actually really wanted to use. Now, would they adopt Akula over Reth? Who knows? Right? And maybe they would.
00:07:58.806 - 00:08:33.032, Speaker A: Maybe they, they wouldn't have, because the fact that paradigm has a really big reach, a really big brand paradigm has an in house team, whereas Akula is definitely not, I guess, like an in house team. It's more of a ragtag group of developers coming together to build something. So, you know, if you can look at it from an objective stance, you would assume that breath would probably be the better, more sustainable client simply because they have a, an in house team to do these sorts of things. They have the funding as well. So Adam's point, I guess, stands true. There is like obviously a cooler on that front. Can't compete with a well funded team like that.
00:08:33.032 - 00:09:26.314, Speaker A: But I don't think that should be reason to shut down the project you've been working on. Um, and kind of leave it co development altogether. Because if we, if that was the case for every core developer, I mean there are plenty of client, core clients out there right now that have very little market share on the network, but they're still being developed, they're still being built, and they definitely don't have billion dollar funds backing them there. A lot of them actually rely on grants from the Ethereum foundation and things like Gitcoin donations and getting money from other, from doing work with other projects. They're not massive teams that have been funded by billion dollar vc. So I just thought that was a, that was a bit weird there, but that's the drama surrounding that. As I said, I don't want to go into too much detail here because there's controversial opinions on all sides of the aisle, but what I will do is talk about what paradigm is building and what George Os announced today, which is Reth.
00:09:26.314 - 00:10:00.230, Speaker A: And, and George O starts off by saying Reth is not a fork or a rewire, a rewrite of any other client implementation. He announced this after our terms tweets. It is a new Apache MIT licensed full node implementation of Ethereum, focused on contributor friendliness, modularity and performance. And then he goes on and says, Reth does not include any code from any existing client, but stands on the shoulders of giants including Geth, Aragon and Akula. We sponsored the project in the interest of client diversity, so we are very sorry to see any other project seizing development. It is a loss for the space. And then he goes on to describe exactly what Reth is.
00:10:00.230 - 00:10:32.334, Speaker A: I think this is really cool. I think that more clients on the execution layer side is always a welcome thing and more clients that people are actually going to use as well. Now there's a million different reasons why people use one client over another, but I think, I mean, you can come up with a million different reasons, probably not literally a million, but many different reasons. But I think the core of it is stability and reliability, especially in a post merge world. Where if your execution land client goes offline or has a bug in it or stops syncing, it affects your rewards as a. As a validator. Right.
00:10:32.334 - 00:11:04.020, Speaker A: So from that point of view, the most important thing, I would say is reliability, stability and security for an execution layer, and I guess for a consensus layer client as well. Now, that's what I guess paradigm is trying to do with Rethia. And if I had to back back a horse, I would definitely back paradigm on this. They've built some of the best open source software in the ecosystem today. I mean, flashbots is. It works very closely with paradigm, and they build all that out. They've built a foundry, which is a development framework.
00:11:04.020 - 00:11:40.496, Speaker A: They've built a lot of great things. And I know sometimes people give them a bad rap because they are a VC firm, so to speak, and they do make investments and things, and they invested in FTX, obviously. Obviously, that's a bit of a black mark on them there. But I think that because they're doing a hybrid approach of being a VC, but also being a research and development shop for bleeding edge things, you have to separate the two. And I would say that a lot of the people who work in research and development probably aren't interested in the VC side of things very much at all. Right? But they're interested in working with the portfolio companies that paradigm has, such as Uniswap. Obviously, Paradigm and Uniswap very work very closely together and now working on.
00:11:40.496 - 00:11:51.796, Speaker A: And they also released a consensus layer like client called Helios. No, sorry. That. Well, that was from a 16 z. So, yeah, I was getting confused there. A 16 z is another. Another fund that does similar things to paradigm.
00:11:51.796 - 00:12:18.804, Speaker A: But another paradigm released our foundry now doing this execution layer client. So they're adding a lot of value to this space. And when you really think about it, the only way they're able to do this is they hire the best people, but the only way they're able to afford those best people is from their VC investment returns. Without those returns, they wouldn't have any money to splurge on. You know, they're the best of the best. And we wouldn't get this awesome software, open source software that we've been getting. So I'm great.
00:12:18.804 - 00:12:42.550, Speaker A: I'm. I'm really happy to see this coming out here. I'm sad to see Akula go because I was actually looking forward to seeing how that would pan out. But, I mean, one goes, one comes into it. It doesn't mean that someone else couldn't take the Akula code base and start working on it again. Maybe Artem comes back, I don't know. You know, sometimes people can be a bit emotional in the moment and then come back after, after clearing their head and being like, you know what, I was, I jumped the gun.
00:12:42.550 - 00:13:26.070, Speaker A: Maybe I should just stick to this. So hopefully he does, and his team that was working with him does as well. But for now, we've got reth to look forward to on the new execution layer client front. All right, so speaking of Ethereum core development, Liam from the op labs team today said Ethereum core devs have a call coming up this Thursday to discuss getting ERP 4844 to be considered for inclusion. Now this is that call that I've been talking about, how we had kind of a deadline at the end of November that core devs gave themselves to see if we could fit for 48 44 into Shanghai. And then Liam continues saying, this is a huge moment for the many teams that have been working on getting the EIP to production this year. Here is why I think it's time for CFI or considered for inclusion.
00:13:26.070 - 00:13:56.020, Speaker A: And then he gives a thread, a little thread here about that with a TL doctor on why it should be included. It's built on withdrawals. The spec has is done after nine plus months of iteration. Interoperability repo with stress tests is KZG ceremony spec done with working front ends. KZG library support for these different languages, and Devnet v three will support six out of the nine majority clients. And then he explains each piece. And I'll link this thread in the YouTube description for you to check out.
00:13:56.020 - 00:14:41.222, Speaker A: But basically, what does considered for inclusion mean? I mean, it's pretty self explanatory, but considered for inclusion. I want to make a delineation here. Considered for inclusion does not mean that it's going to be included in Shanghai right in the next upgrade. Maybe it gets, it gets included in the next one. But considered for inclusion right now is like, okay, can we realistically get this into Shanghai in the timeline that we want to deliver Shanghai? Obviously we want to deliver it as soon as possible because Shanghai brings with it with beacon chain withdrawals, which are, which are pretty critical right now. But if supporting 48 44 would push that out to Q three or even Q four, and then it becomes an issue of, you know, we don't think we should greenlight 48 44 for inclusion in Shanghai just because of timing. Like let's push that out to the next, next upgrade.
00:14:41.222 - 00:15:06.502, Speaker A: And the next upgrade might not be until the end of next year. Early 2024. So that's why people have been working so hard on 48 44 is because they really want it included in Shanghai. So this is going to be discussed on tomorrow's call, today's call I believe, and we'll see what the answers are there. I don't know. It could go either way right now. I don't have a really good pulse on it, on where it stands right now.
00:15:06.502 - 00:15:39.108, Speaker A: But, but I do know the amount of work that's gone into 48 44 so far. But it just depends on how the core devs feel about timing, I believe. But anyway, you can read this thread from Liam, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so an update here or a little note here from Jasper as part of the Rockapool community. He highlighted this for me in the Discord channel today. This little tweet that he put out about the premium for reth now is now nearly 3%, which means that the new rocket pool validators can get an immediate 0.4 to 0.5
00:15:39.108 - 00:16:19.282, Speaker A: ETH and read this thread before you stake anything you don't want to miss out. And he says, we are seeing tons of node operators not use rocket ARb and lose out. And then you can read the thread that he linked here. But basically, I just wanted to highlight this for you guys that basically now is a perfect time to be spinning up your own kind of rocker pool mini pool here and being part of that, the rocker pool network, if you have the requirements to do so, obviously. And as I said, you can read this thread from Jasper here to get a full breakdown of what that entails. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you. All right, so binance has, I should have talked about this at the start, but I'll talk about it now anyway.
00:16:19.282 - 00:17:31.184, Speaker A: But I spoke about this the other day, how binance was raising money for an industry recovery fund. Well, it's put out some numbers today saying that they're targeting a $1 billion raise to basically invest into different projects within the ecosystem that need help. And now I wonder if all that whole billion dollars is going to go into private deals or they're going to be buying tokens on the open market. Are they going to be buying Ethan BTC with it? I think it's more on the side of they want to help or they want to invest in projects that they think are very good projects, but they're either strapped for cash or need know want to raise again, and binance wants to be part of that. So yeah, I think this is really cool because it not only set, like, sorry, it not only helps on the financial side of things, but it sends a very strong social signal from CZ and binance that they're willing to keep, you know, putting money into this ecosystem, to keep growing this ecosystem, and to keep helping it come back from, I guess, like, all the blobs that we've had this year. And I think that's a very important and powerful social signal to put out into the non crypto world, because without that signal, I think that, I mean, I always think that eventually people come back to crypto anyway. It doesn't matter how burnt they get.
00:17:31.184 - 00:18:08.530, Speaker A: But I think without that signal, what you end up having is all the bad stuff just keep dominating the headlines. So with this signal, you start to, I guess, strike a balance here where there's a lot of bad stuff, but then there's a glimmer of hope. Yeah, and a glimmer of positive stuff, and then that builds up over time until you really only hear about the positive stuff in mainstream media again. And that is one of those things that leads to the next cycle. And it's pretty funny how it plays out. You basically have this balance act where it goes all the way to one side of the scale in being negative news, and then slowly over time, it'll go to the positive side, and then the positive side will become too heavy, and then it'll have to swing back. And it usually follows the market, of course.
00:18:08.530 - 00:18:28.898, Speaker A: Like, if the market's going up, then obviously the mainstream media is reporting on that. They're reporting on all the growth that's happening, all the, the crazy amounts of money people are making, and sounds very positive. It sounds like a whole party's going on. And then when inevitably the party ends, you just hear negativity. Everything's going down. This crash, you know, this blew up. How is crypto ever going to recover? Crypto is actually dead this time.
00:18:28.898 - 00:19:01.324, Speaker A: It's just two opposite ends of the spectrum, really. But I think we pretty much hit the bottom, or I guess, like, hit the, the extreme side of the negative, negative spectrum over the last few weeks. And now we're on the up and up again, I think, and it's going to take a while. It doesn't happen overnight, obviously. I would go as far as to say that even for the next six to twelve months, we would probably be in this, this lull and this, I guess, like, if you're talking from a market perspective, probably in like a sideways movement. But in general, there's going to be a lot of building happening during this time. That's going to pay a lot of dividends in the bull market or in the next bull market that we see.
00:19:01.324 - 00:19:38.584, Speaker A: But I also think that over time, there's diminishing returns to those cycles on adoption. I've showed you guys how L2s are still getting a lot of adoption. Obviously, we have other big organizations getting involved with crypto, still polygons doing a lot of bd work there. So I think over time, the market conditions matter less and less. The more non financial applications we get as well, and the more people we just get into this ecosystem generally, and that's a healthy thing. I don't think that we should just rely on these, I don't know, three to four year cycles that play out in crypto forever, because that's just not very healthy at all. And I actually don't think that those cycles are going to be playing out for very much longer anyway.
00:19:38.584 - 00:20:16.488, Speaker A: I think we may be done with the four year cycle, to be honest, and that that four year like bitcoin harvesting cycle, because bitcoin has become very irrelevant to crypto more generally. It really is Ethereum as the flag bearer of what we're building, whether that be defi nfts, web3, and the rest is kind of following that, whereas bitcoin is in this weird niche place that, I mean, it's always been there, but it's really tucked itself in there. And it definitely seems like it's not the flag bearer of this ecosystem anymore. I mean, people can disagree with that. That's fine, but that's how I think, feel about things. And I think that means that, that meme of the bitcoin harvesting leading to the cycles playing out. I don't think that's going to persist going forward.
00:20:16.488 - 00:20:36.684, Speaker A: But anyway, cool to see binance raising a billion dollar fund for an industry recovery. I think it's obviously a positive, but, you know, obviously a positive for binance as well. They want to get some good companies on the cheap. They want to fund them on when they're cheap. Right. That's, that's what every vc and fund wants to do. But as I said, it sends positive social signals out into the wild.
00:20:36.684 - 00:21:10.832, Speaker A: All right, so a big announcement. Well, I guess a big update out of flashbots today, which is a blog post, blog post on the future of MeV, which they're calling suave. So I've talked about suave before, and I said that there wasn't much details on that when I talked about it. Last time, but now we have a lot more details on it and there's a TLDR here of these details. But you can read the blog post, I'll link in the YouTube description below. I'm not going to read out the whole thing, but what I wanted to highlight is exactly what suave is. Well, suave is actually, and this kind of caught me off guard.
00:21:10.832 - 00:22:04.814, Speaker A: Suave is a new layer one blockchain now, okay? It's not a layer one blockchain in the sense of it's not competing with Ethereum. It's not a smart contract chain. They're building a new chain to basically be a sequencing chain for all other chains. You can see the little diagram here that they think that all sequencing, aka like block building, is going to be done through the suave network, through the suave blockchain, and then passed on to these other chains here, as you can see. Right, aetherium, arbitrary optimism, polygon, stock net, and every other kind of chain that it does this for. Now, the first thought I had when I saw that there, that they said they were going to build a new layer, one was, is there going to be a token for suave? And I've said before that I think that eventually suave will probably have a token, but there is a q and a that Bert did here in on, on, on twitter that you can go see. And someone asked when token, he says no plans at the moment.
00:22:04.814 - 00:22:44.088, Speaker A: 8th is the suave chain token? Well, he said at the moment, so I don't know, you know, how much you want to read into that, of course. Right. But I think that. Look, I think it's more likely than not that suave has a token, but if ETH can be the token for the suave chain, kind of like what Eigen layer is doing with restaking of, of ethanol, I think that'd be really cool. I think that would be really cool. For a number of different reasons. One, that chain immediately inherits the decentralized, decentralized holder base of ETH as an asset, automatically inherits the massive security that ETH has and staked ETH as well, and obviously gets the Ethereum community much more on board and much more aligned with this.
00:22:44.088 - 00:23:29.160, Speaker A: But I think this is an interesting approach, and it seems like they've put a lot of research and development into this, and this is what they've, this is the conclusion that they've come to in order to make it so that the MEV ecosystem is as resilient as, as possible. Or I guess like the Ethereum blockchain. Other blockchains are as resilient as possible to MeV generally. And you may be wondering, you know, is this obsolete in an MEv boost? And sorry, in a PBS and CR list world, I don't believe so. I think that PBS and CR lists are really cool and will work really well. But the thing is, is that suave isn't just built for a theorem main, that it's also built for L2s. And I'm not sure if L2s are going to be able to use PBS or they're going to have to rely on something like suave.
00:23:29.160 - 00:24:05.122, Speaker A: If they want to make sure that their chain isn't just basically get taken over by MeV. I think they will have to rely on something like, like suave. So that's why I think that suave not being controlled by any token except ETH, you know, not having any token in there except ETH would be very, very positive. But I highly recommend reading the blog post because it gives a lot more details. There's even a roadmap and first steps as well they've put here. So their roadmap is split into three sections, Centauri, Andromeda and Helios here, which you can read, and there's little notes here of what each roadmap item entails. But this is cool.
00:24:05.122 - 00:24:45.374, Speaker A: As I said, I think that if they stick to using ETH within that new layer one chain, it'll be fine. But if they go the route of issuing their new token, you know, creating this new layer one chain, and then this chain ends up getting its own community, and that community starts saying, well, why can't we build something that competes with Ethereum? Right? Like that can happen. But they, they were very clear, like Robert was very clear and other. And I think the blog post is pretty clear that they don't want this to compete at all with Ethereum, and then they're going to be putting zero effort in competing with Ethereum. And I think that really is, I think I can trust them when they say that obviously there's been other layer ones that have said this before. They go, we're not competing with Ethereum. And then you're like, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
00:24:45.374 - 00:25:26.028, Speaker A: But if you know this layer one is literally just being built to handle sequencing and deal with Mev and isn't being built to be like a smart contract chain and doesn't have its own token, it has ETH instead. I think you can actually believe what they're saying in that case. But yeah, as I said, read the blog post. Check out Burt's Q and a here, because he actually answered a fair few questions. They're being pretty open with this, which I really love. I mean, I've given flashbots a lot of grief in the past, but I think that they, at the end of the day, they're good actors. Yes, they run a censoring relayer, but as I've said before, I think that they think that by running that censoring relayer and keeping it running, they're doing more good in the long run than harm right now.
00:25:26.028 - 00:25:34.284, Speaker A: And they have their own reasons for that. And I've talked about it before. I don't want to go too much into it because I'm running. I'm running out of time here. But. But yeah. Anyway, go check out these resources.
00:25:34.284 - 00:25:55.234, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I put out a tweet just before where I said, want to create the perfect USD stablecoin. That's easy. Just hit all three of these criteria. Be decentralized, which means only use truly decentralized collateral like ETH. Be scalable to trillions of dollars in market cap, and be stable. Keep the peg 99.9%
00:25:55.234 - 00:26:20.174, Speaker A: of the time. Huh. Turns out it isn't easy. Right? And I've talked about this before on the refill, this kind of trilemma of stable coins, and how I believe that we're actually never going to be able to get a USD or any fiat pegged stablecoin to hit all three of these criteria. I truly believe that we won't get there. And is that a bad thing? I actually don't think so at all. I think it's fine that we have these regulated, centralized stable coins within crypto.
00:26:20.174 - 00:26:55.088, Speaker A: I think that within and within defi. I don't think it's as big as a deal as other people do. Do they represent systemic risks? Yes, but so does a lot of other things. Can we fix it? We can try, but it's very, very difficult. So if you can't fix it, what is the solution here? Well, I've said before that one solution is basically just using, like, ETH and other decentralized assets on Ethereum as the de facto money. Really, it's just ETH right now. So using ETH as money and getting ETH to a point where it's relatively stable and creating an economy around ETH would be the solution here.
00:26:55.088 - 00:27:24.198, Speaker A: Obviously, that's not an easy solution, but it is one solution. And I've talked about stability before and how stability is just. It's a very funny concept, because if you think about stability from, I guess like an 8th perspective, one eight equals one eight. I know that's supposed to be a meme, but that's what it is, right? One eight equals one ETH with it. When it comes to us dollars, $1 equals one at us dollar. Okay, so let's start measuring the US dollar stability against a. Against bread, right? Against bread from a grocery store.
00:27:24.198 - 00:27:56.274, Speaker A: Let's say a loaf of bread is like $5, right? And then let's say in a year's time that loaf of bread is $6. Well, hang on a second. The loaf of bread is now not stable to the US dollar. It's actually unstable. Or you could say the USD isn't stable to that loaf of bread, right? So. And I think when you start looking at it like that and you start thinking like that, nothing is really stable, right? Like it. I think it's like a, it's, it's like, it's like almost misleading to call these things stable.
00:27:56.274 - 00:28:41.878, Speaker A: And I think it's due to inflation. It's due to, you know, free floating prices of things. Obviously, USD is the world reserve currency, so everything is priced against it. But if you start pricing things against other assets, you basically land in the same position as you do with us, us dollars. Now, obviously other assets are more volatile relative to the items that you're purchasing, right? And because something like ETH is measured against USD. Well, and then because the things that you want to buy with ETH as money are measured against USD, well, that's where it becomes, I guess, a lot more volatile. But if you look at something that is almost exclusively priced in ETH, the NFT ecosystem, it actually is very different in how prices kind of sway.
00:28:41.878 - 00:29:39.080, Speaker A: People measure their, I guess, nfts in ETH denominator terms. So basically they say, okay, well, I buy this NfT for one ETH, and then if I make, and then I want to make, you know, a few ETH out of this, maybe if I sell for three 8th, I've made a tweet profit. But what if ETH goes down in that time so such that even if you made three 8th, it would be worth less in us dollars than it would have just holding the one 8th and not, not disposing of that to begin with? Oh, wait, no, I'm getting confused there, but just, you know, that it would be less than the one ETH you originally had. So it would have been better off just signing that ETH for USD well, that's not what people care about. Of what I've seen, the NFT ecosystem, they just care about using ETH as money and pricing everything in Ethan, nominating everything in ETH. So once you start denominating things and you create an economy around a certain asset, and that asset becomes a reserve of that economy, then that actually becomes stable when you really think about it because it's stable to the things that you're purchasing. So let me frame this another way just before I move on here.
00:29:39.080 - 00:30:16.558, Speaker A: If the reserve currency of the US was ETH, right? Well, then ETH would be in the USD spot, and then everything will get measured against Ethan, priced against ETH, and then that would be the free floating, I guess, market rate for all these different items. So when you start thinking about thinking about it like that, it gets really. It gets really. It's a bit of a brain teaser right, when you start thinking about thinking of it like that. But I think that's the only solution to this problem because fiat pegged stable coins and never going to be able to fit all of these three criteria for various different reasons. But I've talked about it before, I'm not going to go too much into it. Well, I'm going way over time here.
00:30:16.558 - 00:30:38.726, Speaker A: I'm already at 30 minutes and I've got plenty of updates left to go. Gonna quickly get through them all. So Ingonyama has an update today. They basically introduced something called Sparkworks, which is native hardware acceleration in arc works. And you can read their blog post for full details here. The three thread that they've got is very short, but basically they show, uh, the, the improvements that they've made. Their results are two times speed improvements.
00:30:38.726 - 00:31:12.562, Speaker A: Uh, but I want you guys to read the blog post because that's going to explain more. I'm not going to bother trying to simplify it for you, but you can go read the blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Um, there was a bit of FuD recently around Uniswap, uh, Labs's front end. So the official, I guess, like Uniswap front end collecting a user information. Hayden Adams from uniswap put out a tweet today saying if people read our own blog post instead of angry Twitter threads, they would realize the Uniswap web app built both, does not track ips and actually prevents your ip address from being tracked by third party APIs like Infuria and TRM using a proxy server. That's really cool.
00:31:12.562 - 00:31:33.392, Speaker A: That, that's actually really, really cool. That they are using a reverse proxy. Sorry, using a proxy server to prevent you from getting tracked by third parties like Inferior. And as I mentioned at the start of the refuel, inferior is doing that. So very, very cool to see this. Don't believe the fud on Twitter. I guess that's a rule of thumb, right? Always go to the source and read the blog posts.
00:31:33.392 - 00:31:56.528, Speaker A: But yeah, cool for Hayden to highlight this. Next up was something I came across that's built on the optimism network, which is called words three, which is an on chain PvP word game on the optimism network. In the game, you place letters on a grid to spell words. Each letter has a fluctuating price. Make ETH by scoring points. And when others use your letters, you have six days to play. And the website is words three XYz.
00:31:56.528 - 00:32:14.894, Speaker A: There's a TLDR from a tweet here from pill head or an expound like, I'm five on words. So it's an on chain infinite scrabble on optimism. Each letter costs ETH. The cost changes based on its popularity. All ETH goes into a prize pool. The more points you earn, the more ETH you get. You also get ETH when people build off of your words.
00:32:14.894 - 00:33:03.204, Speaker A: This is really cool, actually. Like, if you go check out the game for yourself, which you can go by going to the website, this is a really cool use of both the cheap fees on optimism and the gamification with real world value attached to it on, you know, on blockchains generally. And I went on there and I looked at it, I'm like, wow, someone could really get into this who was really good at Scrabble and they could make a lot of money on this because it's. It kind of like talks to the Degen nature in a different way. Like, obviously, there's different ways to express people's degeneracy, whether that be, you know, aping different nfts or doing degenerate yield farming. Right? But this is just another way of basically doing degenerate gambling through games, so to speak. And because this is a form of gambling, right, it's.
00:33:03.204 - 00:33:32.062, Speaker A: It's a. It's a soft form of gambling. It's not. It's not really a form of gambling because I think that what you're doing here is you're talking to that part of your brain that says, wow, I can win a lot of money here if I, you know, just do this thing where I play this scrabble game and I play it better than others and I can win these. This prize pool. And that prize cool can grow pretty big. There were these actually really popular Ponzi games in, I believe, 2018 and 2019, where essentially you'd have to keep filling the pool with, with ETH.
00:33:32.062 - 00:34:03.700, Speaker A: And then, and then if a 24 hours went without another person filling the pool with ETH, the last person who filled it, I believe, got the entire pool. And it actually got really, really big. And I think there was some Mev Mev trickery done by people as it got closer to the, to the countdown timer because it was done on a per block basis, where they tried to fill blocks with enough transactions to stop people from getting their own transaction in to reset the timer. So, yeah, it's kind of fun when you think about it. You should look it up. It was called FOMO 3D. So if you want to look it up, you can do that.
00:34:03.700 - 00:34:35.339, Speaker A: It's on, it's on. You can just look it up on Google there. But yeah, moving on from that one, I thought to highlight this the other day, but Rainbow has a waitlist open for their extension, so they're building a browser extension for their rainbow wallet, and they're taking on Metamask. They explicitly call out by saying it's almost time to replace metamask. So you, if you're interested in a new browser extension to use with Ethereum, well, go join the rainbow waitlist. You can find the link in the YouTube description below. Slingshot has released Ethereum mainnet support in their slingshot wallet that finally.
00:34:35.339 - 00:35:08.939, Speaker A: I mean, this is awesome. They obviously have been on a bunch of different networks like Polygon, POS, chain, arbitrum and optimism. Well, now they're live on the good old Ethereum mainnet. So if you are a slingshot wallet user, you can go check out the ETH mainnet support on your wallet app, on your phone, and you can go do that today. All right, speaking of optimism, as I spoke about just before, optimism transfers are now live on Coinbase. So you can now transfer tokens and ETH, I believe, from Coinbase. I think this is the Coinbase wallet app.
00:35:08.939 - 00:35:43.146, Speaker A: It may, it may be the exchange as well, but you can now transfer them directly to optimism and not just Ethereum mainnet. That's awesome. I mean, I talked about this a lot in the past, how we need this. Obviously, finance was actually a first movie here, which was surprising for me. But now Coinbase is supporting it, which is amazing to see. I'm sure arbitrary is coming soon they'll be comics, is obviously gonna support all the L2s, but this is definitely what we need to allow people to often on board directly from a centralized exchange to these L2s. All right, last up here, I'm gonna spend a few minutes on this.
00:35:43.146 - 00:36:21.734, Speaker A: I know this episode's gone over time, but so what? Right, last up here is a tweet reply that I put out tweeting to Ryan. So Ryan Adams from bankless, he said, if you didn't make it this time, make sure you make it next time. Crypto's not dead. And then I replied by saying, I didn't make it in 2013, 2014. I didn't make it in 2017, 2018, but I made it in 2020, 2021. My overnight success was seven to eight years in the making. This is a very, it's a very personal anecdote here, but I wanted to mention the, a couple of times over those seven to eight years where I made, I guess, two critical decisions that led me to making it.
00:36:21.734 - 00:36:55.896, Speaker A: And making it, I defined in my reply to someone here where I said, being financially independent enough to be time rich so that I can focus on the things I love doing. And turns out the things I love doing is still crypto stuff, but still a theorem stuff. Right. But anyway, so those two things were, after the 2013 to 2014 cycle, I actually left the crypto ecosystem, and then I didn't come back until 2017 and 2018. Right, or 2017. So that means I missed early ETH. And I bought my first ETH at $10, but I didn't get to buy much because I bought it just before the price started going up.
00:36:55.896 - 00:37:20.082, Speaker A: And I really didn't have much money back then. So I then bought a bunch more ETH at like 40 or $50 and then back up at a $100, but I didn't really have much ETH. And then I wrote the 2017 wave up, and I. And I didn't really make much money at that point. I didn't. I didn't cash out anything, but even paper wealth, I didn't make much because I didn't have much to put in to begin with. So when I looked at that, and then I looked, and then 2018 happened again.
00:37:20.082 - 00:37:47.194, Speaker A: And then the bear market hit. I was like, wait, the bear markets hit again? But I know what happened last time that I left this ecosystem. I kind of screwed myself. And also, on top of that, Ethereum is just much more interesting than bitcoin was when the bear market in 2014. So you know what? I'm going to stick around this time. And the. And the major reason why I stuck around was because of that lesson that I learned from 2013 2014 cycle where I left, and I missed all this opportunity and I missed Ethereum.
00:37:47.194 - 00:38:19.170, Speaker A: So I said, you know what, fuck it. I'm going to stick around this time. Not for, not even just for making money reasons, but also for the tech side of things. I'm going to see where this takes me. And of course, that was the best decision of my, of my life because I got to see all the really cool stuff with Ethereum get developed and go live, not just on the app layer, but on the protocol layer. And obviously that led me to investing a lot more during that, that bear market and then led me to where I am today. So that was the first critical decision there, basically deciding to stick around that second time.
00:38:19.170 - 00:38:41.860, Speaker A: But that was only possible because of my first cycle, right. The second critical decision that I made was that I said to myself, I want to be someone in the ecosystem. I don't just want to be a lurker or a reply guy. I don't just want to put money in and hope for the best. I actually want to contribute. I actually want to become one of the leading Ethereum people. Sorry, leading people in Ethereum.
00:38:41.860 - 00:39:23.894, Speaker A: I didn't expect it to get to this point where I am today, and I'm very proud of where I am today, of course, but I made that decision. So those are the two decisions that I made to stick around, but not to just stick around and put money in and hope for the best, but to also invest in myself and invest in growing myself and invest in growing my relationships and network, to do everything that I do today. So the point of why I'm telling you this is because you may be a first cycle and this may be your first bear market. Don't go anywhere, guys, please, please stick around. Put effort in, you know, invest in things that you believe in and you think are going to go somewhere. But whatever you do, don't leave, like, because you're going to regret it. If you actually care about the technology as well, right? Not just making money, you're going to double regret it.
00:39:23.894 - 00:39:51.512, Speaker A: Learn from my mistakes, so to speak. But that doesn't guarantee that you're going to be financially independent next cycle. You can make a lot of mistakes between here and the top of the next cycle, like so there are no guarantees here. And I strongly believe that you can't actually teach investing. People have to learn it themselves. I don't think that anyone can teach it to you because of the fact is that if you don't learn it yourself, then you don't learn how to control your emotions. Don't learn from your own experiences, your own mistakes.
00:39:51.512 - 00:40:10.752, Speaker A: And you're just trying to defer that to other people. And those people have very different experiences to you, so it doesn't really map one to one. Um, but, yeah, hopefully that gives you guys some more context around my journey. But I've gone way over time, so I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up.
00:40:10.752 - 00:40:14.544, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
