00:00:01.560 - 00:00:04.070, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives.
00:00:04.142 - 00:00:05.550, Speaker B: Every week we do short but in.
00:00:05.582 - 00:00:12.070, Speaker A: Depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets.
00:00:12.182 - 00:00:15.302, Speaker B: I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed.
00:00:15.318 - 00:00:19.286, Speaker A: As financial advice, and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and.
00:00:19.310 - 00:01:07.826, Speaker B: Assets discussed on the show this week. I'm very excited to have Jeremy Aller, the co founder and CEO of Circle, on the show. Now, for the few of you who may not be aware, Circle is the company behind the stablecoin USDC, which currently has a market cap of $3 billion with over $400 million traded per day, and with more enterprise adoption coming on. And I see USDC as one of the most important bridges between the crypto world and the traditional finance world. And Jeremy is going to come onto the show to talk about exactly what that means. What are some tactics that enabled him to bootstrap USDC to where it is today? His thoughts on how USDC fits in a world where we have central banks starting to issue their own digital currencies. And most interestingly, we also touched on Jeremy's personal background as a.com
00:01:07.826 - 00:01:31.388, Speaker B: founder back in the 1990s, all the way to currently running a company like circle. So there's a lot of interesting tidbits and valuable tactics that we describe that I think if you're our founder or someone who's trying to build something in crypto, this is going to be an unmissable episode. So once again, I'm incredibly excited to share this episode with you. But before we dive into it here, here is a message from our sponsor.
00:01:31.516 - 00:01:56.034, Speaker C: Today's episode is brought to you by the good folks from Nexo. In this crisis, many investors aim to keep and grow their digital assets. Others seek to maximize the yield on their cash. Nexo allows you to achieve exactly these two goals. The company offers instant crypto credit lines against all major cryptocurrencies. With interest rates starting from only 5.9% APR, Nexo also lets you earn up to 8% annually on your fiat and digital assets.
00:01:56.034 - 00:02:00.414, Speaker C: What's more, interest is paid out daily. That means you can add or withdraw.
00:02:00.454 - 00:02:01.686, Speaker B: Your funds at any time.
00:02:01.790 - 00:02:04.078, Speaker C: So get started today at Nexo IO.
00:02:04.166 - 00:02:10.142, Speaker B: Alright, super excited to have Jeremy Allaire, co founder and CEO of Circle, on the show. So welcome to the show, Jeremy.
00:02:10.278 - 00:02:13.234, Speaker D: Thank you, Jason. It's really a pleasure to be on.
00:02:14.054 - 00:02:44.738, Speaker B: Awesome. So, Jeremy, you are the co founder of Circle, but prior to that, you had a very storied career, which isn't as widely discussed in your recent crypto interview. So I thought I'd maybe give it a shot and give some color here for our listeners. So you started alre corporation during the early.com boom, which resulted in an ipo in 1999. And subsequently, you also took another company, Brightcove, which is an online video platform public in 2012. And then after that, you started Circle, which is a crypto company, which most people in crypto know you for.
00:02:44.738 - 00:02:54.494, Speaker B: So can you tell us, you know, how did that winding path in technology from the traditional, quote, unquote traditional tech world, how did that lead you to the crazy world of crypto today?
00:02:55.474 - 00:04:26.913, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, what's interesting about it is that there have been really consistent themes that have animated my interest in the Internet. And all of the products and businesses and others have sort of been kind of pulling on the same thread, if you will. And actually, a lot of the things that motivated me in the early nineties to basically commit my time and my intellectual capacity to working on the Internet are very much the same things that are kind of driving me in this area of crypto. So I got involved in working with the Internet back in 1990, and I was in college, and I was basically studying political science, economics, philosophy, and was in particular looking at comparative political and economic systems, international, macro and monetary comparisons, and was in particular right at the time, in the early nineties, the Soviet Union was collapsing. And I was fascinated by that. I was fascinated by these different structures, social and economic structures. What was really interesting is in 1990, the Internet actually already had global reach.
00:04:26.913 - 00:05:47.520, Speaker D: It was used by research institutions, academic institutions, as a way to share scientific knowledge. In fact, the first web browser, the CERN web browser, the Tim Berners League, created at the CERN, the particle physics laboratory in Switzerland, was basically designed to hyperlink knowledge, hyperlink different articles, basically by physicists and similar type folks. But in any case, the early connectivity Internet was there. And what I discovered was the power of open networks that were able to disintermediate traditional forms of intermediaries, in particular in the areas of media and communications. And I was able to, you know, I remember vividly, you know, in, like, 1991, communicating with and reading the equivalent of what is what we'd call citizen journalism now, of people who were documenting what was happening as kind of tanks rolled through their neighborhoods and as these sort of revolutions happened throughout that area. And that to me, was just profound. It was really profound that there was a network.
00:05:47.520 - 00:07:10.520, Speaker D: And I fully understood. Basically, this is just a set of open protocols that are permissionless, that if you have a computer that can connect to this, then you can connect over these open protocols. There were a whole host of protocols at the time, some of which are still very much used today, like SMTP for email or FTP or things like that. There was no web. All this got me really excited, and as I graduated college, it really became clear, like this was where I wanted to commit myself. So I started working on different ways, thinking about different ways you could apply the Internet for media. And then basically in 1993, when the first graphical web browser was put out by NCSA, the supercomputing application research area in Illinois, Mosaic, I very much became enamored that what we were sort of seeing was the birth of a new operating system layer for content and applications that people could build on, but that it would be open and global and anyone could connect to it and publish in it.
00:07:10.520 - 00:08:41.913, Speaker D: You could kind of see out on the horizon how connectivity to this network would grow and how transformative that would be. And that led me into collaborating closely with my brother, college friends, others in the founding of our first company, Alair Corporation, which basically in 1995, if you wanted to build an interactive transactional application that you could access through a browser, it was painfully difficult to do that. There weren't really app servers, there weren't really programming languages that were well suited to people building an HTML. And so that's what led to the development of Coldfusion, which is the first product that I helped work on, which was a web programming language, and the first, what we now call a commercial app server, where you could write code on a server and connect to a database, and then you could use that code on the server to dynamically generate UI and UX that would be displayed in HTML and respond to user inputs in a browser. The idea was basically anyone with $1,000 in an idea could create a global online service. And that was going to be this democratization of online services and software. Eventually you could replace desktop software and put that out through browsers.
00:08:41.913 - 00:09:43.784, Speaker D: That was the first business, and it grew into a business. We had millions of developers using our products, the leading HTML development tool of the time, app servers for both high end Java developers and more scripting type developers, content management systems, a lot of different stuff. That was a public company that we grew it and were public for a couple of years and then merged into a larger Internet software firm, Macromedia, where I became CTO and worked on a lot of different things. We had a lot of different products. But that combined business was basically pretty much the primary tools that people use to create content on the Internet, to author content on the Internet. And then with Flash and Flash player, we basically built in all of the underlying primitives that were needed to do really rich media and communications applications in browsers. And that was in 2002.
00:09:43.784 - 00:10:23.474, Speaker D: And that led into my excitement about video and basically video becoming a native data type on the, the surface of the Internet that anyone could program and build on. And that led to my next company. I left and incubated it at a vc and started Brightcove, which is a publicly traded company now, which I founded and powers thousands and thousands of different media companies and brands and others sort of online television and video. But that's a little bit of the backdrop in terms of the work that I've done coming up to circle.
00:10:24.494 - 00:10:41.154, Speaker B: That's really interesting. And I know that many people probably draw parallels between the crypto cycle to the.com boom. I don't know if you'd agree with that, but if you were to compare the two cycles, given that you've seen both of them play out, where would you say we are today in the crypto cycle relative to, say, the.com boom?
00:10:42.454 - 00:12:01.466, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, in many respects there are some similarities, and then there are some really big differences. What's notable is that in some ways, the infrastructure we have on the Internet is so much more advanced now. When you look at the ability for digital exchanges and various types of crypto projects and digital assets to proliferate and be used, it can happen on a rapidly, much more rapid scale and global reach. But back in 1990, 719 98, the actual connectivity of the Internet was pretty limited. If you go back and look at the percentage of people who were connected to the Internet, the percentage of the people who were connected to the Internet that were on anything but a dial up modem, it was thin pipes. The software really was not great for building good experiences. It was not going into global distribution, although people were getting connected to it and people were getting very excited about it, and people were coming up with ideas for how to transform this or that or whatever idea in industry.
00:12:01.466 - 00:12:36.594, Speaker D: And so there was a lot of hype and a lot of capital not totally dissimilar from 2017. I would say one key difference was that in the.com boom, a lot of the ideas were reasonably well anchored in products that people could start to use as consumers. Yahoo was a usable product. The first search engines were usable products by the average person. Web email was a usable product.
00:12:38.974 - 00:12:39.286, Speaker B: In.
00:12:39.310 - 00:13:45.914, Speaker D: That time, e commerce marketplaces like eBay, the first versions of Amazon, even though the.com cycle created an enormous number or whatever it was, 99% of businesses that were not successful, there were some really successful businesses that touched mainstream users. I think we haven't quite gotten there yet. We're getting really close in crypto, but I think that's one really key difference, is that there's still, there's still some usability and other kind of constraints around using public chains for financial applications in a mainstream context. We're getting really, really close, I think, but there's just some things that haven't been solved yet or are in the process of being solved, which can unlock it so that hundreds of millions of people can enjoy the benefits really effortlessly.
00:13:47.094 - 00:14:04.394, Speaker B: And I think that's an amazing segue because my understanding is that is a huge mission pillar for circle. So I'm sure most listeners of the show know exactly what Circle is, what the company does today, but for maybe the five of us who are not familiar, can you maybe give us a brief intro about Circle and what you guys are focusing on today?
00:14:04.954 - 00:15:25.458, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. So, as noted, I co founded Circle in early 2013 with Sean Neville. And we were really excited back then about the idea that effectively, that you could take what we think of as traditional money, that is, the liabilities of a central bank, like a dollar for a major reserve currency, and you could represent that as digital currency, and you could run it and transact it over public networks, over public protocols, in the same way that we can exchange content and data on the web and other Internet protocols. And we're very, very interested in realizing that set of ideas. We, over the years, experimented with consumer products. We ended up building a very storied crypto trading business. We acquired and sold an exchange, a number of different things over the years, but the core thing that we focused on was how do we create the infrastructure to enable essentially fiat to work as digital currency? And that involved building what is essentially a new kind of.
00:15:25.458 - 00:16:50.110, Speaker D: Of what I call transaction banking platform, getting all the licenses and working with regulators to get them comfortable with the idea that we could sort of sit at this intersection between the existing financial system and public chains. So did a lot of work building that out. And then finally, in 2017, I think in particular, with Ethereum kind of being what I would call back then, kind of production beta ready, we saw that we could actually start building expressions of fiat transaction protocols on public networks. And that led to the creation of USDC and the formation of center consortium as a governance body for USDC that could provide assurances around reserves, compliance, information, security and auditability, which is really important when you're building something like a trusted gateway to fiat in digital currency. And then introduced that over two years ago, over the summer and fall of 2018. And that's really defined a lot of what we're working on since then. USDC has grown really significantly as a stablecoin.
00:16:50.110 - 00:17:41.843, Speaker D: I think yesterday became one of the ten largest digital currencies in the world by market cap, and has grown a lot. And really now Circle has taken that core leadership role in establishing USDC, and we've built out a broader family of accounts and API products for businesses and developers who want to connect this world of the existing financial system with stablecoins and do that in really, really powerful and seamless ways. And so those are services that we offer to just blockchain based businesses that just want to have an account that uses USDC to developers that want to integrate this and integrate things like traditional rails with stablecoins in their own products and services, which is growing a lot.
00:17:43.104 - 00:18:11.536, Speaker B: Yeah, I do think that USDC and stablecoins are one of the most consequential innovations on crypto. I remember when they first came out, everyone's like, this is boring. This is not bitcoin. This is just using the same old monetary policy of existing fiat currencies. But then it's obvious that most of the trading now is actually denominated in USD. And it made a lot of things a lot easier, even for me as an investor. And we're going to come back to the point about regulation and kind of straddling between the world of decentralization and compliance.
00:18:11.536 - 00:18:33.792, Speaker B: But as you mentioned, USDC's adoption is insanely impressive. Today, there's over $3 billion worth minted, and I think just yesterday there's $400 million traded. So for those who are not familiar with crypto businesses, how would you kind of contextualize those numbers? Right? What do we benchmark that to? Are we comparing this to kind of PayPal volumes, or how do we understand the scope of USDC today?
00:18:33.968 - 00:19:26.674, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, we look at a lot of different things. So, I mean, there are many metrics that we look at. I mean, they're sort of. I think now it's like six or 7 billion has been issued. But the beautiful thing is that I think 4 million has been redeemed. The point of this is that this isn't just like I call the roach motel, where you can get in, but you can't get out. What we really wanted to build is a reliable set of rails that businesses could get into and retail individuals could get into, through circle and coinbase initially, where it's very easy to convert at no cost into USDC and to redeem at no cost into dollars into existing banking infrastructure.
00:19:26.674 - 00:20:32.816, Speaker D: Ideally, what we ultimately want is we want people to stay sticky and as we say, upload your dollars to the Internet and leave them there. But there's been a huge amount. And the fact that it works that way, that if I'm an investor or I'm a business, accepting a payment using this rail, that I can know, that I can safely and easily redeem at will, more or less 24/7 into the existing banking system is super, super powerful. Now, the total issuance is one measure. I mean, when we walked into this year, kind of pre pandemic, so like February, early March, in terms of general awareness, there was like 400 million USDC in circulation, and now there's basically 3 billion USDC in circulation. And that's really significant growth. The other really notable thing is the amount of transaction volume that's happening on chain.
00:20:32.816 - 00:21:30.502, Speaker D: So not trading volume on exchanges, which is obviously, you just gave a statistic on that. It's significant. But the on chain transaction volume, I think now life to date is approaching $180 billion of transaction volume on chain. 150 billion of that has been since March of this year. So it's really, really grown. And that's really powerful, because effectively we now have, there's an open API for dollars on the Internet that works, that you can connect to as a business or an individual that developers can integrate. And that's explained a lot of its success, is that because it's trusted, audited, reliable, and it's redeemable and it works, developers have really wanted to use it in their own products and services.
00:21:30.502 - 00:22:50.404, Speaker D: And so from very early on, when we started the project, we were very keen to collaborate with emerging DeFi projects back in 2018, when some of them were just getting started and just were white papers. And then through last year, as some of them first lit up and people could start to use them, total value locked. That was relatively small, but interesting. And then this year, obviously, there's been this incredible growth in decentralized finance maturation, in these composable protocols, and that has really, USDC has grown with that very, very organically. And yeah, that's been a fascinating part of the growth, but those are some of the metrics, basically, that, that we look at. I mean, I think we lost track of the number of projects, applications, or other things that integrate USDC in some way. I mean, it probably is in the thousands now, but we've started to get a repository where people can update, make pull requests to add something if they have a product or service that they're using, that's using USDC just to sort of publish it there.
00:22:50.404 - 00:23:16.424, Speaker D: But it's grown a lot in terms of people who integrate it and develop on it. And a lot of, in the financial world, in the fintech world, people talk about open banking, which is sort of this idea that banks would have a standard API where you could get authentication and data and maybe move funds. They have something like that in Europe. I think things like stablecoins on public chains are the ultimate open banking. It's real open banking.
00:23:17.104 - 00:23:50.404, Speaker B: But yeah, that's fascinating, and I love that you mentioned that, like, to date, there's $180 billion worth transacted on chain, and over 80% of that is since March of this year. And USDC is obviously not the only stable coins. There are a lot of attempts at stablecoins. I think Paxos tried something, trueusd tried something. But what made USDC so successful relative to, you know, a lot of the attempts at launching stable coins? What were some of the tactics that you used earlier on? Who were or the. Some of the people that you targeted to bootstrap the user base from day one?
00:23:51.024 - 00:25:00.078, Speaker D: Well, I think there's a couple of really significant things. I think the first is the approach we took, and are still taking very much, is grounded in a philosophy of establishing industry standards and establishing multi stakeholder models for these standards. All of the really large scale things in many respects that have happened on the Internet, are because there are standards and interoperability, even in the financial world. Things like what we think of and take for granted as, quote unquote, electronic money, like the swift messaging system or the ACh system or the card networks, these are all the kind of predecessor forms of electronic money. They're all basically associations of collaborating private sector institutions, establishing technical standards for interoperability. That's what they are at the core. And then there's governance, because there's liability and other things that go along with this.
00:25:00.078 - 00:26:13.640, Speaker D: So when we started work, and it gets back to the vision of the company, we believe very, very strongly that there needs to be an HTTP for money, there needs to be a protocol that can be consistently applied for fiat currency transactions that happen on public networks. So center consortium is. That's the core, is that we started consortium, which is center. Consortium center, the british spelling IO. And we invited Coinbase to join us, who were very excited about the same shared vision. I think that was really key, is that we wanted to work on something that was multi issuer, that could evolve into a broader standard, that eventually, where there could be even dozens of different issuers and dozens of issuers, not just of dollar digital currencies, but of other fiat digital currencies, and really establish a network that could govern that and grow that. So we're still in the first stages of that and we're having a lot of success.
00:26:13.640 - 00:27:23.494, Speaker D: But at the end of the day, what that translated to was people looked at USDC as something that had kind of a broader purpose than just being a single company thing. And obviously having liquidity and convertibility on Coinbase is really helpful. Circle was really key as well, because we have very, very strong institutional roots and our ability to effectively make it a popular cryptocurrency within the trading markets was, from a bootstrapping perspective, really, really important. And then, yeah, I think getting focused on Defi projects was really key. And other choices like there's no fees, there's no fees to create it, there's no fees to redeem it. Making it really easy to do those things really helped a lot as well. And then the consistency of the accountability on it and the audits and stuff has been really significant too.
00:27:24.114 - 00:28:04.222, Speaker A: This 32nd intermission is brought to you by our sponsor, Nexo. Depending on what type of company you're operating, Nexo can help you in different ways. As an exchange, they can be a strategic partner. As a miner, they will offer you OTC credit lines to help cover expenses. And as a crypto fund or any type of institutional counterparties, they can offer you a portfolio of structured financial products and up to 8% annual interest on your idle stablecoins. As well as asset swap agreements or direct borrowing off crypto, individuals can also park their cash and stablecoins at Nexo's interest earning account to get an annual rate of 8%. And what's more is that you can actually claim this interest every single day, and you can add or withdraw funds at any time as well.
00:28:04.222 - 00:28:08.074, Speaker A: So if this sounds interesting to you, get started at Nexo IO.
00:28:08.454 - 00:28:59.392, Speaker B: That's really interesting. And I think that that's probably what sets aside experience. CEO's like yourself and a lot of the newer founders that I often come across when I look into venture investments, there's a lot of kind of build it and they'll come type of mentality versus what you said kind of setting that foundation, setting those standards for the industry. So I think that's an important point. And another thing that I wanted to discuss was also this point about decentralization and trustlessness versus regulatory compliance. And I don't know if you'd agree, but to a certain extent, I almost see this as the battle between, say, USDC, which is more kind of construed as more compliant and kind of more by the book, versus something at USDT, which is kind of more out there, maybe a little less trustworthy for more, more kind of institutional users, but traders seem to love it. So how do you kind of balance it too? How do you balancing.
00:28:59.392 - 00:29:06.044, Speaker B: How do you balance between the philosophy of decentralization and trustlessness versus playing by the books and complying with regulators?
00:29:07.104 - 00:30:06.644, Speaker D: Yeah, and just to be clear, USDT is not decentralized and trustless at all. And in fact, it's more centralized than USDC. And people make comments about things like blacklisting or seizing addresses, I think done hundreds of examples of that where they've done it, whereas center has an extremely strict policy around things like blacklisting, which is public and transparent. So just to be clear, I don't view the distinction between USDC and USDT as one between permissionless, trustless. And I think one is effectively avoiding regulation and operating in an opaque capacity. And those are features. I think certain customers value things that are opaque and are trying to be outside the law.
00:30:06.644 - 00:31:53.086, Speaker D: That's a feature, not a bug for some people. That's very different than being trustless and decentralized. And so that's just a key point, I think, to make. But I do think the broader point here is there is this line to straddle, which is how do you build something that can interact with the global financial system and also participate in the fundamental innovation of public chains? And that's been the core line that we've been trying to walk for seven years, and frankly, really working tirelessly with regulators and with, frankly, all the other fiduciaries that we have to get on board to do what we do, which is public accounting firms, insurance companies, banks and card networks, and all of the existing major players in the operation of the financial system. We needed to get on board with this idea that we could safely provide a way to enable fiat digital currency to work on public networks. And that is a major ongoing undertaking. And I think the bigger picture here is that we see absolutely incredible opportunities in DeFi and for what it can do to bring financial market and financial product access to billions of people around the world.
00:31:53.086 - 00:32:59.944, Speaker D: And we think it's very, very transformative. And we're deeply committed to making sure that the stablecoins and protocols and other things that we work on can be really key, composable building blocks in those ecosystems. But there are hard problems to solve. And what's happening right now is that because of the success of some of these things, and because of government initiatives like DCEP, because of private sector initiatives like Libra, the attention on essentially the rule sets for how fiat digital currency are going to work in the world at the highest levels of the governance of the international monetary system is very much in play right now, which is. It's incredible just to even see that that's the case. We expected that probably within ten years when we started the company. And it's sort of that part the level of engagement at the supranational level amongst the people who govern the international monetary system.
00:32:59.944 - 00:33:51.056, Speaker D: That's happening faster than I had originally expected. But the bottom line is, like, we need to find a way to enable these digital, cash like financial instruments to be composable and programmable and get the benefits of that. And this is not go put your head in the sand and hope that regulators aren't going to come. That is not the case right now. Policymakers in the g 20, and by definition, almost all the world, are rolling out comprehensive regulatory frameworks around stablecoins. And that is going to be the case. The key thing for industry, whether it's folks in DeFi or stablecoins, or public chain infrastructure, layer one, infrastructure itself, is to really ensure that we're building amazing value for people.
00:33:51.056 - 00:34:30.354, Speaker D: Because at the end of the day, society, if they're seeing these incredible benefits, and by society, I mean not just individuals and self sovereign individuals, but also firms and commerce, if they're really seeing transformative impact from this, then I think policy can be adaptive and we can embrace these open networks in ways that kind of the existing regulators have. It's sort of outside of their too much cognitive dissonance for them right now to even imagine a world of free movement of value and programmable value and so on.
00:34:31.464 - 00:35:03.364, Speaker B: Yeah, and thanks for clarifying my comment around USDT versus USDC. I think maybe what is better way to ask that question is, do you see the USDC vision as being somewhat complementary or somewhat almost conflicting of something like Dai, for instance, or even bitcoin, which doesn't use the monetary policy of our existing fiat systems, and is kind of more on the decentralized front compared to something like USDC. Or do you see kind of the two visions being almost complementary in some way?
00:35:03.864 - 00:36:00.604, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I look at all of this as sort of on a spectrum, and I'm not, like, a maximalist on any of this stuff. I'm very long on bitcoin as a non sovereign store of value, and ultimately as a transacting currency. I'm also really interested in. I'm very, very interested in synthetic, you know, synthetic kind of stablecoin products as well. I think it's an interesting experimental area. I think each of these has a different role to play, and over the short, mid, and long term, those roles will shift. I guess our focus, at least, is we know that there are these tremendous benefits of being able to use a dollar or a euro or another currency as a digital currency.
00:36:00.604 - 00:37:21.294, Speaker D: We know that there are tremendous benefits that come from the ability to settle transactions on a public chain with incredible speed and cost efficiency. We know there's incredible benefits to programmability and what can be built around that. And just from a mainstream perspective, we think that these sort of fiat digital currencies in this form will very likely become like the fabric of interoperability for how money moves in the world and connected to the mainstream financial system. Billions of people will use that in the coming years, we expect, and that's really important. And people want to be able to connect and interoperate and get the benefits of this technology, but they also want to buy cookies and milk and pay rent and pay their taxes and get paid by their employees employers. And so I think we're trying to strike a balance there with building things that harness the fundamental technology power, but also kind of work with where the world is today. And at the same time, looking forward, I mean, I think there's sort of everything's up for grabs in the future.
00:37:21.294 - 00:37:58.794, Speaker D: You know, I'm interested in synthetic global digital currencies that are a mixture of different fiat digital currencies that potentially have various pegs or ratios to things like bitcoin, a la the old gold standard. So I think there's a lot of incredible monetary experimentation that can take place. But right now, for us, we want to make this really practical and accessible and useful for mainstream adoption of the technology.
00:38:00.694 - 00:38:39.314, Speaker B: And a little over a year ago, you made this statement to Congress where you mentioned being slightly concerned that America may not be at the forefront of crypto and that companies in Asia might have a head start. Now, obviously, one year later, now China is launching its own central bank digital currency. And you mentioned that at the supranational level, there's much more scrutiny over crypto right now. And obviously a lot of us publicly listed companies are also buying bitcoin, and that's exciting. A lot of people in the crypto space. So what are your thoughts lately on crypto in the west versus Asia? Do you think the US is catching up to Asia? Do you think they're going in different directions? What are your general observations there?
00:38:40.294 - 00:39:18.988, Speaker D: Yeah, it's been really interesting. I mean, one thing that I've noticed is that over the course of 2020 in particular, and in particular very specifically since the pandemic, there's been a much more, I think, favorable people have leaned in way more on the policy side into crypto in a positive way. And I think there's this phenomenon that took place and it's real. Just look at the usage of crypto and the usage of stable coins and other things in the world. World like between March and now. Right. It's been dramatic.
00:39:18.988 - 00:40:35.210, Speaker D: And there's a bigger theme, which is this acceleration that's happening around the world towards new, fundamentally new technologies and this broader digitalization theme, which has obviously been going on for decades. But people talked about how this was like a leapfrog moment, that the pandemic, you know, changed consumer behaviors, changed corporate behaviors, and it really did, I think, make everyone go, okay, we gotta stop looking at the old system and defending the old system and trying to make sure the new things conform to the old system and saying, like, what is the new system that we're building as a planet, as a humanity? And I think that that has resonated with people. And so they talk about favorability ratings in presidential candidates or political candidates. I think the favorability ratings for crypto went up a lot this year. And you can see that in the dialogue with policymakers and regulators, much more openness to it. So that's, I think, quite positive. I think there's really been a shift.
00:40:35.210 - 00:41:14.074, Speaker D: I think that some of it is a reaction to perceived, whether it's China driving forward with its digital currency plans or Facebook driving forward with its digital currency plans. But just generally, what's happening in these markets, I think has become more acceptable. And you've seen out of different regulators, even much more constructive approaches. The CFTC, the Treasury Department itself. I feel like it's been a big change this year, certainly in the west.
00:41:15.774 - 00:41:33.114, Speaker B: Absolutely. And with the remaining time that we have, I'd love to kind of take a look forward into what's happening next for USDC and circle, starting with the most recent Update. Now USDC recently onboarded into Solana. So can you talk a little bit about why this is important? What does this mean for USDC?
00:41:33.434 - 00:42:26.894, Speaker D: Yeah, absolutely. So as I talked about earlier, when we think about USDC, we think of it as a protocol. And just as I described earlier, HTTP as a protocol for information and data on the Internet is really amazing because you can kind of connect. Anyone can connect to it and make their content available to any other browser or what have you, and that's really key. And protocols like HTTP are not tied to a single operating system. If you only could use the web, if you had a Windows machine and a Windows server, well, that really wouldn't be the web. When we look at these protocols for fiat digital currency, we really look at it very similarly.
00:42:26.894 - 00:43:30.828, Speaker D: We think it's very important that your digital dollars should be cross platform and that you should be able to utilize those across a variety of underlying operating systems. I look at, in particular, second and third generation blockchains, in many cases as essentially new operating system layers on the Internet. And there's a lot of competition in that space right now. And the trilemma of sort of speed scale security that people have been trying to solve is a very real problem, because when we look at what it's been possible to build on second generation blockchains, and USDC is an example of something that could be built like that, we're really running up hard against the real constraints of those runtimes. I think of them as runtimes. It's like the constraints of dial up versus broadband. Like what you could do on the Internet was really limited.
00:43:30.828 - 00:44:42.172, Speaker D: That's actually a big part of what the.com crash was about, is that the hype of what you could do with the Internet outstripped the technical reality of dial up modems and people on personal computers. It really took upgrading of the infrastructure in broadband, in mobile broadband, into smartphones, into other devices, that unleashed a lot of the ideas that really people had. There's a similar kind of infrastructure upgrade that needs to happen for a billion people to use this on a daily basis. And when we look at fiat and we look at payment transactions, whether it's in a commercial, like peer to peer context, or a business to business context, or a capital markets context, where you're trying to move value in a trade or with counterparties, we need dramatically more reach. So earlier this year, center consortium again, circle and Coinbase together devised a multi chain framework for USDC, and began certifying and bringing USDC two more chains. We rolled out USDC for Algorand.
00:44:42.172 - 00:45:57.314, Speaker D: We announced USDC for stellar. And then, yeah, just recently we launched USDC for Solana, which we're very excited about because something like Solana, it brings what we think is a very, very compelling environment for developers that want to build not just deFi, DeFi and CFI applications that can scale to support tens or hundreds of millions of users, and where a digital dollar can move at 350 milliseconds at a fraction of a penny, and where the people who want to write programs to interact with that can do that with a variety of programming languages. It's a really exciting development, and I think we'll see more of that from us. You're going to see USDC as a protocol on more, on more chains, and we're seeing specialization, we're seeing blockchains that are focused in certain enterprise areas, international areas, embedded device areas, different kinds of profiles. And again, we think that your digital dollars should work in all those places.
00:45:58.974 - 00:46:08.554, Speaker B: Absolutely. And just to close us off, what would you say are the most exciting things that you're looking out for, for circle in the coming years? And what should we be paying attention to?
00:46:09.974 - 00:47:08.114, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I think, I would say a couple of things. I mean, I think just one. Just generally, in terms of looking at the infrastructure, I think the really big thing that we're looking towards is now that we're putting in place versions of these rails that can scale, it's really seeing this connected up to the mainstream of the existing fintech and payments ecosystem. So I think that's really the PayPal bitcoin news was, I think, really exciting. It sort of relates to that, but I think the bigger theme of when do protocols like USDC start getting integrated into payment apps that people use every day? And we start to really see the benefits of global scale interoperability. So I'm hoping to see more things like that. And then that translates into USDC as something that can be used more in a day to day payments context and enable that.
00:47:08.114 - 00:48:04.114, Speaker D: The other corollary there is circle itself. We have a very, very ambitious set of services that we're rolling out for businesses. Our vision here is that every Internet business, which should be essentially every business, every Internet business in the world should have a digital currency, native business, bank account. They should be using digital currency and stablecoins as a core part of how they manage their working capital and their treasuries. They should be able to get yield on that, they should be able to integrate it in lots of different ways into their own web experiences and economic relationships and really starting to push forward this idea that there's a new banking infrastructure for businesses that's built natively on all this infrastructure. That's a big focus from circles perspective in terms of products and services that we think can deliver value for companies around the world.
00:48:05.294 - 00:48:13.554, Speaker B: That's definitely exciting, Jeremy. So for people who want to stay up to date with exactly what you just talked about and with more updates, what are the best channels for them to follow?
00:48:14.294 - 00:48:28.114, Speaker D: Yeah, you can follow us on Twitter at circle pay. You can follow me on Twitter lair and you can go to circle.com where we have tons of content, vlogs, podcasts, other stuff, too.
00:48:29.014 - 00:48:35.926, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, this has been a delight. I've learned a ton about USDC, circle and yourself. So thank you so much again for taking the time for coming onto the show.
00:48:35.950 - 00:48:38.254, Speaker D: Jeremy, it's really been a pleasure. Thank you.
