00:00:00.320 - 00:00:27.670, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Dayguay Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host and Sano, it's the 16 April 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. I know that a Monday episode rug fuel is always bad because obviously there are no episodes on the weekend. So it's been three days since the last refuel, but I'm back today, and just before we jump into the news, I wanted to quickly give a heads up that I will not be able to do a refuel from May 1 to May 3.
00:00:27.670 - 00:00:51.382, Speaker A: So May 1, second and third, I will not be doing a refuel. That's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, because I will be at East Sydney. So I'm hoping to see whoever is going at East Sydney. I think the actual kind of conference is happening on like the Friday, Saturday, Sunday. But there is a side, there is a couple of side events here and there and I'm sure some, some kind of meetups and stuff. So I'm hoping to see whoever they're really. I know that there isn't going to be a lot of international folks there, probably because it's just so far away.
00:00:51.382 - 00:01:12.350, Speaker A: You know, I always complain that for me it's really far to travel to Europe, you know, the US, and really in most places from Australia, but it works the other way as well, obviously. So. Yeah, but I still think it's going to be really great. I'm judging the hackathon, so really looking forward to it. And yeah, I mean, it's, it's very close to. I am in Melbourne, so only an hour and a bit of a flight there, so. And no jet lag, that's the main thing.
00:01:12.350 - 00:01:49.728, Speaker A: So I'm looking forward to it there, but just wanted to give you guys a heads up, but I'll keep you up to date on that and remind you as we get closer there. But going to jump into the news now, I have left a bullish rant for the end of this episode, so if you want to listen to that, it's all about the markets. Hopefully won't go too long about it, but I think that it's relevant right now because there seem to be, it seems to be a lot of bearish energy out there right now, and I've got to set that straight. I've got to do my bullish rant to set that straight. But first thing I want to jump into was this announcement out of Hong Kong that they have approved applications for spot BTC and ETH. ETF's managed by China asset Management Bersera and hash key. And this has kind of got the hive a bit stirred.
00:01:49.728 - 00:02:20.676, Speaker A: The hive being, I guess, like crypto Twitter a bit stirred. You know, there are people saying that, okay, well, this is not really that bullish because Hong Kong is only small potatoes compared to the US, which isn't necessarily wrong. Like, Hong Kong is obviously very small compared to the US, especially when it comes to ETF's. As ETF's are really a us phenomenon and have been really, really popular in us markets, but they're being exported. Right. Other markets around the world continuing to adopt the ETF standard in different ways, like as ETPs and ETNs in Europe. I believe there are ETF's here in Australia.
00:02:20.676 - 00:02:43.684, Speaker A: I don't know what it's like elsewhere, but this vehicle, this tax advantaged vehicle that it's just like completely managed by these large asset managers. They handle everything for you. All you really have to do is buy and sell it and you can trust them to handle everything for you because it's all fully regulated. It's obviously the tradfi system here, but they're obviously getting more integrated with crypto. You know, it makes a lot of sense, right. It makes a lot of sense from, from a bunch of different perspectives here. So I expect this market to grow.
00:02:43.684 - 00:03:15.380, Speaker A: And obviously, it's funny that Hong Kong has approved a spot ETH ETF before the US has approved one. And honestly, I'm not going to go on another rant about the US ETF at this point. It's a waiting game. You know, as I've said before, I kind of changed it to, like, late April. If we don't hear anything by late April, I'm going to, like, lose all confidence in May 23 being an approval there. But I think at this point, you know, whether it's approved or denied, the market is pretty much priced in a denial. So I think that even if it gets denied, the market action is going to be quite muted there.
00:03:15.380 - 00:03:37.068, Speaker A: But I'll go, I'll probably go over that when I talk about the markets a bit later here. Um, but, yeah, just great to see that Hong Kong has approved these things here. And I'm curious to see what the demand is actually like. I'm curious to see what the, uh, what the numbers are like. Right. Because as I said, like, their ETF market is tiny compared to the US, but they're ramping it up and they're trying to ramp up relatively quickly and especially when it comes to crypto, right. This is a.
00:03:37.068 - 00:04:10.064, Speaker A: This is an asset class that Hong Kong and I guess, like China broadly, have not been very favorable of in the past. You guys know that China's banned bitcoin like a million times at this point. They kicked out the bitcoin miners, which had to, you know, completely leave China and go elsewhere. So they've just generally been hostile towards crypto, but they seem to be embracing crypto more. I know that Hong Kong exists kind of separately to China in its own special economic zone. I think from. From my reading, I'm not an expert on chinese politics or asian politics generally, but from my reading, Hong Kong basically exists as a way for China to have its cake and eat it, too.
00:04:10.064 - 00:04:50.000, Speaker A: What I mean by that is essentially gets to have, you know, that authoritarian control that CCP control over, over all of chinese main China, mainland, as well as Hong Kong. But Hong Kong gets this special designation of being like, a special economic zone where it can be more progressive and more loose and more kind of like western style, you know, economic system, tradfi system, or financial system than is available in mainland China there. So there is basically like a two tiered system here under the one umbrella still of the CCP. That's my understanding. But someone's better versed on chinese politics, please let me know there, because I think I triggered a little bit of people when I said that China was getting these. Etf's not Hong Kong to me. I mean, it's like the same thing.
00:04:50.000 - 00:05:18.760, Speaker A: Like, you can say, oh, they're distinctly separate. I'm like, yeah, okay, maybe from, like, a financial perspective, from, like, an economics perspective, but from, like, a government social perspective, they're definitely under the same umbrella there, at least from my read. But as I said, open to being corrected on that one there. We're going to leave that one at that. We have a fresh update from Coinbase today. Well, I guess like some fresh Coinbase versus the SEC news now. This is Paul Guerrell, Coinbase's chief legal officer, tweeting out that yesterday, Coinbase filed a brief asking the court's permission.
00:05:18.760 - 00:05:43.726, Speaker A: Or not. Yesterday, I think this was like three days ago, Coinbase filed a brief asking the court's permission to seek an interlocutory interlock. That's how you say that appeal in Coinbase's SEC case on this controlling question, whether an investment contract requires something contractual. We think it does. The SEC disagrees. Now, from what I've read from the legal experts, this seems like another long shot from Coinbase. To file this appeal against the SEC here.
00:05:43.726 - 00:06:51.534, Speaker A: But I obviously agree with Coinbase's position here that an investment contract requires something contractual, whereas the SEC does not agree with that. They believe that an investment contract can exist without an actual contract. And this goes back to, I think, like, how the securities laws were written, like, what, 100 years ago or 90 years ago, and about how they were actually written to be purposely broad, because at the time, the people writing these laws and, you know, the regulators in the room knew that there wouldn't just be, like, one asset class or two asset classes. There's all types of different asset classes. And the SEC, to be an effective regulator, needed to have a kind of broad set of interpretations into the law they could take in order to go after any kind of bad actors that would try to get around this or try to essentially find loopholes in this, which makes sense on the surface, but in practice, as we've seen, because these laws haven't been updated in so long, what ends up happening is that they're so dated and they just don't apply to some asset classes, or they don't apply cleanly to some asset classes, especially when it comes to crypto here. So, obviously, I'm rooting for Coinbase here to win this, this kind of appeal. But as I said, it is a long shot.
00:06:51.534 - 00:07:15.254, Speaker A: It is not something that is typically won by the defendant here. And the SEC obviously disagrees because they want to have as broad strokes as possible to go after everyone that they can here. But, you know, I'd be more sympathetic to the SEC's cause if they actually had clear guidance on crypto for these companies to follow. But they just don't. Right? Like, that's. That's. That's the heart of this issue when it comes to the SEC versus crypto.
00:07:15.254 - 00:07:33.846, Speaker A: Just generally, there's just not clear guidance. There's not clear guidance on what you can and can't do when it comes to crypto stuff. There's not clear guidance on, uh, you know, what. What happens if you actually do run a foul or how to essentially kind of, um, not ask for forgiveness, but basically make it. Make it better if you run a fail and you didn't know you were running a fail. Like, stuff like that. Right.
00:07:33.846 - 00:07:57.478, Speaker A: Or make amends for it. Like, there's just nothing like that. All there is is the SEC being incredibly hostile towards everything crypto and not giving any clear guidance on anything. And we all know that. I'm preaching to the choir here, but I'm going to keep, I guess, like, an eye on what, on what happens here with the SEC, with, with coinbase doing this appeal. And I'll keep you guys updated on that. All right, moving on to some tech related news.
00:07:57.478 - 00:08:38.294, Speaker A: So Giorgio is here from paradigm, who is the lead of the ref clients effort here to announce I think today. Yeah, that they have open sourced something called the Reth Alpha net. So the REt Alpha net is an op stack compatible testnet roll up that maximizes REt performance and enables experimentation of bleeding edge Ethereum research. Now what's really cool about this, and you can actually read this in the announcement post, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But my read on this is that breadth would work really well. All the research and development going into reth would work really well with everything that base is trying to do right now. Because as you guys know, base is trying to scale up their execution layer, which is the EVM, to one giga gas per second.
00:08:38.294 - 00:09:08.934, Speaker A: Now to achieve that is a huge feat. Like to get there is a long journey and it's going to be a huge feat to get there because of the fact they're trying to inch out as much performance as possible out of the EVM. And to do that, they're going to need to make better clients. They're going to need to make more performative clients. Now, what the most performative, I think, execution layer client right now, I believe is Reth and now Rethink is a very new client. It is definitely not ready for, you know, large scale production. I think you can, you can run it with your like home validators if you want, but it's definitely not ready for like large scale production or anything like that.
00:09:08.934 - 00:09:59.720, Speaker A: But it is being worked on actively and it is something that can apply not just to l one, but all the learnings can apply to these EVM compatible l two s. So I think obviously, given that the ReT Alphanet is working with the op stack, this is definitely going to help base in a really big way here and it's going to allow base to scale up massively. Now, there's also an incentive thing here as well, where Paradigm is a huge backup of optimism and paradigm is incubating the ref effort here. And paradigms, one of paradigms co founders is, well, not anymore. He, I mean, paradigm, one of paradigms former co, I guess like he's still a co founder, but like he left it is, is, what's his name? Fred Ursam. He was the co founder of Coinbase alongside Brian Armstrong there. So obviously there's like a bunch of vested interests here to make this kind of succeed and to help along with this and to basically play off of the different investments at play here.
00:09:59.720 - 00:10:22.832, Speaker A: But that's a good thing. It's a net good thing that the financial incentives are leading us to get to getting more performative l two s and better performance for everyone. And as I said, it is open source general, this is open source. So it really does give back to the community. It's not some closed source thing that they're building that no one can benefit from. Everyone can benefit from this, which is obviously really, really awesome there. But you can go read this announcement post for yourself.
00:10:22.832 - 00:11:30.646, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, just a tweet here from David Mihal that I thought was quite interesting. So I've been talking about this for years at this point, but when it comes to ERp 4844 or blobs, they share a separate fee market to Ethereum l one, as you guys know. You know, as I said, I've been talking about this for ages, but David here posted a couple of pictures where he said that the Ethereum l one normal l one gas price went to 500 way during the sell off that we saw over the weekend. There was, and the Ethereum blob price stayed at one way or, which is basically free, which illustrated the independent fee markets that we see here. And this is what I've been banging on about for a long time now is the fact that we do, now that we have these independent fee markets, essentially any spiking of gas fees on l two s is going to be because of the execution side, where essentially the execution side gets hammered like we saw with base, and then those fees go up because of that. It's not because of the data side, which is at ethereum l one, when a theorem l one has these crazy fee spikes, you're not going to see the same fee spikes on, on the l two side because the data doesn't spike, it stays basically free.
00:11:30.646 - 00:12:26.654, Speaker A: Blob, I should say blob fees stay basically free, whereas normal ethereum l one is, as you can see, up to 500 gray or even, even above that there. Now, I will say there is some correlation between, I guess like when l one gas fees spike up like this and l two execution fees. Because obviously most of the time when you see l one gas fee spike up like this is because of some market volatility, whether that be volatility to the upside or to the downside, it's still general market volatility. And when you see that, basically what you get is essentially, you know, the fee market going crazy on the l one side, but also on the l two side because the l two still work off the same markets. Right. So the l two execution side may go crazy as well, and you may see fee spiking there. But I just really enjoy the fact that we have separate fee markets between the blobs and the ethereum l one and the fact that it's actually working and we can see it working and the fact that the l two s aren't influenced by this anymore.
00:12:26.654 - 00:12:54.808, Speaker A: So I just wanted to point that out there because I thought it was a really cool thing to kind of analyze there. All right, so I've been talking a bit about Lido's market share coming down recently. Well, I do check this dashboard from Hill Dobby quite regularly. It's his ethereum staking dashboard. And as you can see here, Lido's market share is now down to 29%. Now, I believe it's actually lower than that. If we go down here and we kind of see the current market shares, Lido's market share is at 28.8%
00:12:54.808 - 00:13:28.496, Speaker A: and coinbase is at 13.8%. So they've both come down quite a bit recently. You know, obviously they're still quite high, but they've come down quite a bit recently. And as you can see, it's mainly due to a lot of these other kind of players growing, especially players like Ethy, which is about to flip binance actually, and be number four, which is just a crazy amount of growth there. But there's been others here, you know, as you scroll down, you can see them like Renzo, for example, mantle. Bunch of others. But what illustrates this even better is these tables here that show you what the inflows have been like over the past week, past month and past six months.
00:13:28.496 - 00:13:50.038, Speaker A: As you can see here, over the past six months, Ethy has almost doubled light o's ETH that it's taken in like. That's just insane. And that's just one of these new entities that have kind of shown up here. Renzo has almost taken in as much ETH as lighter over the last six months. Same with mantle? Same with. Yes, and with Mantle. And then you've got to like the longer tail here, like kiln everstakes.
00:13:50.038 - 00:14:42.012, Speaker A: Well, and puffer isn't listed here. That puffer took in a ton of st, as you guys know, that it plans to vampire attack. We basically means withdraw it directly from Lido and then restake it on their puffer validators. And that's going to take another chunk away from Lido here. So we could really be seeing lighter go to like 28, 27% relatively soon with that vampire attack there. And you guys know that 22% is that kind of well agreed upon threshold that everyone was talking about, basically saying that we need to get, you know, no entity should be at above 22%. And I don't know if we're going to get there before lighter strikes back because this is the main thing I want to talk about, is that, yes, lighter's market share has come down a lot, but obviously we know that a large part of that, or pretty much most of that is due to the fact that people have been going with these other staking providers for restaking right there, LRT tokens instead of just lsts.
00:14:42.012 - 00:15:28.140, Speaker A: And the fact that they're doing token incentive programs, which is driving the activity there, which there's nothing wrong with that because Lido also did token incentive programs at the start of when they, you know, started and they got going there. And it's obviously put a lot of pressure and competition on Lido now, which is a net good for everyone. But what I mean here by Lido striking back is that I. I for sure, no, I mean, I don't know if this is, this is actually kind of publicly being talked about on the forums, but like, I assume that light, oh, is working on their own kind of LRT or converting lido into an LRT. Or they might just go scorched earth and make lighter into a restaking platform on its own, like get outside of Eigen layer altogether. They just become their own reek staking platform here. I'm gonna be very curious to see how they manage to do this because of the fact that Lido doesn't have any tokens left to give out.
00:15:28.140 - 00:15:45.960, Speaker A: So they've got a few different options here. Maybe they can take from their existing treasury and give those out. And I meant like, they've already got tokens, they have to take it from the treasury. They can't just take it from an existing pool and pay it out. Or they don't have a token yet. People can't farm them to get a token. They already have a token.
00:15:45.960 - 00:16:17.044, Speaker A: You know, their incentives can come from their treasury, but then they have to go through the dow to do that. Right. And it's a lot more messy than just having this unilateral control over the tokens early on, but they can do that. So I'm assuming they're going to strike back in some way, especially once the puffer vampire attack happens, which I think is happening soon from what I've seen from their roadmap there. So yeah, they're under the pressure, that's for sure. And they're under the pump in order to get something out in order to stop bleeding market share here. But I mean, even still, like, they've come down from what, almost 33% down to, let's say they get down to 28%.
00:16:17.044 - 00:16:58.170, Speaker A: That's a 5% reduction in their market share. That is, is pretty big. But when you actually kind of put the numbers here, 5% reduction in market share, none of the other providers except Coinbase even have over 5% market share. So that just shows you how dominant lido has traditionally been here. But I'm very glad to see that they have competition and I'm super glad to see just a more distributed and more, I guess, like diverse staking ecosystem. And, you know, I saw some people kind of posting on Twitter saying that, oh, it's arguable whether or whether all these other providers are better than lighter. It's like, well, okay, we can argue over the differences between the providers, differences between the, you know, the staking pools, differences between the risk profiles and so on and so forth.
00:16:58.170 - 00:17:23.842, Speaker A: But I think we can all agree that having more of these providers and more of them being independent, more of these independent pools is a net good for everyone. I don't see how you could see that was bad. And I really don't like that line of thinking because it basically means that, okay, well, we should only settle for Lido and we shouldn't compete with them. And lighter is the best. You know, lighter is the best we can do. I think that's a really bad line of thinking, especially in a free market. And crypto is one of the freest markets that we have.
00:17:23.842 - 00:18:00.532, Speaker A: And I just don't think it's a great way to think about these things. So that's when, you know, when I look at this, I look at the fact that, okay, yes, these other things may be more risky, maybe because they knew are they might have a higher chance of a bug in their contract and so on and so forth. But hey, you know, Lido shouldn't just exist as this pristine thing that everyone thinks is perfect. They need competition, they should have competition, and they should compete freely in the, in, you know, in the free market rather than having a. I wouldn't call it a monopoly, but they basically had like, a really unique starting point where essentially, they were first to market. They got a lot of market share in before staking withdrawals were enabled. They started, you know, in the bull market and then in the bear market.
00:18:00.532 - 00:18:18.268, Speaker A: No one could withdraw from Lido. So essentially what happened is that the fair value of Steth went down a lot because people were selling in the open market. But by the time withdrawals was enabled again, that fair value basically went. Sorry. That that arbitrage opportunity went away. St. Earth went back to fair value and no one was withdrawing from Lido then.
00:18:18.268 - 00:18:58.762, Speaker A: So now that they've got actual competition, what ends up. What ended up happening is that there may not be much ETH being withdrawn from Lido directly right now, but a lot of ETH is going into other providers now instead of lido. So essentially what's happened is that not only has their relative market share gone down, but their real market share has, has also gone down now as opposed to these other kind of solutions out there. So yeah, it's just been cool to see that competition play out there, and I'm hoping it continues there. All right, so a big announcement from arbitrum today. So they've announced that fraud proofs have taken them to a stage one roll up. But today, with bold, we're on our way to becoming a stage two roll up.
00:18:58.762 - 00:19:29.584, Speaker A: So bold is a permissionless validation mechanism on arbitrum, which is now live on testnet. So you can read this medium post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below to check out what this is. But yeah, I mean, it seems like arbitrum is actually going to be the first stage two roll up, or at least like the first stage two roll up that has, you know, activity on it. Because I know there are some other stage two roll ups out there right now. If we go to l two beat.com, you can actually see these. So there is other stage two roll ups, like D gate v one, and I believe fuel v one.
00:19:29.584 - 00:19:53.936, Speaker A: But I mean, fuel v one has like nothing in it. Like there's not even a TVL in it. And D gate v one has like $60 million of TvL in it. So very small potatoes, as we say, compared to Albatrum one, which has $16.2 billion of TvL in it. So they are stage one, not, you know, the next ranked stage one, which is dy. Dxv three only has $333 million tv all in it.
00:19:53.936 - 00:20:19.684, Speaker A: The rest of them has stage zero or non applicable here. So arbitrary. Getting to stage two is a pretty big deal. I believe that by the time they get to stage two. Op stack change will probably be at stage one. But yeah, albatross just killing the game when it comes, when it comes to the fact that they're basically getting to stage stage two here and they're doing that with, with arbitrary and bold. And I've talked about bold before, but the main benefits are permissionless validation.
00:20:19.684 - 00:21:08.402, Speaker A: So essentially anyone can run their own validator nodes and contribute to the consensus process, helping to secure the network and validate withdrawals back to Ethereum. There is enhanced security, pooled challenge funding, and a bunch of foundations putting into place as well here. And this is really critical here. Anyone running their own validator nodes and being able to contribute to the consensus process is critical for allowing for permissionless fraud proving because fraud proofs are currently whitelisted on arbitrary. You can see here that they currently allow 14 whitelisted actors watching the chain to prove that the state is correct. But by replacing this with permissionless validators via bold arbitram trains will be able to address this particular concern and of centralization and move further towards greater decentralization and achieve a greater Ethereum alignment. So you can go read the blog post for a full breakdown of this.
00:21:08.402 - 00:21:34.514, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But it's great to see that arbitrary is well on its way to achieving stage two here. And I believe the op stack chains will be here one day as well. But they still need to get to stage one. They're going to have permissionless fraud proofs from the get go, I believe. So they're gonna, but then they're gonna have other things that they still need to hit to get to stage two. And you can see here that for arbitrary one to get from stage one to stage two, the fraud proving needs to be open to whitelisted actors.
00:21:34.514 - 00:22:03.896, Speaker A: Upgrades unrelated to on chain provable bugs provide less than 30 days to exit, so I need to provide more than 30 days to exit. And the Security Council's actions are not confined to on train provable bugs that has to be confined there. So to get to stage two, you not only need permissionless fraud proving, you need those other two things as well. So if op stack chains get permissionless fraud proving, but still don't meet those other two criteria, then they're only going to be stage one. They're not going to go to stage two. So there is multiple criteria here. There isn't just like the permissionless fraud proving, there's, there's more than that here.
00:22:03.896 - 00:22:44.610, Speaker A: And as they should be, honestly, we should be, you know, the bar for getting to stage two should be quite high because then we have better guarantees around decentralization and security there. But yeah, anyway, you can go give that a read from the arbitrum team. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last thing here on the l two front, just wanted to kind of highlight this metric from Uniswap. So they kind of have been on base for a while now, their protocol, but the growth has been staggering over the last two months. So they said here that in January the base volume on Uniswap protocol was $329 million. In February it was $675 million, but then in March it was almost $10 billion.
00:22:44.610 - 00:23:07.580, Speaker A: And then halfway through April, it is already at $7.8 billion. So essentially when going from Jan to February, like doubled their volumes, but then going from Feb to March, they're like more than ten x their volumes. And it looks like they're going to do another near two x this month depending on volatility. Right. Depending on the activity that happens there. But yeah, it looks like April is going to be an all time high record month.
00:23:07.580 - 00:23:34.542, Speaker A: And it just goes to show, like, how much activity was happening in March. I know a lot of it was due to like, meme coins. A lot of, a lot of mania around that, obviously, over the past few days. Well, really, the last, the bulk of it, last two weeks, prices have come down, especially over the weekend. You know, we had a big crash, which I'm going to talk about in a sec, but still, generally, the volumes have been up massively here. And if you kind of look at this more than just like a month on month basis, maybe you look at that like a three month on three month or six month on six month or year on year basis. Yeah.
00:23:34.542 - 00:23:56.300, Speaker A: It's just been an incredible amount of growth for uniswap on base. And this is just uniswap guys. There are other dexes on base, there are other protocols on base. So. And obviously Uniswap is on other l two s as well. So it's not just base here, which is crazy to me. So, I mean, I haven't looked at the numbers of ETH l one plus the l two s for uniswap volume, but it could be for the month of March, over 100 billion there just on Uniswap alone.
00:23:56.300 - 00:24:36.634, Speaker A: So that's, that's pretty crazy there. But anyway, enough on that. I wanted to leave a bit of time here to go over the market. So I did give an updated market analysis on Twitter over the weekend where I said two weeks ago, I mentioned that I didn't think retail investors were here in any real way. And all the market action we had been seeing was led by crypto natives doing Max PvP with a bit of a wealth effect from BTC, getting new money via the ETF's. Well, given the brutal sell off that has happened to most of the crypto market, I think I was pretty on the mark with my analysis. So where to from here? Well, western man, I can't tell the future, but I do feel like at this point, the board has been reset and we can soon start a new game, which is the new REIT, the, the real retail led part of the overall bull market.
00:24:36.634 - 00:25:00.842, Speaker A: The bull market isn't over. We're just in intermission. So I've talked about this for months now on the refuel, probably going on like a year. I don't know. But, like, at least for the last few months, where I've basically said that I don't believe that the, you know, normies, retail investors are here in any big way. Maybe there's a little bit of them here, but they're not here in any big way. And I want to define what I mean by, like, these retail normie investors.
00:25:00.842 - 00:25:27.526, Speaker A: So what I mean by this is people who literally putting in new money and that haven't touched crypto since last cycle. I'm not talking about the people who are here right now, and they're putting, you know, new money in and have been around for a while, and they're putting new money in. This doesn't apply to those people because those people, to me, are not the normies, retail investors. They're already in crypto. They're just putting more money in. Yes, that's new money, but that money, it trickles in. It's not like a flood of money.
00:25:27.526 - 00:25:46.438, Speaker A: And why it trickles in is because these people that are already here, they need to get money to put in in the first place. They need to get paid from their job, which happens, you know, once a week, once every two weeks, once a month. They need to make money elsewhere. Whatever they're doing. It's not like, you know, a sudden rush of money. It's a continual drip. And I remember, I think I mentioned this like, a long time ago, is that this is what happens.
00:25:46.438 - 00:26:23.302, Speaker A: We're in the kind of like bear markets, in the crab markets, and then in the early bull markets, you have that for it to be a real retail led mania bull market, you need a surge of new money coming in, net new money from net new people who have not been around since at least the last bull market or not around ever. And the only place that that has been happening is the BTC ETF's. Outside of that, there has been nothing. Not on ETH, not on all the other assets out there, especially on all the other assets out there. Maybe a little bit on ETH, but on all the other assets out there, it has not been happening. Meme coins. I guarantee you most of the money that went into meme coins was crypto natives.
00:26:23.302 - 00:26:57.098, Speaker A: Now the reason why I'm so confident in this, and I'm even more confident now is because we sold off, guys. And you know what didn't sell off very hard BTC. And you know why? Because it has had new money inflows via the ETF's. But the rest of the stuff sold off absolutely brutally. Like even the darlings have sold off crazily. I mean you can go on coin, on Coinmarketcap or Coingecko, and you can look at the performance of some of these things over the past couple of weeks and how brutally they have sold off. A lot of them have retraced their entire like years, like last three months worth of price action, which was basically all of their positive price action.
00:26:57.098 - 00:27:36.048, Speaker A: Because towards the end of last year we did see some stuff pick up, but it wasn't really like the last kind of three months or so, like January, February, March, where it really kind of picked up steam. And again, to me that was just crypto natives. Maybe we saw a little bit of new money coming in last month because it was getting really, you know, crazy. And there were headlines because BTC went to all time high and all that, but it didn't sustain itself because of the fact that BTC did not sustain its all time high. It is not in the media every day where the media is saying BTC hit another all time high or ETH hit another all time high. It was basically in there for a brief period of time, brought some, maybe some new money in, but other than that, it hasn't really materialized. And I want to stress here that this is a good thing, guys.
00:27:36.048 - 00:28:07.810, Speaker A: This is a really good thing. And why this is a good thing is because I've been talking for a while about how I believe that the four year cycle is dead. I still think the four year cycle is dead, but that doesn't mean that we should just like accelerate the cycle to the point where we essentially turn it into like a two year cycle or something like that. Or a two and a half year cycle. I would rather the cycle last longer than shorter. And if you actually look at the chart, BTC for the last seven months, except for April, was green monthly candles the entire, like, for seven months straight. That is a crazy amount of positive price action for a crazy long period of time.
00:28:07.810 - 00:28:45.086, Speaker A: And that was obviously because of the ETF hype. Like, seven months ago was, was really where the ETF hype really kicked into high gear, and then it just kept going from there. But now that we've had the ETF hype, now that the ETF narrative for BTC is fading, now that it has, like, completely faded for ETH, the market is starved for a narrative. And because there is no net new money coming in, it can't create a new narrative. So essentially what needs to happen now, in my opinion, is that we need to have some time where we settle down, where prices settle down. I don't know if that means we're going to go further down from here. I don't know if that means we're going to go spike up again and then come back down again.
00:28:45.086 - 00:29:48.552, Speaker A: But I'm more confident in sideways moving for a little while than I am in just kind of, you know, bottoming, local bottoming here and then going straight back up. I would rather there be, you know, even just like a couple of months of sideways from here to set ourselves up a nice base so that we can reset, start a new game, as I said in my tweet here. And then we can lead us into the real retail lead bull market. And you'll know when it's the real retail lead bull market, guys, it is going to be a market where everything is going up and the stupidest things are going up. It's not going to be a market where these isolated things are going up. The things that are going, they're going to go up the most are going to be things you don't even hear about on crypto Twitter because they're going to be from people that aren't even on crypto Twitter bidding these things up. So I do, I just want to really stress to you guys that the bull market isn't over, but what we've had, you know, since basically June of last year, really, I mean, you could argue that started there till today has been crypto natives, and the only new money has been going into the BTC ETF's, you know, once they happened in January there, which kind of kept us going for a little bit, kept BTC going, and it's kept BTC relatively, you know, really well, but in a really good position.
00:29:48.552 - 00:30:12.980, Speaker A: I mean, if you actually look at how much BTC has come down versus, like, most other things, not so much ETH. ETH's come down a bit more, but like, not so much ETH. But like, a lot of the other things out there have just come down so massively. And I wish I had a chart in front of me to show you guys what this kind of looks like. But I do have a chart on my other screen. I just want to put this in numbers for you guys. If we go to BTC's, like, new all time high that it set and what the price is today, BTC has come down by about 15%.
00:30:12.980 - 00:30:26.836, Speaker A: Right now. I'm not going to go to a meme coin. I'm going to go to. To some of these other things out there. So let's go to something like. Like Seoul, for example. Right? Seoul was obviously, you know, had a lot of positive price action into late last year, also into this year.
00:30:26.836 - 00:30:50.850, Speaker A: And there's been a lot of stuff happening on Solana there. But Seoul, since it said it's all time, not all time. I, since it's local high about a month ago, is down around 36% as opposed to BTC is 15%. So obviously it's down a lot more there. And I think, ethan, I'm not actually even sure what ETH is down here. ETH is down around, you know, 24%. So as you can see on the downside, ETH performs better than everything else.
00:30:50.850 - 00:31:17.240, Speaker A: But BTC performs better than everything else. Right? And then if you want to look at, like, the meme coins, I mean, Jesus, like bonk. Let's just, let's just check. Bonk, for example, which topped, I believe, 4 March, it's down 70%. So this is what I've been trying to, I guess, like, get through to people around kind of speculating on these things there can go up a lot short term, but then they can absolutely crash as well. Short term. Guys like, you're trying to hold this stuff long term.
00:31:17.240 - 00:31:33.954, Speaker A: I'm not even measuring this stuff against ETH, by the way. It's just against USD. This is where ETH really shines. ETH shines as a long term, solid store of value investment. Same with BTC. They may not go up as much. Well, they're definitely not going to go up as much as these long tail assets over the short term, but they're also going to protect you from.
00:31:33.954 - 00:32:06.730, Speaker A: From the overall market sellers and for overall market downside. As opposed to sitting in something else. Now, obviously, cash is going to be the king here, but if you're trying to play kind of like the market trends here, you know, maybe every three months or something, or every couple of months or something, you're going to have to play it really right to not lose out and not to not let net lose out, especially if you're somewhere where you have to pay taxes on these trades. It becomes just a really shitty game. It becomes a game that consumes all of your time and for little benefit at the end of the day. So that's another thing that I thought was really important. He's just like, you got to look at these assets.
00:32:06.730 - 00:32:46.072, Speaker A: You got to look at the fact that, yes, they can go up a lot, but then you got to look at the fact that they have a lot more potential downside as well, because they're the first things that people sell off when the market is not going great. They're usually like towards the later stages of what people will buy when the market's going good, especially when it goes crazy. But they're definitely the first things people sell off when the market's not going. And in big size, because they don't have as much liquidity, their market caps are much smaller, so they're a lot easier to move in either direction. And then also, if we go sideways for a little while, they're probably going to be the last things to recover, if they recover. And BTC and ETH will probably just creep up, but these other things, they won't really catch too much of a bid, and then they're just going to be crushed against BTC and ETH. Right.
00:32:46.072 - 00:33:15.114, Speaker A: So trying to play these things, very, very difficult to do. And that's why I've always said, you know, it's a long term investment. It's not going to give you ten times returns overnight or anything like that, but it is going to let you sleep well at night rather than holding one of these meme coins or anything like that. Nothing wrong with speculating on them, but you need to know what you're getting yourself into. But I think on that note, that's going to be it. On the market side for today. There is other stuff that I could go into, but I didn't want to kind of rant too long about this because I want to give the market some more time to settle down and bake to see exactly where we are.
00:33:15.114 - 00:33:34.382, Speaker A: But I'm fairly confident that we're in a reset period here. It's not going to happen overnight. It's going to take a little while to reset the market here, but I wouldn't be surprised to see Ethan BTC hold their ranges that they've had for a little while and then slowly continue up from there. But anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:33:34.382 - 00:33:38.054, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
