00:00:02.080 - 00:00:03.902, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, welcome to the.
00:00:03.918 - 00:00:08.754, Speaker B: Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:17.254 - 00:00:46.336, Speaker C: And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrunch's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Now, before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for you. Now, a lot of you have been asking for how I analyze projects that I bring on the show.
00:00:46.336 - 00:01:32.100, Speaker C: That's why I decided to create blockchain VIP to share with you all the heavy research that goes on behind the scenes. Now, every week or so, our team prepares an in depth research memo with things like sector analysis, technical concepts made simple, in depth competitor breakdown, and even interactive models so you can learn about the most important projects before they become important. And our team is putting in hours every week, scouring discord, Twitter, forums and blogs to help you get an edge in crypto and understand the latest projects and themes at the deepest levels. That goes way beyond just an interview. Now, in addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions. So all of these are only available to blockchain's VIP subscribers. And the good news is that while our interviews will always be free, the vip tier costs less than one coffee a day.
00:01:32.100 - 00:01:38.144, Speaker C: So head on over to theblockcrunch.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up.
00:01:39.564 - 00:02:27.198, Speaker A: Hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, with the markets being down, I've always found it really helpful to zoom out and talk to those who think in decades, not just hours or days. And one such person is Avichal Garg, who is the managing partner at Electric Capital, which is a billion dollar crypto VC fund. Now previously, Avitro spent almost five years at Facebook as a director of product management, building a lot of the features you are definitely familiar with. And he was also an angel investor to companies like airtable, Figma, Notion, Dy DX, and many more names that you probably know. So today we'll dive into Abitro's crypto thesis, his investment process in managing a billion dollar fund at electric, and his bold thesis that VC's will be disrupted completely, which we'll dig into that as well. So really excited to have you on.
00:02:27.198 - 00:02:28.714, Speaker A: Welcome to the show, finally.
00:02:29.494 - 00:02:32.630, Speaker D: Yeah, great to see you. I'm glad we were able to do this, definitely.
00:02:32.662 - 00:02:45.274, Speaker A: So now I'd love to kick it off with just a little bit of background, because I know you spent four to five years at Facebook, and I'm really interested in kind of what convinced you to invest in crypto instead, because that's very far away from what Facebook was doing.
00:02:46.134 - 00:03:21.564, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a good question. So the backstory. So the way I got to Facebook was we sold our company to them in 2012, and what that company was doing was we were a. We're kind of on the consumer side. We were like a TiVo on your phone so you could give us a URL, and we would make a copy of whatever was on the other side of it for you. And in order to do that, we ran a bunch of infrastructure in remote data centers that on the server side would capture all this video and audio or convert files. So we're running a really large distributed system, basically.
00:03:21.564 - 00:03:45.020, Speaker D: And so we bought all of these, all this computational power. This is like 2010. So this was Android 2.3. Like, it was the first usable version of Android. And there were all of these problems around how you move media files around between devices. And so that's why we built all that infrastructure. But in essence, we were running a large GPU cluster and across a bunch of different data centers.
00:03:45.020 - 00:04:08.760, Speaker D: So when we saw bitcoin in 2010, we said, oh, this is awesome. This is actually a way to pay for computational power on a distributed network. That's how we sort of interpreted bitcoin. And it turns out we were totally wrong. That's not what it is at all. And so we started mining it and playing around with it, and by 2013, we're like, wow, this is actually terrible at being a distributed network and distributed computer. Like, this doesn't make any sense.
00:04:08.760 - 00:04:50.944, Speaker D: So we ended up selling most of our bitcoin, but that was sort of our early foray into it. And then when we saw Ethereum in 2015, 2016, and we were playing around with that, we said, oh, this is actually the thing that we thought bitcoin was, and it's actually usable. It might actually work. And so we sort of went back down the crypto rabbit hole in, like, 15 and stuck around as hobbyists. And so when we were leaving Facebook at the end of 2016, we thought we'd start another company. And we were pretty convinced by that point that crypto was the market that we wanted to be in. One of the things I always say as an investor is the number one lesson that I learned as an entrepreneur is you have to pick the right market.
00:04:50.944 - 00:05:37.776, Speaker D: And it's one of these things where Warren Buffett has a version of this and sequoia has a version of this. And if people who are that far, sequoia does the early stage investing, and Warren Buffett does value investing on the public markets. But if it turns out those two bookends of investing are saying the same thing, which is pick the right market, there's some ground to truth there. And I learned that same lesson as an entrepreneur. And so we were convinced that crypto was the right market for us to be in for the next ten to 20 years, at least, and it was going to be transformative. And then the question was, really, well, how do we play in this world, and what should we do? And we actually thought we would start a new company. And so when we left at the end of 2016, we were just kind of dabbling and hacking and writing some code and playing around with stuff and doing some angel investing and just trying to sort out what we wanted to do.
00:05:37.776 - 00:06:14.910, Speaker D: And I've told the story in other places before. What ended up happening was a bunch of firms that were not as familiar with crypto, but knew us personally here in Silicon Valley started reaching out, saying, hey, I know you and Curtis have been into this stuff for years. What's ethereum? What's an ico? Should we buy some bitcoin? What's going on here? That was kind of the conversation in the 2017 bull run. And by the end of 2017, most of the VC firms in Silicon Valley, except for a very small number like Andreessen, basically said, you know what? We're not set up to do this crypto stuff at all. Like, we just. It's not our sweet spot. We don't know how to do it.
00:06:14.910 - 00:06:45.904, Speaker D: Like, you know, our LPA doesn't let us do it. Like, I don't know how to custody tokens. There's all these complexities to doing this stuff. Plus, you know, if you go back to 2017, if any were doing venture like SaaS marketplaces, fintech, it was a great time to be deploying capital, you know, five years ago. And so it kind of didn't make sense for most of these VC firms to want to do this. It just was too out there. A few of them approached us and said, hey, can we just give you and curtis money to do whatever it is that you guys do with your personal assets and do it with some of our money too, because we trust you guys.
00:06:45.904 - 00:07:15.134, Speaker D: And so that's how electric capital was started in 2018. We started with a small fund, and as you mentioned, we've been fortunate to be able to scale it up. And our most recent pair of funds that we just announced earlier this year, we closed a billion dollars, which is wild if it were a startup. In terms of assets under management, growth, like 100 x growth in four years is pretty phenomenal. So we're very, very lucky. But it's kind of back to what I was saying is you picked the right market and a lot of stuff is tailwind instead of headwinds.
00:07:15.474 - 00:07:44.694, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. And I really like that you guys came into this as builders and tinkerers as well, because something that's really unique about electric is, I think, 70% of the team are engineers and there are no investment associates or principal roles or at least that I could find. And you guys, I think, put out a blog post before saying that you mostly only hire engineers who code and hangout in discord rather than these kind of normal investment associate types. So can you talk a little bit about why is that important and how did you decide on that?
00:07:46.554 - 00:08:17.758, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a great question. What it really gets at is kind of our fundamental investment thesis, and then that spills over into how we choose to invest and our fundamental belief. The thing that kind of got us into the space was, to use an Andreessen phrase, this is software eating money. So we said, look, ones and zeros are now becoming forms of money and stores of value and mediums of exchange. And you're getting digital property rights with things like nfts. And so now what you have is digital money that exists. It's Internet native money.
00:08:17.758 - 00:09:12.092, Speaker D: And if software eats money, then you can sort of very quickly play that forward and say, oh, that means software is going to eat all the capital markets, which is just the movement of money between different entities and different parties. And venture capital is just one form of money movement. And so that means software is going to eat venture capital. And then you say, okay, well, what does that mean and how does that played out? And one observation is that when you look at other markets that have been eaten by software, there's a recurring pattern. So if you look at, let's say, Amazon versus Walmart, or you look at Tesla versus the legacy car companies, or you look at Facebook and YouTube versus legacy media companies, and the pattern that you notice is that when the software company gets started and software starts to eat that market, you can't just put up a website. You can't just become digital. What you actually have to do is rewire your organization internally.
00:09:12.092 - 00:09:32.434, Speaker D: And what you have to do fundamentally is put the engineers in charge. And so take something like Amazon. How does Amazon work internally? I was fortunate enough to be an intern at Amazon, so I got to experience this firsthand. But at Amazon, the engineers make all the decisions. They run a b tests. Everything is a metric. You can write code, everything is an API between teams.
00:09:32.434 - 00:10:15.812, Speaker D: It's very different than how Walmart works. Walmart, you have partnerships, people and salespeople, and they really understand consumer packaged goods. And they have Procter and gamble relationships and in store shelf pricing. For years, the people who really understood the retail business were the ones that were running the show. And so for Walmart to really effectively compete against Amazon, which they arguably are now starting to be able to do, but it's 30 years later, why was it so hard for them? 30 years is a long time. How did it take 30 years? Well, in my opinion, the reason is that you have to upend your entire organization. You have to go into your organization and say, you know what, CEO, you're now the COO and engineers, you're in charge now.
00:10:15.812 - 00:10:44.992, Speaker D: And by the way, like partnerships, people, you make half the money. And engineers, you make twice the money. And so you just have to blow up your organization that way. It's very, very hard to do founder led organizations can do that. They can sort of go in and have the sort of ability to blow up their organization in that way. But if you're not, it's very, very challenging. And so what you see in all these markets is that the startups end up being in the incumbents because the startups build their organization in such a way that it uniquely takes advantage of the new infrastructure.
00:10:44.992 - 00:11:29.976, Speaker D: And, and so back to this idea of software eating money and eventually software eating venture capital. Our belief was that what that means is that the next generation of VC firms have to be run by engineers. And the way that the guts of that business work have to be software led. And so as important as our sort of investment thesis is that this is softwareing money, and there's a whole set of applications that will come out of that, including layer ones and L2s and DeFi and NFT marketplaces, things like that. As important as that is, how do you build your organization to invest into that? And our belief is that what you really need to do is build an engineering led organization and an engineering first organization. And so most of the team is engineers. Everybody on the investment team has computer science backgrounds, and we've all built and shipped product at Google and Facebook and Microsoft and these big companies.
00:11:29.976 - 00:12:22.252, Speaker D: And so we've seen things get to scale and get shipped, and we know how to build and ship product. And we think that that DNA just changes the way we build the business. So, for example, we've built a very robust accounting system internally, because a lot of what we can do is move assets around on chain, and so we can move liquidity into smart contracts, generate yield, use that to support our early stage projects. And a lot of times for us to be able to do those kinds of things, they may not have much third party support, because by definition, the kinds of things that we're investing in as early stage VC's often are just, they're not supported yet by third parties, which is why there's an asymmetric return profile. But if we do that, we have to pay our taxes properly. We're generating all this yield. Well, how do you, like, track where your assets are? Where are they sitting? How much yield are they generating? How much taxes do you own? And in our experience, most of the third party tools are not good at actually doing that.
00:12:22.252 - 00:13:05.524, Speaker D: They're certainly not good at doing that across chains. And a lot of what we do is on Solana and Nir and these other chains, they also are not that robust in how they do it. And so we just built a better system internally. So we have a team of software engineers that has built a much better accounting system, which then allows us to go do all these kinds of things and make sure that our institutional investors, these endowments, nonprofits that give us money, have confidence that we're actually tracking all of our assets in the right way and paying our taxes in the right way. But that's a very different way to build a VC firm, to actually sort of have to go and write some software to actually enable you to be able to do the kind of investments that you want to do operationally is a very different business than, I think, what most people think of as venture capital.
00:13:06.064 - 00:13:14.684, Speaker A: Do the engineers at electric mostly build software for internal uses to improve internal process, or do you guys build things for your portfolio companies as well?
00:13:16.084 - 00:14:02.286, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a great question. So the engineers kind of do three things. One is we build internal tools, and that just helps us run the business. Two is we build and ship things for the public good. So our belief is that the right way to essentially do marketing in this space is to just create value and give it away. So, for example, we have taxonomy on GitHub of all of the l one s and all of the various projects and ecosystems that are built on top of those l one s, and anybody can go use that. Or we have our annual developer report that we publish that shares all this data, and we work with all of the l one s and l two s and all these daos to share the data with them and just say, hey, here's, we're tracking all of GitHub, we're crawling it.
00:14:02.286 - 00:14:49.616, Speaker D: We're crawling GitLab, we're crawling all these sources and we've aggregated all that data and are doing analysis on it. Can we help you? Can we just give you data on what developers in your ecosystem are doing? Because we just have better data than anybody and so we'll just share it for free. So, like, you know, what you would do in a public equities hedge fund is you would take that alpha and try to trade on it. And our approach as a VC firm is to give the data away, because that's how you generate goodwill and build a brand. And ultimately, the ability to monetize your brand is really what you're building as a VC firm. Or we're working on one right now where we have been able to crawl and index telegram and Discord and a bunch of social channels. And so we actually have really robust data, more robust than I've seen in any third party data on where the communities are and what the history of that community engagement looks like.
00:14:49.616 - 00:15:26.224, Speaker D: So literally, like, we can figure out what people are saying and what they're talking about and what geographies they're in. We have like a lot of really robust data there. And we're working with some of the top NFT and DeFi projects to just give them the data and just be like, here's what your user, here's where they are, here's what they're doing, and here's how it's trended over time. And then those communities can make much better decisions about how to engage their community. So our approach is to sort of use the engineers to create these public goods and just give away the value rather than trying to sell it or anything like that. And then the third thing that we do is we actually, all the engineers are involved in the investment decisions. And so literally all the engineers sit in our investment team meetings.
00:15:26.224 - 00:16:12.288, Speaker D: Like, when we figure out how to deploy capital, the engineers have a say. And so they'll actually, if we're going to go consider writing, investing in some layer one or L2, or we're looking at Filecoin or arweave or Siacoin. We're looking, looking at these things through the lens of what does it mean to actually write code on top of them. And so somebody on our team, like two engineers, will actually go off and write code against that and see how good are the APIs? Does the platform actually do what it claims to do? Are the APIs really brittle and it falls apart when you try to use it? Are the claims about how the throughput works actually accurate? And you can validate these things if you go actually write some code against them. But of course you need an engineer to go do that. So those are the three buckets. So the engineers are building internal tools, they're trying to build public goods that then get used by some.
00:16:12.288 - 00:16:25.564, Speaker D: Our portfolio, but also beyond our portfolio, especially in the form of really good data tools, is I think, an area we're particularly excellent and then actually on the investment side and helping us make much better decisions about where to put capital.
00:16:26.504 - 00:17:07.754, Speaker A: Yeah, and I love how natural the rationale for having an engineering heavy team sounds. But in reality, it's actually quite contrarian. If you look at all the other funds and how they're structured, especially larger funds in the US, I think quite a few of them have very publicly supported this idea of having engineering heavy teams. I think paradigm is one of them. But a lot of the other funds are still resembling traditional venture funds. So by all means, I think this is definitely a very contrarian proposition and I'm really excited to dive into the specific investments and how the process impacted your decisions as well. But before that, I love to focus on the high level thesis because in a blog post I think you guys outlined five main thesis that I will just repeat here for our listeners.
00:17:07.754 - 00:17:48.034, Speaker A: So number one is Daos will empower global communities to allocate resources to large and small initiatives. Number two is nfts will form the asset layer for web3 and bedrock for new types of financial instruments. Number three is DeFi will democratize access to financial products around the world. Number four, decentralized infrastructure will allow engineers to build the next generation of apps without central points of failure. And finally, accessible user experiences will onboard millions of users to web3. Now, I love to focus on just a few of these, starting with daos, because that is a very contentious one. Why are you guys so bullish on daos? And any examples of ones that maybe you guys are excited about?
00:17:49.614 - 00:18:40.484, Speaker D: Yeah, so I think maybe the place to start there is like, why is the idea of a DAO. Really interesting. And my conception of it is basically, it's an Internet native corporation. And if anybody's read up on the history of the corporation, it's actually pretty fascinating. Right? Like, what is really a corporation? It's basically a group of humans that have coalesced around some idea that they share in common, and then they can pool capital and pool human resources to go pursue that idea or that set of values or that set of beliefs that they have and try to create value in the world. And it also sort of insulates those individuals from personal risk. So by pooling your capital, you can have your capital taking risk, but the rest of your capital that's not pooled inside that corporation is not at risk.
00:18:40.484 - 00:19:32.506, Speaker D: And that's actually a really important innovation. So prior to about 1650, if you pursued some endeavor, your personal assets were on the line as well. And so that's why you had the cottage industry, because it was actually very hard to scale, because it was very hard to pool capital, because if you were involved and associated with some sort of corporation, your other assets were also at risk. And so this idea of, like, separating capital risk from personal risk and labor enterprise risk from personal risk is really important. And so that's why you got something like the Dutch East India Company as a joint stock corporation, where you could have a bunch of assets pulled together, and now a larger number of humans could coordinate with each other to go pursue some endeavor. Now, the problem was that in order to do that, you needed to go to the king and say, hey, I would like to start a corporation. Can you give me a charter to start a corporation? It was, in effect, highly, highly regulated.
00:19:32.506 - 00:20:11.212, Speaker D: And so in the mid 18 hundreds, some people in the UK and the US had this great idea that actually, you shouldn't have to go to the king to get a corporation. You should be able to just fill out some paperwork effectively and de facto be approved to get a corporation, as long as you did the paperwork in the right way. And it turns out this was a massive unlock. This is in part why we got the industrial revolution, because all of a sudden, we got railroads. Because all of a sudden, a lot of people could now start corporations, and they could pool capital and pool assets and pursue these risky endeavors. And if they were successful, they made a lot of money. And if they weren't successful, then all they lost was that money that they put in.
00:20:11.212 - 00:20:40.574, Speaker D: Their other personal assets were not on the line. And so that was actually a really, really big unlock. And it took 200 years to figure that out. And then if you fast forward another 100 and 5170 years, you get daos. And so if you think about the amount of friction that was reduced by going from, I need to go talk to the king to give me a charter down to, I can just fill out some paperwork in the government, and now I have a Delaware C Corp. And then I can take that to a bank and go open a bank. That's like 100 x improvement, right? That's 100 x reduction in friction.
00:20:40.574 - 00:21:10.018, Speaker D: And the way I look at a Dow is that's another hundred x improvement in the ability for anybody to create a corporation. Because now you can push a button and there's a smart contract on chain and you're good like that. Thinking custody, assets. It's actually also a bank account. Right? The wallet. The smart contract address is also, while you just start putting money into it, you can tweet it out and like you're ready to go, right. And that is actually literally 100 x faster than filling out some paperwork, submitting it to the state of Delaware, hopefully you expedited it costs $100, you get your charter back.
00:21:10.018 - 00:21:46.796, Speaker D: You take that charter, you go to the bank, you ask for a bank account from the bank, they take like two days to get all your paperwork approved. Then they find out you're a crypto company and maybe they don't even want to give you a bank account. They like, delay it for a week, right? And you play that out and you're like, man, that took, like, literally at the fastest is probably a week to get all that done, maybe four days. And so you run the numbers on that and you're like, wow, that's like, let's say really generously, at least 72 hours. And. And you could start a dao in like five minutes. Right? Like, literally, you go on chain and deploy the contract and tweet out the contract address and you're ready to go.
00:21:46.796 - 00:22:38.144, Speaker D: Right? And so 72 hours versus 30 seconds is at least 100 x improvement. And so I think what's going to happen is what we have now is a brand new way for humans anywhere in the world to start to coordinate and collaborate and pool capital and pursue endeavors. And so, like, every WhatsApp group can have a dao, every telegram group can have a dao, and you can pool these assets together, and there's groups of people that can form with very, very little friction, can pursue ideas together and deploy capital together. And I think that's fascinating. And so I don't know what that turns into, but that is one of the recurring patterns in technology is every time you reduce the friction to a thing by 100 x, the amount of activity goes up 10,000 x. So when it became 100 x, easier to use WhatsApp than sending an SMS to your friends, internationally, usage went up. A billion people did it, 2 billion people do it now every day.
00:22:38.144 - 00:23:22.096, Speaker D: And so I think you think we're going to end up with millions and millions, if not billions of dows 50 years from now. And the real question from a venture investor perspective is, what are the use cases that really break through? What can you do now that you can pool these resources purely on the Internet with people all over the world? And some of them may not even be people, some of it may be other daos, or some of it may be an AI that happens to own a bunch of money. And so now computers can participate in the, in the formation of capital and pursuing endeavors. So it may even be non human entities that are helping us pursue these endeavors, which is kind of crazy to think about. And so I don't know what that turns into, but that to me sniffs like a thing that happens every 150 years. And when it happens, it's a really big deal. Right? Like the joint stock Corporation was a really, really big deal.
00:23:22.096 - 00:23:31.604, Speaker D: The ability to get a limited liability corporation in the 1850s was a really big deal. And so I think the ability to start a Dow and pool capital in 2020s is a really big deal.
00:23:35.404 - 00:23:36.956, Speaker A: Hey guys, im really excited to tell.
00:23:36.980 - 00:23:40.188, Speaker B: You more about one of my favorite products in crypto right now, DYDx.
00:23:40.316 - 00:23:41.564, Speaker A: This is a team ive known since.
00:23:41.604 - 00:23:47.700, Speaker B: 2018, and theyve built one of the best exchange venues out there that also happens to be decentralized and mobile friendly.
00:23:47.812 - 00:23:49.236, Speaker A: Now listen until the end, because theres.
00:23:49.260 - 00:24:29.146, Speaker B: An opportunity for savvy traders out there as well. And here are just a few reasons why I like UIDX over other exchanges. First, its very liquid. It processes two to $3 billion every day in volume and has 35 perpetual swaps as of this recording, which means you can trade things like Ethereum, bitcoin, doge Solana, and most of the most popular assets with up to 20 x leverage in the venue today. Second, it's also extremely cheap, and if you're down bad from the bear market, you don't have to worry about gas fees at all because there is no gas fee on starkware L2, where DYDX is built on. Now that brings me to my next point as well. It's incredibly fast, unlike other L2 and high speed Dexs, you dont actually have to wait to withdraw your assets anymore.
00:24:29.146 - 00:25:15.450, Speaker B: And as an additional point, by using Starkware, DYDX also provides users with increased security and privacy. And my personal favorite feature is the cross margin feature, which means I can seed one account with USDC and trade across multiple markets from there without needing to start subaccounts because I really hate managing so many different subaccounts. And their iOS mobile app is also live right now. And it's amazing because it's compatible with Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Coin 98, Huawei Wallet, and a lot of the most popular mobile wallets out there. And it's available for people outside of the US or sanctioned countries today. And one last thing, one exciting opportunity is their competitions, the most recent tier in the $10,000 equity tier have won over $95,000 in rewards. And you can get started with as low as $500 in equity to compete for prizes.
00:25:15.450 - 00:25:26.454, Speaker B: So if you're already trading, might as well get paid to do it. So if any of that sounds interesting to you, I highly recommend that you head on over to DyDX exchange to learn more. And I thank them for sponsoring this episode.
00:25:28.874 - 00:26:04.854, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think there's a lot of things related to like regulation that I'm definitely going to touch on later on. But I want to double click on the DaO thing first because I definitely agree that the instantiation of the DAO is a massive improvement compared to like setting up a company. But in terms of the governance side, in reality we're seeing just a lot of issues with like free riding and governance, just bureaucracy in the early days, especially if you look at bigger projects like Maker Dao now, there's a lot of drama over there. So I'm curious, have you seen examples of daos where you think the governance is actually done quite well? It's quite efficient, there's not that much kind of fat that's lying around.
00:26:05.514 - 00:26:32.484, Speaker D: Hmm. It's an excellent question. Is there a really well run down? One of the ones I really like, and we are conflicted in this recommendation. Take it with a grain of salt. And obviously nothing I say is investment advice is Lamadao. And I think what Austin and Shreyas are doing there is really interesting. Another one that's kind of like that is the metricsdao community is another one that's sort of related to Vector Dao.
00:26:32.484 - 00:27:05.396, Speaker D: So some of these communities where it's experts in a particular area are sort of grouping together around a Dao and then pursuing work together and doing and creating value together. I think are really interesting because it feels like a very loosely coupled corporation. So if you look at Lamadao, it's these governance experts, and they literally, they go into places like Aave and we'll do a bunch of governance work for them. They like, figure out what the financial health of the thing is. They're almost like the financial organization for this. It's almost like the CFO and the VP of finance coming in to help you out. They'll help with governance proposals.
00:27:05.396 - 00:27:55.004, Speaker D: They work with companies like Gitcoin on treasury diversification, the metric style. People will go in and create dashboards for different daos and help them understand, create a dune dashboard or a tool tokenflow dashboard. And so I think that's really, really interesting. It's a group of people that don't really know each other, but they all have a particular skill set in common, and they're banding together to become sort of a marketplace for jobs and a marketplace for talent. And it's really fascinating because you don't have to have a degree from Harvard or Stanford or MIT. You can just start showing up and doing work. And if you're talented, the money will start to flow to you, which I think is phenomenal because there's actually as many talented people come out of MIT and Harvard and Stanford, there's 100 x as many talented people all over the world that didn't get a chance to go there.
00:27:55.004 - 00:28:41.568, Speaker D: And so as a great sort of meritocratic force, I think it's awesome. All of a sudden, you get thousands and thousands of people all over the world who are extremely talented, who can now make potentially ten to 100 x more money than they would have been able to make otherwise. And I think right now, because those communities are relatively small and they're relatively tight in terms of the objective and the skills that the people have at the table, there's a lot of values alignment there. So they tend to think about the world in similar enough ways that you get a lot of cohesion. And then that cohesion, I think, creates efficiency. A lot of the more challenging DAO experiences, I think, are where people are so fundamentally divergent on their worldview about what needs to happen that you get a lot of tension about what is the right thing to do. Maybe there's a lesson in there.
00:28:41.568 - 00:29:30.328, Speaker D: It's probably the larger daos that have lots of capital and have very divergent views are going to be much slower and messier. But maybe that's okay. Maybe that's like democracy, maybe it's just designed to move a little bit slowly and be resilient, and that's good. And maybe the smaller daos are kind of like smaller countries where everybody has much more social cohesion and so they can move much more quickly and be efficient, and then they find their own relative niches. The smaller ones can move quickly and find places to create new value, and the bigger ones end up adopting the best practices from the smaller ones over time so they can coexist. I think it's a fascinating experiment. I mean, if I were like an economics professor or political science professor, I mean, these are like little countries, you know, it's like real time game theory and politics playing out.
00:29:30.328 - 00:30:35.634, Speaker D: But the search space that we've done and opened up here is so massive because, I mean, think about how hard it is to start a country or even start a corporation and like run that company for ten years to see how these things play out. Like we're running, we're like speedrunning these things, right? We're speed running country creation in these daos and running these experiments on what are the kinds of governance models that can actually work when a couple hundred or a couple thousand humans get together and try to coordinate and create value. So I suspect actually what's going to happen is we're not like most of these DAO experiments will probably fail, but I suspect we get a handful of entirely new governance models that come out of this over the next ten years that are totally unexpected. And it turns out that by opening up that search space, we can now have governance models that are totally different than the ones that we use today for companies or countries, and they're actually highly effective for some new endeavors. I think that'd be awesome. What a cool thing that we'll have. Somebody will invent way new ways for humans to coordinate and collaborate at Internet scale, and then a bunch of people will copy those models.
00:30:35.634 - 00:30:45.594, Speaker D: That is, I think, super, super exciting, in my opinion. Probably takes five to ten years to really play out. I think it'll take us a decade to see which of these things are actually durable and survive.
00:30:46.174 - 00:31:44.700, Speaker A: I think the point about convergent philosophies and very similar skill sets in a small group of people forming effective daos like llama Dao, metric style and Vector Dao, as you mentioned. I think that's so important because internally, at least at my kind of angel font a tangent, we are conflicted about the way that daos are run today, but we really like this idea of just putting together very bright people and having them loosely organize themselves. So that's what we do at tangent and we invested in actually a group of white hat hackers that's doing a security Dao and then we invested in a bunch of NFT finance experts that doing a kind of NFT finance Dao as well. So really, really excited about that thesis for sure. And there are a lot more stuff that we can unpack there. But I love to move on to the second thesis that I'm really interested in, especially given your experience, which is the accessible user experience will onboard millions of users. I think it's really interesting that you separated this out into its own thesis because it seems more like a thing that can fit into the other thesis.
00:31:44.700 - 00:31:51.824, Speaker A: So I'm curious about where you're coming from with that. And what do you think is missing with crypto user experience today?
00:31:52.764 - 00:32:59.646, Speaker D: Yeah, so the observation there is that regardless of the category that you're in, the ability to own the end user experience and make it seamless is a huge advantage. And so it's sort of thematically a thing we're really interested in to the point where we actually have hired, we have a full time designer on staff, Rafael, and he's worked with some of our portfolio companies and he's doing a bunch of experiments internally. And a full time former director of design from Facebook and YouTube, Elizabeth, and she works with a bunch of our companies and advises them on how should product design organizations work and how do you hire great designers and have designers and engineers working together effectively and so on. So we think it's really important to the point that we've hired full time people on staff to work with our portfolio on that. And then the way I think this sort of plays out is right now, I don't think the interfaces that we have and the experiences that we have are going to scale to a billion people. It's just too complicated. If you use a typical wallet today, you're being asked about gas fees.
00:32:59.646 - 00:33:49.178, Speaker D: You're getting like, you know, like when you hit submit if like the thing aired out. Because like the mint, the NFT mint is gone. You get like some cryptic, you know, like not if gas message or like you get this, like, you know, you need, you need a thousand, you know, or you get these like weird messages and you're supposed to somehow know that that means that the mint is done. You know, to do the mint, you might have to go to etherscan and then click on the contract tab and go down to some like form field and fill in like the amount of gas. And yeah, it's just like crazy town that this is how it works, right? And I just don't think that that's quite ready for the next billion users. And so until we figure out how to package these things up in ways that normal people can get their heads around on mobile, I think it's going to be slow going. But we've seen that that was sort of like the Internet in the nineties.
00:33:49.178 - 00:34:37.216, Speaker D: You had to figure out, you had to understand what 50k bps meant, and you had to figure out how to log into some Internet service provider and you had to understand what a browser was and you had to understand what Yahoo was. It's just like the number of things that you had to understand before you could go create value and understand what's happening on the Internet was just tremendous. And then over time, we got better and better interfaces to solve those problems. It's an area that we're excited about, whether it's NFTs or DaOs or DeFi or layer ones, L2s, all of this stuff. We just think that we need to get more designers and product people in the door who understand the technology and then can package it up in a way, especially on mobile, so that it can get to a billion or 2 billion people. And I think we're quite a ways away from that. And so we spent a lot of time with our portfolio companies on that.
00:34:37.216 - 00:35:14.966, Speaker D: We spend a lot of time sort of hunting for teams that have that kind of DNA. Like they have an intuitive sense that the experience needs to be much, much simpler and better and faster. And when we find those people, they're rare right now, I think they'll become much more common over the next ten years. But when we find those people, it's just wonderful to work with them because they just have the 6th sense for like, here's how I package this thing up in a way that the normal user can understand. And I think those are durable advantages. Like as we saw on the Internet, if you build a faster, easier to use experience, it turns out to be, surprisingly, a durable advantage. I mean, look at Google versus other search engines, or Facebook versus other social networks.
00:35:14.966 - 00:35:22.594, Speaker D: It turns out Instagram, Twitter, it turns out simplicity and ease of use are actually competitive advantages in the long term.
00:35:23.214 - 00:35:30.714, Speaker A: Are there one or two founders or maybe portfolio companies of yours that you think really understand this and really have just excellent user experience?
00:35:31.974 - 00:35:57.256, Speaker D: Yeah, two that come to mind right away. One is slingshot and one is a company called Magic Eden Slingshot. They don't even call themselves a dex or an on chain order book or anything. It's just an exchange. But it turns out the way that they built it, it's non custodial, it works on l two, so it's super fast and super cheap. The interface is really easy to use. They built a really great mobile experience.
00:35:57.256 - 00:36:29.800, Speaker D: And because the mobile experience was launched so well, they have something like 2 million people on the waitlist. It's really wild how many people they have. Actually, I think it's like 2 million sign ups. It's like north of a million uniques. So somewhere between one to 2 million people who've signed up to use this thing. And it's just because you don't have to understand a lot of the complexity around wiring up your wallet and which chain are you on? And how do I switch between optimism and ETH? And they just took care of all that in the background and put it on your phone and made it real easy. Or you look at Magic Eden and they made it really easy to participate in mints.
00:36:29.800 - 00:37:09.800, Speaker D: And so as new things are getting launched, you can just go there and go to the launchpad and participate. And their integration with Phantom is really, really clean and it's fast. They really understand that there's ease of use in the interface and the information architecture and the design and where the buttons and all that kind of stuff, but also making these things super fast. So when you click the button, the right thing happens and happens immediately. Or when you're on chain and you're looking for these nfts, indexing that stuff really, really, really fast is a competitive advantage. And it actually makes your user experience way better because that means you can find the nfts that you're searching for and it shows up immediately in the interface. And so speed at the indexing layer turns out to be a competitive advantage and make for a much better user experience.
00:37:09.800 - 00:37:36.434, Speaker D: And you don't even have to think about it. There's no notion of waiting there, which is a bad user experience. And so you can see just in terms of the trajectory of how many people are using these products that actually investing in good design and good user experience already is starting to pay dividends. I think Fantom is another great example. Fantom is just a really easy to use wallet experience and they sort of abstracted away a bunch of complexity. And so it's not a surprise that, that the Phantom team has had so much traction and so much success so quickly.
00:37:37.134 - 00:38:16.974, Speaker A: Yeah, and since we're drawing from your product experience as well, I think one thing that really stood out to me from a lot of my friends who used to work at Facebook is just how much they quantify and measure all of these KPI's, which is just not a thing in crypto yet. So I'm curious, because when you think back to a time when maybe electric made a large investment in a company, I'm guessing that things like unit economics didn't exist yet. Serviceable market might be small. Tam is uncertain for many things in web3. So what kind of got you over the line? What convinces you to invest significantly in the project in the absence of all those measurable metrics that you were probably very used to back as a PM at Facebook?
00:38:17.994 - 00:38:53.000, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a great question. In some sense, the way that we look at the investment is you still have to have an excellent team, you still have to have great, great go to market plan and have a clear understanding of who your users are. You have to have legitimate technology and product. If there's a token involved, the token economics have to make sense. So a lot of the things that you're looking for at a high level are the same. But in some sense, we get to cheat a little bit when we're investing. Because, one, we're investing so early, usually we're seed and Series A investors that the valuations are sufficiently low that if it works, the multiples are huge.
00:38:53.000 - 00:39:57.106, Speaker D: So we don't really have to look at the unit economics or the metrics and say, oh, is this thing worth $20 million or $25 million? The thing we're really underwriting is, can this thing be worth many billions of dollars? In some sense, we cheat a little bit because we get to ask a much easier question, rather than trying to assess the fair market value of a thing. Today, we're really trying to assess what do we have to believe about this thing to make it such that it might 100 x, which is, I think public market investors actually have a really hard problem. It's like, what is the thing worth today? And what could it be worth? You have to actually, your margin for error is much smaller. And then two, we cheat a little bit because we're sort of fundamentally taking a sector bet. So kind of the fundamental underlying assumption here is that crypto is going to be 100 x bigger and web3 will be 100 x bigger. And so if you start with that as an assumption, then many of these things sort of, you don't have to see the data today, you don't have to see those numbers today. You sort of are taking that leap of faith that this whole ecosystem will be 100 x bigger one day in the same way that if you were doing Internet investing 15 years ago, that was the bet that you were taking.
00:39:57.106 - 00:40:28.784, Speaker D: Now, of course, the risk with that is we could be in 1995 instead of 2005. And so you're right. On a 15 year time horizon, you're right. But on a five year time horizon, you're really wrong. And that matters. That is the inherent risk in our approach of sort of assuming that the market will be very, very, very large in ten years, is that you could be very wrong for the first five years and dramatically overpay. And so you could still be right in a ten or 15 year time horizon and make no money, which is hard.
00:40:28.784 - 00:40:32.584, Speaker D: That's sort of one of the inherent risks in kind of what we do.
00:40:33.164 - 00:41:01.214, Speaker A: That's such a great point, and I think that's something that makes me quite cautious in terms of deploying capital in times when everyone is hyping up crypto as a big thing as well. And I'm curious to dive into that as well, because you mentioned looking for a good team who's very in tune with the market, who talks to customers. So I guess when you're diligent, these founders, when you're talking to them, what are maybe some specific questions or maybe uncommon questions that you ask that really help you surface these desired traits?
00:41:02.154 - 00:42:09.914, Speaker D: Yeah. The biggest one that I look for, which has remained constant for many years, is, you know, do they understand something about the world that most people don't understand? And can they articulate that very clearly? Because, like, Paul Graham has a version of this, and, you know, Alfred Lin and Sequoia has a version of this. Like, I've seen this in many contexts over the years, but it really boils down to, like, what have you figured out that nobody else has figured out? What do you know to be true that nobody else has figured out yet? And if that little secret about the world that you figured out is actually true, then you're right. That's effectively the contrarian but correct quadrant that you want to be in. You can be contrarian or consensus, and you can be wrong or right, and you really, as a startup founder or as a venture investor, you need to be contrarian, but right. And the secret there is like, you have to find founders who have discovered something that's true about the world that most people don't realize is true about the world. And it's really in that delta between perception and reality that there's outsized returns to be made as an investor.
00:42:09.914 - 00:43:20.378, Speaker D: And that's where really great startups live, is everybody thinks the world works one way, but it turns out the world works another way. And people who realize that that's where greatness is. And in my experience, people who can articulate why that is true, like, why is it that everybody thinks x, but the world actually is not x? The people who can articulate that very clearly tend to be excellent founders, because not only do you have to figure out that not x is true and everybody believes x, but not X is actually true, you have to be able to articulate it, and to be able to articulate it and communicate clearly, you have to be a clear thinker, because clarity of thought precedes clarity of communication, in my opinion. And so people who are extremely clear first principles thinkers and come up with these kinds of insights tend to be able to reason through all sorts of hard problems over the life of a startup or a protocol. And so they tend to be great leaders, and they tend to be great founders, because they're almost certainly going to hit problems that nobody else has ever faced before if they're successful. But because they're fantastic first principles thinkers, they can actually reason through those problems in the right way and then actually come to the right outcome. And at the earliest stages.
00:43:20.378 - 00:43:34.064, Speaker D: The way that that manifests is there's some perception about the way the world works. And this person has figured out that actually, that perception is incorrect, that the world actually works fundamentally differently than the way everybody else thinks. And they can tell you why that's true.
00:43:35.044 - 00:43:53.104, Speaker A: And it's interesting that articulation is an emphasis here as well, because how do you determine, how do you, I guess, how do you identify founders who are just really great at pitching, but maybe not so great at building? Because there are a lot of those out there, great salesmen who, and, you know, great vision, but they can't build anything.
00:43:53.604 - 00:44:57.242, Speaker D: Yeah, that's also why we have a bias towards the engineering team, because engineers tend to have a really good b's radar. Like, if there's somebody who's bsing you, they can pretty quickly figure it out. And so having Curtis or Ken or Maria or Ren or Adam or any, you know, any of our team on this call, very quickly, you ask a couple of questions of this person who sort of may be able to articulate the way the world works, but won't actually be able to build it. And very quickly, in, like, five minutes, you can figure out if this person actually understands how to build it. And that doesn't necessarily mean they need to be the person literally writing the code, but they need to understand the tech stack deeply enough and who they need on the team to be able to build and deliver on this at a sufficient depth that they can convince those people to come join them. So it may not be that they're necessarily the person who's going to write the code, but they need to be sufficiently technical to convince the brilliant people who are going to, who are actually going to write the code and build a product and ship it to come join them. We're at a stage right now, I think, in crypto, where those generally will be the same person.
00:44:57.242 - 00:45:24.114, Speaker D: Right now you'll actually have brilliant people who can actually technically deliver, either theoretically because they're very deep on things like cryptography or distributed systems, or practically, they're actually excellent software engineers and can take something that's theoretically true and actually deliver on it. But yeah, assessing that out is really important. And it's part of the reason I think, that actually having a very technical team is important in crypto, because if you don't have that, you can't actually know if the person can deliver or not.
00:45:25.054 - 00:46:03.526, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a really, really great point. And I feel like kind of developing that intuition for B's is definitely something that comes with time as well. And as we come to the end of the interview, I'd love to touch on one thing that's probably at the top of everyone's minds, given the recent events with like tornado cash. Now, a lot of your thesis, which is, you know, things like including using nfts to reward fans through revenue share, or as you mentioned just now, Dow formation. You know, these are things that might be subject to potential securities regulations down the line. And I also found it really interesting that you guys have Jay Clayton for our listeners, who may not be familiar. He was the chairman of the SEC and is an advisor to the electric Capital fund right now.
00:46:03.526 - 00:46:13.794, Speaker A: I'm curious about how you think the regulatory landscape for crypto will pan out in the US. Is it going to get friendlier? Do you foresee just a lot more headwinds for founders based in the States?
00:46:15.214 - 00:46:59.074, Speaker D: Yeah, it's an excellent question. And Jay has been a fantastic friend to the firm and a really good advisor and very, very thoughtful about this stuff. And, you know, I think the place where everybody is circling now, like you just saw actually, Gary Gensler today talk about how Ethereum is a secure, is not a security, you know, should be regulated by the CFTC. You've seen, you know, Senators Loomis and Gillibrand put forth a pretty reasonable stablecoin legislation in the US, you've seen treasury come around to the idea that this stuff could be used for good. But I sort of think of it as like two steps forward, one step back. Every time we make a little bit of progress, there's a little bit of a setback. But net, we're making good progress.
00:46:59.074 - 00:47:42.574, Speaker D: And I think a lot of it comes down to the reality and the realization that there's real utility here. And I think as there's a great quote that's attributed to Churchill, but I don't think he actually said it, which is you can basically count on the Americans to do the right thing after they do all the other things. And I think that's basically true. And so I feel like we're working our way through all of the other things, like bitcoin mining is bad for the environment, let's ban it. Let's make bad licensing stuff. Let's call these things securities when they're not really, let's have bad tax policy. We're going to work our way through all of that after all the bad ideas, and we'll get to the good stuff.
00:47:42.574 - 00:48:27.164, Speaker D: And I think it's actually, it's like kind of funny, right? The US is basically a decentralized system. I mean, democracy is a bottoms up, decentralized checks and balances system. And so it's a really, actually excellent case study in building things that are kind of slow and along the way may do some, some clunky things, but in long term, they're extremely resilient. And that's really what the system is designed for. And so the system is actually designed to figure out the right thing and eventually get there and be resilient enough along the way that it doesn't implode. And so I generally see good progress across the White House and regulators and legislators generally. It's trending positively.
00:48:27.164 - 00:48:57.250, Speaker D: It's two steps forward, one step back. Every week there's something where you're like, oh, man, I can't believe that person did that or said that. That's clearly incorrect. But if you look at where we are today compared to 2015, it's just unbelievable. Look at how huge the space is. The fact that senators are coming to New York and San Francisco and raising capital for their reelection campaigns. The fact that you have a stable coin bill, that the CFTC has bitcoin options and futures, and those are regulated markets.
00:48:57.250 - 00:49:27.454, Speaker D: And the SEC has said that ETH is not a security and should be regulated by the CFTC. You know, the institutions are actually, here you have endowments and large organizations. You have, who is it like Blackstone that just partnered up with Coinbase? You have real custody. You have companies that have banking charters. There's $100 billion of stablecoins. If you kind of step back for a second and you're like, holy crap, we've made so much progress in the last five years and there's actually a tremendous amount of regulatory clarity that has happened. Still a lot more to go.
00:49:27.454 - 00:49:41.546, Speaker D: I'm actually pretty optimistic. I think directionally it's positive. I wish it were faster, but I get why it's not. The whole system is not designed to be efficient. The whole system is designed to be resilient. And so we'll get there. We won't get there if we don't try.
00:49:41.546 - 00:50:04.804, Speaker D: I think we try. We spend a lot of time on this. We spend a lot of time with the crypto council for Innovation, which is us and paradigm and Andreessen and Coinbase and block and ribbit and a couple of other folks. And so, you know, it's a lot of hard work behind the scenes from a lot of people, but I think it's trending positively. So I'm pretty optimistic that we'll end up in the right place over the next three to five years.
00:50:05.304 - 00:50:31.710, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think you make a really good point about how the realization that there are actual use cases is probably what will push us forward. Because I think earlier this morning, us time or last night, Asia time, Jerome Powell made a comment about how crypto is a horrible store of value. There's really not any use cases, which I think, I hope that he tunes into this podcast. Chances are very low that he listens to this. I hope he tunes in so he'll change his mind. Thank you so much for doing this, Avichal.
00:50:31.710 - 00:50:42.714, Speaker A: This is really, really helpful to dive into your mind and dive into your process. And I'm really grateful that you came on. For people who want to follow you or to read a lot of your blog posts, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:50:43.574 - 00:50:53.926, Speaker D: Pretty easy. I'm Vichal on Twitter and you know, we're electric Capital.com. We're at electric Capital on Twitter, so we're pretty easy to find. So Twitter is usually a pretty good place to start for us.
00:50:54.110 - 00:50:58.354, Speaker A: Awesome. We'll include those in the show notes below. So once again, thank you so much for coming on.
00:50:58.964 - 00:51:00.504, Speaker D: Good to see you. Thanks for the time.
00:51:01.044 - 00:51:39.944, Speaker C: Alright, that's it for this week's episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didn't know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what you liked about this episode, I'll be sure to respond to you as well. Now, if you'd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and will have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers, so if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theblockhunch.com
00:51:39.944 - 00:51:44.344, Speaker C: vip to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the show, and I'll see you next week.
