00:00:00.090 - 00:00:27.270, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. It all right, everyone.
00:00:27.270 - 00:00:39.154, Speaker A: Welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve, special episode of Bell Curve, because this is the season finale for season five, where Miles and I are going to be recapping all the episodes that we've done thus far on Liquid staking.
00:00:39.202 - 00:01:01.690, Speaker B: It's great to be back. It's a little bittersweet finishing a season, but yeah, I think we went into the season not sure if there was enough maybe to even have a full season on Liquid Staking. And by the end of it, I feel like we have even more to talk about that we didn't get to, but I think we still covered a lot of ground. And yeah, I'm really happy we decided to dig in on this topic.
00:01:01.770 - 00:01:43.094, Speaker A: I agree with you. So I'm looking here and maybe to give just a little bit of a roadmap for the audience who's listening in, you're absolutely right. We ended up covering an enormous amount of ground. Some of the themes that we thought about moving in going into this season was we were very interested in market structure. So what was the market structure endgame going to be for liquid staking protocols? And specifically we were interested in looking at power laws. Right. So is this going to be very fragmented market or more of a winner take all or win or take most? We're interested in the principal agent problem and how you could maybe mitigate that with different mechanisms, which we covered in detail, and we didn't really talk that much about dual governance.
00:01:43.094 - 00:02:27.114, Speaker A: We will a little bit in this episode, but also the staking router that Lido is pioneering. Social scaling, that was a really big thing, and that is not to make this too topical, but the self limiting debate is cropping up in a big way for Lido again as it approaches 33% of stake. That's all over the timeline these days, so we'll touch on that. We also talked about different approaches and sort of LST adoption across the ecosystems of not only Ethereum, but Cosmos and Salana. And I think looking back at the history was very instructive about why Lido specifically found product market fit on ethereum as opposed to some of these other ecosystems. But there's some experimentation that's going on, especially in Cosmos land that I find super interesting. So we'll kind of dive into that.
00:02:27.114 - 00:03:12.586, Speaker A: And then last but not least, we spent a good amount of time talking about earlier in this season the intersection between Liquid Staking and restaking, which thought was great. We kind of got it. This tension between letting things be very permissionless and turning things over to governance as opposed to this idea of training wheels and having a bit more of an opinion from a more centralized entity, but that actually might result in a better outcome in terms of even decentralization paradoxically over time. So you want to just start off miles, I'll just turn this over to you to kick it off, but what are your thoughts on market structure? How do you see all of this playing out? What do power laws look like? And maybe we could talk about specifically within ethereum and then how that might ripple out.
00:03:12.608 - 00:04:20.282, Speaker B: Sure. So I think we went into the season, or at least I did, with the assumption or with the thinking that this is likely going to be a winner take most winner take all sort of market per ecosystem. I think we can get into this, but I don't think these network effects necessarily travel that well, as evidenced by lido's domination on ethereum that has not necessarily translated into their solana products winning or we'll see with Cosmos. But yeah, I think maybe just a couple of thoughts. I think as an LST provider, the most important assets you have are brand, which kind of comprises of security and really just lindy and integrations. And so I think the long term winners are probably in production today because these early mover advantages really just compound over time, right. The earlier you are and without getting hacked, the more lindy and that kind of accrues to the brand.
00:04:20.282 - 00:05:08.430, Speaker B: Right, and then the more time you have to build up liquidity for your token, which helps with integrations. Right, so you can see lido's early mover advantage materialized into being the first to integrate with Aave, the first to integrate with Maker, and that further boosted their think. But at the same time, it's very interesting to look at, I guess, market penetration across these different ecosystems. And we talked a lot about this, but it was kind of the perfect storm on ethereum. I think I forget who we were talking to. I think it was Aiden who said basically the more broken your protocol is in terms of handling liquid staking, the more prevalent liquid staking is going to be, or maybe the more broken it is at handling stake. Right.
00:05:08.430 - 00:06:18.526, Speaker B: And so if it's very easy just to natively within your Kepler or your phantom wallet, delegate your soul or atom to a validator, then you're not going to necessarily need to go point to something like Lido in order to stake. Right, and so I think the difficulty of staking mixed with the existing DeFi ecosystem made ethereum extremely attractive for liquid staking. Lido was the early mover advantage. It's now gotten off to a lead that makes everybody nervous because they think about Lido as one entity. I don't think about Lido as one entity, I think about the stake in Lido as comprising of whatever it is, 30 validators, but it is one entity in terms of its governance. And so we can talk about it later. But how do you unlock further market share by getting the market comfortable with your lead? You can mitigate the principal agent problems through something like dual governance, opening up the staking pools to become permissionless through the staking router, et cetera, et cetera.
00:06:18.526 - 00:06:23.106, Speaker B: So, yeah, that was just kind of a long rambling, a lot of thoughts.
00:06:23.138 - 00:07:07.942, Speaker A: There, a lot of good stuff there. Let's break some of this down and maybe try to give for listeners sort of a clear and explicit prediction or picture of how we see the future playing out. But let's say maybe definitively at the end of this season. How we're feeling about it is there are very strong power laws or network effects within individual blockchain ecosystems that don't necessarily travel. So what we would expect to see in the future is a liquid staking ecosystem on ethereum dominated by probably at this point, it looks like Lido, they have a lead that would be very difficult to beat. And the reason for that is sort of this lindiness and securityness. Obviously, for those of us who've been paying attention to crypto over the last couple of years, hacks are still incredibly real.
00:07:07.942 - 00:08:00.338, Speaker A: And I think in order for you to justify not taking using the service product or service of a leader, the product has to be an order or two orders of magnitude better. And there's just not that much to really differentiate with in liquid staking. So that lindiness and securityness and that will lead to liquidity, which is ultimately what you really want from liquid staking protocol. So what we would expect to see is probably Lido being dominant on ethereum and then fragmentation. What we would not necessarily expect to see is Lido being the dominant liquid staking provider across other blockchain ecosystems. To your point about network effects not traveling, lido made a pretty unsuccessful play into Solana a while ago. It was very interesting to talk to Zave, who was the CIO at chorus one, and chorus one was sort of the back end for Lido expanding into Solana.
00:08:00.338 - 00:08:29.678, Speaker A: He mentioned one of the lessons learned and when they were sort of doing their post mortem on why this didn't work, token incentives were actually a really big deal. So that's one of the reasons why maybe concretely network effects don't travel. So what you would expect to see is a dominant liquid staking provider in Solana take off in a very similar way that Lido has on ethereum. Maybe we talked to Lucas from Jito. Maybe that's Jito soul. Maybe it's Marinade. I think they're the front runner today, but probably very similar.
00:08:29.678 - 00:08:42.370, Speaker A: And then in the Cosmos ecosystem, I think Stride is the dominant provider. Now, I'm not saying any of these things to Kingmaker or anything like that. I'm just pointing out who the leaders are today. So that's probably how we would expect to see it playing out in the future, right?
00:08:42.440 - 00:09:42.882, Speaker B: Liquid staking protocols, I just don't see them as the kind of product where there's going to be some big technical disruption in a couple of years that unseats the existing incumbents. I guess you can compete on yield, right? We've talked about that a little bit and it's unclear exactly where that stacks up versus brand and security. And we it seems like it doesn't actually. An extra percentage point or two of yield does not really move the needle enough to unseat Lido if there were to be because I think Lido is not the highest yielding LST by a lot. And yeah, I think maybe one thing also to note is that there is a market that at the moment can't touch Lido. I'd say this market is twofold. The market that's not using Lido is the market that can't use Lido.
00:09:42.882 - 00:10:16.420, Speaker B: And there's also going to be a market that likely won't be able to won't know about Lido. Right. They might know about Coinbase. Right. And so I do think that it will be very interesting to see. I think Lido wins the market of everybody that can use Lido. But I do think there is a market for the liquid collective, for products like CBE that has a more, I guess, enterprise grade validator set, KYC, front end, things like that, that Fiduciaries can offer to their customers.
00:10:16.420 - 00:11:44.474, Speaker B: And just how big a market that is in the end game, I don't know, but I do see Lido. I think it's going to be very difficult for Lido to break into that market unless they give their users the ability to delegate to whatever validator they choose or whatever validator set they choose. And we know that that in itself has trade offs, right? Because that today is part of governance, right? How these allocations are deposited. And governance allows at least allows Lido to stay ethereum aligned if you hand that choice over to the users and all of a sudden we have billions and billions and billions of stake pouring into Lido that is being deposited and delegated to a staking router pool of like three validators, right? Then all of a sudden people are going to get like maybe these self limiting debates get a little bit more legitimate. But I think Lido is going to have to think long and hard about the best way to handle that and the trade offs there in order to get breakout and reach that market. But yeah, I think really there are winner take all, a lot of effects here, but we have to keep in mind that the customer preferences and some of them can't necessarily use the winner. So there might be two there.
00:11:44.474 - 00:12:21.180, Speaker B: But apart from that, I don't see a lot of winners here. It kind of depends on how many big proof of stake DA layers you see in the end game as well. Right. Maybe it's like a handful of big layer one, like Celestia and Ethereum, obviously, and Cosmos Hub. Then this doesn't really apply at the roll up level. Right. It's unlikely at this point that we're going to see a lot of roll up tokens with permissionless, staking and further sequencers launching LSTs themselves.
00:12:21.180 - 00:13:02.450, Speaker B: So it could be just a handful of winners at the end of the day. That's kind of my prediction. And I think that Lido is really well positioned for Ethereum that is not extremely sensitive with KYC and enterprise grade validators. I think there's probably another market that is on Ethereum and then I think Stride's really well positioned for a couple other layer ones, like Atom in the Cosmos ecosystem, Celestia and I think Gito. And there's a couple players. I don't know how Solana is going to play out, but it is a little bit more fragmented over there. It's pretty equal market share, actually, between the three players.
00:13:02.530 - 00:13:55.218, Speaker A: Well, that observation actually came from our Solana episode. It was Lucas that said that the more the protocol does, the less opportunity there is for external liquid staking providers. So this is probably a good opportunity to transition to this idea of social scaling and the self limiting debate again, to just go back and do a little bit of a history lesson. And this is something that we've covered pretty extensively throughout the season. So I don't want to get into too many details, but the history of why, at least from my perspective, lido found product market fit on ethereum, whereas on the other ecosystems, Solana and Cosmos, that we covered on this season, there's actually a much higher penetration of staking, but a much lower penetration of liquid. Staking was sort of threefold, which is one. There's no in protocol mechanism to delegate stake.
00:13:55.218 - 00:14:51.026, Speaker A: There's a large demand out there for people to stake passively. Just to give a little bit of a history lesson, we've covered this pretty extensively throughout the season, so I don't want to go too far into it, but threefold reason why liquid staking found product market fit on ethereum where it didn't in Cosmos, for instance, where the concept was invented, or at least first conceived of. So one, there was the dynamic of the beacon chain, and essentially the dynamic was when you staked your ethereum before there was the merge, there was an indeterminate period of time for when you would be able to get that ethereum back, if you would ever be able to get it back. So when Lido launched, the immediate value proposition was that you can stake your ether, but then you can continue to use it. And that was an enormous value proposition for Lido right off the bat. Number two, there's no in protocol delegation for stake. There's an enormous demand for holders of ethereum to stake passively and to receive those rewards.
00:14:51.026 - 00:15:28.162, Speaker A: But Ethereum said, we don't want to put this in the protocol for a variety of reasons that we've covered in terms of how we want our validator set to ultimately look like. So we don't want to do that. And then three, there was a thriving DeFi ecosystem on ethereum. So DeFi first really took off and is still most active by far on ethereum. So there was a capital efficiency question of hey, I want to stake and secure the network and receive that yield, but I also don't want to give up the opportunity cost of participating in DeFi. So liquid staking neatly solved all three of those things. So now what happens is that you have liquid staking take off in ethereum.
00:15:28.162 - 00:16:07.700, Speaker A: These market dynamics that we talked about, the winner take most or all market structure starting to play out and lido is gobbling up stake on ethereum. And again, I don't think this know, obviously lido executed. They were directionally, right? They got a little bit lucky based on the ecosystem. But this probably natural dynamic of a natural monopoly similar to utility provider is starting to play out. And then folks in ethereum are saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, this is quite risky here. If there were to ever be something like a catastrophic slashing event, an enormous amount of ETH got evaporated. This could actually mess with how the protocol comes to consensus and secures itself.
00:16:07.700 - 00:16:44.346, Speaker A: Another thing that could happen is ultimately if in a world where lido has 100% of ethereum stake, for instance, then suddenly the governance token of ethereum is really the lido token and huge decisions for the ethereum protocol can actually be made by a much smaller market cap subset token. So I think these are the problems that are starting to get raised and I think there are good perspectives on both sides of this debate. Miles, I'd be curious, what do you think about the self limiting debate overall? And then maybe we can get into some of the ways that lido is thinking about mitigating these risks.
00:16:44.458 - 00:18:01.270, Speaker B: I think there's a lot of dynamics that are interesting around the self limiting debate. Both kind of what it says about this social governance that ethereum follows and it's always a little bit opaque as to how decisions are made in ethereum. And there's a lot of interesting stuff there. I would just say that first of all, the people who have come out and said we're going to self cap at 22%, they have a fraction of the market share of Lido and 22% would be an incredible outcome for these players given their current positioning. And two, again, the focus is on lido, but in a negative way maybe. But three years ago, lido was really the one kind of hope for ethereum to avoid network centralization with all these pseudo liquid staking tokens from exchanges, right? So there is the question of, okay, how would ethereum look today? If lido didn't exist, it would look worse. But at the same time you can think about.
00:18:01.270 - 00:19:23.150, Speaker B: All right, yes. It's not great that one governance token controls basically 33% of the network stake. That's not exactly true, right? Because we know that all these validators, there's 30 validators, and they're not controlled by the governance token of Lido directly. So what is Lido doing to mitigate all this? And are we okay with Lido having 66% in two or three years if dual governance is live? Right? And they've launched all these permissionless staking pools via the staking router, and their stake is now distributed not just across like, 30 validators, but 1000 validators, right. That's what they're working towards. And that's really the question we should be asking is in two or three years, assuming that this chart of Lido's market share continues to go up and to the right, what will Lido look like at 66%, at 80%? And are we comfortable with that? That's kind of what I'm thinking about. And if it's thousands of validators and that's not a terrible outcome, and you just have to be also super realistic about what it would look like if Lido decided to hang up all of their work today and say, that's it for us.
00:19:23.150 - 00:19:28.322, Speaker B: Stop depositing to us. What would ethereum look like in two to three years if that was the case?
00:19:28.456 - 00:20:13.710, Speaker A: Yeah. So to summarize this, let's just go out and say it would probably be an undesirable outcome if ethereum consensus was governed by this opaque, centralized organization. I would say that's not a good outcome. And I don't think that that's what Lido wants. So there are a couple of different ways that you could continue to ensure that the liquid staking ecosystem on ethereum remains not dominated by any, couldn't be easily co opted. So one strategy would be this self limiting debate that you see and you could actually try to socially enforce the idea that no one liquid staking provider should get more than 22% of governance of market share. And there have been various suggestions for how to do this.
00:20:13.710 - 00:20:46.698, Speaker A: The one that I think makes the most sense to me, if you were to go down this route, is to gradually increase the rate that Lido takes on everything after 22%. And it's basically dynamic fees. So for every bit of stake that you have over that 22%, lido starts charging higher and higher fees to the point where that stake naturally moves to other providers. So that's one way you could do it. You could just say, we want a healthy ecosystem of different participants. The other approach would be to say, guys, there's no use fighting this. There are natural market forces at work here.
00:20:46.698 - 00:21:36.230, Speaker A: And instead of trying to force an unnatural distribution of liquid staking providers, instead, what we should do is accept that there's a natural monopoly here, and we should focus on making the winner take most, which is looking like it's going to be Lido. We should make them as decentralized as possible to the point where governance is almost as decentralized as Ethereum itself. And instead of having this whitelisted set of node operators, we have many hundreds or even thousands of validators. And that's what the staking router is. And then we should also make sure that the governance of Lido is very robust and that Steeth holders actually have some say in governance as well, which is where you get dual voting or dual governance, rather sorry. So I'm a little bit torn here on it. I can really see both perspectives.
00:21:36.230 - 00:22:34.186, Speaker A: I would probably not be on the side of self limiting and I do want to give a shout out to folks like Superfiz who have just been extremely beneficial to the ecosystem, the Ethereum ecosystem. Overall, I totally understand the arguments and where they're coming from here. And I think if I were to try to steal me on the other side of this debate is say hey guys, there's a huge problem here. I'm watching this meteor come right for us and at least I'm trying something right? But what I would say is I think the downsides of trying to enforce a self limiting debate would be a you actually want to incentivize entrepreneurs to come and build enormous businesses. And I think there are very few things in crypto that have true product market fit. We've talked about this before. I think you could make a very compelling argument that it's basically Bitcoin and Ethereum, it's the centralized exchanges, it's probably stablecoins and it's liquid staking tokens.
00:22:34.186 - 00:23:23.498, Speaker A: And to take the dominant liquid staking token provider and try to cap it right out of the bag, I just don't think we have enough examples of product market fit in crypto that we want to be doing that and it just sets a bad precedent, I would say. So that downside to me outweighs the upside and I think it probably makes sense to pursue a different approach. The other thing I think is you're starting to see much more this idea of Ethereum alignment. And I think it's very well intended actually. The idea is that Ethereum has these values as an ecosystem. We want to see these values propagated around different businesses and providers of products and services that crop up. The problem is Ethereum doesn't have a formal governance system.
00:23:23.498 - 00:24:05.642, Speaker A: And when you don't have a formal governance system, there are pros and cons to that. But then you start to get this idea of Ethereum alignment. Everyone starts to ask, well, what does that really mean? And who is setting the definition of what Ethereum aligned really is? And it starts to feel very shadowy and illuminati esque when it really isn't like that. It's a well intentioned group of people that I think are trying to push a good set of values. But there's an optics question that I think is only going to get worse. So I really do think it makes sense for the community to question this idea of what Ethereum aligned really means and who's setting these ideas. I think there needs to be a little bit more transparency if we're going down this route because I think people will continue to reject it.
00:24:05.776 - 00:25:11.850, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree. I just also don't think it scales, right. Like we can't just rely on what is considered Ethereum aligned and the depths of a bear market where it's really just like missionaries left at this point that are building. And so maybe Lido doesn't look Ethereum aligned today relative to those people, but again, zoom out like two or three years and say, we actually do grow the Ethereum user base by ten or 100 x. Lido is going to seem pretty aligned at that point, and you're not going to be able to rely on everybody kind of falling suit into this kind of goodwill approach of building. Just it's not going to work. I think if you're going to be realistic, the two ways to approach this, if you don't like that future, are, one, to push to build some sort of regulation into the protocol itself, like the LSM, that is a practical way of self limiting, of limiting these different providers or to build a better competitor.
00:25:11.850 - 00:25:21.634, Speaker B: Right? Because those are the only ways that you're actually going to unseat Lido, I think, and it's just kind of near.
00:25:21.672 - 00:26:23.650, Speaker A: Sighted thinking to me, I think it also doesn't scale. And one maybe to put things in crypto talk is if blockchains are tools for social coordination and in large scale human coordination, you need both carrots and sticks. I think, and what at least my perception is ethereum alignment is this emerging stick. And if you don't do what we say or we want, again, I think in a positively intentioned way, there will be these negative repercussions for you. And I think if that ends up being the dominant stick, so to speak, you open yourself up to a very specific type of griefing attack, which is exactly what Sam Bankman Fried did, which is he said the right shibbolis, right? But he wasn't really aligned, but he made himself appear that way to many people very successfully over a long period of time. And I think what you could see down the road is people saying they're Ethereum aligned and doing all the things that look right, but they aren't necessarily.
00:26:23.730 - 00:27:29.354, Speaker B: Actually, I'm imagining the Trojan horse, like Ethereum aligned up top, god knows what's underneath, right? But yeah, I think that's right. And I think that there's also from a design standpoint, we can talk about training wheels. And I think that that was the crux of the criticism last year in the self limiting debate, right, that they had no plans to move off, or they hadn't published plans to move off of this curated permission set. But the reality is, if they had had a permissionless set like rocket pool from the beginning, they would not have been able to scale to the size that they were at, where they were actually the market leader instead of coinbase and binance and stuff like that. And I think we're seeing that now with roll ups, too. We'll see roll ups that attempt to launch with a permissionless sequencer set, which will require getting a supply side to bond collateral. And that's going to be an economic cost to the sequencer, to the roll up.
00:27:29.354 - 00:28:20.206, Speaker B: I mean, and the ones that start off with these training wheels, right, let's say we have four or five increasing to ten, maybe to 20 governance elected sequencers and they don't have to bond collateral and they're going to act in the ways that we tell them to through governance or we'll boot them off, right? That to me is a really good analogy of those roll ups are going to scale and have better economics and get to the point where they're big enough that people care and then maybe they move to some sort of more permissionless sequencer set if they're big enough for that to be necessary. But yeah, I think we're starting to see those training wheels coming off with Lido and we're starting to see the introduction of dual governance as another way to mitigate the principal agent problem, maybe one.
00:28:20.228 - 00:28:45.902, Speaker A: We've got a great episode here, but before we do, I just wanted to give a quick shout out to Permissionless. This is the biggest and best conference in all of DFI. It's the one that we do with Bankless, who's a great partner for us. Last year we had almost 7000 people there in West Palm Beach. We are moving this year to Austin, Texas from September 11 through the 13th. And if you are a listener of Bell Curve any of these last five seasons, this conference is basically custom made for you. We're going to be talking about Liquid Staking, the theme of this season.
00:28:45.902 - 00:29:12.426, Speaker A: We've got a bunch of great panels on mev. If you listen to the App Chain thesis, we've got a bunch of Cosmos folks out there in full force. We're talking about the converging architecture of Salana, the roll up space in ETH and Cosmos. So I would love to see all of you there and to reward you for being such great listeners to Bell Curve. You get a special 30% off code. It's Bell Curve 30 that'll get you 30% off tickets. Click the link in the Show Notes and then head over to the Permissionless site and make sure that you get your ticket today.
00:29:12.426 - 00:29:45.622, Speaker A: Again. That is Bell curve 30. Click the link in the show notes. Let's talk a little bit about this tension that we brought up earlier in the season. And maybe this can be a good segue into restaking as well, in between making something permissionless, but then also degrading the user experience or potentially diluting the outcome that we would want to see. So let's use the example of the App Store that we brought. Up earlier in the season where Apple actually takes a very opinionated approach about the standards that developers need to have to participate on that app store.
00:29:45.622 - 00:30:46.854, Speaker A: The reason that they do that is to curate a better experience for users of the application. So for instance, if Apple were to just have no opinion about the types of apps that people could build and propagate on their store, it would ultimately lead to a much worse user experience for all these different reasons. So on the one hand you could say hey, this is Apple stepping in, they're making it not very permissionless, not good for all these reasons, who's really in control here? On the other hand they're doing it. It probably led to a better outcome for users and developers I would argue. In the long term you see the same tension I think cropping up in liquid staking and also eventually restaking when it goes live in a big way. So John Charboneau has done, I think, a good job of propagating this idea of liquid staking tokens as a force for decentralization. And you could imagine if from day one Lido had not adopted a whitelist and just said we're just going to take any validators that want to become a part of this network.
00:30:46.854 - 00:31:53.534, Speaker A: What you probably would have wound up with was a extreme power loss in terms of the node operators that ended up winning and they might have just for instance, if it was totally random, maybe all of them would be in the same geography. I mean that's not something that you want because then you're subject to the whims of a regulatory regime instead for better or worse, lido, I would argue for better. They took a very opinionated approach in the beginning and said actually we're going to do a whitelisted set of node operators and not only do we want to make sure that they're very performant and that they're professional organizations here so that delegators aren't going to get slashed and things like that. But also we want it to be geographically diverse so that the supply side of our two sided marketplace here isn't subject to any one particular regulatory regime. So again you could make the argument and say hey, this isn't great, this isn't permissionless. But on the other hand, if you had opened it up to the permissionless free market from day one you would have gotten not such a good outcome. Now this is where I think training, the concept of training wheels comes in where they're moving towards that and that's what the staking router is.
00:31:53.534 - 00:32:24.986, Speaker A: And just to refresh folks, the staking router is this set of moving, the gradual progression of moving from whitelisted set of node operators to a diverse set of individual modules. So for instance we talked about the intersection of the staking router and DVT which is distributed validator technology which makes it much easier for solo stakers. There could be a community module maybe an institutional module just opens it up to decentralizing the set of validators to a point where I think that's what we would all ultimately yeah, they took.
00:32:25.008 - 00:33:09.318, Speaker B: Their time though, right, to do that and they got to a place where they were able to develop. This is a technical breakthrough. I want to say, first of all, this is like the first liquid staking protocol that has had multiple validator sets right, within the same liquid staking protocol. And yeah, I think it is a big deal. Maybe just to go back to that App Store analogy, I mean, kind of three options that the App Store could have taken. It was either we're going to curate this and we're going to make sure that that's a great user experience. There's a small hurdle to get through as an app on the supply side, but there's no economic cost except for going through the process.
00:33:09.318 - 00:33:55.334, Speaker B: They could make it completely permissionless with no bond at stake. And it's just a shit show, right. And everybody is using all these apps, they get hacked all the time and losing lots of money. Maybe they're scams or they could draw the analogy to say like rocket pool, okay, it's permissionless to join the App Store, but you have to put up some collateral in case your users get hacked. You have to reimburse them or something like that, right? And that's a huge economic cost to the supply side. And so they would have an App Store with very few apps on it, right? Because there are these startups that don't want to post economic collateral. So maybe just extending that analogy a little bit further as to why that scales the best and has the best user experience.
00:33:55.334 - 00:34:20.202, Speaker B: But now they're at the point where they can safely sort of take off those training wheels. And I think Eigen layer will face the same sort of challenge as they first just need to establish themselves, right? They need to make restaking prevalent and then once it becomes large, they need to figure out how to remove central points of failure. And centralization. Like the slashing veto council.
00:34:20.266 - 00:34:20.638, Speaker A: Right.
00:34:20.724 - 00:35:25.694, Speaker B: That is kind of gatekeeping which Avsses get this human backstop of a Slashing. You know, Sriram talked about, hey, we're going to have a marketplace of veto councils, right? And then that kind of removes us as the only option for an Avs. And then we're also going know, once these contracts are battle hardened and an Avs has been operating without issues for a long time, we can ossify those contracts and then there's no need for the veto council anymore because we're confident any Slashing event that goes through is correct. He also talked about cubist and the anti Slasher technology that they're bringing on. So it's know, kind of putting on these training wheels until you can develop technology and different ways of designs to kind of break the trade offs. And we're now seeing Lido try to break that trade off with the staking router and dual governance, and we'll see eigen layer face similar challenges if and when they become as large of a market force as lido.
00:35:25.822 - 00:36:36.714, Speaker A: Okay, I want to get into restaking here and then transition into the intersection of liquid staking and restaking and why we were focusing on that this season. And I think the episode of Srivaram was one of my favorite of the entire season. But before we do, I want to just, again, give the audience something a little bit concrete and want to ask you a question of let's say we're having this conversation two to three years from now and we're looking at the staking router. What does that ultimately look like to you? How many modules are there? Is there sort of a community module, a DVT module, an institutional module, and then the whitelisted module? Is there five or six, or are there many, many more modules than that? To the point where maybe there are large holders of ETH maker doesn't rehypothe, but let's say some big DeFi protocol with thousands of ETH in it, or hundreds of thousands of ETH said, hey, I want to use Lido services here to liquid stake. But let's be honest, guys, I shouldn't be getting the same rates here. You shouldn't be taking the same rake from me as you are from someone who's just delegating one ETH to you. So I want to work out some special preferential terms or maybe I have these very specific parameters about the liquid, like withdrawal period or something like that.
00:36:36.714 - 00:36:40.758, Speaker A: So what do you think the liquid staking router?
00:36:40.774 - 00:38:02.454, Speaker B: Ultimately? It's a really interesting question to kind of think through here. And I think there's two components, right? First you need to get through governance to basically implement a new validator set, a new staking pool. And then the second and probably more important question is how much of new stake gets distributed to that new validator set? Right? And I think they'll start off very slow with, okay, we'll introduce this new DVT permissionless set. We'll cluster all these permissionless home stakers basically with a chorus one or with a figment within the same DVD cluster to protect them. Okay, great. Now we've got kind of a safe set up. How much stake should we give to them? And I think it will start off with something very small, like under 1%, but getting past that hurdle and getting lido governance comfortable with saying, okay, actually no, we want the DVT set to have like 25%, right? That's the first step because it doesn't matter if you have a million of these new modules, but 95% of the stake going to the safe module, right? So I think you have to think about it on two axes there and then, okay, great.
00:38:02.454 - 00:38:58.620, Speaker B: So we'll have a permissionless DVT set. We'll have maybe one other sort of general purpose set that makes the protocol more ethereum aligned and healthier. But then what are the other sort of modules that could come in? I kind of expect there to be a Maker module if that is a really big distribution channel for them. And if Maker decides that Steeth is going to be basically the collateral of lido I'm sorry, of the main collateral of Dai and they want some sort of kickback right, for those deposits. And so you could see this becoming sort of like a BD strategy where you can integrate Steeth into your protocol, make it a critical part of your protocol. Don't be like Fracs who went off and built their own liquid staking protocol. Use us and we'll kick back some deposits to you.
00:38:58.620 - 00:40:04.910, Speaker B: But then after that, I think it really depends on whether or not they figure out a way to let users choose which module they delegate to, right? Because if users can't choose which one to delegate they want to delegate to, then I don't see there being a ton of modules. I do see there being a larger distribution of stake and thousands of Validators. But I think you can bring in thousands of Validators to say like the DVT module. If they let users delegate to the module of their choice, then I could see there becoming lots more modules. And I don't think we'll get into a bunch of different self limiting debate. If that becomes the case and 40% of lido's stake has been allocated to the module with Coinbase cloud and staked and maybe a handful of other ones, that's going to be a very different conversation. That's why I think it's going to be actually less of a no brainer than it might sound like to make that decision.
00:40:04.910 - 00:40:08.782, Speaker B: Does that make sense? That's kind of how I'm thinking about it.
00:40:08.916 - 00:40:38.054, Speaker A: Yeah, I think so too. There are also middle grounds there. For instance, governance could just limit the amount that any one module could get to say 10% or something like that over a period of time. So again, always shades of gray and things that you could do to not be as binary. But I agree with that. And that hints at as well, I think, the bigger idea of fungibility as well within this topic. And that's maybe where we'll start to get into this idea of liquid staking and restaking intersecting.
00:40:38.054 - 00:41:59.294, Speaker A: Because you can make an argument that as soon as you start to let users direct their stake to specific validators, that what you actually have is more specific counterparty risk to one set of validators as opposed to a general exposure to all of the validators within this staking pool. And those positions that you have look a little bit less fungible. And again, for folks who are trying to get a mental model of what this looks like, I would suggest going back and listening to the episode that we did with Adrian and Vance, but consider it like a pool of assets in a sense, right? Where you have a claim on that pool of assets similar to today be not exactly like this, obviously, but sort of a money market fund esque type thing in the future. And maybe we could get into this discussion as well. Could look more like a mutual fund or something like that if we allow a restaking module within this staking router and then you start to get token rewards in different things. But that idea of fungibility I think is key and we heard over and over again from Liquid Staking providers this season that fungibility is the one thing that you do not want to mess with. So I think there will be a tension in between how much these liquid staking protocols allow users to choose things or the optionality that they have versus never crossing that line of breaking.
00:41:59.342 - 00:43:09.158, Speaker B: Yeah, it's interesting because the LSM in some ways does break that trade off. You get an NFT that represents your stake and your delegation, right? But then in order to get back to this thing being useful right, you deposit the NFT into Stride but in doing so you then lose that validator. Specific delegation like Stride has the ability to rebalance your stake and redelegate it to other Validators. If your Validator gets slashed again, it has to be socialized across the entire holder set of that LST. I think that's where it gets a little bit trickier know, if you give them the choice to right to the module of their choice, then you'd have to give them an NFT, and then that NFT would have to get pooled with other NFTs and you kind of go back on the benefits of why you wanted NFT in the first place. So anyways, yeah, it's very difficult. We'll see if that's the only technical innovation I could see coming if someone figures that out in the next couple of years.
00:43:09.244 - 00:43:53.814, Speaker A: Let's talk a little bit about restaking, that tension between having an opinion or sort of training wheels, so to speak, in the early days for restaking and where it's ultimately headed. And then let's get into the intersection of Liquid Staking and restaking because I thought that was something pretty critical that we talked about this season. So we talk about just to refresh folks, by the way on protocols like Eigen Layer and restaking and what that is. It is very similarly to Lido. It's a two sided marketplace in between AVSS. So actively it's basically sort of middleware service operators, especially within ETH. But it could also be validators for another layer, one or app chain or something like that and people who have stake that want to secure that.
00:43:53.814 - 00:44:15.434, Speaker A: So that's the two sided marketplace and basically what it allows stakers to do is rehypothecate that economic security to secure things either sort of one layer up on ethereum or across different ecosystems. And it's a very interesting vision being able you can see at a high level. There's a very natural fit there, but there are also cause for concern.
00:44:15.482 - 00:44:15.694, Speaker B: Right?
00:44:15.732 - 00:44:54.250, Speaker A: And one of the big things that people have been asking or curious about is how Slashing events would happen across especially different ecosystem. What is the risk, right, of potentially introducing leverage, of rehypothecating your Ethereum stake? Sounds it sounds a little scary to some folks, I think understandably. I think Sriram addressed many of those concerns very adequately in the episode that we did with him earlier this season. So I'd highly recommend you go back and listen to that. But Miles, can you walk us through what are the training wheels that exist today on Eigen Layer to mitigate some of those risks and how do you see that transitioning off over a period of time?
00:44:54.400 - 00:46:03.690, Speaker B: I referenced it earlier. But basically today if you are in a service that wants to be validated or wants to be secured by restaked Ethereum and you want to basically go to this supply side of operators which initially will just be Ethereum validators running additional hardware or software and doing additional jobs and the supply side of economic security from stakers. So in the beginning there's going to be a lot of training wheels and I think this is specifically to be Ethereum aligned because this is such a big and scary but also exciting new innovation. Right. So in the beginning, Eigen Layer governance will control which LSTs are whitelisted eligible for restaking. They will control again which Avs get the benefit of this human backstop which says if there was an unintended Slashing event, we have the ability to veto that. I think that that is a huge sort of it's not like a kingmaker necessarily for AVSS.
00:46:03.690 - 00:46:46.320, Speaker B: But if you are a staker and you have to decide between an Avs that you want to secure, that if something goes wrong, you're not going to get slashed versus an Avs that you will get slashed, which is an option, they have the permissionless option, then you're obviously going to go with the one that you get protected. Right? So that's a big, I guess, point of centralization that lies within Eigen Layer governance that eventually that they will move off of by introducing more of these veto councils. So, okay, you don't get through the canonical Eigen Layer veto council. You can go to a different one that's going to provide a similar service. Right. And maybe they'll charge a fee. It's unclear exactly where they do that.
00:46:46.320 - 00:47:45.794, Speaker B: And then, yeah, I think there's some other really interesting things going on there to protect, I think, the stakers that restake to these new Avs and it's a little scary. You've got these validators that are running new types of hardware and all this Slashing logic that is kind of under the hood, I think. Again, I have a reference like Cubist building this, implementing something called the anti Slasher, which just aims to make the validator side safer and ensure that they don't double sign because there's only one copy of the key. So it's really just the key management product. But it's really interesting. So they're doing a lot of things that are aimed to be as safe as possible when they launch and they will be highly curated. But they're putting people in place, right? Like, we don't know what this veto council looks like, but we can imagine who it is.
00:47:45.794 - 00:48:30.160, Speaker B: And it's probably a combination of people who are really excited about Eigen layer but also people who are really concerned about Eigen layer. Right? And that is what will kind of ensure that the curation is done by folks that are aligned in the best interests of Ethereum. It's partly interesting because of the technical qualities of this debate, it's partly interesting because of the political side of this sort of debate and how excited we should be about restaking and whether or not we should embrace it. But it seems like that they've been extremely thoughtful and extremely cautious in their approach. So yeah, I'll pause there, but I think it's very interesting.
00:48:31.890 - 00:49:27.202, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. And maybe to get into the intersection between Liquid Staking and restaking is I think the way that I at least look at this is let's approach this from the perspective of the profitability of a Validator and let's say that there are different sidecars that that Validator could add on to make themselves more profitable. Here's a great one that is very widely adopted and Ethereum has 95% market penetration. Mev boost, right? That is an off chain marketplace which allows Validators to more efficiently and trustlessly extract mev from large centralized block builders. Boom. Extra source of income for validators at large. Another sidecar will be restaking and there'll be a certain amount of Validators that opt into either you're kind of alluding to this operational model.
00:49:27.202 - 00:50:51.830, Speaker A: There'll be different ways that Validators can opt in. There could be a very operationally intensive but no principal agent problem model where you are a solo staker in Ethereum and then you actually run other hardware devices and you rehypothecate yourself and then you're not really relying on Eigen layer for very much. But then there will be all the way on the other side of the spectrum. If you're a liquid staker and you just rehypothe that stake to someone else who is running one of these additional hardware, maybe a sequencer on L2 or a validator on another L one, then suddenly you're really increasing the principal agent problem quite a bit. But it's a source of income. And where this intersects, maybe we can start to dive into this is what if the Validators who are a part of Lido for instance, want to opt into restaking? And this is very interesting because as Lido moves towards a more permissionless model for who can be a part of the supply side of their network, the Staking router, you could, for instance, see something like a restaking module. And the interesting thing there is one, it would drag up the overall weighted average of Lido yield, right? Because these validators that are a part of the supply side of Lido's marketplace would be earning additional income, but that income would not be denominated in ethereum.
00:50:51.830 - 00:51:11.650, Speaker A: So, for instance, here's, sort of a simple example, would be, let's say some of the validators in Lido's validator set opted into running a sequencer on optimism or Arbitrum, assuming that they decentralized sequencer. So suddenly those rewards would actually be an op token and ARB token and then they would be going down into the pool.
00:51:12.390 - 00:51:36.134, Speaker B: Not necessarily though, right? They could get a rev share of ETH paid sequencer revenue, right? Maybe that makes it a little bit less complicated. But totally. You can also see like a spaghetti soup of rewards, right, where you have like, I don't know, all this sell pressure, all these rewards as they get sold back into ETH and then distributed out to the LST holders. And that's an interesting dynamic.
00:51:36.182 - 00:52:13.206, Speaker A: But yeah, right, so you're right, it could just be ethereum. I would argue that it's probably not going to be I would argue that it's going to be the native token. That's how all these protocols are incentivized. That's what they want to do. So what you could have is now, instead of this very simple construction of staked ETH represents one to one ETH. You're like, well, staked ETH is actually a claim on a pool of mostly ETH, but a little bit of op and ARB. And then if you take that one step further, like, well, it's actually op and ARB and we actually want to opt into running some Cosmos validators as well.
00:52:13.206 - 00:53:12.758, Speaker A: So random cosmos and you could see how that accelerates. I think there's a really good argument that you could make that Lido and Eigen layer are very well run and I think Lido governance today would prevent this from happening. But there will likely be other restaking providers outside of just Eigen layer and other liquid staking protocols that are less discerning. And I think one of the other challenges as well is that what you could see in an extreme is sort of this hunt for yield, right? As liquid staking protocols allow restaking modules, they hunt for kind of there's an adverse selection problem here where you opt into higher and higher yielding things in weirder and weirder tokens. So the blended average looks higher. There's this natural incentive there. And then what you also could do, eigen layer has alluded to or explicitly said in their white paper that they're not going to do this, but then the restaking protocol could actually issue a token that represents restaked positions.
00:53:12.758 - 00:53:24.766, Speaker A: That's really dangerous because those positions are not fungible. So that's where this intersection gets a little bit interesting. And there's a lot of room, frankly, for bad decisions to get made and things to go wrong.
00:53:24.868 - 00:54:12.750, Speaker B: Curious what you think Lido's supply side of validators, right? It's the exact same supply side of Eigen layer. So they have this existing network of Validators that some of which may or may not be interested in running additional hardware for restaking yield. So they are well positioned to expand into that space if they want to. And it's kind of interesting to think through the different options. I mean, you alluded to having a restaking module, right? So that's really adding some complexity to the core Steeth product as these rewards are not necessarily all denominated in ETH. And it adds more bloat to governance, right? Because that's a very risky module to add. So you're constantly managing that risk.
00:54:12.750 - 00:55:28.702, Speaker B: What are the other options if you don't want to touch the core product? You could fork Eigen layer and just let users decide if they want to take their Steeth and opt into this new restaking product with your, again, taking your Validator set. So those are the operators that you could have, or you could just not touch it and say, hey, winning the ethereum liquid staking market, that's big enough for us. And our goal is to minimize the surface area of governance that's going to create the biggest possible outcome in liquid staking. And those are the kind of the options that I look at from Lido's perspective. But it is kind of similar to Lucas that we had on from what's it called their Mev client on Solana gave them relationships with all of these validators already, right? And so then it was a natural expansion into liquid staking. And by the way, this liquid staking token yields more than the others because it's only delegating to validators that use this. So, you know, I think that that's sort of the dynamic here is where you see these synergies.
00:55:28.702 - 00:56:16.390, Speaker B: But it will be very interesting to see if Lido goes because that kind of goes against everything we were talking about earlier in the episode and how they're minimizing the surface area. Mitigating the principal agent problems probably wouldn't help with the self limiting debate if they're expanding aggressively into restaking at this point. But you could see a competitor doing that, right? Let's say a competitor forks Eigen layer as well and then offers their own LST. That is a combination of normal staking and restaking. So if you deposit here, you get both sides of that yield. That might be a way to compete on yield. It's definitely a different risk profile than Steeth, but yeah, I think that will be interesting.
00:56:16.390 - 00:57:12.278, Speaker B: I think we could also see liquid restaking become a thing. So you have a normal staking position or an LST, you delegate it to an operator, they go validate a couple of other pieces of software or hardware for AVSS. And then on the other side you mint some sort of LST that represents your position. And yeah, I think it will be very interesting to see how it plays out I actually think it's less likely at this given time that Lido moves into Liquid restaking aggressively. I just think they have a lot on their plate and they're doing very well. And why try to fix something that's not broken but worth paying attention to? Because it's going to become more and more important.
00:57:12.444 - 00:57:53.266, Speaker A: Yeah, I would be very surprised if Lido did that. I don't think they're going to, from my understanding. But there is a dynamic that you are always at the mercy of your stupidest competitor. And the bad part about bull markets is that really poor behavior, and especially very risk seeking behavior, gets rewarded not over a month's long time frame, but a year's long time frame. And many folks, by listening to this podcast, have had the experience of competing against someone who is taking an enormous amount of risk. And it looked like they were winning for an extremely long period of time. And I cannot tell you how psychologically damaging that is if you have been in that position.
00:57:53.266 - 00:57:57.400, Speaker A: And it leads to poor decision making, to be honest.
00:58:00.650 - 00:58:06.790, Speaker B: It's like you're speaking from experience there. Mike crazy seems like you're really hitting.
00:58:11.630 - 00:59:17.934, Speaker A: But what I would say is I think it's important to have a long term mindset in this industry. And I hope if folks get something out of this season that maybe right now in a bear market when people are keyed into and open to hearing about these long term risks, then we don't make silly decisions during the bull market that we end up regretting. Liquid restaking seems like to me just something, an example of a road that we just do not want to go down. It adds an enormous amount of complexity. These positions are not fungible, right? So there will be a myriad opportunity, set of opportunities where people can re hypothetically their stake and earn various tokens, some of which will be not super risky. So maybe that's running a sequencer on optimism or Arbitrum and then there'll be a whole new set of layer ones or weird app chains or whatever it is that people can opt into and the yield will look quite good. What we'll probably get is some amount of tranching of risk and maybe there's an intelligent way and a slightly less intelligent way to do it.
00:59:17.934 - 00:59:30.862, Speaker A: But history would tell us that during the bull market, people don't care about intelligent ways and they'll do dumb stuff. And we're messing with something very close to the metal here of how ethereum the protocol works. So I would just urge caution.
00:59:30.926 - 01:00:49.740, Speaker B: I'm sorry, but it's going to happen. Like Liquid restaking is going to happen whether we like it or not. And so two, it's about, I would say two, can it be done in a safe way? And if you think about very as Sam said when we brought him on, this just gets closer to a more sophisticated balance sheet that you're managing, right? So. Maybe you don't get to mint your liquid staking position one to one based off of the risk profile of it, right? So maybe it's more like maker where if you deposit risky collateral, you can mint less of that token of dai. On the other side, if you deposit USDC, which is even safer than dai, then you can mint more or less one to one. I think that approach is interesting and could work and I think it will just be a question of it's not that scary until it gets very big. And so paying attention to how fast it's growing and what the sort of protections in place are yeah will be interesting but I don't see like I can layer necessarily embracing something like that right as they're just trying to avoid their own self limiting debate at this point, before they even get off the ground, or whatever their version of it will be.
01:00:49.740 - 01:00:52.160, Speaker B: Probably will happen.
01:00:54.210 - 01:01:54.606, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with you. I think it's inevitable as well to some degree and yeah, follow up, it's definitely going to happen. Yeah, just stay frosty out there. Be careful folks. So, last question here, because you were starting to allude to it on the episodes that we did with Lucas from Jito and Sam from Fracs, but this idea of looking for examples of horizontal expansion and sort of finding your way to liquid staking. But the last dynamic is, I would say a friendly, healthy coopetition dynamic in between Lido and Eigen layer, for instance. So they're related, right? The flow that I would say most people will ultimately take is people liquid stake with Lido and then they take their liquid staking token, their Steeth, and they delegate that into the eigen layer marketplace and they earn additional yield on that, hopefully in the safest way possible.
01:01:54.606 - 01:02:49.250, Speaker A: But you could see a world one way for Lido to have a little bit more control or take a little bit more margin, depending on I think both of those are good reasons for doing this. Is to say, instead of allowing a restaking module within the staking router that Eigen layer controls, we're going to build one ourselves. And what I would say if I were Lido in that situation is we're doing this to limit the amount of different, for instance, tokens, right? Like what we don't want is this batch of weird tokens getting into the Steve pool. It's also a good way for them to not pay rent to eigen layer, right, and squeeze some of that margin out themselves. But you could see them building that now that goes against limiting the governance surface area that I think we heard from a couple of different folks from Lido this season about why they don't want to do that. But you could see that ultimately happen. So that's where there's a little bit of a coopetition dynamic, I'd say between.
01:02:49.320 - 01:03:51.430, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, if in two years, 75% of Steeth holders are also restaking. You'd look at that and probably be like, well, this is what all of our users are doing with their Steeth anyways. Maybe we should consider moving in and taking a slice of that, right? If we are also the supply side of eigen layer or at least the operators are within our set. But yeah, I think they're, of all people, the least motivated to need to do something like that. I don't think there's anybody else in crypto with as big of a market lead as they do right now. So we'll see. But it does get into this idea of you've got some core competencies, whether it's balance sheet management like fracs or it's validator infrastructure like Jito, what can we use these core competencies for? And it at times will lead to liquid staking.
01:03:53.050 - 01:04:25.134, Speaker A: Yeah, totally agree. So I think an iron law of capitalism, but you see it play out in crypto quite often, is that when there's a sector that is outperforming, you're going to get many copycats, right. You're going to look at someone that's making a lot of margin, say, hey, I'd like to make some of that margin. I think I could do that. And you're going to see lots of different competition spring up. I think you saw that with stablecoins quite a bit, and I think you're seeing that with liquid staking as well. And it's been interesting to watch the road that different liquid staking providers have approached this.
01:04:25.134 - 01:05:05.642, Speaker A: And we talked to two different folks this season who I think this is relevant for. One is Sam Kazamian of fracs and the other is Lucas. And I think they look similar on the surface, but they're a little bit different. And what I would say is Sam took a look at what his competencies were originally as being an issuer of a stablecoin and said, really what I'm good at here is managing assets and liabilities and risk management is my competency. And what I want to do is take a look at the world and see where that would be applicable. This skill set instead of operational competencies that I have. And oh, operating a stablecoin actually looks very similar under the hood to operating a liquid staking protocol.
01:05:05.642 - 01:05:34.134, Speaker A: So that's an example of taking a shared set of competencies. Then there's what Lucas did at mev, which is sort of like a cross selling or cross selling strategy almost in a way, which is to say I view validators as my customers. I've been trying to solve mev. I've got a client here which is going to run an auction for you and extract mev in a more efficient way. But also, hey, I know you're a validator. And one of the other things that you're thinking about is liquid staking. So maybe there are some synergies there.
01:05:34.134 - 01:05:49.626, Speaker A: So one in the form of fracs, it's, hey, how are these competencies that I have built up? How can I leverage this in another area. And then in the case of Jito, it's, hey, my customers are validators, what other service can I well, it makes.
01:05:49.648 - 01:06:48.480, Speaker B: Their original client more attractive, right? It says, okay, you run this client, you get extra yield from the PBS auction. Oh, and by the way, we're launching a liquid staking token and we're going to deposit that liquid staking token only to validators that are running our client. And so that to me makes a lot of sense and that's differentiated, probably one of the more differentiated approaches to LSTs across the whole space. So that makes a lot of sense with Fracs, I think it does as well. But it's interesting that maker chose to partner there because it's the same sort of activity, right, managing a balance sheet. But you are definitely opening yourself up to more risk and putting more into the scope of governance. And so far they've been growing very quickly though, because they are leveraging those competencies to offer more yield than other LST providers can.
01:06:48.480 - 01:07:08.902, Speaker B: And yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense, but it will be interesting as they could have also been looked at Lido as a partner, right. And maybe Fracs could have had their own staking module at some point that kicked back some revenue, but they decided to be a little bit more aggressive, which is interesting. Yeah, I think we could see more of that.
01:07:08.956 - 01:07:44.086, Speaker A: I think so as well. It's not something that I necessarily thought about, but there does seem to be in particular a very interesting intersection of mev and liquid staking. And definitely Jito is a protocol to keep your eye on. I'll be curious to see I probably have the least conviction on just in terms of how liquid staking is going to play out in Solana, but it does feel like Jito is the protocol that has sort of observed this intersection that makes quite a bit of sense. And I bet you'll see other players.
01:07:44.138 - 01:08:34.670, Speaker B: Start to on paper it's like, why isn't Jito the dominant provider already? Right. But then that also goes back to kind of the power of these earlier mover advantages and them compounding over time. But yeah, Solana is kind of the wild west of liquid staking just in terms of market share. You don't really know where things are going to go or just how big liquid staking is even going to be. So, yeah, I think it's very different dynamics over there versus Cosmos, which is like Atom has one sort of competitive dynamic and then app chains are very different. Right. The nature of those tokens are very different and makes liquid staking for a low cap app chain is maybe a little bit less attractive to be able to use as collateral in a lending protocol as like ethereum.
01:08:34.670 - 01:08:40.626, Speaker B: Right. But there's still a market there and so it'll be interesting.
01:08:40.808 - 01:09:30.420, Speaker A: Yeah. And maybe that's the last dynamic we can just close on here and just start to wrap for the season, which is a really good point about, again, some of this what will take off in different ecosystems. I think the big difference between Cosmos and Solana, which is very similar in terms of why liquid staking hasn't taken off quite as much, is Solana does have a unifying token. Cosmos technically has a unifying token in the form of atom but it's a little bit less clear. And I think this is relevant for rollups on ethereum. But also app chains in Cosmos is more of a demand, I think, to liquid stake something that you view as useful collateral whereas appchain tokens are really equity. And I'm not sure that there's as much demand to liquid stake something that looks like equity because that's not collateral that you would then take and use somewhere else.
01:09:30.420 - 01:09:37.254, Speaker A: I think that's fundamental limitation here, that's not a tech thing. It's just what are we building?
01:09:37.372 - 01:10:22.850, Speaker B: I'm interested to see how prevalent liquid staking of Celestia's token will be. Right? Because if I think about tokens that will have qualities most similar to, you know, checks, a lot of those boxes, obviously the token itself is not like they're not showing it as money, but it is a token that all these roll ups are going to need to hold in order to pay their DA costs. It is a token that will kind of unify all the users of the roll ups. Maybe it's a gas token, right? And then you can see the similarities to ETH, much more so than, say, like an app chains token and even more so than Solana in some regards. And so, yeah, we'll see how that plays out.
01:10:22.920 - 01:11:14.434, Speaker A: So maybe let's just sum up again this ramble that you and I have gone through here, Miles, what we would expect to see and we should implement some kind of process where we check ourselves and see how right we were on any of the stuff that we've talked about. But we would expect to see liquid staking be very winner take all but the network effects to not cross different ecosystems. So it'll be winter take most in Ethereum, different winter take most in Solana, different winter take most in Cosmos and other ecosystems like Celestia or other big ones. In the future, we would probably both urge caution. I think in between this emerging connection of liquid staking and restaking and there's probably a great way to do it and a not so great way to do it. I would say we're both in the camp of not really loving the self limiting debate. That doesn't mean we think that Lido should just be able to go hog wild and do whatever they want.
01:11:14.434 - 01:11:48.442, Speaker A: But the best way to mitigate the risks of having a winner take most market structure is to decentralize the governance of the protocol, open up the validator set and make it much of the winner of the winner of the winner yes. And then it'll be just interesting to see the intersection of liquid staking and other products. Right. So stablecoins there's sort of a natural operational fit mev. There's a synergy there as well. So just be interesting to see how other players choose to compete. Totally.
01:11:48.586 - 01:12:33.802, Speaker B: Yeah. I am getting a little sick of these self limiting debates when nobody's looking at the solution of hey, let's build it into the protocol. If we feel disappointionated about it, build some sort of regulation in the protocol or hey, let's all get together and build something way better. Right. Instead of telling the team that's kind of been the most ETH aligned but also the most successful to be less successful. I don't think that's the sort of if Ethereum is a platform for DApps, I don't think that is the signal that you want to send to future developers that if you are successful we're going to attack you until you stop it's. Interesting.
01:12:33.802 - 01:13:00.978, Speaker B: Yeah. Ethereum needs to be careful with this Ethereum alignment. I mean, we see Maker talking about Maker chain dYdX has gone off. Uniswap is now leveraging a lot of off chain stuff for Uniswap X and Hayden has know many times how extractive the platform. Yeah, I love Ethereum but that's my general maybe sign off take on the self limiting debate. It's like build something better or get together and build something into the protocol.
01:13:01.074 - 01:13:47.806, Speaker A: Right now it feels you and I have talked about this whole ecosystem feels very infrastructure heavy and I would probably lean more towards the side of the dynamic that you've seen in web two is probably going to mirror what ends up happening in web3 and a lot of value is going to accrue to apps. And by the way, that would be a best case outcome for crypto. We want there to be new apps and products and services that people want to use right now we're recording this in September of 2023. One of the biggest risks that we have hanging over our head is the regulatory environment in the US. You know what the best way is to obfuscate that or to move past that regulatory threat. Build stuff that people want. America responds to consumer desire and the power of the consumer.
01:13:47.806 - 01:14:12.846, Speaker A: That's a powerful thing. Right now we've got one hand tied behind our back because regular average, everyday people in the world don't use crypto for anything and that has to change. So that's what I would say as well. And I think that should be a design. I see both sides of it with the Ethereum alignment thing. I get that we want to be aligned here in terms of our values. I also think that there needs to be a little bit of a stick in terms of when you're socially coordinating huge groups of people.
01:14:12.846 - 01:14:35.542, Speaker A: But I think there are other better ways of showing about it as well. People are just trying to get to the best solution here. All right, miles, this was really fun, buddy. Great season. And the next season, you and I are not going to be doing together, but the one after that, I think we already have the ideating on and.
01:14:35.596 - 01:14:51.014, Speaker B: Have a really fire scheming. I'm very excited to listen to the next season of bell curve, even though my replacement will be great. So this has been a blast. I'm so glad we did it. And yeah, hope the listeners enjoyed it as well.
01:14:51.132 - 01:14:51.782, Speaker A: You too, man.
01:14:51.836 - 01:14:52.420, Speaker B: All right, see you.
