00:00:00.250 - 00:00:59.562, Speaker A: Liquid staking derivatives, LSDs, what are they? How can we use them to generate returns? And why are they becoming so popular so quickly? We're going to address all of these burning questions right here, right now. So strap in. Two years ago, researchers at crypto venture firm Paradigm argued that staking derivatives would have a major impact on the entire e ethereum ecosystem. They even suggested that staked ETH would eventually replace ETH in many use cases, and potentially even replace ETH altogether. Now, given the rapid growth in ETH staking through platforms such as Lido, we have to wonder whether we're in the beginning stages of that transition already. Yes, tokens issued by protocols like Lido and Rocketpool are hot right now, but the importance of LSDs goes even deeper. Slowly but surely, liquid staking derivatives are seeing a level of adoption that suggests they'll eventually dethrone ETH as the most important asset in defi.
00:00:59.562 - 00:01:53.290, Speaker A: So let's quickly remind ourselves of the key concepts at play here before diving deeper into this promising new DeFi instrument. And we'll start with a quick refresher on LSDs, which can seem complicated, but we're going to simplify them for you. So since Ethereum completed its transition to proof of stake consensus last year, its security has been guaranteed by validators who stake their ether to the network, which allows them to run block producing nodes, validate transactions, and earn staking rewards. Simple enough, but here's the catch. If I stake my ether, I can't use it to generate returns in other high yield DeFi protocols. And although stakers are compensated with modest returns for transaction fees and minor extractable value, staking certainly is not the most lucrative way to utilize ETH tokens in Defi. Liquid staking derivatives offer a solution to this conundrum.
00:01:53.290 - 00:02:43.354, Speaker A: By using LSDs, ETH holders can pull their tokens in a protocol that stakes on their behalf and hands off the work of actually securing Ethereum to node operators. These holders are then assigned protocol tokens, which represent their staked ETH, and those tokens can be used in other DeFi protocols as if it were ETH. These are liquid staking derivatives, and they're becoming popular for good reason. Protocols and companies that issue them have seen a surge of interest in the last year, as Ethereum developers test an upgrade that will enable the withdrawal of staked ether. Governance tokens are flying off the charts, in some cases almost doubling or tripling in value. But that's less important than what happens with the derivatives themselves. The three most popular entities that issue those tokens are Lido, Coinbase, and Rocketpool.
00:02:43.354 - 00:03:42.590, Speaker A: They each issue their own LSD, called staked ETH, CBE and R ETH, respectively. Now we've reminded ourselves of what LSDs are and what staking issues they solve. So let's explore which developments brought us here. In October, Oasis app, which is a DAp that spun out of Makerdao, partnered with Aave, Ethereum's largest lending protocol, to let users leverage their exposure to staked ETH. The product allows Aave users to borrow ETH against staked ETH and then purchase additional staked ETH using the borrowed funds in a single transaction. Liquid staking derivatives also address risk, and Aave's founder and CEO, Stani Kulichov said, through this expansion, the Aave protocol will enable users to borrow assets against their staked ETH while retaining their Ethereum staking rewards. So there's strong interest in using staked ETH to earn additional yield without taking on excessive risk.
00:03:42.590 - 00:04:30.594, Speaker A: Oasis has partnered with Maker to do the same for Re. As of this week, more than 1 million Dai has been minted using re as collateral. And speaking of adoption, last week Eula Finance listed Coinbase's CBE as a collateral asset. We spoke to Seraphimseka, head of risk at Eula, who told us the EULa and Coinbase integration allows CBE holders to finally use their balance sheet for more productive things than just holding for stake rewards. He also said that trading firms had expressed interest in the offering beforehand. Remember those paradigm researchers I mentioned at the beginning of this video? They laid out how LSDs will grow in popularity. And no, this isn't about to become a Nancy Reagan esque propaganda piece about slippery slopes or the vicious cycle to gateway drugs, but it's kind of similar.
00:04:30.594 - 00:05:23.454, Speaker A: First, stakers will put their staked ETH or re, or whichever lsd token they're using across an array of DeFi protocols, hopefully making money that way while enjoying the modest guaranteed rewards that come with staking. Second, once LSDs can be used as collateral to borrow ETH, stakers can then use that ETH to get more LSDs in return. And so on. Add infinitum this leverage staking would theoretically push up the rate for supplying ETH to lending protocols, quote, ultimately benefiting all ETH holders with higher interest rates, end quote. According to the fellas over at paradigm, this is a perfect example of a virtuous cycle. The more liquid staked ETH becomes, the lower the opportunity cost of staking it, which leads to more ETH being staked, which in turn further deepens the liquidity of staked ETH, and so on. And that's all great news for ETH.
00:05:23.454 - 00:05:59.806, Speaker A: But what does it mean in numbers for you? Well, without staking derivatives, we might have expected 15% to 30% of ETH to be staked. However, with staking derivatives, the number could be as high as 80% to 100%, because there really isn't any additional cost to staking compared to nonstaking. But remember, when things sound too good to be true, they usually are. So what are the risks associated? Now there's some irony in what I'm about to tell you. Last year, Ethereum researcher Danny Ryan warned of the risks of LSD. It was a funny title, but Ryan was dead serious. Protocols like Lido could pose a danger to Ethereum, he said.
00:05:59.806 - 00:07:04.154, Speaker A: The bigger they get, the more control they have over the blockchain, and the more vulnerable ethereum becomes to censorship demands and other abuses of power. He then added that if a pooled stake under one LSD protocol exceeds 50%, this pooled stake gains the ability to censor blocks in a regulatory censorship attack. We now have a distinct entity, the governance token holders, that a regulator can make requests of censorship depending on the token distribution. This is likely a much simpler regulatory target than the Ethereum network as a whole. And he wasn't the only one to voice concerns. Superfiz, the co founder of the ETH staker community, also urged Defi developers to be cautious when innovating around derivatives based on liquid staking, which is why it was a little bit ironic to see Amin Suleimani, the founder of Reflexer Labs, lament this week that he hadn't made staked ETH the collateral backing his decentralized stablecoin rye. He warned that the goal of staking is not to promote DeFi the goal of staking is to promote the security and the health of the Ethereum network.
00:07:04.154 - 00:07:16.980, Speaker A: So you've got to keep those two goals separate. We hope this video was informative, and if you'd like more explainer content like this one, please let us know in the comments below. Our.
