00:00:00.280 - 00:00:57.456, Speaker A: Welcome back to the Defiant. Today we have an explainer video on the Stellar network, which has recently launched a smart contracts platform called Soroban. Founded in 2014, the Stellar network launched as a decentralized payment network for quick and low cost payments. Since then, the Stellar Development foundation, which is the entity that supports the development of the stellar network, has been focused on encouraging the stellar ecosystem to build reliable payment solutions for those in underserved and underbanked regions. With the launch of the new smart contract platform Soraban, the stellar network has expanded its capabilities with smart contract dapps. Launching smart contracts will help Stellar reach a new level and it marks a major improvement over the way it operated before. So lets dive in and learn more about Soraban releasing a smart contract platform in 2024 might not seem newsworthy, but there are some important nuances that make Soraban's launch on stellar intriguing.
00:00:57.456 - 00:02:15.192, Speaker A: While decentralized blockchains are permissionless, many defi services such as those on Ethereum, remain unfeasible or even impossible to use for people in certain areas of the globe. Those in underbanked areas often lack the appropriate on ramp and off ramp solutions, cant afford high transaction fees, or sometimes lack the banking support needed to on ramp. Even via traditional crypto rails, the stellar network is home to cash to crypto solutions that allow those in less serviced areas of the world to avoid intermediaries such as state owned banks and onboard directly to the stellar network with cash in over 300,000 locations. The introduction of smart contracts enables this experience to now evolve from cash to crypto, into the new age of cash to defi. With almost a decade of development under its belt, Stellar network has proven itself as a highly trustworthy network to transact on, but the launch of Soraband will help it move from a more secure payment solution into a fully fledged defi network. Since its launch, stellar has partnered with some of the largest on and off ramp solutions, fiat issuers and exchanges such as MoneyGram, Circle and coinbase. These integrations with some of the largest infrastructure partners in web3 allows for stellar to be widely accessible and easy to work with.
00:02:15.192 - 00:03:20.424, Speaker A: In order to streamline the developer experience, Soraband uses trusted tools like Rust and Webassembly on its backend. Using these common methods, many developers moving over to Soraband from EVM or other rust based contracts will find their transition to stellar Dapps quick and seamless. This may lead to a larger portion of the developer community migrating to stellar, leading to higher quality products on the network. Some protocols have already migrated to stellar Mainnet, including one of the leading oracles band, an AMM called Soroswap, and the leading borrowing protocol, XYC. It's only been a month since the mainnet release, and the development activity thus far has been impressive. After nearly a decade of building one of the longest standing payment solutions in web3, the inclusion of smart contracts on Stellar looks to make it an even more developer friendly network and enable users across the globe to access DeFi. The ability to create and interact with DAPPs, thanks to Soraban, allows these users in underserved regions to have access to financial services and applications they never would have been able to access otherwise.
00:03:20.424 - 00:03:30.824, Speaker A: With reliable infrastructure, low fees, and a highly accessible network, Stellar can now begin building towards offering groundbreaking DeFi solutions without Borders.
