00:00:09.370 - 00:01:16.858, Speaker A: Welcome to the founders of web three series by Outlive Ventures and me, your host, Jamie Burke. Together we're going to meet the entrepreneurs, their backers, and the leading policymakers that are shaping web three. Together, we're going to try to define what is web three, explore its nuances, and understand the mission and purpose that drive its founders. If you enjoy what you hear, please do subscribe, rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible with the important mission that is web three. Okay, so today I'm really happy to welcome Brock Pierce, founder and chairman of Integro Foundation. I could have list him as a founder, a co founder of several projects. Brock, I probably tried to describe you as a serial web three entrepreneur, not just in web three, but also domains like gaming, longtime advocate, really pushing the cause of the space, testing the edge of the regulatory boundaries, and an investor in some of the most kind of seminal projects.
00:01:16.858 - 00:01:18.022, Speaker A: It's great to have you on the show.
00:01:18.076 - 00:01:19.782, Speaker B: Yeah, well, thank you for having me.
00:01:19.916 - 00:02:36.446, Speaker A: So you've probably got the most complete journey of a founder, in a classical sense, in that you've been a serial entrepreneur. You've gone on to be an investor, advisor, chairman to several unicorns in the space. And throughout your career, it seems like there's this interplay, or at least parallel track, between crypto and gaming. So it's going to be interesting to know which came first, which inspired the other, the interest in the other, and hopefully, if we get time, perhaps talk about how they can come together in concepts like the Metaverse. So the first time I became aware of you was on a panel at, I'm pretty sure it must have been Europe's first bitcoin conference held here in London, which, as far as I can account, was least six years ago. That was the event that inspired me to go on and found outlier Ventures in 2014, I think, the same time that you co founded blockchain capital with the Stevens brothers. And since then, I've had the pleasure to be on panels with you both at your, I think, d ten e event in Amsterdam was the first one.
00:02:36.446 - 00:02:57.750, Speaker A: And then since then, all over the place. Vienna or Austria, Singapore. I'm sure you can't remember as much as I can't, but we've never really had chance to go deep. You're always a man in a rush. You're being whisked off. You've always got a mob around you, and so it's been very difficult to get one on one time. So this is my excuse to get that one on one time with you finally.
00:02:57.820 - 00:03:16.950, Speaker B: Well, it's a pleasure and long overdue. Our orbits have been rotating together for six plus years and it's been a pleasure to get to know you and see your sort of steadfast support for this ecosystem's development.
00:03:17.030 - 00:04:00.634, Speaker A: So I'll be honest, as I was kind of doing my desk research, there's some things that I knew about you and some things I didn't know about you. And as I kind of went through the LinkedIn profile and was clicking links and checking out various companies, I wasn't aware of just how much success you had had before you entered web three. Had a couple of exits and you'd really kind of developed a profile in gaming, but you were also very early into Asia and China. So I'm going to try to do my best job to summarize it. Almost impossible task, to be honest with. Mean, you're famously a childhood actor. I don't want to spend too much time on that because otherwise we won't get to talk about anything else.
00:04:00.634 - 00:04:40.678, Speaker A: Although, as interesting as it is. But as I can recall, your first startup was Den Digital Entertainment network in 97 99, which was around delivering entertainment over broadband, which I guess makes sense given you coming from the entertainment world that raised over $88 million, including from a lot of corporate ventures, Microsoft, intel and NBC. In 2001, you founded IGE and ran it as CEO all the way to exit. That looks like it was your first exit, is that right?
00:04:40.764 - 00:05:03.738, Speaker B: Yeah. So Den was in the Internet 1.0 phase. There's not many people as young as I am that actually lived through founding companies in Internet 1.0 because I was 1718 years old. That idea was basically YouTube, Hulu, Netflix. And we were still credited by people in that business as having been the pioneers.
00:05:03.738 - 00:05:30.374, Speaker B: The problem was we were too early. Broadband didn't roll out at the rate that everybody anticipated. And so when the Internet bubble burst in year 2000, we went bankrupt like 99% of the other Internet businesses at the time. And something those of us in crypto are familiar with. We go through these cycles and if you've been around for a while, you've seen a few of these. And the first wave of projects are mostly gone. The second wave of projects are mostly gone or zombie sort of state.
00:05:30.374 - 00:06:40.890, Speaker B: And now we're in this kind of third phase again, but probably not worth focusing too much on the acting portion of my life. But the origin story of what led me here also started during that time. I was a very entrepreneurial kid, building all the lemonade stand businesses one could think of, from literal lemonade stand businesses to paper routes to mowing lawns to shoveling snow. I'm a kid from Minnesota, but the part that's most interesting is I got very active in collecting baseball cards and playing cards, and I got very active in the trading of cards and can I take $10 and turn it into 100? Over time, the story of the red paperclip and I became very fascinated with that and saw arbitrage and became an effective sort of childhood trader, which eventually led to things like magic the gathering, which eventually led to. I was a very active gamer as well, the equivalent of what you'd call a pro gamer. But back then we didn't have an esports industry. It would be going to the arcades and playing mortal Kombat competitively for prize pools and things of that nature.
00:06:40.890 - 00:07:19.506, Speaker B: And so it really was in, call it magic the gathering and baseball cards. That led to me recognizing as games became multiplayer in the late ninety s, that as assets existed in these worlds, just because they were intangible didn't make them less valuable in the same way that people wanted to spend real money for things like a magic the gathering card. And it was that that led me to basically building all of my games businesses and all of those games businesses around kind of the pioneering the markets of virtual or digital currency and games is what led me here. So it's a lifelong sort of journey.
00:07:19.618 - 00:07:42.030, Speaker A: Yeah. So that fusion is interesting, I think also the idea of timing, and that's something I definitely want to pick up later because at least on paper, it looks like you've got the best timing in web three. Involvement and launching of various projects Ige was actually PayPal's largest merchant in 2003, 2004. Just to give people concept of the scale.
00:07:43.650 - 00:08:29.338, Speaker B: It was massive. So if you've ever played things like World of Warcraft or Second Life, we were the market makers. So we were buying all the digital currency from people that had more than they needed, people that were playing games but lacked income to buy beer and other things, maybe pay rent, tuition, probably not. This was generally interfering with school, and people were probably more dropping out than paying tuition with these funds. But we were market makers and we were the exchanges and we were the websites where you would buy digital gold inside of these games. We ended up building up a supply chain of 400,000 people. This is in the early two thousand s that would play video games professionally to mine that digital currency, principally in China.
00:08:29.338 - 00:09:20.798, Speaker B: And so I moved over to Hong Kong in 2002 to basically figure out how to teach the Chinese to play games professionally because I couldn't source enough inventory from regular gamers. And so I needed to basically industrialize a massive supply chain of inventory to meet the demand of gamers all over the world. And as a result of that, we got very good at payments because we were selling digital gold in World of Warcraft. This was such a novel idea that we were often confused with a gambling company. People were like, what do you mean? People are paying money for digital gold inside of a video game? Is this gambling? I mean, that was the assumption. And so when dealing with the credit card and the merchant processing and the banking, they were often lumping us into a category of business that was highly regulated and difficult to process payments. And so we struggled with that for a long time.
00:09:20.798 - 00:10:03.614, Speaker B: And I developed all my payment sort of expertise around that. And a lot of the people from industries like Internet gambling and others would all come to me and ask, can you help us figure out the payment problems? You seem to be good at this. And so I learned a lot about the payment issues that existed and call it other high risk industries, and it was quite big. We were moving hundreds of millions of dollars a year, eventually billions of dollars a year. And so, yeah, we were PayPal's largest merchant for three years. We launched Alipay in China because we were PayPal's second largest originator of new customers and eBay being number one. But eBay wasn't a singular customer, but they were onboarding lots of new users to PayPal after eBay, it was us.
00:10:03.614 - 00:10:43.260, Speaker B: And so Alipay, when they were launching, said, well, you're the second largest originator and your whole business is centered around these chinese gamers. Will you help us launch Alipay? And this is when Alibaba or Taobao wasn't quite the big business that they are today. And Alipay essentially didn't exist. So we were very involved in that piece. We were even Google's largest advertiser for a moment because we were there building this business as Google launched their advertising business, and we were very quickly spending a million dollars a month. And this is before any traditional advertisers were using Google. And again, PayPal probably was similar.
00:10:43.260 - 00:11:21.186, Speaker B: Walmart and major companies didn't use PayPal when they were a startup. And so we also launched PayPal's credit card processing division. So in the old days, to use PayPal, you had to have a PayPal account. And I eventually said, why am I have to send my users to credit card processing, or I have to send my users to PayPal. I decided to try running everything through PayPal for a little while. And then I'm like, well, I have a lot of attrition when users are like, I have to create an account to make a payment. Why can't, you know, give you my credit card? I said to PayPal, I'd like you to allow me to process payments without accounts.
00:11:21.186 - 00:11:50.510, Speaker B: And they said, well, sorry, that's not our policy. We want everybody. I said, well, if you don't do that, I'm going to turn credit cards back on again and you're going to lose 70% of my sales, which at that moment, I had that conversation with 70 million a year. And PayPal is like, no, don't take that business away. And I said, well, then you have to learn how to accept the actual project. Internally at PayPal was project IGE, and I was on their merchant advisory board. And so I have a long background in cross border payments, which I think was also very relevant.
00:11:50.510 - 00:11:57.278, Speaker B: Know the issues that exist in this space. And one of the early sort of use cases, or theoretical use cases for cryptocurrency.
00:11:57.374 - 00:12:30.006, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, there's obviously loads of applicable experience within that, both in terms of understanding the regulatory arbitrage required to innovate at the edge of gaming, what might be conceived as gambling, understanding digital assets, as you say, the marketplaces that form around them. And so that led you to set up Xam in 2003, 2012, which was kind of a network, a media network around the gaming community and these massively.
00:12:30.038 - 00:13:07.554, Speaker B: Multiplayer games you mentioned, that was my user acquisition strategy. I needed to make gamers aware of our. And so I rolled up all the biggest fan websites. And again, this is before you had things like where Google, you can add the Google box to your website and they'll just deliver ads to you. That product didn't exist back when this was happening. You only had basically networks, advertising networks, and they would only work with websites that had ten or 20 million page views. So if you were a subscale website on the Internet back then, you had no source of revenue.
00:13:07.554 - 00:13:52.246, Speaker B: There was no way to generate revenue. So anyone that was a big fan of a game would make these websites. If you ever played World of Warcraft, these were things like thought bot and Wowhead and Alakazam. And so instead of buying ads on these platforms and then having to compete, it was almost cheaper to acquire them. So I led about 30 plus acquisitions, rolling up all the biggest websites around the massively multiplayer game space, and it ended up being a top 100 web property in terms of traffic, it was a huge network, and we did sell that in 2012 to ten cent, and so sold that ultimately to one of the biggest chinese players, because I had very good relationships in, with all the major chinese and south korean companies.
00:13:52.348 - 00:14:21.082, Speaker A: Right. And so the kind of interest in gaming didn't stop there. I know you set up Clearstone Gaming fund in 2011. There's perhaps a couple of forks. I guess this is where things start to go in parallel. I kind of follow the fork into bitcoin and crypto, so I forget the year. But just after 2011, you became chairman to KNC Minor, which had exclusive distribution rights to the ASIC mining devices in China.
00:14:21.082 - 00:15:15.198, Speaker A: You set up Expresscoin, which was, from what I can see, one of the first bitcoin brokerages. And then, as we mentioned earlier, in 2014, you co founded what came to be called Blockchain Capital, which was the first dedicated venture fund in the space. Also Bitangels, which was kind of an angel syndicate network. And then in 2014 co founded Tether, which was the first stablecoin and asset backed token. And in 2017, you co founded Block one. And there's lots of other stuff that happened in all of that, but if I kind of list all the firsts, and this is why I kind of had to have you on the show, and I had to have you in the first seven that we launched in this series, because you were not only an early investor in bitcoin, but you were the chairman of the Bitcoin foundation. You did the first ICO, which most people don't know about, which was Mastercoin in 2013.
00:15:15.198 - 00:15:30.760, Speaker A: You were one of the largest participants in the Ethereum ICo in 2014. In fact, I think this is roughly when I got to hang out with you a little bit in Amsterdam, and I remember you frantically checking the eth price.
00:15:32.090 - 00:16:14.242, Speaker B: It was during that moment. And it's actually, this isn't, in large part, the origins of block one and eos. I was cornering the market on all of the AMD processors that moment because the Ethereum price had gone from, like, $2. I'm good friends with Dr. Gavin Wood and a lot of these sort of people, and so I felt that there was an opportunity to jump into the Ethereum mining space due to that quick price sort of jump. And we literally bought out every Internet retail graphics card in the world that was good for mining Ethereum. And then we bought out all three wholesalers in the world.
00:16:14.242 - 00:17:03.938, Speaker B: We literally bought up everything. And if you go back and read gaming forums at the time, you'd see some people complaining that someone just bought every graphics card in the world. It actually, surprisingly, only cost about, I think, $4 million at the time. And Brendan Bloomer, who's CEO of Block one, and I have been working together since he was 18. I acquired his company at IgE back in the day and moved him to Hong Kong, which is in part why block one is set up there. It's a lot of people from the IgE business were involved in that, but Brendan's like, brock, let me participate in this because I went straight from Amsterdam to India, and Brendan became one of the main investors in cornering the market of Ethereum with me, which is what brought him into crypto full time, staying on top of one of the largest graphics card mining operations in the world.
00:17:04.024 - 00:17:24.058, Speaker A: Interesting. And it doesn't stop there. So after blockchain capital, you did the first Sto for blockchain capital in Eos, which you co founded, it did the largest crowd sale. So not ICO crowd sale ever. An eye watering. I mean, I still can't believe it, to be honest. You.
00:17:24.058 - 00:18:14.550, Speaker A: $4 billion. And then Tether co founded Tether, which was the first stablecoin, an asset backed token. So, I mean, there's a litany of firsts in there. So clearly you have an appetite for risk, but somehow all of those things, in their own way, would have been fairly painful to bring to market. The meetings you would have had to have and costs invested with lawyers doing something for the first time. Being first. What is it about being first? And is it instinctual when you know that the time is right for a particular innovation, or is it just perseverance? And so are there a number of firsts that we haven't heard about that have failed?
00:18:14.630 - 00:18:27.360, Speaker B: Yeah. So that's a wonderful list of things that I've done that have worked out. I probably have an equal number of things that have not. As I like to say, I'm wrong 49% of the time.
00:18:29.010 - 00:18:30.670, Speaker A: That's still a pretty good ratio.
00:18:32.050 - 00:19:21.050, Speaker B: I have a pretty good batting average. I would say I've been right about the market and the concept and the timing. Almost always the issue of being right is in the execution, where I failed to execute and hit my marks, and as a result, that market did take off and it did end up being successful. Maybe I was a little wrong on timing, but I failed to execute effectively, and that's normally my issue, because it's not that hard. This goes back to my first company, Den, or the digital entertainment network failed because we were too early. And so for me, that was business school. I really understood the importance of market timing, and I learned that being too early is probably even worse than being too late.
00:19:21.050 - 00:19:49.914, Speaker B: When you're too early, you eventually just die on the vine. If you're too late, someone else still may acquire you for team and talent and technology. Right? It won't be a good outcome, but there's still the potential of recouping capital. And so market timing has always been kind of a core thing for me. I have kind of the equivalent of a crystal ball that allows me to see the future. And when I say that, I don't mean a literal crystal ball. I have an asymmetry of information.
00:19:49.914 - 00:20:26.660, Speaker B: So as you were pointing out, I've started so many companies in this space. I had a background of knowledge that brought a lot of skills to the table. And then I also funded as many companies as about anyone in the space. So what did I really have is I had a 70,000 or even higher foot view of everything happening in the ecosystem. And when you have more information than everyone, you kind of see the map clearly. I see what's happening, I see what's coming up. And then you have enough knowledge of what you think the next most likely things are going to be, and you've got data sets to operate that kind of show you what's happening before it's happened.
00:20:26.660 - 00:21:18.806, Speaker B: I'd like to say that that's probably the thing that I had that differentiated me more than anything, is I had more information. And with more information, I was able to make better decisions, which resulted in me being at the right place at the right time on a number of occasions. And as you pointed out, an appetite for risk, because again, I'm not motivated by money. I'm a serial entrepreneur. I enjoy the process of creation. Creation is like, and anytime that you're on the visionary sort of pioneering end of being one of the first to prove out a new concept for me, that's incredibly rewarding. I enjoy doing that, which is why I have the appetite for risk and the comfort with failure and the willingness to fail or lose that I've been on the front lines of innovation so many times because that's what I enjoy.
00:21:18.806 - 00:22:22.698, Speaker B: Though it is painful. As a pioneer, you take a lot of arrows in the back because you're pretty much constantly challenging the status quo. And I don't just mean the incumbent world challenging the status quo. Even amongst those of us that are know, I remember going around and pitching tether to all of know, sort of friends that were pioneers in the industry and pretty much everyone thought it was a bad know. Everybody was like, why would anyone want us dollars? We don't believe in that. We're all about bitcoin, I go, well, but us dollars still kind of have a very important role in the world. And wouldn't it be better to be able to move money from one exchange to another in dollars so that you don't have to always move it in bitcoin or have to take money back into the, call it the banking system and slowly send wires and pay large fees? Wouldn't that just be convenient? Also, if you trade cryptocurrencies, wouldn't you like to just be into anytime that you want to short the market or sell bitcoin or reduce exposure to just be able to go into a digital dollar? And then back.
00:22:22.698 - 00:23:14.410, Speaker B: And I go from a consumer perspective, if financial inclusion, which is something we talk about, is really one of the great use cases for this technology, the people in Latin America, Africa and Southeast Asia are not looking for bitcoin. They've never heard of it. What they want is us dollars. And if using this technology and these wallets, there's a way for us to deliver a digital dollar to them, where they see a bitcoin symbol in their wallet every time they open it, wouldn't that be a great way to onboard millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions, maybe billions of people? And everybody was like, I don't see it. I was pretty clear in articulating the thesis. I said, also eventually, central banks and governments may say that they want to utilize this technology for their currencies. In our original pitch, we were going to prove out the model that would allow China and the other nations that you're seeing do this, that there'd be efficiency in this.
00:23:14.410 - 00:24:14.394, Speaker B: And I thought from a strategic perspective for our industry, if government and large industries saw the value of what we're doing, that would act as validation, and it would largely derisk the industry. If you were around back in the early days, you know how this industry was perceived. It was sensational headlines. I mean, if you said that you worked in bitcoin, the assumption was that you were automatically a criminal, that you were a drug dealer, or you were involved in very shady things, because that's really all the press wanted to highlight. And when you're being portrayed to the world as a very shady industry pretty much all the time, you're really at risk of government taking action. And so I really wanted to show the world that there was more to this technology than the things that the media wanted to highlight and making arguments to show that, call it the incumbent world could benefit from this in some way, I think was a very important argument, which is really how we got into the story of blockchain. Right back in the early day, it was just cryptocurrency.
00:24:14.394 - 00:24:56.810, Speaker B: And when we separated the technology from, call it the first use cases or first applications, it really gave us the story to be able to storytell to the incumbent world that there's more than just a cryptocurrency here, or an alternative or parallel monetary system. This is a technology that can upgrade the entire world and provide better security, greater efficiency, x, Y and Z. And those are really the arguments that I think kept the governments at bay from trying to round us all up and arrest us because we were getting validation from real industries saying, no, there's something here more than just bitcoin. And so it's been, what an exciting ride just to. And it's only been six or seven years.
00:24:56.880 - 00:24:57.980, Speaker A: I was going to say.
00:25:00.130 - 00:25:00.618, Speaker B: That it's.
00:25:00.634 - 00:25:53.682, Speaker A: Only been six years. Within that, what's really interesting is you talk about this asymmetry of information, and I can understand, as a VC now, I get to see so many startups, especially if you're doing precede seed stage as concepts, it gives you a few years advantage on the rest of the market because you can see what's coming down the pipe. Like most founders aren't starting out in that position. Right. So how do you get that asymmetry when you're just a founder? And my intuition is that we were talking kind of off air before we came on, and you were saying that this kind of forced lockdown is the first time you probably spent consecutive weeks at home. You're normally a man on a plane, you're at conferences. So I'm guessing that you get a lot of that asymmetry by just being in the mix.
00:25:53.846 - 00:26:23.110, Speaker B: Yeah, it comes from a bunch of perspectives. So one is, I started a bunch of companies, so I started out doing a lot of the mining stuff in 2012 and early 2013, because that's all there really was. We didn't really have a startup ecosystem yet. We only had the first bid instances and five or ten companies that have been created. And my background was more as a founder. And so when you're a hammer, everything looks like a nail. So the first thing I was going to do is start some companies, and I couldn't figure out what companies to start.
00:26:23.110 - 00:26:57.646, Speaker B: And so, because there were so many things that I saw as opportunity, I decided to operate more as an incubator. And I was starting a new company every 45 to 90 days. And so I was just churning out new business after new business after new business, trying to learn as much as I possibly could. And so through the starting of gocoin, I learned tons about crypto, the payment market, and realized that's not a big industry. People don't like to spend their crypto to the degree that you need. I mean, even today, there's really only enough crypto being used for. Payments are happening just to a degree.
00:26:57.646 - 00:27:25.590, Speaker B: There's only a room for really one nice business, and you've got hundreds attempting. So it's a crowded space where very little sort of value is truly being created at this time. But we also built out the bitcoin ATM industry. Started out with some of the early bitcoin brokerage and exchange. And so, kind of having started a few companies, I got to know lots of founders. Early speaker. We started hosting dinners with Matt Rosek at all the conferences.
00:27:25.590 - 00:27:55.566, Speaker B: This was like, people called it, like, the bitcoin Illuminati. We called it the Bitcoin Supper Club. And the idea was invite the ceos of every major company at every conference to a private dinner, which we did, because no one else was doing this. I mean, this is something that you saw in every other industry. Because I'd worked in lots of other businesses. If you went to conferences, there was always someone sponsoring, and maybe with some law firms or sponsors supporting it, that would invite all the who's who to a dinner and pay for it at a nice restaurant. There was no one doing that in crypto.
00:27:55.566 - 00:28:16.570, Speaker B: And so Matt Rosak and I were like, let's facilitate those dinners. And then I would go around and have everyone introduce themselves and remind everyone that we're not competitors. I know you might see someone across the table from you that you view as a competitor, but they're not really your competitor. We're all operating very small businesses with a dream of potentially changing the world.
00:28:16.720 - 00:28:18.314, Speaker A: In a very small market at that time.
00:28:18.352 - 00:28:54.630, Speaker B: Right. Yeah, we're tiny. It's called we're coopetition at worst. And when you look at that person across the table and you have fear that they're your competitor, what you should really be seeing is that that is someone that understands you. That is someone that is going to bed and waking up every day with the same mission as you. That is someone that probably knows more about what you do every day than anyone in the world and probably is filled with information and knowledge that you could benefit from greatly. So instead of being afraid of that person sitting across the table from you, you should probably recognize that that person may end up being, feeling like a family member or closest friend.
00:28:54.630 - 00:29:37.598, Speaker B: And you guys may decide to work together, you may decide to merge, you may decide all sorts of things can happen. So let's figure out how to support each other as a small emerging industry. Rising tides, raise all ships. And so through these dinners, people became very open, kind of like young presidents forum type of stuff, where everyone would talk about their challenges, share their ideas, and it created a really friendly sort of ecosystem where most of the call it louvers and shakers came through these dinners that we hosted all over the world. Then I also realized I couldn't run more than twelve companies at a time. I probably couldn't run more than six at a time, certainly not well. And I still had an appetite to do more and more and more.
00:29:37.598 - 00:30:27.874, Speaker B: And so the only way to do that was as a VC, which is why my energy shifted over to blockchain capital, where we've invested in many dozens of early startups in the space, and a lot of important ones, from the coinbases to the Krakens to the Zappos to the circles. And so we funded all sorts of businesses. And so, yeah, as an entrepreneur, being at all the conferences, as a speaker, hosting the primary sort of dinners, as a VC, and as someone that barely sleeps, you add all of that up. And yes, I had an incredible amount of information that essentially very few others had, and as a result of that, I was able to predict the next major innovations in a bunch of instances. But that's how it worked. That's the joke of I had a crystal ball. No, it's a lot of blood, sweat and tears and a lot of frequent flyer miles.
00:30:28.002 - 00:31:02.314, Speaker A: Yeah, as a founder, obviously, you've been founder, co founder, founder, chairman, and I'm sure over time and with success, that the type of founder that you are has changed, has evolved. But what type of founder are you? So how would you describe the thing that you do in a co founder mix, and how do you complement that with other people? What do you look for in other co founders? And I guess that then follows through into what kind of founders do you back as an investor?
00:31:02.362 - 00:31:49.450, Speaker B: Yeah, the superpowers are the main sort of things that I would say how I add value today. I'm spread so thin that I don't really want to be the product manager sort of side of the business. I don't want to be in the weeds doing the product development happy to be involved and have share kind of perspective on best practices and other things. But I don't really want to be the product person. I also don't really want to be the operations person. Again, these are full time commitments, and I'm spread so thin and often involved in many things that I can't wear either of those hats successfully with the lifestyle that I lead. And so the main thing that I do is I'm a storyteller.
00:31:49.450 - 00:32:51.218, Speaker B: And so I know how to take a very complex idea, something that may be in the ether, and I know how to pull that sort of concept out of the ether and really define it in really simplistic terms, in a simple sort of elevator pitch, so that you can take an amorphous idea that hasn't yet basically manifested itself in this reality. And I can frame it in such a way that we can actually start to try and bring that to market by sharing that idea with people. I also have a pretty good network, and so I know how to get this concept, call it into the zeitgeist of call it industry leaders. I know how to share this idea with, call it core critical investors. I know how to open up those doors. My involvement often makes raising capital or bringing in resources much more efficient because I have a track record as an investor. You understand this, you prefer to invest in projects where people have been there and done that and had prior success.
00:32:51.218 - 00:33:46.546, Speaker B: That doesn't mean that's a requirement, but it just gives you a lot more comfortable when you're looking at a team that's been around the track before and successfully. And whenever you see that patina of success around a project, your interest level is going to be higher. And so when you combine that with, call it the right product managers, the right operations sort of people, and the right sort of storytellers or marketers. I'm more of a marketer, probably, than anything else that understands capital formation. You put all those sort of ingredients into a creation story, and you start to have it sometimes again, when you're a hammer, everything looks like a nail. And so one of the things that we all need to be good at, if we want to be effective founders or effective at creating things, is realizing when we look at things, we look at it from our individual perspective. And we like to think that our skill sets are the main skill sets that make a project work, when in reality, we're just part of a team required to make things work.
00:33:46.546 - 00:34:34.786, Speaker B: And it's really important to understand what are the other ingredients necessary to make success. And then you'll start getting good at identifying other people that have the skills that you lack, or the things that you don't want to practice. And then you can start to form a team, to have all of the core elements necessary to create something successful. And so one of the problems we have as an industry is the developers tend to think that it's a developer's world, and it's only about the developers, when the reality is, look at the successful projects in our space. Having the best developers in the world is not enough, right? Having the leading developers in the world is not enough, because you can build the greatest mousetrap, you can build the field of dreams, but unless people show up to that product, it doesn't really mean anything. The best technology usually doesn't win. Historically, from VHS, Betamax, we can look at the whole history.
00:34:34.786 - 00:35:24.370, Speaker B: The best tech usually doesn't win. And so a big part of what makes things successful is the ability to get the message or the word out there and to really build community. Community is a big part of what separates or differentiates the winners from the losers in this space. And so this is kind of what I'd say I do, is I'm a community sort of developer, sort of capital formation person, and I'm a wealth of information, so I can help us avoid mistakes that have been repeated before, because I've seen it done a bunch of times, and it's like, we may want to not do it that way. And here's why. Just because something historically hasn't worked, doesn't mean that it can't work today, right? Some things just need to be at the right time and the right place. And so having that sort of judgment as well, and I just enjoy it.
00:35:24.370 - 00:36:02.766, Speaker B: And what I've found, and part of the reason I've been able to do so much is, again, I'm not motivated by money. I think of myself as a conscious capitalist. And so the most interesting sort of thing that I've learned in the last few years is I stopped caring about whether I earned anything. I stopped caring if I made anything off a project. Because one of the main problems you have when a project is coming together, and the reason why most projects fail in their infancy is because you have a misalignment of interests or incentives. In the beginning, everyone's like, what's in it for me? Everyone's fighting over equity in the cap table. And the reason you might found this.
00:36:02.788 - 00:36:08.194, Speaker A: Company with this, which might go to zero, right? I mean, people are fighting over something that might, most likely will go to zero.
00:36:08.312 - 00:36:42.474, Speaker B: Exactly. But that's normally most projects die in their infancy because of their fight. They're squabbling over economics that don't really matter much at this point. And so having been around the block enough to know that it's a binary outcome, right, it's a zero or a one, let's not focus on squabbling over the economics in the beginning. In my instance, let's focus our energy on producing the binary outcome of making something a success. Because if something is successful, there's normally enough to go around. Everybody does well anyway, so let's just focus and optimize everything we do to success.
00:36:42.474 - 00:37:08.366, Speaker B: And so what I would do is I'd meet up with founders and they'd be talking to me about some idea and I'd be like, well, I'm not sure about that. And here's why. And here's the other projects that have happened. And they're like, oh, wow, I didn't think about that. Oh, I didn't think about that. And then something would happen. Just talking to people that are committed to trying to build something, and then we'd start talking about another idea that might be tether, for example, and start talking about this concept of a stablecoin.
00:37:08.366 - 00:37:40.190, Speaker B: What if we put the US dollar on the blockchain? Oh, yeah, that could be interesting. I would know how to do know. And so Craig Sellers, and, you know, this is kind of how that story happens, for example. And next thing you know, we're starting a company. And so in a lot of these conversations, though, in the last few years, the entrepreneur would be like, wow, thank you for that idea. This sounds great, let's do it. And they're like, but Brock, how much of the company do you want to own? And their expectation is like, I'm going to want 80% and I'm going to give them 20% to be CEO or something, right? Like I'm hiring them.
00:37:40.190 - 00:37:51.906, Speaker B: And I'm going, I don't want anything. And like, what do you mean you don't want anything? I go, it's yours. You can run with it. You make this company. And they're like, but I want you involved. I go, I am involved. I'm helping you right now.
00:37:51.906 - 00:38:26.590, Speaker B: And they're like, but I go, how about this? How about you just run with this idea for a little while? I don't want anything. But if you decide that you need me or you've decided that I'm going to add demonstrable value, we can talk about my participation at that time. And that can be in a month, three, six. And when you do come to me and you offer me something in the company, I'm probably not going to negotiate much, because I don't really care. And here's an interesting point. If you give me nothing, I'll probably still help you just as much. And the entrepreneurs are just sitting here going, what? He doesn't want anything.
00:38:26.590 - 00:39:06.858, Speaker B: He's offering to help. I don't have to give him anything. What I've done, though, is I've eliminated the friction. That person that normally would be negotiating with me and going, do I want to do this? Do I not want to do this? Do I feel like this is the right economics? When I eliminate all of my self interest from the equation, I've eliminated essentially all the early friction in the process of creation. And so that founder is just like, they feel like they won the lottery, and the likelihood of them building that company or pursuing that idea has just gone up tenfold. And that's part of the reason as well. I think that I've been able to do so many things so many times, is because when I'm sitting at the table of creation, I'm not focused on what's in it for me.
00:39:06.858 - 00:39:12.922, Speaker B: And that increases the likelihood of us taking a shot at doing whatever it is that we're contemplating.
00:39:13.066 - 00:39:56.090, Speaker A: So I think one of the challenges that this space is, there's several, but the two biggest ones that I can see as an industry, as we're trying to transition to a technology set that can transform into products and products that people actually begin to use, is there's been a lot of focus on infrastructure, in large part. Rightly, you've got the capital markets infrastructure. You've then got the developer tooling that needs to happen. Alongside that, an inordinate amount of capital has gone into that. And does capital inhibit innovation and discipline sometimes in founders? And what do we need to do as an industry to move forward and kind of cross the chasm in the next couple of years?
00:39:56.160 - 00:40:39.462, Speaker B: Well, I mean, capital is the lifeblood of starting most projects. So it's either for good or for bad. It's a requirement, it's needed. But what I've seen is over capitalization has not been very effective. And that's what we saw through the ICO craze. We put very large amounts of resources in the hands of founders who had not often, in many instances, had prior success, often didn't have all the necessary, call it, ingredients to make something a success. Tended to be very developer, sort of white paper, academic theoretical heavy, and not enough sort of execution capabilities, marketing capabilities, just call it experience in general.
00:40:39.462 - 00:41:24.040, Speaker B: And sadly, we saw a lot of those projects fail. I think more of those things would have been successful had those founders been given very little in the way of resources. Remember, venture capital is this concept of milestone based financings. You're given just enough capital to get to level two, and then you're given just enough capital to get to level three. And so by giving the founders all of the money up front, you've gotten rid of this step ladder, sort of milestone focused world. The VCs keep the entrepreneurs focused on what's important, which is getting to that next major event so that they can get that next round of capital. It puts the blinders on to a little degree, but it keeps the project often on the track.
00:41:24.040 - 00:42:14.610, Speaker B: You give founders too much money and they can very quickly get lost into the, oh, here's a new shiny object, or perfection becomes the enemy of progress, or you just become lazy. There's a whole lot of things that can go wrong, and we've seen a lot of that, again with the ICO phase. And so I'm not a believer, though at the same time, I'm not a huge fan of venture capital. I mean, part of the reason that I created BCAP and the security token was to hopefully reduce the significance, the importance or requirement of venture capital. Right. I wanted to democratize the ecosystem so that everybody can participate and ultimately bring us to something closer to an ICO or an STO. Because I would love to see that capital formation layer that has so much control over the world of what is created.
00:42:14.610 - 00:43:15.718, Speaker B: I'd like to see that role diminished in a major way. I love the idea of ideas having more money than they need to execute, but it needs to have adequate controls and governance and systems and checks and balances. And so I think that the way that you get there is if you're like, this idea needs $100 million to work, instead of just saying, here's $100 million to a group of people with ideas, we could give $100 million to an idea, but we, as the contributors, maintain voting or governance over it. And if the team is failing to execute, we can upgrade the team. If you add some of the venture capital, sort of call it governance systems, to that capital, and allow us as the community to have governance over who receives that capital, like we often do with foundations, I think it can work, but you can't just give $100 million to a group of young people with no transparency, no governance, no checks and balances, and expect good outcomes.
00:43:15.814 - 00:44:08.474, Speaker A: Yeah, so it's interesting now. So I mean, you're absolutely right. You look at venture classically, it's incredibly inefficient at allocating capital. Most funds don't return to their lps, and I'm with you in that. One of the promising things for me about the space, the potential of it anyway, was that especially open source projects, great open source projects, can get financed. There was in a way, a business model to open source, but obviously without those constraints, without the accountability of equity, as you say, it again led to quite inefficiency or ineffectiveness in how that capital got to the right people and how it was used. But interestingly, the capital now actually there's very little vc capital for this space, certainly outside of the US.
00:44:08.474 - 00:44:57.590, Speaker A: I mean, I know a 16 just closed a very large dedicated fund, but the amount of capital venture capital being deployed into this space has shrunk dramatically. And perversely now it's protocols that are the vcs, but they have the same inherent problem. So at outlier, we have a number of conversations now with different protocols who are trying different ways to get people to build sustainable startups on their protocol. Not a POC, not running a hackathon, but like an actual business that drives utility and utilization of the network. So what are your thoughts around that? How can protocols really, as the vcs of this space, now, deliver genuine startup innovation on top of their protocols?
00:44:57.670 - 00:46:22.866, Speaker B: Yeah, so I'm a big believer in this. It's why at block one we set up EOS VC with a billion dollars to essentially implement this at scale in the biggest way the first time. And the way that I envisioned that happening at the time was let's go anchor five or ten, maybe even 20 funds around the world, but in specific geographies. Let's anchor a fund in the United Kingdom, let's anchor a fund in India, let's anchor a fund in China, let's anchor a fund in South Korea, let's anchor a fund in Southeast Asia, let's anchor a fund in Germany, in Brazil, in Argentina. Let's go give 510 $25 million to ten or 20 different groups all over the world and then let them try to raise matching funds, or more than that from local government or large family offices or local strategics, and enable this autonomous network of, call it vcs to fund the local ecosystem around a particular protocol and then we can reserve the capital to do the later stage financing. And I thought that this was the most effective strategy to enable development because we have a lack of VC. And because the ICO or IEO market is so inconsistent, it's like hot, cold, hot, cold, that if you're a developer in this space, you're really malleable to developing on the platform that provides you with funding.
00:46:22.866 - 00:47:00.722, Speaker B: And so I thought developer adoption is probably the most important thing to making a protocol work. And if you're a protocol with a big balance sheet, you should be using that balance sheet to incentivize developers to build on your protocol. And that can be also with hackathons, that can also be with grants. It's basically do all of the things to encourage development on your platform. And so that's what I attempted to set up with block one and EOS VC, and I still believe it's the right thing for every major protocol. And that's essentially what you're seeing now. Tezos is doing that, stellar is doing that, Cardano is doing that, Algorand is doing that.
00:47:00.722 - 00:47:45.410, Speaker B: All of the major protocols now realize that. And you're also seeing it from exchanges like Binance as well. Basically, strategic players have become the primary financiers and they're funding startups or developers because they want you to build on their platform or they want you to launch on their exchange. And so that's become, call it, the main source of capital. The good news for entrepreneurs is because they're strategic investors, they're less price sensitive. You'll often get better terms out of these groups than you would a blockchain capital. A blockchain capital has a fiduciary duty to try and make a return for its limited partners, a Tezos foundation or Cardano.
00:47:45.410 - 00:48:28.510, Speaker B: They're not really focused on maximizing ROI. What they're focused on is maximizing high quality developers building projects on their platform, and so they're less price sensitive. Also, if they're an exchange like Binance, they're going to make money on the listing and the trading, and so they can afford to pay double because they're going to generate revenue off of the projects they invest in. So it's a very different sort of model. And I think it's great because it's providing a consistent, reliable source of revenue and it's forcing the protocols to compete with their wallets, to compete with their balance sheets, to attract developers. And I think everyone's doing a mediocre job right now. You're as a VC.
00:48:28.510 - 00:49:44.870, Speaker B: I think that most of these organizations don't really understand how to be a vc yet in this space. But I'm glad to see that they're funding things. I'm curious question for you, are you working with any of these foundations and supporting them with capital? Because one of the things that these groups need is they need people like you to basically manage, call it a $5 million fund, just a sidecar from your day to day thing like Ripple could give you $5 million of XRP to have an XRP fund to look at things, or you could do that deal with stellar. Normally they'd probably only allow you to do one of those and say you have your generalist fund, but here's a little sidecar. If you see project that you think are suitable for our call it protocol, or they might give you a bunch more money, we've seen call it five to $25 million seems to be the number that the protocols are prepared to give to other call it asset managers, but I think that's what they're doing. I think most of these groups shouldn't be trying to manage the capital themselves. What they should be doing is giving the capital to professionals that understand their local region, understand the local regulation, understand all the nuances of funding startups, and just let you do it as an LP, and it's a two and 20 model, they still get 80% of the return.
00:49:44.870 - 00:50:35.238, Speaker B: And now they've enabled you to strategically be out there convincing developers to take their money. And I think it also in a blockchain space, we're always trying to get away from centralization and so centralized command well, and having a background, having worked with strategics, I've never seen a large strategic investor long term succeed. The only example of that really working is intel capital, and I'd say barely, I'd say mediocre at best. The reality is you can't manage a billion dollars in venture and do it well, certainly not at the seed stage. You're better off giving it to localized groups that manage 510 $20 million who just get up every day to look at all the european opportunities and fund Europe. You can never really do that flying in my experience, I've never seen it work. And so I think that these protocols should be looking to guys like you.
00:50:35.238 - 00:51:30.082, Speaker B: If I was still interested in being an asset manager today, if I wanted to run a fund, that's what I'd be doing. I'd be going to a major protocol and saying, hey, give me $50 million to manage, I'll be leading those investments, but I'll do lots of community development. I'll help tell the story and sing the praises of, call it the use cases of what your platform can do and attract lots of developers, and then I'll give money to those developers to help drive growth. And I'd like to also not just get measured on my financial ROI, because so much of what I can do for you is community and developer adoption. I'd like to separately be bonus based upon bringing successful. I might bring things that are hugely successful to the protocol, but may not deliver a lot of revenue. If I were you, that's the type of thing that I would be.
00:51:30.082 - 00:51:32.346, Speaker B: Probably the conversations I'd be having today.
00:51:32.448 - 00:52:14.194, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's funny you say that. So we're in conversation with several protocols at the moment and we're actually not a GPLP structure, so we're an LLP partnership, so it's our capital that we deploy. It has been for six plus years. But what they're most interested in is we have an accelerator, pre seed, seed, and the problem that I think they're all having is twofold. One, they've realized that venture is hard to go from POC to startups. Hard. But the second thing is, how do you get the rest of the venture ecosystem to care about that startup in a way that you as a strategic investor care about it because it's building on your protocol? Well, somebody else still has to fill out the rest of the round.
00:52:14.194 - 00:52:52.910, Speaker A: They're going to have to hopefully get to series a. If you want a unicorn, the rest of the ecosystem has to be engaged in that process. And what's interesting is when you start doing that, you actually have to deemphasize the technology. So a lot of venture at the moment are not interested in the technology you leverage in your stack. They want to know the market, the use case, and as you say, the entrepreneurs and how they're going to implement it. So there is this kind of phased approach to bringing a web three startup to market that is much more than just will. They have an element of a given protocol in the stack.
00:52:52.910 - 00:53:02.550, Speaker A: But I appreciate the plug. That's going to be helpful for me. I'm going to edit this one down and circulate it to all the protocols. Brock says give Jamie 25 million.
00:53:02.620 - 00:53:40.638, Speaker B: This is what I would be doing today. I mean, if I wasn't preoccupied, I'd be having a conversation with Cardano and I'd be having a conversation with tezos and others and I'd say I have a pretty good track record as a vc. I've got a pretty good track record in terms of community development and helping bringing adopters to protocols or to block one, give me $100 million to manage, and I will go continue doing what I do. Should be doing is finding people like you or people like me and giving us money to do that. I'm not interested at the moment. So go have the conversations with Jamie.
00:53:40.734 - 00:54:05.562, Speaker A: Exactly. You can redirect them to me, forward them on cool. So the last thing I want to talk about really, is given you're in a unique position to comment on the convergence of crypto and gaming, where do you see all that going? I know with Corona, there's a lot of hype now around the metaverse. What's the moment that we should all be pointing towards there, given your immaculate timing for these things?
00:54:05.696 - 00:54:37.454, Speaker B: Well, I have a background in what you'd call NFTs before there was bitcoin. Right. All these video game sort of assets and things. And so there's some interesting NFT stuff happening. There's also a project called Robot Cash, which is very interesting. What they're doing is they're launching basically something that's like Steam for anyone that plays games meets GameStop. So it's a place where you can download games, but you can sell your downloaded games as an asset.
00:54:37.454 - 00:55:17.170, Speaker B: You'll be able to eventually, hopefully sell your in game assets. So that's really a continuation of kind of things that I've been doing. And by using this new Steam, when you're not using your graphics card, it mines cryptocurrency to earn credits into your account. Kind of all automated. So it's probably one of the coolest things I've seen to bring, call it gamers broadly into the space through a combination of mining and accessing and reselling of gaming goods and things. These are kind of the near term sort of ideas. Long term, I really hope that we eventually build something more akin to ready player one.
00:55:17.170 - 00:55:54.026, Speaker B: I really love the idea of call it augmented reality and scavenger hunts. Again, think of, like, ready player one. Imagine burying a million dollars or the bitcoin somewhere in the world and people playing a game to eventually uncover it through clues and quests. These are the sorts of things if I had time, I'd be building. I think clearly we're seeing virtual reality take off in a big way. The Oculus quest is a game changing moment for VR. Obviously, virtual reality has been around for decades.
00:55:54.026 - 00:56:29.442, Speaker B: The problem is it's really only been available to a small number of people because you needed a multi thousand dollars computer, which is a barrier to entry that will always keep it in a niche market. But now that for 400, $600, you can buy an Oculus quest, which is a standalone device to access VR. I think this is the VR moment. This is the tipping point. Over the next few years, you're going to see tons and tons and tons of successful applications. If you don't have an Oculus quest, I would highly recommend buying it because this is the time it's going to happen. This is the iPhone moment for VR.
00:56:29.442 - 00:56:30.626, Speaker B: In my opinion.
00:56:30.818 - 00:56:39.782, Speaker A: It's impossible to buy one at the moment. If you go online. I know friends that have just kind of got around to going, maybe I should get one. Forget it. The supply chains are just totally.
00:56:39.846 - 00:57:00.434, Speaker B: Well, I think they're just marked up now. I think you can probably still get one. Instead of it being $500, it might be $800. You may pay a few hundred dollars premium, but if you're in quarantine and you can afford, it's worth the premium. This is a great time, as I like to tell everyone to learn. Right. I'm finding myself more productive than ever during these times.
00:57:00.434 - 00:57:28.362, Speaker B: I mean, it's important not to fall into depression and all the things that can also happen during this time of crisis. It's very easy to get lost and to lose hope. Remember that this too shall pass and choose love over fear kind of thing. But really, the thing to remember is that this is an opportunity. This is an opportunity to get your house in order. This is an opportunity to get organized. And I don't just mean that literally, I mean it figuratively as well.
00:57:28.362 - 00:57:47.442, Speaker B: This is an opportunity to reevaluate your life, to take a look at everything that you're doing and decide what aspects of your life are the things that you're happy with, which things that you're not happy with. What are the things that you've been putting off for a long time that you'd like to focus on now? Whether it's reading those books, doing that yoga, getting into a regular meditation practice, whatever it might be.
00:57:47.576 - 00:57:50.770, Speaker A: Craig, can I start up right? Most people are going to be out of job soon.
00:57:50.920 - 00:58:19.994, Speaker B: It's a great time to be building, thinking about big ideas. This is an opportunity you have been given all this time. What are you doing with it? Make use of it, spend it wisely. When this is all over, hopefully we don't return to normal. Hopefully we create a new normal, a better normal, a better world through this process. And so when this is all said and done, if you've used this time wisely, you're going to come out of it as a better person and better prepared for the world in front of you. That you wish to co create.
00:58:20.192 - 00:58:30.640, Speaker A: Well, Brock, I don't think we've got a better ending than that. Let's stop while we're ahead. Thanks so much for your time. Great to go deep with you and get a one on one. I'm sure it'll never happen again.
00:58:32.370 - 00:59:02.454, Speaker B: We can do this again if happy to come back on again. And I've been playing around with the know, maybe what we'll do is I'll have you on mine and we'll do a little role reversal. I'll focus on the work that you've been doing. And that's by the way, I think part of the reason that most people don't know that much about me is when I give talks, I really never talk about my accomplishments. I don't get on a stage and be like, hey, I'm this guy and I've done this and I've done this and I've done this and I don't give a speech about myself. I normally talk about ideas.
00:59:02.582 - 00:59:07.658, Speaker A: It would take too long anyway. Brock. Right. That'd be a 15 minutes presentation in and of itself.
00:59:07.824 - 00:59:32.334, Speaker B: Yeah. So I skip over that piece, but I think it's probably useful for some people to as much as possible. I'm happy to kind of be the Satoshi figure. I'm happy to be the man behind the curtain. My preferences anonymity. And so one day I'll be able to talk about a number of other firsts that I was involved in. We did cover one, the cornering of the ethereum mining.
00:59:32.334 - 00:59:42.358, Speaker B: That's not really anywhere out there. That is kind of untold stories. And those are really interesting ones. And there's a bunch of other ones that maybe we can get into over time.
00:59:42.444 - 00:59:48.038, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, we're going to definitely have to have you back on again later in the year. Brock, thanks so much for your time.
00:59:48.124 - 00:59:50.790, Speaker B: Thank you. Stay safe. Stay healthy.
00:59:52.810 - 01:00:01.020, Speaker A: If you enjoyed today's podcast, please make sure you subscribe, rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible. Within mission of web three.
