00:00:03.080 - 00:00:21.153, Speaker A: Good morning. Good morning. My name is Ariel. I'm the CEO and co founder of hivemapper. I've been an entrepreneur in San Francisco, Silicon Valley area Now for about 10, 15 years, building out a series of mapping technologies. My latest is hivemapper. So let me.
00:00:21.153 - 00:01:23.839, Speaker A: This talk is going to be a little bit different. I'm not just going to talk about hivemapper. Obviously I'll share a little bit about hivemapper, but I actually want to talk about the theme associated with how do these types of products get funded in this kind of environment? All right, I will start by just kind of explaining what hivemapper is at a super high level. Really what we're doing is building this decentralized global map, right? And so think, how do we build a fresher, more detailed version of something like Google Maps that can be used by autonomous vehicles, used by logistic companies, that can ultimately be used by all of us in a consumer navigation experience. And so the way that we do this is that we've built this purpose device that we call the hivemapper Dashcam, where the next one is going to be called the B. And people are just driving around with this device, right? We're not asking people to go and drive in specific locations. We're just saying deploy this, put this on your car, mount it on your car, and just drive like you normally do.
00:01:23.839 - 00:02:05.029, Speaker A: And associated with that, based upon your driving patterns and your driving habits, you're helping build this map, right? So in real time, this map is getting created as you're driving around, which is really fun and really cool. And you're being rewarded for that, right? So all of these people all over the world are being rewarded for just driving and doing something that they already do with this purpose built device called the hivemapper Dash Cam. So let's see how we've been doing. So we launched about two years ago. It was total mayhem. FTX was blowing up literally the day that we launched. But fast forward two years.
00:02:05.029 - 00:02:57.057, Speaker A: We have now mapped 10 million unique road kilometers or 10 million unique miles. Okay? If you compare that to Google Street View, that took them 10 years. So we are growing 5x faster than Google Street View. Now behind this is the incentive mechanism that we have, which is rewarding people with this honey, which is our cryptocurrency. And we're rewarding people relative to what they're contributing, which is a very, very, very powerful mechanism. Okay? So we've accomplished all this and we've accomplished it at a moment in time and a moment in period where effectively there was like two moments, right? There was before interest rates, interest rates were effectively zero percent. And then after interest rates started to get hiked up to about 5%, right? And the world changed dramatically.
00:02:57.057 - 00:03:57.859, Speaker A: For all startups, including hivemapper, we had to be incredibly efficient, right? You can't just go out and raise $100 million anymore or $200 million like you could in 2020 or 2021. And so what this means is that there's effectively been kind of two different kinds of startups, right? Those that have been incredibly efficient with their dollars, and those that maybe were no ways efficient. Here's some basic stats in terms of VC funding, right? If you just look at VC funding over the last three or four years, it's dropped off a cliff. Not just in terms of total dollar size, so sorry, total dollars invested, but also the number of deals that we're just getting done on the monthly or weekly basis basis here. You kind of see, like most of the dollars now that are happening in the VC world are basically flowing into large language models, right? These kind of open AIs, the anthropics of the world, that kind of stuff. You know, you could argue over here. So this is the number of unicorns that were born by year.
00:03:57.859 - 00:04:34.345, Speaker A: So a unicorn is a startup that's worth a billion dollars or more. And so 2021 was probably a little bit extreme, if we're being honest with ourselves here. But you see, now we're back to 2017 levels. And so we've come down this really, really steep cliff. And what that means is that for a lot of these companies and a lot of these startups, especially those that operate in the physical world like hivemapper does, the number of dollars available has just dried up. So if you guys, I'm going to take you back to 2010 timeframe, right? 2010 timeframe. Avocado toasts were plentiful.
00:04:34.345 - 00:05:27.357, Speaker A: You could take an Uber to your Airbnb and then order dinner on DoorDash for like $50. And that was all subsidized by venture capital dollars, right? When interest rates were effectively 0%, VCs were encouraged to take riskier and riskier bets, and they were willing to wait longer and longer for the return on that investment. And so a lot of these companies that you see here, the Ubers of the world, the Airbnbs, they all got funded in that timeframe. Look, if you take Uber, if you take Airbnb and you take DoorDash, collectively, they burn through $30 billion of cash before they turn profitable. That's just like a massive amount of money. Now, look, these things are really important products. Really.
00:05:27.357 - 00:06:14.035, Speaker A: I mean, all of you probably use these products on a daily, if not weekly basis, right? So the investment ultimately paid off, and it was a very powerful set of products that came out of this time frame. Okay, the reason all of this, and kind of just go back to the term Zurb that you guys may have heard about, is the zero interest rate phenomenon. All of those companies were born out of that era in that moment in time and that moment in history that made capital, especially risk capital, accessible to these types of companies that were operating in the physical world. The physical world is expensive. The physical world is messy, and it does take capital to grow. If you guys see this video, you guys should check it out. It's pretty funny.
00:06:14.035 - 00:06:47.629, Speaker A: All right, I'm going to hone in on Tesla here for a second. So Tesla started in 2004, it went public in 2009. And then they were. By 2019, they had already burned through $6 billion of cash. Right. By 2024, they had kind of turned the tide. Why did they turn the tide? They turned the tide because they started to scale up Model 3, they start to scale up model Y, and so they start to generate plentiful cash.
00:06:47.629 - 00:07:33.293, Speaker A: But look at that. From 2004 to, like, 2020, 21, they were effectively in the red. That's a long, long period of time. And so, but look, all of these companies, whether it be Tesla, whether it be Uber, whether it be Airbnb, as a society, we are better off with these products and services. And so the question really is, how do we ensure that the next Uber switch the next Teslas, right? The next Airbnbs, that they get created, but they get created in a different kind of environment, and that we have a new financial model to support those. So Deepin is actually a new option for capital formation. Right? So this is actually a new way.
00:07:33.293 - 00:07:58.889, Speaker A: It's a little bit of a joke here. That's not actually what it stands for, but I think it is a little bit accurate. All right, so Deepin is decentralized physical infrastructure, networks. When hivemapper got started, this term did not exist. The term that existed was actually proof of physical work. I kind of prefer that, to be honest with you, because I think it better describes what we're doing. But here we are, we're going to live with Deepin.
00:07:58.889 - 00:08:40.015, Speaker A: It's a fun little term. And what it effectively means is that the collective of people, in the case of hivemapper, all these people all over the world help coming together and building this map together and sharing the economics together. And helium is another great example of this. You deploy all of these different wireless networks, all these different wireless antennas all over the world. So rather than the AT and T's and the G mobiles and so forth, going out and finding real estate, leasing that real estate, they're effectively monetizing that real estate. Your own real estate, I should say. And so it's been a very, very, very powerful kind of new trend.
00:08:40.015 - 00:09:47.615, Speaker A: But when we started, it was not sexy at all, right? I think it was effectively helium, Multicoin, Union Square ventures. Like there was like four of us, right, that were kind of into this idea. But look, if you go back further in time, especially in the agriculture world, this idea of how do you pull together products and services from multiple constituents towards a common goal? So, for example, Land O'LAKES is a co, op, right? All these farmers get together, pool their products so that they can reach a scale where it gets interesting to a large commodity buyer. That's effectively what these deacons are doing now. They're doing it with the advent of crypto and the blockchain. And there's a couple of really, really key capabilities. One is this transparent ledger of rewards and revenues, right? So whether you're driving, in our case, 5km a day or somebody else is driving 100km, another person is driving 1000km per day, all of that is visible, obviously, anonymously, but all of that is visible on the blockchain.
00:09:47.615 - 00:10:25.415, Speaker A: And how much rewards that person got for driving 1,000km in this region or 550km in that region, that's all visible. And once the tokens are awarded to you, that's yours. And you would think this is a small idea, but it's actually a very, very, very powerful idea, right? Because then you can't. It's not like people are pointing fingers at HiveMapper. It's all out there. And either you can choose to participate, it makes sense for you, or you choose not to participate because it doesn't make sense for you. The other mechanism here is obviously the incentives, right? The crypto token in our case, honey, which we use to balance supply and demand.
00:10:25.415 - 00:11:14.147, Speaker A: And so the problem with maps is, like, if everyone is mapping in Los Angeles and you have 10,000 people mapping in Los Angeles, you're going to have a really great map of Los Angeles, but that's it. And so the number of buyers you're going to have for that product is pretty small. And so the question really is how do you ensure that you have enough drivers in LA and San Francisco and Seoul here in Singapore, and you make sure that you're balancing the supply so effectively the map creation with the demand that you're seeing from customers on the other side. So let's talk about demand. The big knock on Deep in for the last couple years has been, yeah, yeah, yeah, you can grow supply, but there's no demand. Well, let's look at this. Here's Helium.
00:11:14.147 - 00:12:01.461, Speaker A: Helium now has over 100,000 mobile subscribers on the consumer side and they're offloading, or I should say large mobile carriers are now offloading their data onto Helium Mobile. So this idea that like demand doesn't exist in the wireless world is just utter nonsense, quite frankly. In the case of hivemapper, we are now serving three of the ten largest global mapmakers. And there's more on the way, right? And then there will be automotive companies and autonomous vehicle companies and logistic Companies and the FedExes of the world and so forth. And so this idea that there isn't demand for these products is just not true anymore. Right. Just the same way that we kind of looked at the Ubers of the world and said, ah, they'll never make money.
00:12:01.461 - 00:12:23.485, Speaker A: Right? We said the same thing about Facebook. Ah, it's cute, it's. But they'll never make money. Well, these things take time to mature. So the other big knock on Deepin is, well, it doesn't really use the entire crypto technology stack. Let's take a step back. Let's look at something like Uber.
00:12:23.485 - 00:13:30.635, Speaker A: Uber was certainly enabled by smartphones, but did it use every single technology, every single feature within smartphones platform? No. Why would it? It used the technologies and the features that were important for its specific use case that would enable it to grow faster, that would ensure that it could offer a better product at a lower price than the taxi service. Right? That's what it was trying to do. It was effectively disrupting the taxi business through, yes, technology, but more importantly through business model. And I think that is the lesson that we have to take with DPINs, which is we are disrupting existing players not so much through technology, but through business models. And I actually think that, like, although we like to talk about technology and it's fun, it's interesting and so forth, that is much, much, much harder for incumbents to respond to. Right? A large incumbent like a Google or somebody else can very quickly throw a bunch of engineers at a problem and respond to a technology.
00:13:30.635 - 00:14:31.387, Speaker A: It is much harder for them to respond to a fundamental change in their business model. And so look this moment in time, I think we're going to look back maybe 10 years from now and say this is where we were at. Like, if you go back to look at Uber in 2010 or 2012, if you go fast forward to, like, let's say 10 years from now, we're roughly at that time frame. So we're still very, very early. And these products, these networks, they take time to fully mature, but once they mature, they start to generate tremendous amounts of cash and tremendous amount of networks, because you're dealing with a physical world which is incredibly complicated, incredibly messy. But once you install, whether it be helium and the antennas, or in our case, the dash cams and a lot of the other tools, it's very, very, very hard to rip that out. So I hope to see many, many, many more products and projects launching on Solana.
00:14:31.387 - 00:14:59.865, Speaker A: It's exciting to see that next generation of products coming in, and I think that we should all be a little bit patient in terms of letting these things play out, right? If we're all very quick to jump down oops throat or Airbnb's throat or Facebook's throat and say, you don't have this, you don't have this, and they're only two or three years into their maturation, I think we're doing ourselves a disservice, and I think we're doing ourselves. We're taking it very, very shortsighted. So thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Have a good day.
