00:00:03.240 - 00:00:52.414, Speaker A: And thank you for coming to my talk. I'm doctor Marina von Steintos, also known as Mia or Bite girl, and the doctor comes from a PhD in computational astrophysics from the University of New York. In the next 15 minutes, I'll be talking about the following. First I'm gonna introduce myself, so you have an idea of my background and why I'm interested in these problems, and perhaps your interest as well, and you can join us or collaborate in some capacity. Then I give you a summary about my research at the Privacy Scaling Solutions group at Ethereum foundation. And after that, I wish you a great weekend. I hope you have a lot of fun in Prague, the alchemist city so let's begin.
00:00:52.414 - 00:01:31.574, Speaker A: So this is the Tldr of my story. I was born in Brazil, and since our early age, six or seven years old, I started playing with computers. My parents didn't have much money, so I would sneak out at my uncle's computer when he was not home. Later on, my mom was able to get me a painting too. And then the story began. I started coding and playing with several Linux distributions during my teens. But I was also very keen on physics and math.
00:01:31.574 - 00:02:37.612, Speaker A: Even though I went to public schools my entire life in Brazil, I studied my ass off and I was able to be accepted at this topic program engineering program at University of Sao Paulo, the best University of Brazil. Right after that I got a full scholarship for a PhD in Stony Brook. And in my last year in college in Brazil, I also got a summer scholarship to spend a summer researching at NASA Boulder center in Washington DC. When I moved to the US by myself, I bet in the hope of finding a better life that I had in Brazil. And that was right after my dad was murdered in Brazil. In New York, I took all the classes I could in theoretical physics, some math grad courses, and a lot of computer science courses. I wrote several papers.
00:02:37.612 - 00:03:43.306, Speaker A: I wrote academic books on on group theory, quantitative theory, and quantum information. I researched and published papers in the Los Alamos National Lab and the Brookhaven national labs. And I also wrote a book on python algorithms and data structures. I got really into code, machine learning and hacking. So I decided to turn down an offer of postdoc at Los Alamos laboratory to get a job as a back end engineer at the security team at Yelp in San Francisco. That was when my career as engineer started. Right after that I worked at Apple in the Coreos team, and then after a year in Cupertino, I became a nomad, working at the security and fraud team at Axie at some point after that I realized I need to find some personal answers regarding the meaning of life or myself and my existence.
00:03:43.306 - 00:04:35.624, Speaker A: So I took a little gap time to travel the world as a nomad and I learned to surf. I went to place awesome places to snowboard. I took a lot of pictures and I made some abstract droning videos of the places I visited. Even though the concept of home was always diffused for me, being officially homeless was mostly liberating and changing me forever. When it was back to my passion of being a scientist and an engineer, I knew I could only work with purpose. I would choose where to work wisely. I joined Shopify during the pandemic because I admired Tobi and the impact that they had in the world.
00:04:35.624 - 00:05:58.314, Speaker A: With Shopify, anyone could have their own business, and if my dad had those resources in Brazil when I was growing up, our lives would probably be different. At Shopify I was one of the founders of the blockchain team and I became informally the head of blockchain engineer, helping to oversee NFT drops to some big partners and educating everyone regarding blockchains. I left that well regarded position at the end of 2021 to go to the wild. I saw the decentralization and self sovereignty movements that we are creating and I wanted to be part of it, even though it meant go back to score zero. Since then, I worked at Field House. I developed Mav searchers, I learned smart contract security at imodify, I trained defi agents with reinforcement learning. I spot my own personal infrastructure for projects I care about, and most recently I joined the great community at the Ethereum foundation with the Privacy and Scaling Solutions group.
00:05:58.314 - 00:07:04.084, Speaker A: Now at EF, I'm leading two projects. One is the validator privacy research, which I will be talking a little bit in the next minutes, and the other is on private information retrieval, the research of a protocol with cryptographic primitives that allow a user to retrieve information from database from a server without revealing what they are trying to retrieve. Even though it's fascinating, I won't be able to discuss PIR in this talk, but I invite you to follow my work and follow the Pasc group for future outreach in the subject. Now let's take the next minute to actually talk about the research on validator privacy. Thank you and let's move on to my presentation.
00:07:09.284 - 00:08:06.734, Speaker B: Hi. In this presentation, I will give you the TLDR of our research on validated privacy at the Ethereum foundation. With that event of the merge in September of last year, the Ethere network moved away from its original proof of work consensus mechanism to the implementation of proof of stake. Consequently, the chain was split into execution layer represented by the execution client in the beacon node and the constants layer represented by a constants client and a validator node. However, even though both clients are logically separate, they can still be run on the same machine and network address. One of the most significant consequences of this update was highlighting the role of validator stakers. There are over 6000k active validators in the atair network in the time of this writing, holding over 90 million stakeholders.
00:08:06.734 - 00:09:28.014, Speaker B: Why? Staking rewards have significantly shifted to enterprise solutions such as validators as a service LSEDs, staking pools, and centralized exchanges. Solid stickers contributions are essential to help preserve the sovereign and the decentralization ethos of the ethereum project. The Ethereum 2.0 biacon chain, a ledger of accounts that coordinates how new blocks are created and validated in the chain, provides the heartbeat to Ethereum's consensus and introduces the network's consensus logic and block gossip protocol. While the validator client is responsible for credentials and consensus message, bringing the network to a consensus and a finalized state, the execution client is responsible for participating in the blockchain P two P network by subscribing and publishing messages through gossip sub topics and storing blockchain data. In this new paradigm, every 12 seconds, a validator is randomly chosen to propose a block through a new slot. The total number of validators is split up into committees, and one or more individual committees are responsible for attesting to each slot.
00:09:28.014 - 00:10:53.984, Speaker B: One validator from the committee is chosen to be the aggregator, while the other 127 validators are just attesting. After each epoch, defined by 32 slots or 6.4 minutes, the validators are mixed and merged in the new committees. Since the POS validation scheme requires validator public keys on the back on chain to be known to everyone ahead of time, the validator ordering for slots is known by the network within the epoch. In other words, block proposals from Epoch are revealed in digibands. While IP address surveillance at the execution layer is inevitable, attestation in blocks from validator nodes can leak information that allows an attacker to associate a validator id with an IP address unless operators are using sophisticated measures. In addition, even though a validator can submit the consensus message to multiple back on nodes, there are still risks of metadata analysis attacks, including the size of the message, frequency of broadcasting message, the timing of the message joining or leaving subnet events, and packet or data size difference between attestation and other messages.
00:10:53.984 - 00:12:56.114, Speaker B: If the validator ids or wallet addresses on the consensus layers can be linked to the back home IP address. The validator operator could be de anonymized, permitting consequences such as destabilizing the network, denial of service of blocked producers through things such as validator sniping and solid stakers disenfranchisement due to government sanctions, for example OFAC, or even worrying of having their device stolen. A popular scenario discussed among researchers is of an attacker watching the Viacom chain network by running a node modified to gather the IP address of all connected peers when they broadcast attestations. The attacker can then create a database of ips and public keys, and with this information they could take the validator offline when it becomes a block proposer. In a sophisticated right, the attacker controls the next validated proposal, taking all the MEV opportunists for example. In summary, no university should be able to link personally identifiable information to staking activities, so we care about obfuscating the connection between a validator and its IP address. For instance, stakers with a non key wallet should have plausibility and liabilities in controlling a valid error that proposed or attested to a particular block, for example, UfOFac restrictions how can a validator assign a produce message be disassociated from the background node originated like everything is secured, resolutions are found at many layers.
00:12:56.114 - 00:14:35.004, Speaker B: A comprehensive solution would include a mechanism of validator proposer elections that protects the identity of the next proposal, a network anonymity mechanism that doesn't match with the current block. Proposing latency zero knowledge proof mechanisms like ZK snarks promises credibility and spam protection, and even to verify the legitimacy of a validator, for instance, prove that they are unique and valid without revealing more information. Ethereum validator privacy is an active area of research in discussion, and the definitive answer still needs to be defined. In addition, while some improvements might be shipped in protocol and the subsequent ethereum updates, we are also considering implementing a consensus client opt in obfuscation. Add on if you are interested in learning more, I invite you to look at this paper I will be publishing in the next days where I'm summarizing the research on the theory of validator privacy over the last years. This document intends to be overview of the main efforts from many talented researchers in these last years, and some discussion of what could be next. Here's a sneak peek of the paper finally, for updates regarding this research, and I invite you to follow me on my GitHub or meter.
00:14:35.004 - 00:14:59.154, Speaker B: For general skilling and privacy research, IAF mostly focused on ZKP applications, I suggest you to follow the PSC group, either GitHub meter or Twitter. Finally, if you are particularly interested in this research, feel free to leave any comment below. In this case, I will take a look later on and I might respond accordingly. Thank you so much for listening to this presentation and enjoy the conference. Bye.
