00:00:05.610 - 00:00:41.206, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. Terra must face subpoenas and investigations from SEC and Korean authorities bloomberg reported Thursday that the SEC is investigating the marketing claims behind Terra USD, aka UST, the now defunct algorithmic stablecoin that collapsed last month. According to Bloomberg sources, the SEC will be attempting to determine whether UST. Marketing violated several federal us. Investor protection laws. TerraForm Labs said it was unaware of SEC action related to UST.
00:00:41.206 - 00:01:50.762, Speaker A: Marketing, and the SEC has declined to comment. Also this week, court documents published by the US second Circuit on June eigth made clear that TerraForm Labs and its cofounder, Joe Kwan, will be required to comply with SEC subpoenas related to the ongoing investigation of Terra's Mirror Protocol. Kwan had initially been served with a subpoena in this investigation upon his arrival at Missari's Mainnet conference in New York in September 2021, where he was a speaker at the time, TerraForm Labs argued that the SEC lacked jurisdiction over the entity due to TerraForm's lack of sufficient contacts with the US. It also argued that the SEC violated its own rules of practice when it served the subpoena by handing a copy to Kwan in person. Despite Terra's lawyering, the court ruled that the SEC was in line with its own rules and did have jurisdiction in the case because TerraForm Labs had US. Employees and had previously stated that 15% of its users resided in the country. Investigations are also ongoing in Korea.
00:01:50.762 - 00:03:08.018, Speaker A: According to the Financial Times, the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency said it was looking into allegations that employees of TerraForm Labs embezzled an undisclosed amount of the organization's Bitcoin holdings. Those holdings had allegedly been loaned to market makers to help buttress the UST. Peg last month, but there has been no independent verification that the funds were used according to their stated purpose. Robsten merges Successfully Wednesday morning, Ethereum's Robston testnet, the largest of its three testnets, completed the protocol's first successful public merge of an active test network. Ethereum's other two testnets, Gorely and Sepolia, are expected to merge as well in the coming months. In the proposed merge of the Ethereum Main net to be enacted, Q Three or Q four of 2022, the existing economic activity on the proof of work chain will be merged into the proof of stake chain currently being run on the beacon chain with a set of independent validators each staking 32 ETH. While Robson's successful dress rehearsal bodes well for the technical aspects of the merge, concerns are building about the centralization of staking, both in terms of software clients running the network as well as staking as a service providers.
00:03:08.018 - 00:04:04.518, Speaker A: For example, the Prism client holds a two thirds market share in the validator set for Ethereum's beacon chain, which is worrying because if Prism had a bug, it could cause a consensus failure on the network. Additionally, Staking services contribute to this centralization. More than a third of all validators are controlled by staking services. Of which Lido is far and away a leader, and a significant portion of the rest are operated by centralized exchanges. Op tokens stolen on back of Winter Mute Mixup 20 million of the new op tokens from Optimism were stolen due to a mistake made by Optimism's market making partner Wintermute. Optimism provided the tokens to Wintermute in the form of a loan. Unfortunately for Wintermute, the address they had supplied and confirmed to the Optimism team was an ethereum wallet that did not have proper support for L2 chains.
00:04:04.518 - 00:04:55.882, Speaker A: An adversarial actor took possession of the 20 million op tokens that had been sent to the defunct address. Optimism and Winter Mute both published statements on the matter. Winter Mute has taken full responsibility for the attack and promised to buy tokens on the open market to counteract any sales by the attacker and to make the protocol whole. Winter Mute also promised to pursue legal recourse against the attacker provided the tokens are not returned within the next week. If they are returned, a gig is in the offing. Wintermute described the adversary's actions as rather impressive and offered an opportunity for consulting work. Kane Warwick, founder and CEO of Optimism based derivatives liquidity Protocol Synthetics, wrote in a Tweet thread Wednesday Seeing the funds in your address is not sufficient as a test.
00:04:55.882 - 00:05:46.342, Speaker A: The correct way to test a transaction is to ensure you can move the received tokens. But like, 0% of people do this. My conclusion after years of watching this stuff happen, is that it's not possible to avoid every mistake, but communicating them transparently and quickly is the optimal approach. Finance Faces Increased Scrutiny A number of developments this week increased scrutiny of finance by regulators and law enforcement in the United States. Bloomberg broke a story about an SEC investigation into the initial Coin offering, or ICO, of BNB, a token with a nearly $50 billion market cap. The BNB ICO occurred in 2017 100 million tokens were sold to the public for $15 million. The firm has recently backed away from its initial promise to use 20% of the exchange's profits to buy back the token each quarter.
00:05:46.342 - 00:06:38.598, Speaker A: Chang Feng Zhao, founder and CEO of Finance, claimed in a 2020 blog post that the decision was a result of legal advice so as not to classify BNB as a security, according to Bloomberg. Also this week, Reuters released an investigative report on how Finance became a hub for hackers, fraudsters and drug dealers to the tune of $2.35 billion. The report caused a stir in the community. Binance responded in a blog post by publishing a portion of its email correspondence with Reuters. In related news, Binance received regulatory permission for the opening of regional European headquarters in Paris this week after 18 months of work with French regulators. The exchange has agreed to invest $100 million in France to advance cryptotechnology and donate $2 million for the restoration of a room in the Chateau Versailles.
00:06:38.598 - 00:07:29.654, Speaker A: Crypto adoption highlights first, PayPal finally enabled crypto withdrawals from its platforms to self hosted wallets or addresses. This move comes by popular demand from PayPal's users. Next, Grayscale is also pushing forward seriously with its effort to convert the GBTC trust into an ETF. The firm has retained Donald B. Verilli, an Obama era solicitor general, to buttress its legal team as the clock ticks on the final month before a response is due from the SEC on Grayscale's application, the GPTC to BTC discount currently sits at nearly 30%, according to the block's crypto data. Finally, a new crypto exchange is coming from TradFi. Thanks to plans by Citadel and Virtu, yuga labs discord is compromised on June 4.
00:07:29.654 - 00:08:00.930, Speaker A: Last Friday, the discord server of Yuga labs was hacked. A participant obtained the login credentials of a senior community manager and absconded with keys controlling approximately 32 NFTs, including one BYC NFT. According to cryptosecurity research firm Pecshield. The attack was first publicized by Twitter user NFT. Herder. Yuga did not confirm the hack until 11 hours after the initial tweet from NFT Herder. This was the second time in less than ten months that Yuga Labs has been compromised.
00:08:00.930 - 00:08:48.786, Speaker A: On April 26, 2022, Eucolabs disclosed a $2.6 million loss in a phishing attack related to an intruder accessing its Instagram account. When BYC founder Gordon Goner responded to the incident, he blamed Discord, saying, Discord isn't working for Web three communities. We need a better platform that puts security first. However, Stephen Fink of Nounsdao tweeted that it's user's faults for clicking on phishing links you didn't lose your NFT because you use Discord. You lost your NFT because you signed a malicious transaction with your key. UGA Labs recently raised $450,000,000 in venture funding in a seed round, entailing a monster valuation, Osmosis bug and a temporary lapse in judgment.
00:08:48.786 - 00:09:59.546, Speaker A: The Osmosis dex was compromised on Thursday after a bug was found that allowed users to increase their position sizes without adding capital through the deposit and withdrawal of funds. An official post from the Osmosis team stated liquidity pools were not completely drained. Devs are fixing the bug, scoping the size of losses likely in the range of roughly $5 million and working on recovery onchain activity and validators were paused upon discovery of the vulnerability, but not before $5 million was lost. One culprit was the Firestake validation pool, which reported that it had taken $2 million from the protocol during a temporary lapse of good judgment, representatives from the pool said, we were thinking about our family's future and not the future of our community. Osmosis remains nonfunctional as of the time of this recording. Time for fun Bits neil Stevenson, Inventor of the term Metaverse, Gets his Own Science fiction author Neil Stevenson coined the term metaverse in his 1993 science fiction novel Snow Crash. Now he's partnering with crypto OG Peter Vesinus to create a metaverse project called Lamina One.
00:09:59.546 - 00:10:53.562, Speaker A: Lamina One will have a focus on virtual reality and augmented reality integrations. The ultimate goal is to create a 3D metaverse based on Snow crash testnet and mainnet implementations are intended to be released later this year. Jay Z and Jack Dorsey fund financial Literacy School at Brooklyn Project. Jay Z and Jack Dorsey are teaming up to launch a financial literacy program in the Marcy Houses, a Brooklyn public housing project where Jay Z grew up. The program will offer classes such as what is Money? What is cryptocurrency, what is Blockchain, and how to keep yourself safe from scammers. Participants will receive a Mi Fi device, a smartphone and data plan setup that they will be able to keep after the conclusion of the class. The curriculum has been developed by Black, bitcoin billionaire and crypto blockchain plug with an eye toward reducing barriers and improving access to bitcoin and to finance in general.
00:10:53.562 - 00:11:36.994, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Lewis and the Lemons and Gillibrand bill, check out the show notes for this episode. Synthetic's founder Kane Warwick is launching his next mentor program, and I'm excited to select one of the projects from my community. If you're a female founder working on L two S who'd love to be supported by a DFI pioneer, send an email to hello@unchainedpodcast.com with the subject line Kane. Mentorship mentees will get one on one time with Kane, plus group sessions to talk you through topics like capital raising, token design and more. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Tilchert, Mark Murdoch, Pam Majumdar, Shashank and CLK.
00:11:36.994 - 00:11:40.140, Speaker A: Transcription thanks for listening. It.
