00:02:35.890 - 00:03:11.630, Speaker A: Okay guys, that should be better. Let me go back to the previous slides. So again, welcome to Zero X Hack Meetup season two. My name is Antonio Krinivitsky and I'll be hosting the meetup today. We have a great lineup prepared for today. First we have Rafael Kaufman, CEO of Trustoken, who will give you an overview of the loan ecosystem on blockchain. He'll tell you more about unsecured loans and Trufi.
00:03:11.630 - 00:04:01.106, Speaker A: Then we have barbecue Krutkowski, senior blockchain engineer at eforks, who will tell you all about the smart contracts used by Trufi. After that, we'll host a short networking session on our Discord channel. You should be able to see the link on your screen now and you'll find it also in the video description. So feel free to come join us to chat with us after the whole session. And you're also welcome to join our to ask questions throughout the whole presentation and we'll try to answer them during the stream. So we'll start soon. But first I wanted to give you a short recap of what happened during Zero X hack season one.
00:04:01.106 - 00:04:46.590, Speaker A: As you might have noticed, we did a rebranding and we changed Zerox Poland to Zero Xhag to better reflect the global reach of the community. So just so you know, Zero X Poland is now Zero Xhack. Hope you're not surprised by that. And last season was a great experience. It was the first season of Zerox Hack. We started with Zero X Heist, which was a viral pr stunt campaign which led you to an online treasure hunt to find clues in multiple places, including billboards, newspaper ads and phone calls. And the winner received seven e for his efforts.
00:04:46.590 - 00:05:29.466, Speaker A: Obviously it was worth much less than at the moment, so lucky him. And we also did monthly meetups. Just the one like today. We gathered over 500 members on our meetup group. We had guests from top d five projects. We also ran Xerox students workshops, which were online weekend workshops designed to boost your blockchain coding skills. And lastly, as a season one finale, we ran Zero exact hackathon, which really exceeded our expectations.
00:05:29.466 - 00:06:22.960, Speaker A: We had 60,000 die in the bounty pool. We had over 40 talks and workshops from multiple top tire projects from all around the world. And we had over 1000 participants submitting 190 projects. And you can expect the same, if not more, this season. We will host another hackathon later this fall. We're going to have Zerox hack meetups every month on the second Tuesday of the month, and we're also going to host Zerox hack students workshops for it students. You're going to also learn more about used up and we also have a small or a big surprise for you later this year.
00:06:22.960 - 00:06:35.380, Speaker A: So without further ado, in 1 minute we'll start the presentation with Rafael Kosman, who is right here, and he'll be joining me.
00:08:01.870 - 00:08:27.950, Speaker B: Hello folks, I am Raphael. Good to meet you all. I am the CEO of trust token and I'm excited to be with you today, talking about Trufi and uncollateralized lending and defi in general. So I think you all have access to the chat. Feel free to put questions in there. We're going to have plenty of time for questions and discussion at the end. I would also love to learn more about what your backgrounds are and what sorts of things you're interested in getting out of Zero x hack.
00:08:27.950 - 00:09:07.966, Speaker B: So if you have any general thoughts or just want to share about where you're coming from and what brought you here, I would love to see that too. Okay, so let me dive into a little bit about Trufi and Defi. So Trufi is a protocol that my company, trust token, developed. We launched it in November of last year, and it has grown from zero to over a billion dollars in TVL. Total value locked in less than twelve months, which has been very exciting. That makes it one of the fastest growing and now one of the largest D five protocols in the world. It's not quite at the level of something like a compound or an ave or a sushi swap or uniswap yet, but it is definitely getting up there.
00:09:07.966 - 00:09:37.020, Speaker B: And we do hope that within the next twelve months we could actually reach or surpass some of those protocols. And the focus of Truefi is on a topic that is very, very hot right now, which is uncollateralized lending. So uncollateralized lending. Let me get into that in just a moment. I'm going to share my screen and actually walk you through a couple of things. So just a second. All right, are folks able to see this screen that I'm sharing? Cool.
00:09:37.020 - 00:10:07.534, Speaker B: Okay, so what you're looking at here, let's start with compound. Okay, so folks may be familiar with compound. Compound is one of the most famous defi protocols in the world. Many of you may be users of compound or have at least certainly heard of it. And compound really created a lot of what makes defi today. It is a protocol for collateralized lending. So you can put up any of these assets with a compound and you can borrow other assets.
00:10:07.534 - 00:11:02.342, Speaker B: You put up ether, you can borrow stablecoin, you put up stablecoin, you can borrow ether. Right? Now, this, of course, this started out as just a cool idea, and people were playing around with it with $100, $1,000. Pretty soon, this thing started to get into the millions, and most recently into the billions of dollars now, $18 billion supplied, $8 billion borrowed out. This is very serious amount of money that is actually moving through compound and similar protocols. But one of the core issues is that because compound does over collateralized lending, so you have to put up a dollar ether to be able to borrow a dollar of stablecoin, or put up a dollar stablecoin to borrow a dollar of ether. That makes it very capital inefficient. A lot of the largest borrowers in crypto and a lot of the largest borrowers for capital globally do not want to put up that kind of capital, tie it up in a protocol like compound, because they need it to be able to trade, to be able to invest, and so on.
00:11:02.342 - 00:11:46.690, Speaker B: So just as an example, Alameda research, you may know they're one of the largest trading firms in all of crypto. They're well over a billion dollars under management. And for them, doing over collateralized lending like what compound or AAve does really doesn't make sense because they have to tie up more capital than they're actually borrowing. It's reducing the size of their working capital. And so ultimately, when they're market making or doing trades, they're getting less done. So them and a lot of other crypto funds are not that interested in over collateralized lending. And that's really where uncollateralized lending comes in, where someone actually wants to increase their balance sheet, be able to borrow capital without putting up more capital in exchange.
00:11:46.690 - 00:11:59.862, Speaker B: So let me bring you over to Truefi. So, this is Truefi. It's at app truefy IO. You can visit this today. It's been live and working since November. $1.7 billion in the protocol right now.
00:11:59.862 - 00:12:25.966, Speaker B: It's originated $515,000,000 of loans already directly on the platform in stablecoin, going directly to borrowers addresses. And so far, it's had zero defaults. So this is really showing that uncollateralized lending in DeFi is absolutely happening at scale. It's alive and well. This is here technology that's here today. Now, the way this works is Truefi loans. Truefi can't loan to anyone.
00:12:25.966 - 00:13:15.870, Speaker B: Right. Part of the beauty of compound and ave and those over collateralized protocols is that they can loan money to any ethereum address because it's over collateralized. So if they've got a dollar and ether from you, then they don't care if you pay back your dollar loan, because if you don't pay it back, they can just liquidate that ether. Now, of course there are risks of that because you can have a flash crash where ether crashes by 30% or even 50% or 80% so quickly that a protocol like compound or ave might not be able to liquidate that asset in time. And so then if someone doesn't pay back, then it really is a problem. So there's no question having collateral is not a perfect solution, but it is definitely a solution to working on this problem of how to handle defaults. And that's completely where compound and Ave are focusing.
00:13:15.870 - 00:13:58.970, Speaker B: The beauty of trufi is instead of focusing on collateral, it's actually taking into account credit. So because this is a DeFi protocol, you can of course see every single loan that the protocol has ever made, the exact terms of those loans, you can follow the transactions moving on chain. You don't have to believe me. You don't even have to believe our site. You can go inspect the blockchain yourself. So here's just for example, the most recent loan the protocol made, half million dollar loan, intra usd 30 day term to a borrower called sixtant. Now this is a smaller, newer trading firm that's working with the protocol, and so they're borrowing a smaller amount and for a higher APR, someone like Alameda research that, as I mentioned, is one of the largest trading firms in all of crypto.
00:13:58.970 - 00:14:39.734, Speaker B: They've got a very strong credit score, very strong support within the community. There's a lot of trust with them. And so the protocol is making some very large loans with Alameda, you can see here, actually, they have a very strong history of repaying loans. The protocol have already repaid $65 million and brought half a million dollars of interest into the protocol. And so of course they will much have a credit limit. So that's really the way this protocol works is borrowers come in, they get voted on by the community, the holders of the true token, which is the governance token for Truefi. And then if true token holders vote to approve a borrower and bring them onto the platform, then they can actually apply for loans from the protocol.
00:14:39.734 - 00:15:37.934, Speaker B: And the protocol, they go through a credit scoring process, which of course takes into account their assets under management, their use of the funds, how much leverage they take on things like that. And once they get that credit score, then the protocol will be able to lend them up to a certain credit limit. And as a firm makes more loan repayments back to the protocol, they actually increase that credit score. And so it can get more capital and at lower rates because they're building up that credit history over time. So part of the power of this protocol and part of the power of uncollateralized lending in DeFi is that not only is it a much more efficient and much more powerful way to do lending, they can really take into account credit, and not just collateral, but also, this is the first time we have true on chain credit scores. You can see, for example, Alameda here has a credit score of 223 out of 255. So that is actually one of the highest credit scores that's possible in the Truefi system.
00:15:37.934 - 00:16:16.278, Speaker B: And this credit score is directly on chain and can be consumed by any other protocol. So in the future, we actually envision all kinds of protocols, even folks like compound or aave, that do over collateralized lendings. Dexs could even take into account credit for things like fees. All kinds of protocols could look at an address's credit and decide to extend it. Higher credit limits, lower rate posting, less collateral, et cetera, because they know that they can really trust this address is going to be paying back all of its loans. So that's really the essence of Truefi. Uncollateralized lending, credit on the blockchain.
00:16:16.278 - 00:17:03.522, Speaker B: We're very excited about it. We've already grown it to a billion dollars. We think that's really just the beginning. And a big focus of our team today is actually breaking into traditional finance, because we think that as long as we are still lending to crypto firms like Alameda or some of the other folks that you see here, that's great. That's a phenomenal market for us, but that's just a tiny piece of what we ultimately think DeFi is going to be useful for. We very much believe that in the future, all kinds of companies, even companies that don't touch crypto at all today, are going to be borrowing from DeFi, are going to be investing with DeFi and so on. And someday there's going to be apps on your phone that they could just be normal banking apps or fintech apps, and they're going to be powered by DeFi protocols like trufi or compound and others under the hood.
00:17:03.522 - 00:17:28.894, Speaker B: That's where we very much think things are going. So that's a lot of our focus for the team today. So let me pause there. I know that was a lot of information about Truefi and what we're doing. So I've got Bartek, who is one of our lead blockchain engineers. He is an absolutely amazing developer. He actually is one of the people who built a lot of the stuff that I just showed you.
00:17:28.894 - 00:17:59.340, Speaker B: And so he is going to be coming on today. Now that I've given you a bit of context about the product and what Trufi is and how collateralized lending works, he's going to be telling you a bit about how it actually is built, the smart contracts, how they fit together, et cetera, which I'm sure many of you as developers, as folks starting projects are going to be very interested in. So let me call Bartek up right now and introduce you. Bartek, it is all you both be available.
00:20:40.320 - 00:21:09.504, Speaker C: Okay, I should be live already, I guess. Let me just share my screen. It should be appearing already. Okay, so folks, great to be here. My name is Bartek, as I was already introduced. I'm a senior blockchain developer at ethworks. I've been working with trust on Trufi for a long time, almost two years now, I guess, which has been an amazing journey.
00:21:09.504 - 00:21:43.150, Speaker C: And now I'm here to tell you more about the Trufi smart contract. So welcome to my presentation. Tell me more about uncollateralized lending, or in other words, how truefi is reaching for the holy grail of defi, which is the uncollateralized lending. So, short recap, Trufai is an uncollateralized lending protocol with around $1 billion in TVL with around half billion dollars in originated loans. Numbers are huge. Raph already talked about them. Just as an update for everyone who was not with us before.
00:21:43.150 - 00:22:24.488, Speaker C: Yeah, and I'm going to do a brief smart contract walkthrough. I'm not going to dive into lines of code or stuff like that. I'm rather here to show you how the smart contract interacts, what the system looks like, what's the architecture, and how you can approach solving such a complex problem as creating a protocol that allows you to handle such value. So yeah, without further ado. And the first piece is obviously a pool. Here it is the Truefi pool, which is like the main pool in which people deposit their funds. Usually these are stable coins.
00:22:24.488 - 00:23:26.160, Speaker C: Right? Now, as an example here, I put USDC and the truffi pool is basically a liquidity pool, similar to other lending pools as we see them in the collateralized lending protocols. It issues some TF tokens, which are similar to ave tokens like AUSDC or compound tokens, like CUSDC, they work in a similar way. They just represent your share of the pool and all the loans and all the stuff that's actually stored inside the pool. Just stablecoins loans and other stuff that I'll be discussing further. And yeah, the true five pool is basically like the bank of the whole system, the heart that stores the whole value and is responsible of handling the actual money. So now if we have the storage, we have an ability to deposit the funds to enter and exit. We need to somehow create this famous loan.
00:23:26.160 - 00:24:42.372, Speaker C: So here comes the loan factory. So loan factory is basically a contract which borrowers interact with in order to apply for loans. So what does it mean to apply for a loan? So first thing they need to pass the factory a set of parameters like term rate, principal, and other things that are necessary for the protocol managers, sort of which I'll be talking about further to assess the risk, to evaluate the proposal, and just to decide whether this borrower is worth giving the loan, or whether this particular loan is attractive enough for the protocol to risk the funds. And this loan factory doesn't only create some sort of virtual structure, but actually deploys a new smart contract, which is called loan token. And this loan token is created for each loan that's being processed. By being processed by the system. Some might find it not very gas efficient, but there are many ways to make it very efficient, so it's not problematic.
00:24:42.372 - 00:25:38.892, Speaker C: But this gives us some extremely powerful properties that we utilize in the protocol. So the loan token, first of all, represents the individual debt of each borrower. So like one loan token per one agreement per one loan, which is very important. It introduces sort of a new money Lego. So like the loan token is an ERC 20, and that allows us to easily toss the debt around. So it's not like hardwired to some particular smart contract, but it's easy to move the token between different pieces of the system and represent this debt in different places. Because in collateralized lending, we know that for each value that's being lent out of the pool, there is a collateral for that.
00:25:38.892 - 00:26:36.184, Speaker C: But here, this loan token is the only thing that's left physically in the smart contracts after the funds are being withdrawn by the borrower. Yeah, as I said, it's flexible passing that around. And also the loan token serves as a repayment endpoint for the borrowers when they return the funds. This contract is the place for them to return the funds. And now when we have the Truefi pool, so the main bank of the whole funds loan factory. So the place where borrowers apply for the loans and the loan tokens which represent each one of the loans, we need some entity that will assess the risk that will decide whether this particular loan is worth going with within the protocol. And the contract that's responsible for that right now is the rating agency.
00:26:36.184 - 00:28:03.224, Speaker C: So I'm saying right now, because there are lots of exciting stuff coming soon, but this is currently proven to work. The best solution, and the rating agency is a contract where true holders rate each proposal, so they can see, of course, on the blockchain and in the UI, and actually many places, what the parameters are, who the borrower is, what the credit score is, what's the history of the borrower, all the data that's necessary to decide is available. And then true holders, so people that are responsible for the well being of the system decide whether we want to go with this or not. Rating agency allows to manage funds, and I would say that it sort of empowers trufi community to decide the protocol's fate. Because as giving out the loans is the main activity that's happening in the protocol, true holders actually hold a lot of power. And that's incredible how community unity here makes actually the most important decisions, not only configuring the protocol, but actually participating in daily activity. And yeah, when we have this rating scene, that's not the only piece, because there are other rules that help us govern the protocol in a more sophisticated way.
00:28:03.224 - 00:28:56.792, Speaker C: So there is like a separate contract, which is called lender, and this lender, and this lender is the contract that's handling all the logic that makes the final decision. So it's not the rating agency and not the two holders directly who fund the loan, but it's the lender who, when calls the fund upon checks the two rating agency. So checks what is the opinion of the community on that very loan, checks the parameters of that loan, and checks all of the other things that are put somewhere across the ecosystem and then makes the final decision. And anyone can call this fund method at the end of the day, and then when all requirements are met, the funds are actually transferred from the pool to the loan token. So, yeah, lender handles the crucial borrowing. Logic funds the loans. And this is how it looks like.
00:28:56.792 - 00:30:02.016, Speaker C: So in the moment of funding the loan, it's not only like USDC going straight to the borrower, the loan tokens from this contract are minted and issued to the pool. And then the pool gives the stablecoin exchange, and then the funds, the USDC, or other stablecoins that we are using is located in the loan token contract, and it's available for borrower to withdraw, and the borrower should then repay it. So unlike in the collateralized protocol, when the funds leave the pool, they just leave the pool. Here we get the loan token instead, which holds value as long as we believe that the borrower will return the funds. So like an example of pool composition would be, for example here, 80% of the USDC and 20% of bunch of different loan tokens, which represent different loans with different terms, different parameters and so on. And as long as the borrower is fulfilling his agreement, these loan tokens hold value. But what it's not.
00:30:02.016 - 00:31:03.720, Speaker C: So what if the borrower goes with the withdrawal method, but not necessarily follows the repayment flow, and then the loan tokens that were located in the pool can be considered worthless because there is like no credit behind it anymore. So we need to revisit the previous schema and true holders that were actually responsible for making that decision that led to us losing the funds, hypothetically, because that never happened so far. But how we make the true holders which make the decision actually responsible for their decision. So these are not actually the true holders, but staked true holders. So in order for them to have the rating power, they need to stake these tokens in a special staking contract. And this special staking contract is hardwired to other contract called liquidator. And now it's getting maybe slightly complicated because there are lots of pieces on the drawing.
00:31:03.720 - 00:32:05.892, Speaker C: But when the loan is defaulted, so the borrower didn't repay the funds within the term or returned less funds that he was supposed to return, or any other circumstances that appeared. Make us think, and make the protocol think that the loan tokens are not worth anything anymore, then this very particular loan can be liquidated. So what does it mean? The liquidator smart contract will slash some true from the staking pool. So punish the true stakers for their reckless decisions, and put the true taken from the staking pool to the Truefi pool to refund lost funds. And that will cost, of course, the true stakers, some true. But the stablecoin depositors who want to be exposed to less risk, get their funds back. So they are not risking that much, actually.
00:32:05.892 - 00:32:49.856, Speaker C: And the funds are not actually lost because there's like this other side of truefi, which is more of an off chain one. The fact that the funds were not repaid in time on the blockchain doesn't necessarily think that funds are lost forever. And there are other ways to get the funds back. And then there is a high chance that at some point the staking pool will get the funds back. But if not, then they are the first ones to take the loss. So staking and liquidator, they are the contracts that give rating power to holders. That serve as a capital buffer in case of the default.
00:32:49.856 - 00:33:19.752, Speaker C: And reduce depositors exposure to defaults. So now we can actually, again, have a very low risk deposit from the stablecoins holders. We just want to earn a decent yield. And not to risk any fireworks happening within the ecosystem. They just want like a decent yield. But on the other hand, we move this default risk. We move this extra risk to the stakers.
00:33:19.752 - 00:33:51.396, Speaker C: And they get some extra incentives for that. It's not like everything is for free. Of course, the staking contract gives true depositors more true, which also generates funds. But of course, because of the risk, the yield is higher there. So higher risk, higher reward, which makes natural sense. And of course, this system makes true holders actually responsible for the protocol. So it's not like just some random token that happened to have the same name as the protocol.
00:33:51.396 - 00:34:28.008, Speaker C: The true holders are actually responsible for making proper decisions, for caring for the protocol. And for doing the research, for following what's happening and for keeping it alive. And that's not the end. And here's the interesting thing. Because normally. Normally within the collateralized ecosystem, the pans are extremely liquid. So it's very easy to take alone.
00:34:28.008 - 00:34:51.150, Speaker C: It's very easy to return funds here. It's also easy to return funds. But it's not that straightforward to take a loan. It's not that easy to adjust the interest rate. Because the loan tokens, when they are created, they have fixed them. They have the interest rate fixed. So it's not that easy to adjust the protocol API to the current market.
00:34:51.150 - 00:35:40.430, Speaker C: To the current market conditions very fast. So in order to bump the API a little bit, there is the additional part of the system, which is called the gauge or farm, which allows sablecoin depositors to deposit their TF tokens and earn some true. On top of that, which has some additional advantages, because it also distributes true. And of course, as I said, it increases the APY. And the last piece that I'm going to discuss here is the strategy. And that's, in my opinion, like very interesting bit. Because the pool is not exposed so heavily to the varying interest rates of the market.
00:35:40.430 - 00:36:42.930, Speaker C: Sometimes we need to find a way to put the idle funds into work. So we just don't want them to sit in a pool wherever, because when there are times when there are less borrowers or the borrowing process takes too much time, or generally if there is some sort of a congestion that makes the utilization go down, then we can put some of the idle funds that are within the pool into work to some sort of strategy. And one can think about these strategies like yearn vaults. So these are like smart contracts that utilize other smart contract protocols with less risk than uncollateralized lending. So we can earn some extra yield for the depositors and not slack behind the market with the API. Yeah. So the strategy, and that's how the whole map of the smart contract system looks like right now.
00:36:42.930 - 00:37:12.900, Speaker C: A lot of that, it's proven to work extremely well. However, we're working on introducing some new features that's coming up soon. So I guess you're going to be hearing from me soon, and I would be really excited to talk about when the time comes. Yeah. So that was all I had for you today. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope that this was detailed enough to be interesting for the developers.
00:37:12.900 - 00:37:27.710, Speaker C: And if you have any questions, then you are of course, welcome to ask them. Me and Rafael, we're going to be answering them. You can actually come here, I guess. Yeah. So if there are any, feel free to join us in here.
00:37:28.480 - 00:38:22.796, Speaker B: All right, well, thank you, Bartek, for that excellent technical overview. So, folks, you now have both of us available to answer any questions about Truefi, about smart contracts, about DeFi, whatever would be helpful. We have one question here in the chat from Furry S. Furry s asks, does Truefi have more customers that they will be approving for loans in the future? So the answer is absolutely yes. Truefi right now has done most of its lending to crypto native firms, folks like Alameda Research, Amber AI, Nibio, Wintermute, et cetera. These are very legit crypto trading firms that do market making, that do OTC trades and so on. And they're very comfortable working with DeFi protocols, with taking loans from a DeFi protocol.
00:38:22.796 - 00:39:00.750, Speaker B: But Truefi is definitely continuing to expand in that market, and we think that that market can support well over a billion dollars in capital, actually even several billion, maybe even 10 billion. But we don't at all think that that is the be all, end all for uncollateralized lending. I think Bartek would certainly agree that the potential market for uncollateralized lending in DFI goes way beyond the folks that are in crypto today and to all kinds of folks that are in traditional finance. So let me actually give an example let me see if I can project my screen.
00:39:02.160 - 00:39:04.590, Speaker C: Yeah, I think I can help with that.
00:39:05.040 - 00:39:10.670, Speaker B: Hang on. All right, 1 second. I'm just going to show.
00:39:15.440 - 00:39:15.964, Speaker A: The screen.
00:39:16.002 - 00:39:16.590, Speaker C: Share.
00:39:16.960 - 00:39:17.996, Speaker B: One sec.
00:39:18.178 - 00:39:18.910, Speaker C: Okay.
00:39:21.440 - 00:39:34.256, Speaker B: All right, so it stops.
00:39:34.368 - 00:39:39.000, Speaker C: So let's stop and let's then share window. And let's.
00:39:39.740 - 00:39:40.536, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:39:40.718 - 00:39:41.064, Speaker C: Okay.
00:39:41.102 - 00:40:34.810, Speaker B: So this is just an example of an interesting company that I want to bring up. This is actually a company that we're talking with about potentially working together. This is called percent.com. And they don't right now do lending on the blockchain. They do a bunch of lending directly in traditional finance, using traditional rails and not using stablecoins or any of that kind of tech that we use. But take a look, for example, at some of the folks that they are lending to right here. You can see these are all kinds of various firms, including medical folks, some crypto companies, various trading firms, and so on, that are applying for loans at pretty high apys, oftentimes 1012, sometimes 15%.
00:40:34.810 - 00:41:13.008, Speaker B: Many of these loans are in the millions of dollars. And these are exactly the types of folks that we could be lending to in traditional finance, either directly to those folks or through one of these existing marketplaces, like percent.com. So that's where we see Defi ultimately going. And a lot of the lending that's happening today on websites like this, we think can just be much more efficient and have access to the entire world if they plug into DeFi. Right. If you have a centralized finance company like this, you're oftentimes only catering, let's say, to us investors or to european investors. It's a smaller segment.
00:41:13.008 - 00:41:47.392, Speaker B: You have something like Defi, and you say, okay, now you have a lending pool. Literally any ethereum address in the entire world can now put stablecoin directly into this lending pool, whether it's a million dollars or whether it's one cent. And that's really the power of Defi. So that's where we see it going. It's ultimately the technology, it's the rails that we think empower an entire world of financial opportunities for people. Okay, so one more question we got from the audience. Could defi lending expand into retail customers, such as auto loans? Okay, so that's a tricky one.
00:41:47.392 - 00:42:36.208, Speaker B: And this is from furry s. Thank you, fury s, for this question. So here's the issue with DeFi doing retail lending. It's very difficult for DeFi protocols to do collections. That's the issue if someone defaults on a loan, if it's an institutional borrower, Truefi actually has a foundation which has recently been set up that represents the protocol, has legal contracts in place for every one of its loans, and can, if Alameda research were to default, I don't think they would. But, of course, if they were to default on a $10 million loan, then there's a legally enforceable contract where that foundation that represents the protocol and is ultimately governed by true holders can take Alameda to court and recover any of those assets that are still possible to recover. So that's the way that it works.
00:42:36.208 - 00:43:31.228, Speaker B: But the issue is, if you're doing retail loans and you're doing thousands and thousands of loans to individual consumers, then it's a much more intensive process to actually do collections when you have the inevitable defaults. And so that's why we think eventually DFI might be able to get to that market. But long before that, it's going to make much more sense for DFI to be going through businesses that can then lend to consumers. So DFI could lend $10 million to a company like, let's say, Tala or branch, that are both apps that do lending. Lots of other consumer apps in the United States and around the world that do lending to consumers. Something like truefire or DeFi protocol can lend to one of those companies in bulk, and then those companies can handle the individual loans to retail, handle the collections and so on. That's much easier than having the DeFi protocol try to do that directly.
00:43:31.228 - 00:43:54.164, Speaker B: Does that make sense? Okay, so that's for you. Thank you for that question. Pioter says, how big is the risk that one large given credit kills the liquidity pool on the protocol? Barjick, do you want to take this one risk, that one large default could damage or destroy a pool?
00:43:54.292 - 00:44:41.864, Speaker C: So I think that technically that might be possible, but this is just not the way the trufi community and people that actually do the research and do the risk assessment work. So, of course, it would be possible to just give a huge loan to somebody that won't repay this, but this is something that's just not going to happen because the people that take care of the protocol don't want the protocol die. Like, you could ask a question whether a maker protocol would set interest rate to some ridiculous value. That's just not going to happen because the maker holders, MKR holders, have no interest in destroying the protocol. And the same here. So the composition of these loan tokens needs to be reasonable, and the composition of loans needs to make sense. So technically speaking, it's all possible to send funds to other zero.
00:44:41.864 - 00:45:13.490, Speaker C: But this is not the thing that's going to happen, because there are people that are actually investing in the platform that are responsible for these funds and that are not going to do things that are going to hurt protocols that way. As I speak about this, it might sound that, yeah, it's possible, but it's just a probability. I think this is just kind of like, against the whole spirit of how this thing operated so far. So I wouldn't expect this thinking in that direction from anyone within the ecosystem, actually.
00:45:14.040 - 00:46:22.936, Speaker B: Yeah, that's really well said. True holders who ultimately govern the protocol, they have voted to put in place a credit model that basically takes a particular borrower's credit score and says, okay, this is what your credit limit is, and then what rate you get to borrow at. And the way that that works is, of course, the higher credit score you have, the larger of a loan you can take out, but that is also capped by you can't take out too large of a fraction of any individual pool. So even if you're a very credit worthy borrower and you're approved to a very high credit limit, at least with the current pools, none of them are willing to lend you more than a certain fraction of that pool. You would never want to have a single borrower take out 50% or majority of a single pool. So they could be a real existential threat to that pool. Every borrower just has a piece, because all the pools that the protocol has today are really designed to be diversified such that they've got a whole bunch of different loans to a bunch of different borrowers with different terms that they're expiring on, and it's staying diversified at all times.
00:46:22.936 - 00:47:01.172, Speaker B: So one borrower defaults or two borrowers default, and the protocol, and that pool is still totally fine. That's really the way the protocol is designed today. In the future, there absolutely can be more pools that have different parameters. If the designers of those pools, or true holders ultimately vote for something different. You could have pools that are taking more risk on an individual borrower or on a small number of borrowers. And someone who's putting money into that pool, of course, needs to understand what risks they're taking that at least the three pools the protocol has so far are very much designed to be diversified. Okay, so maybe we can take one last question.
00:47:01.172 - 00:47:31.724, Speaker B: Bartex. So Nikki cakes asks, when you say credit score, you mean actual business credit, correct. Or does defi borrowing weigh in on that as well? That is a great. And then beyond this, there will be a networking event after that. I think Bartek and I will be able to attend. And of course, you're welcome to join the Truefi community that both of us are a part of too. We would love to see you there.
00:47:31.724 - 00:48:45.844, Speaker B: So in terms of credit scores right now, the credit scores take into account the credit scores on Truefi, such as what we showed you earlier today, Alan Meta has a 223 newer borrowers. Of course it's going to be a lower credit score. Those credit scores today take into account both a whole bunch of off chain information, such as the entity that's borrowing. Where are they incorporated? Is it the US? Is it Europe? Is it somewhere in Asia? What assets do they have? What's their use of leverage? What is their use of the funds? How long have they been in existence? What have they done during that history? Do they have a strong track record of being able to repay loans, provide returns to investors and so on? Or are they newer and a little bit less proven? So all that stuff is taken into account in the credit score and then also some on chain information. And right now, the on chain information that that credit score takes into account is just the borrowing history on Truefi. So the more someone borrows, the higher their credit score can go, of course, because that's one of the strongest pieces of evidence that someone's going to pay back a loan is they pay back loans. Right.
00:48:45.844 - 00:49:56.376, Speaker B: It's a very good sign. But in the future, we absolutely want that to take into account information from across defi. Right? What tokens does someone hold? Have they gotten liquidated or have they maintained healthy positions on maker, on compound, on Aave, on other protocols? If they use protocols like Alpha Hamora, do they take out a little bit of leverage? Or do they take out tons of leverage and really push things close and put a lot of their assets at risk? Those are all things that we want to be taking into account in the future. And so we're working to improve that credit score continually, and we want it to actually be consumed by all kinds of different protocols that are going to know, using that data and then feeding data right back into it. And that's really where we see DeFi going. Where in the future? I think that a way that we could potentially do some direct to consumer lending is just with someone's Ethereum address. It's just saying, hey, your ethereum address, we may not even know who you are, but someday I think we may get to the point where we could say, look, we don't know who you are, you're just some Ethereum address, but you have this history with these over collateralized lending protocols.
00:49:56.376 - 00:50:14.944, Speaker B: You have these assets in your address and so on. So let's start to allow you to have. Maybe you still have to put up collateral, but maybe it's not 100%. Maybe you have to put up 80% collateral. Okay? You repay that. Now, let's say you can put up 50% collateral, and then at some point, you're actually getting uncollateralized loans. And then those could start small.
00:50:14.944 - 00:50:30.712, Speaker B: They could grow larger and larger and larger as you build up that credit history. And that's where I think we could potentially get to real consumer lending. It's not going to be easy. There's a lot of work that we have to do. If you know any great engineers, please send them over to us. We would love to talk to them. A lot of stuff to get built there.
00:50:30.712 - 00:50:58.236, Speaker B: But that's where I think things are going. Where all of this data across crypto, because all of it's open, all of it's on chain, and more and more of finance is happening on crypto, including now on cloud lending. So that data that you need to assemble a credit score is actually there publicly on chain and associated with your ethereum address. So there's so much that we can potentially do with that. Okay, so thank you very much for attending. Thank you for all the wonderful questions from the audience. I had a great time with this.
00:50:58.236 - 00:51:11.890, Speaker B: I hope Bartek did as well. We'll see you at the networking event after. And, and please get in touch with us. Join our community, come hang out with us. We'd love to talk to you more about any of these topics. So thanks very much, guys. See you all around.
