00:00:03.290 - 00:01:13.970, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap crypto founder becomes crypto Fugitive this week, Doe Kwon became an internationally wanted man after South Korean authorities said Interpol issued a red notice for him. Kwon is the founder of TerraForm Labs, the entity behind the Terra Blockchain, which failed catastrophically in May, wiping out billion in value. Earlier this month, a court in South Korea issued an arrest warrant against Kwon for allegedly violating the country's capital markets law, and the nation's Minister of Finance stated his intent to void Kwon's passport to force him to return to South Korea. Even though Kwon's whereabouts are unknown, he has been quite active on Twitter, where he stated that he was not on the run and was making zero efforts to hide. In addition, TerraForm Labs sent a statement to the Wall Street Journal saying the prosecutors are acting unfairly and that the case has become highly politicized. The firm is also claiming that the Luna Token was not a security which would make the accusations against Kwon invalid.
00:01:13.970 - 00:02:09.298, Speaker A: On Tuesday's show, I interviewed Jongbek Park, South Korean crypto lawyer, who said that the capital markets law has never been applied to crypto in that country, so it is an unprecedented event. Also this week, CoinDesk reported that authorities in South Korea requested that two crypto exchanges freeze 3313 bitcoin around $67 million tied to TerraForm Labs and Doe Kwan. However, the Luna Foundation guard denied ownership of the wallet that was said to have transferred funds to exchanges. Sam Binkman Fried's FTX, won Voyager's auction and is now considering another acquisition FTX US won the auction for the assets of bankrupt crypto lender Voyager Digital. The company announced on Monday. FTX's $1.4 billion bid comprising the fair market value of all Voyager crypto assets.
00:02:09.298 - 00:03:15.818, Speaker A: An additional consideration of $111,000,000 beat out Finance and Wave Financial. Voyager's claims against Three Arrows Capital will remain with the bankruptcy estate, the lender wrote in a statement. FTX US's market leading secure trading platform will enable customers to trade and store cryptocurrency after the conclusion of the company's Chapter Eleven cases this week, Ashwin Prithipal, the CFO of Voyager Digital, resigned to pursue other opportunities after only five months in the position. Also, FTX US president Bret Harrison will step down from his position and move to an advisory role. Bankman Fried may not end his buying spree with the Voyager acquisition despite having previously rejected a bailout request from Celsius. He is reportedly examining bidding for the assets of the troubled crypto lender. In addition, CNBC reported that FTX is looking to raise up to $1 billion for additional deal making at a valuation of $32 billion.
00:03:15.818 - 00:04:27.700, Speaker A: If you want to know more about SPF and what his investments might look like, be sure to tune in to next Tuesday's show. Machinsky resigns as Celsius Investors try to impose a Separate committee Hours before news broke about SPF's interest in Celsius, Alex Machinsky, Celsius CEO and founder, announced he would resign effective immediately. In a press release, he wrote I regret that my continued role as CEO has become an increasing distraction. Machinsky also said he was willing to work with the company to achieve a successful reorganization at a time in which some executives were organizing a revival plan. Machinsky had previously been accused of making a series of bad decisions that precipitated the company's collapse. Last Friday, two Celsius investors filed a motion to establish a committee to advocate for them in the bankruptcy case, although the Celsius creditor Committee plans to oppose. Additionally, on Thursday, the bankruptcy judge appointed an outside examiner to publish a third party report on Celsius's storage of its crypto customer account management, its mining business and tax issues.
00:04:27.700 - 00:05:45.530, Speaker A: And after Celsius requested permission to sell its stablecoin holdings to pay for operating expenses, a Texas regulator objected, saying Celsius was asking for Troublingly broad permission to sell assets insufficiently defined for purposes that are also insufficiently defined. Compute North Files for Bankruptcy as the bitcoin mining industry stumbles, Compute North, a company that provides infrastructure for bitcoin miners, filed for Chapter Eleven bankruptcy protection in federal court in Texas. According to the filing, the company owes over $500 million to more than 200 investors and owns assets between $100 million and $500 million. The case shows the stress under which the mining industry is operating. Their revenues have decreased significantly due to the bear market, the high hash rate levels and the global energy crisis, which has raised the cost of operations. Earlier this month, Arcane Research noted that bitcoin mining profitability had fallen to its lowest level since 2020. To capitalize on the mining crisis, crypto billionaire Jihan Wu, founder of Bitcoin mining rigmaker Bitmain, is reportedly setting up a $250,000,000 fund to purchase distressed assets from mining firms.
00:05:45.530 - 00:06:54.420, Speaker A: In addition, bitcoin miner Iris Energy agreed on a 100 million dollar equity purchase deal with investment banking firm B Riley to fund growth initiatives and cipher mining. A bitcoin mining company wants to sell $250,000,000 worth of stock. Global Central Bankers Talk Crypto In an online panel hosted by the bank of France on Tuesday, the leaders of the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the bank for International Settlements shared their thoughts on decentralized finance and agreed that DeFi and stablecoins need more regulation. BIS general manager Augustine Carstens believes that DeFi has structural problems and intrinsic weaknesses and also that DeFi has no infrastructure to deal with risks such as liquidity counterparty risk and leverage. Fed Chair Jerome Powell expressed concerns over the lack of transparency in DeFi. However, Matt Huang of Paradigm tweeted in response this is puzzling because DeFi is fully transparent. Powell also said regarding a central bank digital currency, we do not see ourselves making that decision for some time.
00:06:54.420 - 00:07:56.520, Speaker A: However, he did say that a CBDC would likely have four characteristics one, that it would be intermediated, two, privacy protected, three, identity verified so it would not be anonymous and four, it would be transferable or interoperable. On a related note, the White House is reportedly considering the exit of Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen after the midterm elections. Stablecoin competition heats up as the government decides whether to pursue a CBDC stablecoin providers are not wasting time. Circle, the entity behind the world's second largest stablecoin USDC, announced it will soon be expanding USDC to five new blockchains. The expansion is expected to occur sometime around the end of this year or early next. In addition, the company will launch native USDC on the Cosmos network next year. Having a native token eliminates the need for a bridge, thus significantly reducing the risks associated with moving tokens from one blockchain to another.
00:07:56.520 - 00:08:41.230, Speaker A: Furthermore, Jack Dorsey's Bitcoin focused subsidiary TBD partnered with Circle to facilitate cross border dollar linked stablecoin transfers and savings. Meanwhile, Lightning Labs announced the launch of the Taro Protocol, which would enable stablecoins on the Bitcoin blockchain. By the way, on Wednesday, finance's conversion of USDC, USDP and TUSD began as the company tries to grow the market cap of its stablecoin BUSD. USDC's market cap dropped 5%. The CFTC versus SEC. Turf war over Crypto continues. On Wednesday, Caroline FAM, Commodity Futures Trading Commissioner, proposed a new office for Crypto Retail protection.
00:08:41.230 - 00:09:48.182, Speaker A: FAM cited the crypto crash, risk management failures and substantial retail losses as reasons to provide further protection to investors. On the same day, at a panel at New York University, CFTC Chair Roston Benham reiterated his desire for CFTC to be the lead crypto regulator, saying that Bitcoin might double in price if there is a CFTC regulated market. Meanwhile, the SEC has continued its crypto enforcement actions. Apace it filed a lawsuit against hydrogen and market maker Moonwalkers for alleged market manipulation and unregistered securities offerings. Todd Phillips, director at American Progress, explained the SEC claims hydrogen, airdropped some but not all minted tokens got those tokens listed on exchanges and then sold some of their retained tokens to the public. Jake Trevinsky, head of policy at the Blockchain Association, complained about the regulation by enforcement and said the SEC says airdrops meet the Howey tests investment of money prong even if no one makes an investment and no money changes hands. Proposal to create reversible ETH token standards.
00:09:48.182 - 00:10:40.970, Speaker A: Royals crypto Twitter researchers at Stanford University have proposed introducing reversible transactions to Ethereum to remedy crypto thefts. This consists of creating new Ethereum token standards that allow smart contracts to reverse transactions. Token standards are the set of rules that a smart contract must follow to develop tokens. Kylie Wong, one of the researchers, argued the major hacks we've seen are undeniably thefts with strong evidence. If there was a way to reverse those thefts under such circumstances, our ecosystem would be much safer. However, the proposal caused quite a firestorm on crypto Twitter, where many seemed to feel it would mean that the network would no longer be immutable one of the core pillars of blockchains. Another hot topic is that the new token standard would require humans to decide which transactions to reverse, threatening the trustless aspect of the network.
00:10:40.970 - 00:11:36.890, Speaker A: Matthew Deferante, CEO of ZK Labs tweeted no contracts would accept these tokens in the first place due to the complexity of handling chains of reversals. Roman Seminov, the founder of Tornado Cash, also raised some concerns about the interoperability of these new token standards with other decentralized applications. Will ERC 20 R be incompatible with the current DFI ecosystem? He wondered. Still reactions were not 100% negative. Emmen Gunsir, founder of Avalanche, thought this was a great idea and Argent a popular wallet tweeted this was an interesting idea, but the problem could be solved in other ways while still remaining truly permissionless time for fun bits. Fast food Mexican chain Chipotle decided to launch a promotion to celebrate the merge in a partnership with crypto payments company Flexa. Chipotle is offering a 99.95%
00:11:36.890 - 00:12:02.170, Speaker A: discount on the garlic guajillo steak entree. The discount mimics the reduction in energy consumption followed by the abandonment of the proof of work mechanism. What was the name of the promo? Naturally. Proof of stake. Alright, thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Nick and the lawsuit against Uzi Dao, check out the show notes for this episode. Don't miss our daily roundup of the biggest news in crypto in the Unchained daily newsletter.
00:12:02.170 - 00:12:14.530, Speaker A: Go to unchainedpodcast.com to subscribe. Unchained is produced by me. Laura Shin will help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Wandavanovich Pama, Jimdar Shishank and CLK. Transcription. Thanks for listening.
