00:00:00.170 - 00:00:50.422, Speaker A: Hey everyone, I am Uttam Singh and in this video of Polygon Defi playlist I'm going to show you how you can add Polygon Network to your metamask wallets. So if you haven't checked out the Polygon defi playlist yet, do check it out and it is in the sequence so it will help you a lot. And let's get started with our video and let's show you how you can add Polygon network to your metamask wallet. But before that like this video and if you are new subscribe to my channel and also hit the bell icon so whenever I upload a new video you will get a notification. So I am on my Chrome browser and I have installed metamask wallet in my chrome browser as an extension. So if you haven't did it yet, go check out my last video and the first video of this defi playlist which will help you to do that. So there are two ways to add Polygon Network to your metamask wallet.
00:00:50.422 - 00:01:22.742, Speaker A: So first of all visit the polygon official doc. So I am on the Polygon official docs which says add Polygon Network to your metamask. I'm going to leave this link in my description. So you can go to the description and you can click on this link and it will redirect you to this page. And once you are on this page you will see that there are instructions for how to add Polygon Network to your metamask account. So the first method is using Polygon scan. So make sure that you have installed metamask already and now visit the polygonscan.com.
00:01:22.742 - 00:02:22.330, Speaker A: You can click here and if you want you can also search polygonscan.com. So click on polygonscan.com and it will redirect you to polygonscan.com. And now we don't need to do anything with this, just go and scroll down at the bottom and there you will see add Polygon Network button right? So click on that add Polygon Network and make sure that you have installed metamask wallet before clicking on this button because if you haven't installed it the button will not work. If you have installed click on add Polygon Network button and whenever you click on add Polygon Network a metamask will pop up. Your metamask notification will pop up and your metamasking loading right and now it is asking for your permission to allow the Polygon network to your metamask, allow the site to add polygon network and this will allow this network to be used within metamask. Yes, we want to use Polygon network in our metamask and there is the network id.
00:02:22.330 - 00:02:59.478, Speaker A: You can see the network URL chain id and everything. If you want, you can see all the details as well and then you will have to just improve it. There will be a warning as well that the network details for this id chain do not match with our record. You just need to ignore it and everything is all right. Right? So just click on the approve button and it will ask you to switch your network. So click on switch network and you are now connected to the Polygon network and you have successfully added Polygon network to your metamask wallet. So now go to your metamask wallet and check whether you are connected to the Polygon network or not.
00:02:59.478 - 00:03:35.454, Speaker A: Right? So your metamask is opening and here you can see that you are now connected to Matic mainnet which is the polygon network. Right? And you can now also switch between Ethereum and matic. If you click on Ethereum mainet you will be switched to Ethereum mainnet and if you want to choose matic mainnet you will click on matic mainnet and you will be switched to the polygon net. And now you have added polygon mainnet to your metamask wallet. And also if you want to add polygon testnet you can also do that. It is also very very simple. So back to the polygon docs, you can see that there are two tabs.
00:03:35.454 - 00:04:15.386, Speaker A: One is polygon Mainnet and the other is polygon testnet. So if you are a developer you want to use Polygon testnet, you can visit the Mumbai polygonscan.com and there you will have to do the similar step what we did for the polygonscan.com, the main net, right? So just scroll down and you can see again the Add Mumbai network. Mumbai is the testnet for the Polygon network. So click on the add Mumbai network and again you will see that your metamask has a notification and it will pop up and it will ask for your permission. Right? You are allowing this side to add the network and the network this time is now Polygon testnet.
00:04:15.386 - 00:04:49.666, Speaker A: There are two network. One is Mainnet and one is test mainnet is the actual network which is used for transaction and which is actually live and testnet which is also live but it is used for testing purposes or it is used by developers, right? And if you are a developer and you want to use Polygon network, Polygon testnet. So click on the proof button and it will also ask you to switch the network. And then you can switch it. And now click on metamask again. Open your metamask again to see what network you are now connected to. So now you can see that there are three networks.
00:04:49.666 - 00:05:28.822, Speaker A: One is Polygon testnet, one is ethereum mainnet, and one is matic mainnet, right? So polygon testnet is now also connected to your metamask account, right? So yeah, this is very, very simple step. And this is the first step. You can also see that right now we have zero matic. And in the next video I'm going to show you how you can add some tokens from your binance to the matic network, right? So now let's move on to our second option. That is add polygon network manually, right? So click on add polygon network manually. And there you will see that there are again two tabs. One is for Polygon Mainnet and other is for polygon test.
00:05:28.822 - 00:06:25.670, Speaker A: So if you are facing any of the issues with the first method, you can add Polygon network manually to your metamask wallet, right? So open your metamask wallet and there click on choose network and then there is also an option to add network, right? So click on that add network button and it will redirect you to the metamask. And your metamask will extend. And then it will ask you for the network name, it will ask you for the new RPC URL and all the other details. So all these details are mentioned on the Polygon docs, right? So here are all the details that you need. So this is the first detail. That is the network name, which is Polygon Mainnet. So copy that polygon Mainnet and paste it in here, right? So similarly now you will need a new RpC URL, right? So this is the new RpC URL, that is polygonrpc.com.
00:06:25.670 - 00:06:58.174, Speaker A: So just copy it and then paste it over to the new Rpc URL. And now we need a chain id. So now copy the chain id that is 137 and paste it in the chain id that is required. And now it will ask you for the currency symbol. So the currency symbol is matic, right? So copy the matic as well and paste it here. And now it will ask you for the block explorer URL, right? So this is the block explorer URL, polygonscan.com. So copy it again and paste.
00:06:58.174 - 00:08:03.522, Speaker A: So here you will see that my metamask is showing me an error, that the URL is used by matting Mainnet, right? So since the matting mainnet has already been added to my metamask wallet. It is showing me an error that this network is already added to your metamask. So if you haven't already added it yet, it will show you the save option. But right now it is disabled because I already have polygon network, right? And similarly you can also add testnet manually, right? So go on to the Mumbai testnet tab and there you will see again all the details, the chain id, the chain name and all the RPC URLs, all the fields that you require, right? So similarly you can add the Mumbai testnet as well to your metamask account manually, right? I will suggest you to use the polygonscan.com method and I'm pretty sure that you will not face any of the errors. And if you face any of the error then only use this method, right? So congratulations. You have finally added polygon Mainnet as well as polygon testnet to your metamask account, right? And if you are facing any of the issue, do write it in the comment section.
00:08:03.522 - 00:08:29.738, Speaker A: I will definitely try my best to help you. And also you can dm me on Twitter, on Instagram or on LinkedIn. All the links are in description whatever links are required for this video and you can also connect with me. All the links are in description thank you so much for watching this video and if you like the video, do hit the like button, do subscribe to the channel as well as also hit the bell icon and share with your friends and family. Thank you so much for watching. Bye.
