00:00:00.250 - 00:01:07.202, Speaker A: Um, when you hear the term trading options, this might happen. And you're not alone because, you know, most of us have never traded options, but it doesn't change the fact that they are one of the most popular financial instruments in the world, with an estimated 15.23 billion options contracts traded in 2019. Now, DFI is about leveling the playing field and making the black box that is traditional finance into a transparent peer to peer model, accessible to anyone with an Ethereum wallet or your choice of layer. One options is yet another money Lego growing like bananas or rabbits on Ethereum, with just under $100 million in total value, locked in decentralized options like hedgek and growing liquidity in open, which recently launched their V Two. Hedgek is an onchain options trading protocol on Ethereum, where you can buy WBTC and ETH, call or put options, and you can also sell calls or puts as a liquidity provider or LP on Hedgek. Now here's a quick lesson on options.
00:01:07.202 - 00:02:32.454, Speaker A: An option is a contract that gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation to buy in the case of a call, option, contract or sell. In the case of a put option contract, the underlying asset at a specific price on or before a certain date. And options are known as derivatives because they derive their value from an underlying asset. So why do traders use on chain options? Well, it's mainly for either speculation or to hedge their positions. And what separates onchain options in DFI on Ethereum from traditional finance? Well, in the case of hedgek, these decentralized onchain options are noncustodial, meaning no one takes custody of your assets, which we should be familiar with. Now, in DFI, there's 24/7 global trading, which is par for the course in DFI and crypto, but different from traditional finance, it's verified on chain settlement of each option contract, it's exercisable at any moment during the period of holding a contract and exercising is guaranteed by the liquidity locked on an option contract, and it's censorship resistant without KYC, email or registration required. The key takeaway here is that aside from lending, borrowing, trading, derivatives, insurance, perpetual futures, we now have yet another financial behemoth use case for DeFi, which can be rebuilt to be more accessible, more transparent and more capital efficient with non custodial on chain options on Ethereum.
00:02:32.454 - 00:03:01.060, Speaker A: And it's part of an open source software revolution in DeFi, which is happening slowly at first, but then all at once to replace legacy finance. And best of all, it means powerful financial instruments are becoming accessible to all with a simple Ethereum wallet versus a few who have the right to trade on Wall street. You've been watching DFI 101. Do be sure and check out the other videos in this series it and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new videos as they drop. And above all, stay safe out there.
