00:00:00.250 - 00:00:18.030, Speaker A: At puffer, our goal was to actually adopt a system that is as permissionless as rocket pool but also as close as capital efficient as Lido. So we can actually decentralize this further through permissionlessness and lower barriers of entry.
00:00:20.690 - 00:01:18.470, Speaker B: Welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm Defi dad here with nomadic from four RC. Today's episode spotlights Puffer Finance, a native liquid restaking protocol that's attracted nearly $1 billion in liquid staked ETH deposits. In this quick hit, we learn about how Puffer's native LRT works, how node operators will eventually be able to run ETH validators with as little as one ETH, the security of puffer, including their anti slashing tech, and what they have planned next in the lead up to their main net launch. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the Edge podcast possible. Introducing rsuith by Swell Network, a native liquid restaking token that gives you access to the Eigen layer ecosystem, earn Pearls points, and future restaking rewards without locking your liquidity, and enjoy countless defi integrations for earning easy passive yield. Learn more at swellnetwork IO.
00:01:19.690 - 00:01:51.454, Speaker C: Introducing the mantle liquid staking protocol mantle LSP, a permissionless noncustodial ETH liquid staking protocol deployed on ethereum l one and governed by mantle. With mantle LSP, users can stake ETH to instantly receive me, earn, yield, and accumulate rewards. The longer you stake me is the value accumulating receipt token that will give you access to expanded yield opportunities. Stake and watch your yield grow with.
00:01:51.492 - 00:02:40.622, Speaker B: Mantle LSP introducing Kelp DaO, the first liquid restaking platform for LSTs. With kelp, anyone could deposit Steth by lido, efex by stator or SFRx ETH by fracs, and mint, a liquid restaking token called Rs ETH. With Rs ETH, you can participate in your favorite D five platforms and get 100% of all eigen layer points plus kelp miles. A fresh wave of restaking is here. Restaking that's liquid rewarding and convenient. Learn more today at Kelpdow XYZ Slash restake for most of us, our crypto journey started with Metamask, and now with Metamask portfolio, we can do so much more. Metamask portfolio puts you in control.
00:02:40.622 - 00:03:21.630, Speaker B: Use the dashboard to see all your assets and balances across your wallets in one place. The buy feature allows us to buy crypto assets effortlessly with fiat options such as PayPal or credit card. The swap feature allows us to swap any tokens anytime by finding a selection of available rates. The bridge feature allows us to bridge between networks, including Ethereum, L ones and L two s, based on the best price and fastest delivery time. And with the stake feature, anyone in a few clicks can stake ETH and earn rewards. Do more in web three your way with a safe, simple, and convenient tool that's all in one place. Track and manage your web three everything at Metamask IO portfolio.
00:03:22.610 - 00:04:04.170, Speaker D: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multi chain ux. Redesigned from the ground up, the first wallet to abstract networks accounts and gas one gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC and native access to instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:04:04.590 - 00:04:11.434, Speaker B: All right, let's introduce the CEO of Puffer Labs, Amir Forzani. Amir, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:04:11.632 - 00:04:13.758, Speaker A: Great. Thank you so much for having me.
00:04:13.844 - 00:05:21.998, Speaker B: So, as we're recording this, and this number will probably go up, by the time folks have listened to this podcast, there is over 900 million in ETH that has been deposited into puffer. And so this podcast neatly rounds out a series of podcasts that we've done on liquid restaking tokens. We've covered Etherfi, we've covered Renzo, we've covered kelp. So we're yet to cover swell, but we've got that one on the schedule as well. And so we're just very grateful to get to talk with you so soon after this mega launch that you guys are in the midst of. Part of the podcast today is going to lay out what is the vision behind puffer as a native liquid restaking protocol. Where are we in this launch that, again, has taken us to almost over 900 million in deposited ETH? And ultimately, how does this LRT protocol differentiate? So we probably should start with just a little bit more about your background.
00:05:21.998 - 00:05:46.118, Speaker B: I think one thing, having known you for about a year now, Amir, is that you've always been a decentralization maximalist. I think you've always talked to me about building things the right way for Ethereum to be maximally decentralized in the future. What else can you share about your background? What led to the founding of puffer?
00:05:46.214 - 00:06:37.994, Speaker A: Absolutely. Yeah. So I can start from the days that I was sharing ideas with actually my friend, which we actually started puffer with Jason around securing the future of compute and future of computation confidential compute and where are the places we can go about that? He recommended me Ethereum as a decentralized source of trust and a global decentralization source of trust. After exploring that, we realized, wow, it would be great to actually integrate and bring AI into this. And this is back in 2021. This was before the AI boom and chat CPT and really seeing the full force of AI taking over. We entered Ethereum on that angle, but realized it is not decentralized enough.
00:06:37.994 - 00:07:23.002, Speaker A: Essentially, even before the merge happened, we realized that majority of the staked ETH is going to be actually dominated by LSTs. And at that time there was only one LST that was really dominating this landscape. We were exposed to this through actually our conversations with Justin Drake about our ideas of using confidential compute or Tee's trusted execution environment. Previously. Prior to that, we have explored the use of zero knowledge or fully homomorphic encryptions. But the most practical thing that we came up with was the use of tees. Through our conversations with Justin, we realized that yes, there is a worry of over centralization of the validator set.
00:07:23.002 - 00:08:07.430, Speaker A: Even before the merge went live, there were researchers that Justin himself did around actually making running validators more viable, or even making LSTs bought for solo stakers. That's where he published a paper on liquid solo staking. In liquid solo staking, there was a paradigm actually proposed to reduce the risk of getting slashed. If you run a validator. And of course expose the validators to some LSTs, if they bring 32 e, they get 31 euphot back in LSTs and they have a one e bond. That was the base idea of liquid solo staking. And essentially after me and Jason gave it a little bit of thought, we were like.
00:08:07.430 - 00:09:04.598, Speaker A: Before we get to our dreams of having Ethereum as decentralized global source of trust, we need to make it more decentralized. We need to build tools for it to make it more decentralized. So, inspired by Justin Drake, we wanted to move towards the base layer of Ethereum, which is proof of stake and validating on the proof of stake and making it as decentralized as possible. We received a Ethereum foundation grant to build the anti slasher that was proposed in liquid solo staking. Article I can unwrap that. I can explain what the antislasher does, but in very short, it actually prevents slashable offenses being produced by honest node operators. What do I mean by honest node operators? An operator who is not actively trying to self slash, who is not actively trying to break the trust of their hardware, their tes to actually break the hardware.
00:09:04.598 - 00:09:50.006, Speaker A: The easiest way to think about anti slashers that we actually built and open source as part of this Ethereum foundation grant is just a leisure wallet. The private keys of your wallet are always secured in that hardware. You cannot take it out unless if you break in your leisure wallet through some hack. That's the easiest way to put anti slashes. And that's where we started. We were like, okay, let's now focus on building a decentralized LST protocol. At puffer, our goal was to actually adopt a system that is as permissionless as rocket pool, but also as close as capital efficient as Lido, and also as high rewarding and well performing as Lido.
00:09:50.006 - 00:11:06.080, Speaker A: So we started our research. We spent about like six months just designing and brainstorming with a lot of Ethereum core researchers of, hey, what is the best way to design a system that takes the best of these both worlds to actually bring the best to the ecosystem so we can actually decentralize this further through permissionlessness and lower barriers of entry? That's how we ended up with actually puffer. We included our antislashers. Then we came up to another roadblock. For example, in a trustless, permissionless setting like rocket pool, nodes come in with a certain bond, which is today, I believe it's eight E. Let's say if that node gets to propose a block that is worth more than eight e, if they refuse to share that block with the rocket pool smoothing pool, they might get penalized through the oracle dow that actually scans the chain and finds out, and hopefully they find out that they got a bigger MEV than their collateral. If they get, let's say a ten e block, they get to forego that collateral and actually just take away the MEV and just walk away.
00:11:06.080 - 00:12:16.594, Speaker A: Effectively. They stole or rug pulled MEV from the rest of their stakers that trusted them with this stake. Another issue that became with the design and improvement towards rocket pool current design, was that if a node operator goes offline, walks away, loses four e, and then decides to turn their hardware back on to make that four ETH back, effectively, this is at the opportunity cost of the user. They lost four e that they could have made. The node operator didn't lose anything because they made it back, but the users who staked ETH didn't make it back. This gave basically birth to another big research, which we called smoothing commitments, essentially a prepayment to actually operations on Ethereum to stakers before a known operator comes live today, we call them validator tickets because we actually transferred them to ERC 20s in form of prepayment for the right to running a validator. This way we decoupled the performance and also MEV rock pulling from the users.
00:12:16.594 - 00:13:16.906, Speaker A: The users always would get the average rewards that is in the market. The node operator also does not have to stress about, oh, like I might not make enough, I might not get picked for the MEV and it might just get disappeared. I will unwrap this a little more later as well. But a great version of that and inspired by that is actually called execution tickets, which currently are proposed to be added to Ethereum's main net. Those are similar to our validator tickets that are ERC 20s, but they are designed around decoupling like basically attestations and proposals, which contributes further to decentralization. So we actually had time to discuss about reducing the risk of running a validator, reducing the risk of staking at a trustless LSD. Now, we were at this crossroad, we were like, okay, we reduced the risk, we lowered the bond all the way to one e.
00:13:16.906 - 00:14:10.762, Speaker A: We also reduced the risk to stakers. We asked ourselves at that point, is this going to be enough? Why would someone now pick our protocol compared to Lido? Is this enough incentive just to say decentralization? Or do we have to even go one step further? That's where we got introduced to restaking. Restaking was a paradigm that could actually provide more rewards, both for the node operators and incentivize them to come into coffer and also incentivize the stakers to get more rewards. So that was our last addition to this stack to be able to make the most trust minimized decentralized LSD platform, which now today we called native liquid restaking because it is embedded with restaking on top of the stack.
00:14:10.826 - 00:14:40.518, Speaker E: So, Amir, with these LRT tokens, we've seen different mechanism designs, and we've seen some that can only be restaked into Eigen layer when the caps are open, and then some that can be restaked natively into Eigen layer. Doesn't matter if caps are open or not. And we've seen kind of the memes all over twitter. No cap LRT token. So can you just break down, I guess, the differentiators there?
00:14:40.604 - 00:15:04.750, Speaker A: Absolutely. So let me explain LRT very quickly. Liquid restaking token. It's a receipt that is given to restaking on top of ideer. I would like to differentiate LRts and native LRts. LRTs are basically based on bringing an LST and getting a restaked token for your position in restaking. That's a receipt token.
00:15:04.750 - 00:15:50.960, Speaker A: Native LRTs are what I explained. Essentially beacon chain ETH is getting pointed there and there is basically income comes. Now LST protocols have a pool that gathers a lot of ETH in native liquid restaking. All of the validators of that pool point their withdrawal credential to an eigen pod and therefore they're natively restaked. Users funds users ETH into eigen layer. What does this mean? This means now their LSD is generating both restaking rewards and also ethereum proof of stake rewards. And the user does not have to go through hops of getting an LST, restaking it in a place and taking it to another place.
00:15:50.960 - 00:16:49.770, Speaker A: The reason that they're capped and they're uncapped is just like mostly because of the ethos alignment and also the risk profiling of what restaking is and what the team at Agnilayer is actually focusing on. Native restaking has better security guarantees. Why? Because it is the pure ETH backing the applications of ABs. Also, at the same time you have to put to account a native restaking. Basically, if it is too centralized, it is not much different than LST restaking because the trust assumption is still on the node operators today. If you put to account for example, rocket pool as an LST, as a re, basically as a restaking token, it's great. It is very much collateralized and the underlying node operators are also economically collateralized.
00:16:49.770 - 00:17:43.914, Speaker A: So they cannot take ransom of the AVs and say hey, if you operate in certain ways, I'm going to underline the underlying asset which is the LST. However, the native restaking, if also it is centralized and run by centralized operators, they can do the same. If one entity is running the entire native restaking application, they can say I'm going to slash the underlying east and the underlying asset. These are the two different basically assumptions. That's where we believe even for native restaking, the underlying node operators have to be permissionless and decentralized. And these are now the two differences of the classes of native and LST restaking. The LST restaking is capped on eigen layer because of course because of the reasons, you know, because of the different trust classes and trust assumptions.
00:17:43.914 - 00:18:23.130, Speaker A: The native restaking, however is uncapped on eigen layer. A clarification as this is today, Eigen layer is premade net. There is a lot to be figured out. Still, the reason for this capping is also maybe it's connected to the way that they generate rewards, quote unquote, also eigen points. So there has been a lot of discussions around eigen points, and we can get into that as well. But yes, native restaking is not capped today on eagen layer, which does not have restaking active. So it's good to know that today there's no restaking rewards.
00:18:23.130 - 00:19:20.698, Speaker A: All that there is in the restaking world is eigen points. And knowing all of this, it's good to know that also, what is the difference between capping and uncapping? And yes, LSTs are capped, and native risk taking is not capped. And oftentimes the caps open and it doesn't open. There has been discussions about measuring the incentives that people get on this point system. They should be limited by 33% of each entity, given whether they're Lst, whether they're native, whether they're like, in any form, any dow, any institution that comes into restake, they want to be, of course, ethos aligned, and they want to cap the rewards that a one receives by 33%. And that's still a proposal. We hope to see versions of it, more clarity on it, whether it would be implemented or when it would be implemented.
00:19:20.698 - 00:19:22.510, Speaker A: We are still curious to see that too.
00:19:22.580 - 00:19:36.758, Speaker E: Amir, I just want to talk a little bit about your launch. As we mentioned in the opening, puffer has accrued around 900 million in TVL out of the gate. Can you remind me, just like how long you've been live? It's only been a couple of weeks, right?
00:19:36.844 - 00:20:32.486, Speaker A: Yeah. So I would like to also clarify that Hoffer protocol is not live. This is our pre mainnet deposit campaign. This is effectively a vampire attack directly on the most dominant LSD operator on the Ethereum validator set. What we wanted to say was the excitement in the market not only can benefit the users from taking advantage of the current openings in the caps, but also it can contribute to decreasing the dominant position of someone like LIgo. And therefore that's where we focus on only taking in STE, and we even incentivize further to take the existing STE restake at Eigen layer to be brought into puffer. The idea behind this was we're going to have a main net soon.
00:20:32.486 - 00:21:22.226, Speaker A: We're going to redeem all these sTe and actually bring it to puffer and therefore reducing the dominant position of Lido, where is like right now, it's about three and a half percent total ETH staked on SDE. So it would still make a dent. It would still be effective to actually get more decentralization in here. So yes, the pre mainnet deposits have been live for almost, I would say, eleven days or ten days. And ever since then, a lot of people showed that they're ready for puffer, they excited for puffer, they're ready for puffer, and they're ready to contribute to this decentralization roadmap. And long before a lot of things would be implemented in eigen layer or even on their roadmap, they would even hit Mainnet. Puffer would be on Mainnet.
00:21:22.226 - 00:21:32.542, Speaker A: And we can actually start reducing this huge amount of St in Eigen layer and actually bring it alternative risk taking into puffer.
00:21:32.706 - 00:22:19.722, Speaker E: Yeah, no, I think that's a good clarification because I wasn't actually aware that this was like a pre made net and it was kind of like a targeted vampire attack on Steth. I'm also just kind of curious, what did you do to, I guess, promote this go to market? Because was it the questing component that was kind of like that gamified thing that you think really drew people in? Or was it the underlying message or ethos that you're bringing to the table with decentralizing ethereum? What do you think connected so well with people? Because I've been around the space a while and this is a pretty extraordinary launch, I would say. Yeah. What do you think was kind of like the secret sauce here?
00:22:19.856 - 00:22:57.634, Speaker A: Absolutely. I believe we've been educating the whole community for almost since August of last year. We've been talking about native liquid restaking. We've been talking about pulled restaking, and we've been telling the community that, hey, building a permissionless, trust minimized protocol takes years to come. But we actually were able to pull it off. We went on our private testnet and we felt like a readiness level to actually take and launch the premadnet deposits campaign. And I think this was the sort of anticipation by the community that we're waiting.
00:22:57.634 - 00:23:38.358, Speaker A: Okay, these guys have started talking about it. They're proposing so many designs around it, they're actually done a whole bunch of research. We are ready. It showed that users are ready for puffer even before Eigen layer Mainnet, and they're ready for actually their launch. And I think that was an advantage of bringing users in. Of course, the way that we designed this was also very focused on decentralization. And I think this was another thing that users were anticipating a lot because there is a new protocol bringing a new paradigm to even liquid staking on Ethereum and therefore building on liquid restaking.
00:23:38.358 - 00:24:18.110, Speaker A: And that was a lot of good reception that we got from the community. Also the way it was designed for the users, I think got a lot of interest from them because unlike other vampire attacks, it actually made a liquid receipt for users deposits on this campaign. How it went was puff ETH. Today is a liquid receipt for their St ETH position into puff. It still accrues rewards. It's liquid transferable. It can be like recently Curvepool actually opened for it, it can be swapped.
00:24:18.110 - 00:25:13.486, Speaker A: The community went ahead and even spun up a uniswap pool for it, because since the restaking is not live, it's already tracking the highest yield in the LST market, which is St. And it actually enables users to actually get that and have a liquid receipt for it. Unlike most of the other pre mainnet campaigns that the positions are usually locked so they can actually start taking advantage of that within the defi ecosystem. They can trade it, they can sell it. At the same time, having Eigen layer caps open gave an extra opportunity to users to also earn these eigen layer points and rewards. That's where we wanted to not have any opportunity cost to the users that are participating in the vampire attack. If it was done in a normal vampire attack way, the users would have just locked their SD, just get puffer points and that would have been it.
00:25:13.486 - 00:25:42.470, Speaker A: But now with this design, upon launching our main net, not only the vampire is going to go through, but also in the viewpoint of the users, they have already used puff ETH. Right now, Puff ETH is a backing of the ste position, but upon Mainnet, it's going to be the backing of all the ETH that is staked within Puffer and ran by Puffer's decentralized, permissionless validators. And that's how the flow of this campaign is going to evolve and go.
00:25:42.620 - 00:26:09.810, Speaker F: Defi enables a whole new world of trading and yield opportunities. Sometimes we all wish we had a little bit bigger of a budget so we can make the most out of it. That's why we created blueberry. Blueberry lets you access the best opportunities on Ethereum, all in one easy to use terminal. You can access five X, ten X, or even 20 x your money in one click, more than any other lending market, so you can maximize your earnings only on blueberry.
00:26:12.470 - 00:26:46.202, Speaker G: Maverick protocol provides innovative liquidity solutions for token projects to customize, automate, and incentivize their liquidity with the highest efficiency in DeFi, all powered by Maverick Amm. Why has Maverick become the first choice for all kinds of token projects, from stablecoins to LRTs? As the first dynamic distribution, AMM Maverick AMM provides automated liquidity movement modes which move your liquidity to follow price, keeping it where it does the most good. This enables maverick powered pools to process higher volume with lower TVL requirements, and means that Maverick supports the highest capital efficiency for LRTs.
00:26:46.266 - 00:26:47.610, Speaker A: Like we ETH.
00:26:47.690 - 00:27:19.580, Speaker G: Maverick AMM also supports non uniform liquidity distributions, making it easy to concentrate liquidity in shapes that fit each project's individual needs. Finally, Maverick boosted positions maximize incentive efficiency for protocols looking to bootstrap their token liquidity to precise strategic areas of a liquidity pool. Token communities like Lido, Aave, Swell, Ethify, and Kelpdao have been bootstrapping TVL and maintaining peg using Maverick tools ready to build liquidity with maximal efficiency. Go to app Mav xYZ slash theedgepodcast today.
00:27:21.310 - 00:28:15.658, Speaker B: I've got a number of rapid fire questions just related to the launch campaign and essentially what happens when you deposit into puffer versus what will happen in the coming weeks and months. We're recording this the week of February twelveth or 13th. A week ago there was the Eigen layer campaign that kicked off the Caps raise basically from it was like February 5 through the 9th. So it was like a Monday through Friday campaign for folks that deposited into puffer. Then if they deposited Steph into the one way deposit contract, those folks, can you clarify? They are earning Eigen layer points and they're earning puffer points, if I'm saying that correctly. Right, correct.
00:28:15.744 - 00:28:56.182, Speaker A: And the reason that you mentioned one way contract, but yes, the reason that currently the contract is one way is because we did not want to overcomplicate it for the users regarding their Eigen rewards. And also, since it is very new, it's been only a week and a half, we wanted to make sure that the security guarantees are there. Therefore, we did not want to really make this situation bad for the users. But also at the same time, we have the community as the multi stakeholders. I can unwrap how the contract of this vault actually for the campaign works as well to give a little more clarity of how that looks.
00:28:56.236 - 00:29:51.094, Speaker B: Yeah, I do want to cover that, and I want to cover the multi sig. Maybe the next most pertinent question here then, is right now there are no withdrawals, but there is a transferable token that is puff E. I think as you noted, there is a curve pool that's live, but I honestly have no idea what sort of liquidity is in there yet. So for folks that have deposited then or even deposit now, they are getting the puff ETH token right. So that's a transferable token we can start to use in defi given that it is already a transferable token or a utility token. When do we expect withdrawals to be enabled for folks that would want to withdraw versus like, I think if you sell out of any LRT, you normally take somewhat of a hit just due to liquidity constraints.
00:29:51.222 - 00:30:23.518, Speaker A: Absolutely. The withdrawals are going to be enabled upon our main net and our main net sent to be launched very soon. So basically, once Mainnet comes in, there is going to be two ways, two paths. We're going to be like, would you like to take your ETH back or would you like to actually put your ETH into puffer and continue on this decentralization path? But still, we are going to give options for the users even before we start putting this vampire eat into puffer.
00:30:23.614 - 00:30:42.186, Speaker E: I have one quick follow up to that. So since the Eigen layer caps are closed as of, I think, Feb 9th, anybody that puts Steph into this contract, the puffer contract, they'll be accruing puffer points, but they won't be accruing Eigen layer points right now. Is that correct?
00:30:42.288 - 00:30:43.194, Speaker A: That is correct.
00:30:43.312 - 00:31:31.510, Speaker B: Okay, if we fast forward to puffer officially going live on Mainnet, what happens then for folks that already deposited, actually I have some stack that I deposited into puffer. So I have that puffy token. Is that the same token as what would happen when, let's assume that I'm game for my staff to be used in the way that we've described it in native liquid restaking through an eigenpod. And I opt into that. Will I have a different puff ETH token or basically what will we see on the application or on the puffer journey, like the quest that we've been working through when this becomes available?
00:31:31.660 - 00:32:17.814, Speaker A: Absolutely puff e would stay the same. The contract address is going to be the same. The backing of that yield bearing token is going to be now the validator operations of puffer instead of SDEth. And therefore, as a user, you would not feel any difference in what it happens even if you had it borrowed or in lending on DeFi, which many of them are upcoming very soon. Like I mentioned, we just launched. So we are actually preparing all of these liquidities, all these defi positions and everything for users to actually take advantage of. But yes, if you hold your puffy and you are in all of this in the point of view of you or the user, there is going to be no difference.
00:32:17.814 - 00:32:31.614, Speaker A: And even if to your question, Adam, you came in after you kind of not earning the Eigen points at this point. Once the native restaking goes live, you will even start earning the eigen points at that point as well.
00:32:31.652 - 00:32:57.782, Speaker B: And then one more follow up to that. So is puffy representative of what the future is, where this concept of what was an LST versus now an LRT, the fact that we understand that difference, do you think that that will be abstracted away in the like? Is the future just, folks are probably going to be using this hybrid of what we would call an LRT and an LST all in one?
00:32:57.916 - 00:33:35.194, Speaker A: Absolutely. I can unpack that. And probably that's going to actually guide us into puffer's roadmap as well and where Puffer is going, where we envision things are going to be. So first of all, I would say very shortly, it's all down to the risk appetite of the user. Right now, LSD is an LSD protocol. The only risk to it is ethereum slashing. If they want to take on more risk and therefore securing more protocols, they would go to native risk taking pools or native risk taking protocols.
00:33:35.194 - 00:34:30.770, Speaker A: Why? Because the ETH on puffer is not only securing Ethereum, but in the future, it's going to secure a lot of infrastructure as well. We think at puffer, a lot of infrastructure today is going to be replaced by Eigen layer restaking. And this includes like bridges, Altus, or anything, any middleware that is coming in the future. And of course at puffer, we are going to be only focused on those ones that are infrastructure because they don't have a lot of exogenous risks. I can unwrap these classes of risk, exogenous and endogenous risk as well. But yes, the future, I think, is going to be down to the user's choice, whether they want to start taking on more risk by providing their asset to secure more platforms, but also earning more. It's always that risk reward factor, higher risk, higher reward.
00:34:30.770 - 00:34:56.410, Speaker A: And I believe in the future, yes, there should be a differentiation between the two of these. There should be a differentiation. There should be a choice for the user to pick which risk profile they want to go down to. Some users might be just okay with just securing the Ethereum chain as is. They might not be okay with securing an L, two or a bridge or anything else that is out there. And this is the future that we see.
00:34:56.480 - 00:35:21.918, Speaker E: Amir, one thing I wanted to just go back to. You kind of mentioned the vault, like where the steth is being stored, and I think I've seen it on Twitter. There are some very notable, recognizable people that look like they're on that multi sig. Could you just walk us through that architecture, how that Steth is being secured? And I guess, why should users trust you or feel comfortable with this arrangement and setup?
00:35:22.014 - 00:36:02.334, Speaker A: Absolutely. The way we set it up is actually quite the way that Eigen layer set up their vault. Because even Eigen layer today is just a vault. Like really, there's not much activity going on there. The idea behind it is actually have the community, community leaders, community opinion leaders, actually ethos aligned leaders have majority control on this multisig. The multisig is performed in a way that it has this function called time lock to dissect it. It's actually very detailed, but I can give you a very high level of what it is.
00:36:02.334 - 00:37:16.274, Speaker A: The operation Multisig is held by the devs. Whatever action they want to do, whether to upgrade, whether to move funds, whether to do anything, they have to have a seven day period of wait while the community multi sig that consists of all these ethos aligned folks like Justin Drake, Anthony Susano, David Hoffman, also domati from Ethereum foundation, and Ladislaus from Eatstaker community, these folks have immediate action that they can take on these vault. Essentially, God forbid, if one of the operations or one of the team members would like to do anything malicious towards the community, they can stop it immediately. And that's the same way that similar way some of the eigenvalier smart contracts are also implemented. Because now we're actually putting the trust in the hands of the community leaders to actually guide us and not let us deviate away from this ethos alignment path. And the reason we have a lot of these ethos aligned folks on the multi stakeholder is because of our roadmap, is because of our goals to further decentralizing Ethereum.
00:37:16.402 - 00:37:35.438, Speaker E: Amir, we've spoken a lot with Etherfi and Renzo, and we talked about their plans for Avs yield down the road, and how they're going to be tackling that and optimizing that. Would love to hear just how the puffer team is thinking about that, and if there's anything you could share about that, that'd be great.
00:37:35.524 - 00:38:13.162, Speaker A: Absolutely. To actually think about the future of AVss and how it is dealt with in eigen layer, we have to first unwrap the risk of these AVss. As Shuram puts it, there are AVss that have exogenous risk and endogenous risk. Exogenous is this fancy sounding word, but exogenous means coming from outside, out of our control. This can be ETH price. If you want to do an ave pool secured by an AVs, it means the position can be liquidated because of the ETH price. We don't want that.
00:38:13.162 - 00:38:46.878, Speaker A: We don't want to let those avss to come up the first place. But since Agiler is a permissionless platform, probably somebody out there is going to do it. But at puffer we're going to filter out these AVs that are bringing exogenous risk and those are done through multilevels of committees and dow votings. There are now AVs that have endogenous risk. These can be l two s. This can be infrastructures that slashing on them is very easily defined. The slashing can be the same way on Ethereum on a consensus protocol.
00:38:46.878 - 00:39:40.950, Speaker A: Is a slashing going to happen if there is a double block sign or surrounding surrounded votes going around? Yes, that can be prevented. That can even be prevented toward the anti slashers that we built for Ethereum. A version of them can be securing these AVSs with endogenous risks. That's where we're bringing the secure layer of Ethereum to our antislashers even further to AVSs, because AVSs also need antislashers and that's where we're working with Eugen layer to actually work on these antislashers for the AVss that only have endogenous risks. Now that we're over the barrier of risk, we say, okay, we onboarded less risky AVss. Now, of course, we have to pick the AVss with the highest reward as well. That's where we're working with the teams like Nethermind to actually create a risk reward profiling for each of these AVss.
00:39:40.950 - 00:40:27.262, Speaker A: And of course, like these Avs, after being vetted, carefully picked, they would be actually chosen to operate on top of puffer pool as sort of quote unquote whitelisted AVss that can be natively delegated to. So it is very important any restaking pool not to put their user's asset at too much risk, especially since users are going to be automatically opted into restaking in this methodology. Like any native liquid, restaking pool is going to automatically opt their ETH holders into actually using certain yield from their pool. So it has to be very carefully strategized, it has to be carefully vetted, so actually it doesn't harm the users and provides them with the highest yield.
00:40:27.326 - 00:41:11.342, Speaker B: Amir I think this is a great place for us to start to wrap up the conversation. So I want to remind our listeners that they should first learn more about puffer by going to puffer Phi, and they'll find that in our show notes. They can follow the Twitter mothership account for puffer at puffer underscore finance. They can follow you on Twitter at amir on chain. And again, all of that's in our show notes for you to reference. Amir, thanks so much for talking through, really some nitty gritty detail in the weeds about LRTs. There's definitely a spectrum of detail there that I wasn't aware of, despite all the conversations and thinking I've done on liquid restaking lately.
00:41:11.342 - 00:41:34.490, Speaker B: And I'm just excited obviously, for that fuller vision of puffer to be realized very soon. I want to give you the final word, though. Most importantly, just want a reminder or a hint of when puff ETH will be fully alive. And anything else you can share. Any sort of alpha maybe defi integrations for us to look forward to?
00:41:34.640 - 00:42:19.480, Speaker A: Yes. So our most immediate focus is the defi integrations for puff ETH right now. Beyond that, it's also a puffer public testnet, so be on a lookout to be able to run one ETH ethereum validators that can be natively restaked permissionlessly. I think this excites us as much as our DeFi integrations is exciting us because it's been long waited for a protocol to just come out and say, okay, just put one ETH or two ETH, depending on the anti slasher technology they use to run an ethereum validator. This excites us the most. The tested has been actually being tested with some of the professional node operators out there. We wanted to make sure the users have the smoothest user experience.
00:42:19.480 - 00:42:41.934, Speaker A: But once we launch this, that's going to be another upcoming thing. And yes, these are some of the items on roadmap. And beyond that it's going to be just a race to our main net buffer is going to be live. We need to make sure we're delivering now a secure platform. We implemented a lot of nuanced designs. This is going to be a new LST. This is going to be different than others.
00:42:41.934 - 00:43:38.834, Speaker A: We have to make sure that it is also safe because there's a lot of new things that we did for out of protocol improvements because their EIps waiting to be passed. There is one item that is really also needed for native restaking is EIP 7002. If we would like to have a decentralized protocol backing an Eigen layer application natively, we need to be able to eject some validators to enable that beacon chain E that I talked about, and that's like sort of on the roadmap of puffer. Beyond that, we are also thinking about, like I mentioned, a lot of the infrastructure of Ethereum is going to be transformed to restaking. Puffer is going to be actually playing a role in that. You see now a lot of applications are doing that already. L Two is a service restaking L two s or all the other platforms that are coming out.
00:43:38.834 - 00:44:06.498, Speaker A: Puffer at this bottom of the layer can also adopt that. Puffer can launch its own L two and also its own L two backed by Oracle's bridges that are also deployed as an AVs on top of puffer. So puffer becomes this sort of hub, this one stop shop for infrastructure to be deployed on Ethereum. And that's our ultimate roadmap and goal to getting to become this super Dap of infrastructure for decentralized Ethereum.
00:44:06.674 - 00:44:19.290, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer helper, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge pod.
