00:00:00.240 - 00:00:27.470, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's Sinatez, the 12 March 2024 alright everyone, let's get into it. So I know you're all probably sick of hearing about the ETF stuff recently, but once again, I'm going to talk about it for a few minutes. But as always, there are timestamps. You can skip ahead if you don't want to hear me talking about it, but I'm actually going to be talking about it in a different context today, and that's the context of the bear case. Now, I've been obviously very bullish on the ETH.
00:00:27.470 - 00:00:56.470, Speaker A: ETF's getting approved and specifically getting approved by May 23. But as I've said in the past, there are a lot of good kind of arguments that basically boil down to one main argument that you can make to give the bear case here. Now, Jake Chavinsky is probably the one that I, one person I respect the most that actually has been able to give this case without resorting to conspiracy theories. And for those of you who don't know who Jake is, he's been around for a very long time. He's a lawyer. He has been in crypto for a very long time. I mean, I followed him.
00:00:56.470 - 00:01:15.082, Speaker A: I've, I've talked to him a bunch. I really like him. He's a great guy. And as I say in my tweet, we need more people like Jake in this ecosystem. But enough gushing over Jake there. He put out this tweet yesterday where he basically gave his 8th ETF bear case. Now, he's not saying that he's bearish on ETH ETF's, he's not saying that they're not going to get approved at some point in the future.
00:01:15.082 - 00:01:56.640, Speaker A: He's just saying that this is how the denial would happen if it was to happen on May 23. Like that's the, that's basically the day that everyone's watching right now. Now, I'll let you read the tweet for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But as I said, it really kind of falls into the one category, which is the point number one that Jake, Jake makes here, where he says that the SEC would deny the ETH based on the fact that Gary Gensler dislikes crypto as a concept, sees no value in the technology, and thinks attacking it is politically advantageous. Now, the rest of the points basically kind of fall up into that or basically feed up into that. So I'm not going to read the rest of the kind of points here, but that is the one that I obviously totally agree with.
00:01:56.640 - 00:02:55.006, Speaker A: It is no, I guess, some secret that Gary Gensler, Elizabeth Warren, you know, a bunch of other kind of like people at the SEC definitely don't like crypto. They hate crypto and they head it to the point where they may actually be fine flipping the table, as I discussed yesterday, where essentially, as I discussed yesterday, denying the ETF's is just the stupidest thing that they can do because it really isn't like a denial, it's more of a delay where essentially as soon as they deny, they're going to get sued and then the ETF's are going to happen anyway. And I've given a bunch of my other reasoning around why I think that them denying it would be absolutely dumb. But you guys know me, I always try to stick to the facts and logic and in this particular situation, the facts and logic could mean nothing. Right? Because if there is just these feelings in place where, you know, Gensler hates crypto so much and he hated the fact that he had to approve the BTC ETF's and Elizabeth Warren's breathing down his neck being like, don't approve these things, you know, for such and such reason, then we could see a denial purely based on that. That. So I totally agree with that.
00:02:55.006 - 00:03:35.536, Speaker A: That would be the, the case where the dial would happen. And I discussed this at length yesterday. I'm not going to rehash my arguments there. That's the main thing that Jake kind of talks about and basically kind of, I guess, like gives a bunch of other points around that, which I'll let you guys read. Now, the other thing is something that the Bloomberg ETF guys are saying, and that's that something I've discussed before where essentially there hasn't been much back and forth between the SEC and the ETH ETF issuers or the applicants like there was for the BTC ETF's. Now, as I've described before, I don't consider this to be a strong bear case because of the fact that I think that the ETH ETF's are a copy paste of the BTC ETF's. So it doesn't seem to be really much reason for there to be much back and forth.
00:03:35.536 - 00:04:06.328, Speaker A: Like, I'm not an expert on the process, obviously. Like, I'm not someone who deals with this sort of stuff. I'm not in the tradfi world, but at the same time, I kind of understand the fact that ETH as an asset and BTC as an asset are basically going to be treated as the same in these ETF's. They're going to be custodied by the same kind of custody providers like Coinbase. Right. They already have that set up. Coinbase is already having meetings with the SEC showing that the correlation between the futures market and the spot market for ETH is basically the same, if not better than on BTC side.
00:04:06.328 - 00:04:36.938, Speaker A: And the SEC already approved the futures ETF's, so that all plays into it there. So I'm just following kind of that. And if we just base our predictions on facts and logic here, all of it points to the 100% that they should be approved on May 23. There is literally zero facts, factual or logical reason to not approve these things. But as we know, we are not dealing with someone who cares about facts. We are not dealing with someone who cares about logic. We are dealing with someone who cares about pleasing his political overlords and basically doing their bidding.
00:04:36.938 - 00:05:05.796, Speaker A: Right? And he seems fine self immolating in this case. Right. If he was to deny the ETF's and then go to court and losing just to delay it a few months, he seems fine to do that. At least. He being Gary Gensler, at least that's my kind of view here. Now, there is the other part to this where I kind of look at this and I'm like, okay, well, as I've discussed before, it is an election year. So does pissing off not only crypto participants, but tradfi kind of participants and people in a bull market shoot the Democrats in the foot? To an extent.
00:05:05.796 - 00:05:54.152, Speaker A: I know that crypto doesn't play a huge role in the election cycle. Not yet, at least. Maybe it will sometime in the future. It doesn't play a huge role right now, but in such a critical election for the Democrats, where a lot of polls are showing them, you know, potentially losing, a lot of polls are showing them losing votes in certain demographics, you know, things like that, where they really have to make a really strong showing to have a chance of winning. Do they really want to do anything to kind of take more votes away? You know, because a lot of the times, a lot of these elections, they're very close, especially on a state by state basis. You know, they're very close in votes, and there are times where a few thousand votes can make all the difference or less than that. So what happens if at those few thousand votes were people who voted based on crypto policies? Right? Based on the fact that the Democrats have been extremely hostile towards crypto and people are voting for Republicans because they want a change in government there.
00:05:54.152 - 00:06:20.688, Speaker A: And I honestly have the general view that Republicans, Democrats being in power doesn't really matter too much for crypto prices. It obviously matters for policies around kind of like what teams can do and clarity around things being securities or not. But in terms of like, the overall crypto bull bear cycles, I think they kind of follow their own thing based on a bunch of other factors. You can't really boil it down to who's in power. I think because we've had bull markets when Republicans were in power. We've had bull markets when Democrats were in power. Obviously, we're having one right now where Democrats are in power.
00:06:20.688 - 00:07:11.268, Speaker A: So, yeah, I don't think generally that's kind of something that plays into it there. But in terms of the SEC, in terms of people voting basically on a single issue, and that issue being crypto, you would be mad to vote for Democrats right now if you were a single issue crypto voter because of the fact that even if you're only, if you're only concerned with the SEC and not all the other policies around crypto from the Democrats, if you're concerned with the SEC, then you would vote for the Republicans. So they would immediately remove Gensler from the SEC, appoint someone to there that's more pro crypto because, you know, Trump obviously said recently, I don't know if you guys saw, maybe it's not obvious to you guys. So recently he said, I think it was, this was yesterday, he said that he's a fan of, of crypto, fan of bitcoin. He's a fan of his nfts that he's doing. So as a voter, you see all of that and you're like, okay, well, he's obviously going to appoint someone who's pro crypto to the SEC. Maybe it's even Hester purse.
00:07:11.268 - 00:07:49.270, Speaker A: Maybe she gets promoted to commissioner or I guess like not commissioner, chief of the SEC there against the, obviously gets the boot. So if you were a single issue voter just based on crypto, then you're definitely going to be voting for Republicans in my eyes. But at the end of the day, like, I am not in the US, I'm not an expert on us politics, but that's how I kind of think it goes. So that is also a reason for them approving this stuff because as I've said before, the path of least resistance for the SEC is to approve this stuff. If we're basing on facts and logic. But if we're basing it just on the emotions of Gary Gensler and Elizabeth Warren, well, then unfortunately they can do the stupidest thing. And honestly, there's not much blowback on them personally.
00:07:49.270 - 00:08:23.066, Speaker A: Unless they lose. Unless, okay, unless Elizabeth Warren loses her seat to someone based on crypto, then obviously there's blowback there. But for Gensler, who's an unelected bureaucrat who basically just does the bidding of the politicians, for him, he's kind of like, eh, unless I feel like I'm not going to be able to do what I want after I, you know, leave the SEC, I'm not going to change my stance here. So all of that obviously falls into it. And I hate that. That is so political, guys, because this process of approving an ETF should not be based on your own personal feelings towards assets, should not be based on politics. It should be based on the facts and the reason and the factual reasoning and the logic and the law.
00:08:23.066 - 00:09:13.206, Speaker A: I mean, the law should be respected here because the SEC has already lost on in court based on the law, but it's not. And that is the primary reason or the primary kind of thing that people are bringing up as to why these things could get denied on May 23. Now, in saying all of that, last thing I'll say is that I would give it a deadline of about mid April. If we don't hear anything by mid April about kind of some back and forth between the SEC and the issuers, we can pretty much say that May 23 will, will probably will most likely be a denial. I mean, there could still be some back and forth later than that, but it gets really close to the deadline and it becomes a kind of thing of can they get it done in time? Because you could get to the scenario where it gets denied based on the fact that they're just not ready yet because the SEC dragged their feet on this. So that's a reality that could happen, but I doubt that that would happen, honestly. But yeah, that's, that's kind of where we're at right now.
00:09:13.206 - 00:09:41.286, Speaker A: So hopefully there's not much more ETF stuff over, you know, until something positive happens. Because I know you guys are sick of hearing about this, but at the same time, I think it's critically important to keep you guys up to date on this. And it's interesting to me, at least, and I'd like to talk about what's interesting to me on the refuel. Hopefully I can make it interesting for you guys because a lot of this stuff is actually really dry. Honestly, if you take away, eat from this and you're just talking about like, politics and ETF's and, you know, people doing stupid things and so on and so forth, it's not really that entertaining. It's more like a soap opera than anything else. Right.
00:09:41.286 - 00:10:05.652, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm gonna leave that one at that for today. I'm gonna move on to more interesting stuff, which is Den kun related. So as you guys probably saw already, that 1 minute animated short that was created for EIP 4844 has gone live. You can also mint the NFT, which basically all the proceeds will go to core developers via the protocol guild here. But if you haven't seen this yet, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. You can go check it out. This is a great little short here.
00:10:05.652 - 00:10:25.660, Speaker A: And as I said yesterday, you can try and find all the little Easter eggs in this. I mean, I'm just scrolling through the video here. You can see that the, you know, little pipe is named AIp the hose. Hose, I should say, is named AIP 48, 44. Then you've got like a bunch of different characters at the end here that you can kind of spot. If I go like this here, you can spot all the l, two characters and so on and so forth. Right? So I'm not gonna spoil it for you guys.
00:10:25.660 - 00:10:40.500, Speaker A: You can go give this. Give this a watch. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And also the mint. The mint, the NFT, with all proceeds going to core developers via the protocol guild. All right. Speaking of Den Kun, less than 24 hours, I think by the time this, you're watching this, maybe.
00:10:40.500 - 00:11:02.180, Speaker A: Maybe just over 24 hours, actually, by the time that you're watching today's episode of the refuel until Den kun goes live on the Ethereum mainnet, there's going to be a live stream. I've got a link to that actually here. Nixo from each staker tweeted, casted this out on Farcaster. I'll link that in the YouTube description below. But there is also a hard fork monitor at the Beacon chain website here. So I'll link that as well for you guys. You can scroll down, you can see it here.
00:11:02.180 - 00:11:17.594, Speaker A: Time of recording. There's one day and 2 hours to go until Denkun goes live. It is finally here, guys. I am so excited to see blobs go live. Like, I can't actually describe my excitement. Like, I'm not as excited as I was, like, about the merge. Obviously, the merge was just like too big of a thing and a long time coming.
00:11:17.594 - 00:12:14.960, Speaker A: But the blobs going live, the IP 48, 44 goes live signals another kind of shift in Ethereum's I guess, like roadmap or not. Not roadmap, so to speak, but like Ethereum's trajectory where essentially we've gone from having non purpose built call data powering roll ups to now purpose built blobs powering rollups, which can turn into full dank sharding at some point, which would have things like data availability sampling, which is part of the longer term roll up centric roadmap that has been proposed a few years ago by Vitalik. So this is a huge step here, guys. That's why I'm super excited about Denkun generally with EIP 4844 going live, and I'm finally excited to see what the fees are going to be like. And what's funny is that I'm both excited but also a little bit annoyed. And I'm annoyed because I just know that the fees are not going to be as cheap as some people have said they're going to be, and they're not going to be as expensive as some people said they're going to be. But at the same time they're going to sit in like this middle zone where it will make the people happy that it's cheaper, but then other people will be like, hey, it's not as cheap as you said it was going to be.
00:12:14.960 - 00:12:33.760, Speaker A: You scammed and lied to us. Haha. Theorem is still expensive, blah, blah. You know, you just know that fud is going to happen. So it's going to be annoying to see that. But at the same time, it's going to be great to see the effect that it has and actually be able to put accurate numbers to this without having to make all these assumptions. Because there are a lot of assumptions that goes into any fee estimations for blobs because you just don't know what it's going to be like.
00:12:33.760 - 00:13:11.366, Speaker A: So that's probably the thing I'm most excited about once blobs goes live the first few weeks, just to see what the fees are going to be like on these roll ups and how cheap they're going to remain. I expect inscriptions, spam to happen in the first couple of days, as I've discussed before, just because people like to take advantage of launches and try to like hype up some, some meme coin or something, we'll see. Or meme NFT or whatever you want to call it, we'll see. But yeah, I'm super excited for it for that, but you can go check out the monitor for the hard fork. I'll link that in the YouTube description below, as well as a live stream, which I'll be on, by the way. As you guys know, it's co hosted by myself, ETH staker and ETH cat herders. It will be a great live stream.
00:13:11.366 - 00:13:23.506, Speaker A: I'm looking forward to it. It's gonna be midnight my time, so hopefully I, I have the energy. I think I will. I think. I think I'll be too hyped not to have the energy. But yeah, I'll link all that in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right.
00:13:23.506 - 00:14:18.676, Speaker A: Speaking of l two s, Tony posted a nice little kind of table here on Twitter where he said, in the last 30 days, arbitrum optimism and scroll together posted over ten gig of data to ethereum l one. That's more core data than all non roll up users put together. And obviously Dankoon is coming where essentially this will move to blobs instead of on call data because we already have confirmation from arbitrum optimism and scroll down that they will be using blobs from basically day one. Now, this means that call data is going to not be used at all by these players, as far as I understand, which means that the ten gig of data is going to move across to blobs instead of, instead of, instead of call data here. So really, from like a chain size perspective, it should be relatively the same for like the 18 day period. And then obviously once blobs expire, it basically goes back to, to what it was before that. But because it's like a rolling effect, we don't know exactly what it's going to be.
00:14:18.676 - 00:14:46.100, Speaker A: We have estimations it's not going to be that much more. But it's a rolling effect, right? Like every 18 days it expires. But it, it's continuous. It's not just like, okay, well, we have an 18 day expiry now. We're going to wait another 18 days before we expire. The rest, no, it's just like on a continuous basis, once the first 18 day period is done, everything that came before that by like even 17 days and 23 hours and, and, you know, 59 minutes and 59 seconds, it's, it's kind of like a rolling expiry there. Actually, I'm curious about that.
00:14:46.100 - 00:15:10.836, Speaker A: Like how often the expiry is actually done by the note itself. I'm not sure if that's the right way. I think I'm thinking about it. But yeah, but regardless, you get me, you get my point here. But yeah, all of this is going to move to blobs post for Den kun, obviously, because as I said, but all arbitrary optimism and scroll have all said they're going to be supporting it from on day one. I don't know if they're going to be supporting it from the fork itself. They may wait like a few hours before they activate it or something.
00:15:10.836 - 00:16:11.834, Speaker A: I'm very curious to see which one activates it first. Maybe there'll be a little bit of a race to activate it first and see which one posts to blobs first here. And as I said, I'm also very curious to see what the fees are going to look like there. But anyway, not long now, guys, just over 24 hours from time of recording until we have it live on the network and I can stop speculating about basically everything related to 4844. All right, so speaking of l two s, Eclipse, which is the Solana virtual machine, l two, that's building up with Ethereum here, announced a massive fundraise of $50 million Series A co led by placeholder and hack VC with a bunch, with participation from a bunch of other venture capital firms, as well as a bunch of angels. Now, full disclosure, I am an angel investor in Eclipse because as I've said before, the most exciting thing for me is about Altoos is not the kind of scalability, because that's table stakes, but it's the ability to experiment with different virtual machines. So, as you guys know, I'm an advisor to fluent and movement, which are doing wasm and move l two s.
00:16:11.834 - 00:16:41.068, Speaker A: And now with Eclipse, they're doing the SVM as an l two. And I've long said that the SVM is, is really cool tech. I think that it works best as an l two. I've just been very bearish on any kind of monolithic model, and obviously, Solana being the poster child for the monolithic model, I've just been bearish on that as a long term sustainable model. Like I've always said that I believe that it would work better as an l two. And now we get to see it with eclipse. Now, in saying that eclipse is going to be not a full roll up, because there's just going to be too much data to post to Ethereum, l one, it'll be too, too prohibitive.
00:16:41.068 - 00:17:36.926, Speaker A: Right now, they're going to be a validium, essentially, where I think initially they're going to be posting their data to Celestia, while obviously having their bridge and proofs posted on Ethereum. So technically, I mean, by my definition and by, I think, like an agreed upon definition, they are still considered an l two here. But it's going to be interesting to see how the SVM does as an l two versus how it does as an l one. It's going to confirm or deny a lot of these kind of beliefs that people have around layer ones versus L2s, I think. And also I'm very curious to see what eclipse does long term like. Is the ethereum kind of data availability going to be enough, or I guess a data availability layout going to be enough for everyone long term when we get data availability sampling, full dank sharding? Or are we going to see these validiums just proliferate and that'll be fine? You know, they use, obviously, eigen da as well, not just Celestia and other Da layers like avail and nia. They chop and choose, I think, based on what they want to use here.
00:17:36.926 - 00:18:23.570, Speaker A: We are very curious to see how that happens, but I guess congrats to eclipse on the rays, and I'm very lucky to be part of it. Of course, here they had a lot of angels as part of their raise. Actually, they've only got a bunch listed here. You recognize some of these names here, like Eric Wall and a bunch of people from the Solana ecosystem as well, which is kind of hilarious because a lot of these people in the Solana ecosystem say that l two s are garbage and they're not great. And why would you do l two s when you can do everything on one layer? And then they put money into an l two? Like, I always follow the money here, guys. Like, when I, when I look at this stuff, especially when I look at people's opinions on things, because if you really believed what you were saying, you wouldn't have invested in this. And that's like, with me, not to toot my own horn here, but I've passed on investing in Monad, that new l one parallel evm twice now, two times now.
00:18:23.570 - 00:18:43.260, Speaker A: I passed on investing in it when it was like a thing was $100 million valuation. This was a couple of years ago, I think. And, you know, I knew it was gonna be big at the time. I was like, okay, well, you know, I think parallel EVM is gonna be a big thing going forward. I think it's going to be great for the EVM ecosystem overall, but I can't invest in it because it's an l one. And then recently I got pinged again. It's like hey, you want to invest? I'm like, no, I can't.
00:18:43.260 - 00:19:03.904, Speaker A: You guys are still in l one. I can't invest in an l one because I don't believe that l one s are long term sustainable. So I'm not gonna put my money into something that I don't believe in. And fun fact as well. I also was, got offered this Solana deal originally when it was $0.50. So originally when they were raising, I got offered that deal and I could have put money into it. I think it was in maybe 2020 or something like that.
00:19:03.904 - 00:19:27.336, Speaker A: And it was the same thing for me at the time where I was just like, okay, maybe this does well, you know, because of the fact that everyone's like, oh, you know, cheaper, faster narrative. People love that, whatever. And it was doing a bunch of stuff differently to Ethereum. I know how it goes with these l one s, like these rotation games that go on with them, but I passed on it. I'm not gonna invest in l one. I'm not gonna invest in something that I think is not long term sustainable. But then when eclipse came along, I was like, okay, I think the SVM is cool tech.
00:19:27.336 - 00:20:02.738, Speaker A: I've never had a problem with the SVM. And they build against an l two on Ethereum, which I believe is the most sustainable way to build and ecosystem. So, yeah, sure, I'm gonna, I'm gonna invest in them here. And I guess, like, just to put some, some numbers on it here for the, for the Monad thing at $100 million valuation back then, I mean, you could probably safely say it's gonna open at, what, ten, $20 billion valuation because of just all the hype around it right now. Like, that's 100, 200 x that I passed on because I didn't want to invest in something that didn't align with my beliefs. Whereas you have other people who have no issue doing that. They have no issue saying all this bullshit on Twitter and, and then investing in something that goes against, I guess, kind of like what they're, what they, what they kind of say.
00:20:02.738 - 00:20:19.754, Speaker A: So that's why I've said to you guys plenty of times before, narrative is the narrative. The reality is the reality. Reality is people say whatever they fucking want because it costs nothing to say that. And a lot of the time, it's bullshit. Follow what they do. Follow the money, especially as well. Follow the incentives, the economic incentives, because that's always going to lead you to the truth, or at least most of the time it will lead you to the truth.
00:20:19.754 - 00:20:57.324, Speaker A: But anyway, enough ranting about that, I actually said to myself before I recorded the episode, I'm like, am I going to rant about that? Am I not? And I feel like I had to because I just, it just annoyed me a little bit where I'm just like, am I? You know, there's not many people who actually stick with what they say and actually are telling the truth in this ecosystem. It's just very sad how there's so many people who, who basically gaslight and lie a lot of the time. I try my best to, like, not do any of that. Like, sometimes I'll make a mistake. And, and in the past, I've definitely been someone who has been more, I guess, bombastic about things. But over the last at least 18 months, I say, I will say that I've tried really hard not to, not to kind of do any of that because it's just like, very toxic for the ecosystem. But anyway, regardless of that, I'm very excited about eclipse.
00:20:57.324 - 00:21:22.904, Speaker A: They're going live soon, actually. I think that they're, yeah, they're on track for a Q two main net launch as well, so keep an eye out for that. That's not very far away. Far away. Obviously, Q two is next quarter, so I'm excited to see them go live there, excited to see what they do. Like, what kind of TPS metrics they, they kind of reach, what kind of usage they get, what Solana apps come over from. You know, obviously the Solana, the layer one to eclipse maybe, because obviously they can, they can build what they, um, what they have on Solana, on eclipse.
00:21:22.904 - 00:22:16.816, Speaker A: And I'm curious to say that before the performance metrics between Solana L1 and eclipses and l two, because as I said, it's going to show us a lot of things that we've basically been kind of having opinions about and basically prove our opinions right or wrong on that front there. But anyway, that's enough on that one. Moving on to the next thing. So I came across this article from Coindesk that basically said that metamask is testing fully on chain payment card with Mastercard. So essentially, it looks like Metamask is teaming up with Mastercard to issue a new kind of f plus card here with banks, another company that issues these cards so that you can use and spend your crypto on everyday purchases everywhere that Mastercard is accepted. Now, this is nothing new. There's been a bunch of these before, but it's cool that such a big brand, or I guess, like big name like Metamask is getting involved with this, obviously, it would probably be tied to your metamask wallet, whether that be on mobile or desktop.
00:22:16.816 - 00:22:52.408, Speaker A: Obviously, mobile being the, the main one here, but being able to spend your crypto is definitely something that a lot of people want to be able to do. Being able to kind of buy a coffee with crypto or, you know, pay your bills in crypto or whatever, wherever a Mastercard is accepted is. Is definitely something that a lot of people have wanted to do. So you'll be able to do that at some point in the future with Metamask here, but you can read the full article for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so last thing here I wanted to talk about, because obviously, like, the market stuff is here heating up yet again. As per usual, it's getting hotter and hotter as the days go by.
00:22:52.408 - 00:23:25.094, Speaker A: People are doubting that it's a bull market still, which is hilarious to me. But regardless of that, you guys will remember that, like mid ish last year, I was putting out all of these pro tips, these bull market pro tips, and I actually have like a whole thread of them, which I'll link in the YouTube description below here. Yes. Okay. I found it here. So there are, I think, like six of these tips or something like that that I put out. But one of the tips that I wanted to focus on was this one here where I said, which was my second tip, where I said pro tip number two, for the bull market, outperforming USD is easy mode.
00:23:25.094 - 00:23:48.030, Speaker A: Outperforming ETH and BTC is hard mode. 99.99% of coins are a trade, not an investment. You best remember that when going down the risk curve. Now, we all know that outperforming ETH is incredibly difficult. Like we all, I mean, I think a lot of you probably denominate your portfolio in ETH, and then anytime you go into another coin, you're probably measuring it against ETH or you've traded ETH for it. And we're not even talking about taxes in this, by the way.
00:23:48.030 - 00:24:17.322, Speaker A: Like, take away taxes for taxes, make this trade even worse for you. But regardless, in a bull market, everything is going up in us dollars. So it's very, very easy to outperform USD. It's just very easy to outperform USD generally. But it is very, very difficult to outperform Ethan, BTC, especially over the long term, like over the short term in a bull market, if you do the trade right, maybe you can do it. But if you look at the longer term. Go and look at all the charts for the longer term of things against Ethan BTC.
00:24:17.322 - 00:24:48.064, Speaker A: Pretty much almost all of them are down only. And there are also kind of cycles to this where essentially you might have one cycle old coins pumping against Ethan BTC in the next bull market. But then after that, that it's their, like, last kind of swan pump, as I like to call it. And then they just basically bleed against Ethan BTC forever from there. The poster child of this is probably litecoin because litecoin has been around for a long time, and I know no one talks about litecoin anymore for good reason. It's kind of useless. But I'm going to bring up the chart here for you guys.
00:24:48.064 - 00:25:21.464, Speaker A: I'm going to bring it up on my other screen just to illustrate to you what this looks like over, over different cycles, because I feel like it's very important to understand this if you are trying to go down the risk curve and trying to outperform the kind of market here. So I'm gonna, I'm gonna measure LTC against BTC because it's been around for the same period of time. ETH came later than litecoin, so there's not as much price history. If you look at this chart in front of me here. So look at this. This is what I mean by it having two cycles where it can perform well against BTC or ETH, and then after that, it's down only. So look here.
00:25:21.464 - 00:25:46.544, Speaker A: It had, in 2017, it performed well against BTC, where it went up a bunch. You can see it on the chart here. Then again, it did a bit of a pump in kind of like 2019 here. But then, like, it was down only after that. You can see here, like, it's down only. Like absolutely down only since then. And if you take the peak of against BTC, which was February 2018, to the bottom, now it is down 94%.
00:25:46.544 - 00:26:13.414, Speaker A: Right? So it, yeah, it's gone down 94% against BTC in that entire kind of, like, time period there. And you haven't really outperformed at all. Now, of course, I'm using the example of litecoin, which is obviously nothing special. It's, it's not like a project that anyone cares about or focuses on really anymore. And it was originally just started off as basically just like a joke fork, to be honest. I mean, it was just kind of Charlie Lee experimenting, but then it got bigger and he kind of got, got rich off of it. But that's a story for another time.
00:26:13.414 - 00:26:40.396, Speaker A: But that's just one example here. But if you want an example in the ETH ecosystem, I think there's one, a perfect example here of wifi ETH. So actually, maybe it's better to me to do this because they're giving me more price history. So this is the perfect example of what I mean. So for those of you who are around in Defi summer, you will know what I mean by this. So, Wi Fi, or the native token of the yearn ecosystem, it started off at zero. It was a pure yield farm token.
00:26:40.396 - 00:27:00.730, Speaker A: There were no VC's. It was one of those fair launches that people like to meme about. And it was launched at zero. It went up to, at peak, I think it got to like $100,000 or something. This isn't going to show the peak price, but it got to like $100,000, and it peaks at like, I think 120. Oh, no, I can actually see it on the chart here. 115 ETH per Wi Fi token.
00:27:00.730 - 00:27:30.162, Speaker A: So obviously a huge peak. Now look at the chart that in front of me first, this thing on the podcast, just gonna illustrate the chart from that point, which was September 2020. It's literally down only the entire time. It has not set anywhere near that kind of high since then. And if I put a percentage terms to it, from the picotop on September 2020 until today, it is down 97.7% against ETH. If you put one ETH into it, you would have 0.03
00:27:30.162 - 00:28:02.606, Speaker A: ETH left. So you would basically have $120 left today of your ETH instead of $4,000. If you put that into wifi then and held it, obviously, if you held it all the way down here, I'm not making any comment on yearn as a project or wifi as a token itself. I'm just showing you what the one of the worst case scenarios look like here. And the reason why I picked this token is because at the time, it was stupidly bullish. Guys, like, I can't even begin to describe to you how bullish everyone was on this token. Like, it was next level bullish because you had meme coin wrapped into it.
00:28:02.606 - 00:28:30.600, Speaker A: Because wifi was a meme coin back then, 100% was. You had literally everyone talking about it at the time. It was part of Defi selling, which everyone was talking about. It was headed up by Andre Condre, who was considered a God at the time because he had a bunch of other things I think he was working on as well. And it was a nuke, a new kind of way to do yield farmers. People are excited about that there were main characters like Blue Kirby around pumping in and stuff like that. And it just felt like it could go up only forever because it was a general bull market, too.
00:28:30.600 - 00:28:56.196, Speaker A: Leading into the end of 2020 here, obviously, everyone was sitting at home because it was COVID lockdowns and stuff, too. But at the time, that was by far the. The most bullish I've ever seen anyone collectively on a token. And I'm not talking about, like, b, two, c, and ETH, because that's, I guess, outside of this. But I mean, like, the tokens and other coins out there, even, like last year, when you saw everyone being bullish on soul because it went up a lot, I. That was still nothing compared to what was with what happened with wifi. That.
00:28:56.196 - 00:29:27.640, Speaker A: That definitely was still nothing compared to Wi Fi. Just to give you some context here. And then you can see what happened to it after it. So my main point for you guys here, I mean, there's two main points and the reason why I bring this up. First one, please understand, when you go down the risk curve and you're trading away your ether BTC for other tokens, you're going to lose long term 99% of the time. So if you're treating as a trade and you're trying to stack more ethan BTC, be my guest. Not saying don't do that, but please don't look at it as a long term investment against BTC and ETH, because 99% of the time, you're going to be wrong, and you're going to be completely wrong.
00:29:27.640 - 00:29:49.316, Speaker A: It's not just a little bit wrong. You're going to be 90 plus percent wrong, which hurts. Like, let me tell you, I've done this before. It hurts, guys. You think you want. You're not going to hold it down 90%, and then you end up holding it down 90% for one reason or another. And then you look at what you could have had versus what you have now, and you're like, okay, like, that is a really shit decision, and you feel really shit about it, and it's, you know, it's not a great feeling there.
00:29:49.316 - 00:30:30.570, Speaker A: And the second point is that just because a token or a coin seems to be something that everyone is incredibly bullish on for, like, three months or four months, a short period of time in a bull market does not mean that that is going to remain true for the, you know, the longer term future. It is usually the opposite. People will be really bullish on things because they're shilling it for one reason or another. They're using market as exit, liquidity, whatever else, you know, this happens all the time. You guys know, if you've been in it long enough, this happens all the time. But, you know, just because people are really bullish on something for three, four months, don't extrapolate that out to years. Don't think that that three, four months, is it at all illustrative of what's going to happen over the long term? It is 100% not.
00:30:30.570 - 00:30:46.296, Speaker A: And even ETH went through this in 2017. My God, ETH was like the most bullish thing anyone had ever seen. Like, everyone's talking about the flippening, everyone's talking about how Ethereum is going to go to proof of stake in 2017. It's going to take over the world. You know, screw BTC. ETH is the new. ETH is the new thing here.
00:30:46.296 - 00:31:10.250, Speaker A: You know, so on and so forth. And then in 2018, ETH went down 90% against BTC. It's come back now and hasn't gone back. It's come back up a lot since then. It hasn't gone down as much, this bear market, but still, it is the outlier, it is the 1% or the less than 1% that actually came back from the depths of hell. Most of these things do not do that. So please keep that in mind when you're trying to play the bull market, trying to go down the risk curve here.
00:31:10.250 - 00:31:39.562, Speaker A: And this is just coins. I'm not even talking about things like nfTs, which have also gotten slaughtered against ETH as well. Who knows what they're going to do, you know, over the, over the short term, maybe there's a wealth effect and people that have ETH going to NFTs again. But I'm always talking more longer term here because people get caught up in the short term. They extrapolate it out to the long term, and then they end up getting wrecked on this. And again, I have first hand experience with this. In 2017, I held something through to 2018 and it went down like 90 something percent against ETH.
00:31:39.562 - 00:32:11.192, Speaker A: And luckily, I didn't put that much ethan to it, but it still hurt because I was like, why the hell did I hold it down that long? And I'll tell you why. Because all during the period that it's underperforming Ethan going down there, the project is still kind of like being worked on. People are still bullish on it. People are still saying, oh, it's just a cool off phase, you know, we're going to go back up soon. And then, of course, if it's a bear market on top of that, that kind of thing coming down generally against ETH, it's going to be stupidly hard to outperform ETH. And actually, I think that an even better example than Wifi is link. I love Chainlink, guys, don't get me wrong, I love Chainlink.
00:32:11.192 - 00:32:39.352, Speaker A: I think it's an awesome project. I power so much of Defi. I've always loved chain link. But if you remember in last, not last cycle before, if you were around back then, Chainlink was really bullish. And from July 2018 to August 2020, it went up 10,000% against ETH. So it went up a lot against ETH, right? Over, over a long period of time. But then August 2020 to November 20, sorry, to where is it? Where is it? Where am I going? To November 2021, which was like the start of the bull market, really.
00:32:39.352 - 00:33:14.436, Speaker A: August 2020 to the end of the bull market, November 2021, it went down 90% against ETH. Even in a bull market. It went up in USD, of course, but even in a bull market, a raging bull market, it went down 90% against ETH, right? And then since then, I mean, if you even look at today what it's at, it's still down 90% against ETH, right? And this is 1316 days later. As I said, nothing against link. I just use it as an example of a token that has gone, you know, really well against ETH. And then just like down only against ETH for a long period of time. You can actually see, like, it didn't reverse the whole move, of course, but most people end up entering later on in the move.
00:33:14.436 - 00:33:40.464, Speaker A: So I would say most people entered around here in the move. I've just circled it on my chart here and then. Yeah, I mean, depending where they exit, who knows, maybe they exited down here before link pumped again, I don't know. But anyway, enough of the market talk there. I just thought it was prudent to talk about that pro tip, because I know a lot of you are definitely trying to increase your eat stack by trading other things, but you have to keep all of those points in mind that I just mentioned there. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:33:40.464 - 00:33:46.224, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
