00:00:00.440 - 00:00:25.502, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Dailyguay refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 25 June 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just another reminder here that I'll be doing an AMA in the Dailygways Discord channel tomorrow. So if you are around for that, do join. It's at 11:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time, or morning in the US or afternoon in Europe here.
00:00:25.502 - 00:01:04.236, Speaker A: So if you've got any questions that you want to ask and you can't attend, please go into the Discord channel and ask them in the AMA series channel and I'll answer them live on the AMA. And of course the AMA is going to be recorded and uploaded to YouTube on, I think, Sunday. So it'll be day after I do the AMA. So yeah, looking forward to seeing as many of you there as can it attend? If not, you know, I'm looking forward to answering your questions. Definitely just put them in the AMA series channel in the Discord server. So Jordan Frankfurt from Uniswap posted a teaser picture today saying you're ready to go fast. And this image is just like an image of Uniswap on arbitrum.
00:01:04.236 - 00:01:39.008, Speaker A: So you can see here there's a little, I guess, like, description box here that says this is an alpha release of Uniswap on the arbitrum network. You must bridge l one assets to the network to swap them. And it's got a little nice little deposit to arbitrum button here. And you can see in the top right. It tells you that you're on the arbitrum l two alpha, which is really, really, really cool to see. I mean, that means that this is coming like really soon. I think people have been asking in the discord server, it's like, well, when's, when's kind of like arbitrarium going live for the public? I haven't heard anything lately on this, but in all honesty, I would suspect one to two weeks from, from now.
00:01:39.008 - 00:02:05.462, Speaker A: It could even happen, like maybe, maybe even this week, who knows? Or it could happen next week, so sort of thing. Or it could happen later. Of course, I don't have any special knowledge here. I'm just kind of like assuming. But it's funny because like, if optimism still launches in July, then we have those two major platforms going live within a month of each other, basically, which I think is really cool. And, you know, obviously I've spoken about the other L2s way too much at this point. So I won't, I won't touch on those.
00:02:05.462 - 00:02:50.432, Speaker A: But still, this is just, I mean, just a simple image like this gets me hyped. Just the fact that I've been talking about this for so long, you guys have been hearing me talk about this for so long, and, um, you know, and it's been such a long time coming to finally actually see, like, just a Ui for it is. Is pretty cool. Uh, and I think that, uh, you know, people see this and say, okay, well, you know, what's this arbitrary thing? And they'll go and they'll deposit their assets in, and they'll be experiencing these low transaction fees while inheriting ethereum security. They're going to be really excited, I believe, about this, and it's, I think, I think I've said this before on the refuel, but I really do believe L2s on Ethereum are going to completely change the narratives around. Around Ethereum. Around the narrative that, oh, Ethereum can't scale or Ethereum transaction fees are high, so I'm going to use another chain or whatever.
00:02:50.432 - 00:03:08.724, Speaker A: I think it's really going to change that. And I think, you know, even scalability solutions like Polygon have worked to change that as well. Um, you know, that kind of narrative around Ethereum. So I'm just really, really excited for these things to go live. The more scalability solutions, the better. At the end of the day, I think that, um, end users are gone. Like, most end users.
00:03:08.724 - 00:03:37.996, Speaker A: I don't, I wouldn't say that most end users don't care about decentralization, but it's like a priority thing, right? Like, the priority for them is cheap transactions and cheap, reliable, fast transactions. That is, like, the top of the list. And, and that's fine. Like, I totally get that. But I would, I would wager that, like, if you ask them, you know, what would they prefer? Would they prefer a decentralized and secure system or they prefer something where there's a high risk of losing their funds. Well, of course they're going to say they prefer the decentralized system. And it's funny because you can actually use analogies here.
00:03:37.996 - 00:04:17.252, Speaker A: You can say to someone, okay, would you rather keep your, you know, your, your money in, like, under your mattress, like, your life savings? Would you rather keep it under your mattress, or would you rather keep it in, like, a vault? Not even in a bank, like a vault? Or maybe in a safe, like, even the simplest example. Would you rather keep your money in a safe? That's bolted to the ground in your garage, or would you rather keep it under your mattress? Well, of course you're going to pick the safe every time. Yes. You know, it's still in your house. Yes. There are ways to get that safe out even though it's bolted down, but it's the better option than just leaving it, you know, the much better option than just leaving it under your mattress. And, you know, obviously, most people put their money into, into a bank because that's, like, the best option in terms of, like, security.
00:04:17.252 - 00:05:08.220, Speaker A: Uh, and, you know, you've really only got the one counterparty risk there, and that's the bank. But you've also, I guess you've also got the government as a counterparty risk if they, you know, freeze your funds or whatever. Um, whereas, you know, with Ethereum, it's like, well, would you trust the Ethereum network to secure your funds and these L2s, or would you trust, like, BSc, for example? I know I would never trust BSc ever to secure my funds. I trust Ethereum wholeheartedly. So when I kind of, like, I guess, present that analogy to people, they kind of get it. So I think when people say, you know, do, do end users actually care about decentralization? That is definitely the wrong question. I think the right question is, do they care about security? Because security is derived from decentralization in this ecosystem, and, and everyone cares about security when presented with, I guess, that kind of, like, analogy, all those comparisons when it's actually put in front of them because no one, I mean, I'm talking rational people.
00:05:08.220 - 00:05:28.008, Speaker A: Like, there are some irrational people out there who, you know, and some people just say stupid things, but, like, just a rational human being will answer the question the same way every time. Like, yes, of course they're going to prefer security of their money. They would. They're not going to prefer just leaving their money somewhere where it's, there's a high chance of it getting stolen or kind of getting rugged or whatever. So. Yeah. But anyway, really excited to see this.
00:05:28.008 - 00:06:10.930, Speaker A: I'm hoping this is a signal that arbitrarium is going live with a public main net, you know, very, very soon. So we'll see how that kind of plays out there. So DC investor put out a really interesting tweet thread today where he basically went through how proof of stake is going to dramatically shift incentives around Ethereum development and the future of ETH as an asset. Now, you can, of course, go read this Twitter thread in the YouTube description. It'll be linked there. But what I wanted to kind of go over was essentially the main point that DC investor was making here in that, and that's about shifting incentives. Now, what he means by this is that under the current system, with proof of work, the miners are not necessarily aligned with the goals of the Ethereum network.
00:06:10.930 - 00:06:39.990, Speaker A: A lot of, and I've just, I've said this before, where a lot of miners are actually just like, you know, it's a business for them. At the end of the day, they will mine anything as long as it's the most profitable. And you know, right now, Ethereum is the most profitable thing to mine with graphics cards or asics that are built for that hash function that Ethereum uses. So people mine that. But if something else came along, another network came along, most miners would probably just switch over to that if it was more profitable to do so. And we see this play out all the time. It's not just with Ethereum, it's with pretty much every proof of work based system.
00:06:39.990 - 00:07:19.898, Speaker A: Whereas with staking with proof of stake, the, there's a much, much bigger overlap between users and validators and stakers. And at the same time, you can't use your ETH to stake on another chain. You can only stake on the Ethereum chain or a fork of, of the Ethereum chain. Now, to stake on a fork of the Ethereum chain, you would need to essentially convince the majority to fork off of fork off with you. So it would be kind of like a different kind of thing there. So, you know, you're much more aligned in, just like staking on the canonical Ethereum chain and continuing that along and you and staking. A lot of stakers are ETH holders.
00:07:19.898 - 00:07:56.392, Speaker A: I mean, all stakers are ETH holders. But like, traditionally, the stakers that are, that are kind of involved now have been ETH holders for a while. They've been stacking it for a while. They haven't had to dump it to cover costs like what miners do. And they've also been heavy users of the Ethereum network, too. So those incentives that incentive shift there is absolutely massive. But DC's DC investors kind of tweet thread here focuses on Ethereum development specifically, and how developers of both apps and core developers are going to be more aligned with the Ethereum network because they are going to obviously be holding Ethan and they'll have a chance to stake it as well.
00:07:56.392 - 00:08:25.842, Speaker A: Because with mining, I guess it's a full operation. It's basically, you have to get hardware, you have to set up hardware in some way. If you're doing it in your house, then you've got so much noise and heat, you have to consider electricity costs, you have to consider so many different things. Whereas with staking, it's very, very simple. Like you just, you know, you have some ETH, right? If you have the 32 e minimum, then you can stake on your own. You, you build yourself a little staking box or you buy some pre built hardware, set it up in your home, and away you go. It's not going to cause any excess heat or, or noise.
00:08:25.842 - 00:08:51.590, Speaker A: It'll marginally increase your electricity bill, but not, not really. Um, and then, yeah, there you are. You're a staker. And then while you're, you're a staker, you're an 8th holder as well. So you are incentivized to increase the value of ETH because that increases the value of your stake. So I think that there is a very underestimated point about proof of stake. And I think that's just another elegant thing that proof of stake has because, you know, a lot of people will argue like proof of stake versus proof of work.
00:08:51.590 - 00:09:39.776, Speaker A: Which one's better? I again think that's the wrong question to ask about what's better. Cause it's a very subjective thing and it's very hard to get objective and objective answers to that question. I think the right answer is, like, which one aligns incentives more? Is it proof of stake or proof of work? And I think proof of stake aligns incentives much more between all of the participants of a network and all of the community members of that network, because of the fact that the majority of the community in Ethereum holds ETH. Right? Like, and the minority is basically the miners who may just like, I guess, like mine the ETH and have to sell a lot of it to cover costs. And they just view it as a business, as not really something that they're aligned with. Not saying this applies to every miner, but I think it applies to a lot of them. So yeah, there's much more of an overlap under proof of stake.
00:09:39.776 - 00:10:19.824, Speaker A: But anyway, I suggest going and reading this whole thread from DC investor. He's got a great way of articulating himself and putting and kind of these topics that may, you may not have thought about very often. And then there was a lot of comments as well that went through some other benefits here. So definitely go read those as well. So Peter from the Geth team put out two tweets. So I said yesterday, I think I mentioned yesterday that Peter put out a tweet saying that he wants people to basically spam the Ropston testnet, to test 1559, to break it if they can and to just make sure it's all working fine and dandy. So you can see the results of this stress test here.
00:10:19.824 - 00:10:54.884, Speaker A: There was basically a very fast spike in the base fee being paid. So people were paying like ridiculous amounts of fees on Ropsten to test, you know, the fee burnout to test 1559 out in general. And then you can see back here, he's the burn per block counterpart, maxing out at 768 ETH for the most expensive block in terms of like burn. So yeah, I mean, the network got pretty, pretty stress tested yesterday. I think this is going to continue. You know, obviously on Robson, on, on girlie and then Rinkeby are the other testnets. And then, you know, on Mainnet we can't really do this because it's really real ETH and it's real economic value.
00:10:54.884 - 00:11:45.808, Speaker A: But so we do these on the testnets. And I actually had a question today from the Discord channel. Someone asked, you know, why do we have to deploy it to the other two test nets if they're the same as kind of like Ropston? It's like, well, I mean, you know, yes, they, as far as I know they are the same. But at the same time, you want to deploy to more than one testnet because you want to make sure that the, you know, the behavior that you expect is, is, is uniform across those three testnets before you put it on to main net. Because say you, you put it onto rops them and then it's going all well and dandy, but then you put it onto mainnet and something breaks. And it only broke because the main environment is, even though it's the same kind of like code and everything and same kind of system, it's a different environment to the testnet and each testnet is a different environment to each other as well because different developers use different testnets. So Robson is different to girly and girly is different to rinkeby.
00:11:45.808 - 00:12:15.490, Speaker A: So that's why we want to do multiple testnet deployments. And if all goes well on those three test nets, that's when, you know, you can have relative confidence that we should be able to deploy the 1559 or whatever AIP it is, whatever, I guess, upgrade it is. Because not just 1559, it's London. London with, with all the eips in it, we could have relative confidence of deploying that to mainnet there. So yeah, if you're, I mean, someone who feels like you can stress test Ropston or any of the test nets, please do so. Definitely give it a whirl. I try and break something.
00:12:15.490 - 00:12:39.920, Speaker A: I mean, if you can break something, it would be both good and bad. Good because, like good that you caught like the bug or whatever, and that you broke something and that needs to be fixed bad because I would, I would suspect that would delay 1559 until probably late August if something broke on the test nets. But so far it's going smooth. I spoke about the watchtheburn.com website yesterday, which you can go check out as well to see how much ETH is being burned. But that's on Ropston. It's not real ETH just yet.
00:12:39.920 - 00:13:29.864, Speaker A: And as I said, the network is being spammed. So, so it's not going to be representative of Mainnet at all because people were spamming the robstint network with like ridiculously high ETH fees, which are just completely uneconomical on Mainnet. So speaking of 1559, James Hancock had a go at redesigning a mock up. Sorry, he designed a mock up rethinking the wallet UI based on 1559 principles. So you can see here that the slider is essentially the only things users would need to decide, you know, what that, what transaction they want to pay. So essentially the minimum is the base fee plus the average priority fee plus one way, which, you know, it should still get you in relatively soon into kind of like a block. But, you know, it's going to be slower than the comfy setting here, which is essentially the base fee times 112.5%
00:13:29.864 - 00:14:10.174, Speaker A: plus the average priority fee, which is going to get you into the next block 95% of the time, which is, I mean, come the comfy mode is what most users are going to be selecting all the time. And then you can do like the three times the base. Three times equals base fee times three. And it's good for the next ten blocks under any conditions. So essentially I, you know, I think like the ones that are going to be paying these kind of like three times base fees or whatever are going to be like the L2s. Cause if they need to get their proofs into a block, they want to make sure that they get in and they don't want to kind of like play the risk that for some reason network activity spikes and, and their priority fee spikes up and then they aren't able to get their proofs in. So I think they'll be doing that.
00:14:10.174 - 00:14:31.582, Speaker A: But as I said, most users will only need to do the comfy fee. Now, this is just a mock up. You might be a little bit confused by this. This is definitely not something that's going into, like, any of the wallets or anything like that. But it's a mock up that James Hancock came up with, who he is. I mean, he was the previously the hard fought coordinator at Ethereum, and he's still heavily part of the ETH core devs and. And the ETH one x effort.
00:14:31.582 - 00:15:01.570, Speaker A: So he knows what he's talking about when he's kind of, like, designing these things. But in saying that, you know, good ux design is much. Is kind of, like, much different to this, where you basically abstract away everything. Like, if you're trying to go for the best and simplest ux for gas fee, you would show people none of this information. All you would show them is that the slider and the dollar amounts or the fee in dollar amount of what they're paying, and. Sorry, in Ethan and dollar amount of what they're paying. That's all you would show, because that's all users care about at the end of the day.
00:15:01.570 - 00:15:35.796, Speaker A: And I don't know if a lot of you know this, but wallets basically do pretty much all the fee related stuff for you already. They. They do the fair estimation for you. You can change it, of course, but they give you, like, an estimation of what you should be paying, and they handle the, you know, setting the gas limit and things like that. So, you know, most. Most of the. I do believe most of that sort of stuff should still be handled by wallets and, like, you know, and all those kind of things going forward, rather than having to kind of, like, get users to do that, because there's no way an end user, like, especially a new one, is going to look at this and think, oh, I know exactly what this means.
00:15:35.796 - 00:15:57.396, Speaker A: No, not even, like, the more the user. Not. I mean, not even new users, like, people that have been in this space for a while are going to be able to look at this and understand totally what's going on. So, you know, we just need, like, as simple as possible, but still good to see these kind of mock ups here. I think it's really cool that. That James put this out and I hope to see. Well, I'm excited to see what wallets come up with and how they handle the.
00:15:57.396 - 00:16:35.880, Speaker A: The new 1559 gas fee mechanisms. So Jimmy put out this tweet thread that I thought was pretty interesting today, where he was, quote, tweeting Daniel from. From arbitrary and arbitrary, who said the original tweet said, arguing about crypto is fun because we don't even agree about which properties are aren't desirable. And he gives a list of properties here. High fees, MeV ledger transparency, asics, efficient social coordination, toxicity, SPV, traditional finance involvement and lending. You know, are they features or bugs? And then Jimmy went ahead and say that he thinks all of them are unequivocally features, and he explains why. He actually breaks down each of these and explains why.
00:16:35.880 - 00:16:57.508, Speaker A: Now, I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. But essentially, I think that, you know, I agree with pretty much all of Jimmy's points here, and I believe that all of these things are definitely features. So, high fees, for example. I mean, I've said that high fees are actually a good thing for Ethereum in the kind of the long run. I've said that pretty regularly. I'm not shy about that.
00:16:57.508 - 00:17:24.740, Speaker A: And I've written about this in the newsletter plenty of times. But, you know, Jimmy says it's high fees are good because, you know, good luck maintaining a secure chain without an adequate security budget. When someone tells me use chain x, it's cheap. All I hear is it's also cheap to nice hash, which is renting hash power, like proof of work hash power and wrecked your ass. Or use derivatives to cheaply hedge and attack your chain if you're proof of stake, totally. I mean, uh, you know, security is derived from the high fees on, you know. And this is.
00:17:24.740 - 00:17:54.520, Speaker A: This is actually how bitcoin plans to secure itself long term, is with. With a healthy fee market. So if that doesn't happen, then, you know, bitcoin security goes down because of their dwindling block reward. And then he talks about a few other things here. You know, Asic saying, you know, anyone who says that ASICs are bad, aside, aside from environmental reasons, doesn't understand economies of scale and doesn't appreciate the security it provides. Then he goes on to say toxicity. And this is one that actually resonates with me a lot.
00:17:54.520 - 00:18:22.336, Speaker A: And he says. He describes toxicity and says, if your community doesn't outright reject stupid proposals bogged down by the let's be nice pretext, it's only a matter of time before you let idiots walk all over you. There's a lot at stake, especially user funds. Act like it. And then he says, that being said, though, if it's anything like the toxic maximalist playbook, know that it's not only repugnant, but you're achieving none of your objectives that way. Unless circle jerky or signaling to other toxic duds is all you care about in the first place. I totally agree with this.
00:18:22.336 - 00:19:09.544, Speaker A: And this is actually one of the points I wanted to focus on. I think when people call, you know, I guess like me, a toxic person or toxic for, for kind of rejecting a proposal or something or going against the, you know, someone saying something, I think it's coming from, I guess an area where people think like I'm just an 8th maximalist, so to speak. I don't think it's toxic to reject bad proposals under the let's be nice pretext as an example, and not even just proposals. I think, like, it's not toxic to reject communities based on these pretexts. So as an example, you know, over the years, people have said to, to me and to other Ethereum kind of community members, oh, you're just being toxic by not embracing this new chain. It's like, well, I mean, no, because this new chain is in direct competition with Ethereum. They are not shy about that.
00:19:09.544 - 00:19:45.060, Speaker A: They want to take developers and users away from Ethereum. So why would we be nice to them? Like, being nice to them just means we get walked over by everyone. So I don't think that's being toxic. I think that's just defending, you know, Ethereum. Like if you, if you view Ethereum as like a company and say you are like the, the kind of like executive bought on the executive board of that company, well, I mean, you're not going to be incentivized to, you know, let your competitors walk all over you. You're, because executives, I guess, get paid in stock options and things like that. But even beyond that, you know, you're, you're not incentivized to let your competitors walk all over you.
00:19:45.060 - 00:20:43.480, Speaker A: So you're not going to let, could you imagine, like, you know, Apple's, one of Apple's conferences, if Microsoft came up to them and said, hey guys, can we like, you know, advertise our new products on your stack on your main stage? No, like, Apple would never agree to that. Just, and this is why, you know, for those of you who are aware, like Defcon and Osaka in 2019 actually had a lot of Ethereum competitors on the main stage and the ethereum related talks were on it, were put into side rooms. I don't know who came up with that, but that was the stupidest thing I've ever seen. And, you know, people were calling us toxic for calling that out. Like, you know, some of us Ethereum people and like, how is that toxic? Why would we invite competitors onto the main stage and support that. Why would we want to support that when we know what they're there for? So I, again, I don't think that's toxic. I think that's just responding to incentives and is a way to, I guess, like sufficiently defend against, you know, these, I guess you can call them attacks or whatever you want to call them.
00:20:43.480 - 00:21:26.998, Speaker A: But then Jimmy says, you know, that being said, the toxic maximalist playbook of just like doing what bitcoin maximalists do, rejecting everything and calling everyone, you know, a shitcoiner or a scam artist for liking something different is very different to how I, myself and a lot of other Ethereum community members approach things. I think there are, of course, lots of scams out there, but there are also a lot of genuine projects who are trying to do something. You know, even if I think they're misguided in what they're trying to do, they're still trying to do it for good reasons. They're not trying to scam anyone. But I'm still, I'm not going to still be nice to those projects and let them walk all over kind of the ethereum ecosystem because they are in competition. So as soon as people acknowledge that everything is in competition with everything in this ecosystem, the better off you are. And this doesn't just apply to layer one chains, this applies to apps as well.
00:21:26.998 - 00:22:13.660, Speaker A: At the end of the day, you know, Uniswap and sushiswap is the perfect example here. I don't think it's. I mean, it can get pretty toxic sometimes between the two camps I've seen on Twitter. But I think generally it just makes sense if you look at the incentives, you know, no one, I guess, like from the sushi swap camp, has any, or like from any of those two camps, has an incentive to promote the other because they are in direct competition for trading volumes, for fee revenue for all that sort of stuff. But anyway, I've rambled on about this, this one a little bit too much here. I think if you want to read the whole thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description and you can go check it out. So Makerdao announced this new Makerdao growth core unit initiative, which is a company born out of the Makerdao community and is dedicated to the continued growth of Dai and the maker protocol through strategic partnerships and business development.
00:22:13.660 - 00:22:32.650, Speaker A: So essentially this is their new bd marketing partnership, I guess, like business. Man, I'm losing the word right now. Business unit, so to speak, right? It's a core unit. It's obviously going to be decentralized. It's not going to be like a traditional company, whatever. It's going to be part of the Dow. But this is really cool.
00:22:32.650 - 00:23:24.540, Speaker A: I mean, this, this is like the working groups that the index co op has. Like, you guys know that I'm pretty heavy, pretty a big fan of the index co op, and I pay attention to what they're doing. They have a bunch of working groups so similar to what maker has. And I think that a lot of daos out there are going to be doing this where you have different working groups for marketing BD or for, you know, Dev or for, you know, community related stuff, and you kind of like assign leads there and you assign different people to work on that. And then they just basically work for the DAO. And that's how, that's essentially how a DaO kind of gets to a point where it's actually autonomous, is when you have all these working groups and these core units that basically are siloed to an extent where they focus on their own stuff but also have like overlap with, with the rest of the DAO. So that's how you get to the autonomous part, because right now a lot of daos really are dues.
00:23:24.540 - 00:24:29.054, Speaker A: They're digital organizations, but they aren't autonomous because they have a core team that they kind of look up to and look to for guidance and follow along with. And that's usually the original core developers that launched the protocol. But to get to an actually sufficient and effective DaO, you need to create these core units and working groups, and you need to steward them along as the core team until they're, you know, sufficiently kind of like decentralized and sufficiently self sustaining as well. So it's just cool to see maker doing this. I think Maker is probably one of the most furthest along teams on this because of the fact that they've been around for quite a while and they were the first kind of like Defi Dao, I believe, as well. So, yeah, really cool to see this out of maker, and I'm curious to see kind of like what they do as this new core unit here. So finally, we have the Ethereum push notification service that announced today that they're collaborating with Aave to basically, I guess, like I mentioned this the other day, that they were teasing that they're going to be doing push notifications on AAve, and you can read all about that in this kind of medium post here, which, of course will be linked below.
00:24:29.054 - 00:25:16.322, Speaker A: But essentially you can subscribe to decentralized push notifications using epns and within the AAVE ecosystem. So essentially, you can subscribe to a notification that'll let you know if your position is about to be liquidated or if interest rate changes or goes above or below whatever kind of parameters you set it to and things like that and all that sorts of stuff. So, yeah, really, really cool to see epns kind of collaborating with more teams here to bring, put, bring push notifications to defi. Because the funny thing is, is that you'd think push notifications would have been a thing that we've already kind of done within crypto, but it's done in a very limited fashion. Right. Metamask will give you a notification when your transaction succeeds, but it's not going to tell you anything more than that. It's not going to tell you, I mean, succeeds or fails.
00:25:16.322 - 00:25:42.304, Speaker A: To be fair, it's not going to tell you when you receive funds to your metamask account. It's not going to tell you when your position is going to be liquidated. It's not going to tell you interest rate change, it's not going to tell you any of that sort of stuff, whereas EPNs is planning to do that. And there are some other kind of, like, services out there. I think Defi Saver etherscan lets you set up notifications for certain things, but it's all very primitive. Still, block native has their notification service, too, but, yeah, still very primitive. So.
00:25:42.304 - 00:26:07.892, Speaker A: And, you know, it's still not really decentralized. So EPNS is kind of like trying to decentralize this out. They do have a token, of course, and I should mention that I'm a seed investor and epns as well. But yeah, they are trying to push this forward and I think it's just a really cool idea and excited to see them collaborate with some of the biggest projects in this space. They have also been working with Uniswap and a few other projects as well. And they're also on Polygon, too, which is really, really cool. So, yeah, if you haven't checked this out yet, be sure to do so.
00:26:07.892 - 00:26:19.964, Speaker A: But that is it for today, everyone. So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
