00:00:00.600 - 00:00:32.490, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano and today's the 5 April 2021. Alright everyone, I hope you all had a good Easter over the weekend. It has been a wild weekend for eats price, that's for sure. We broke a new into a new all time high which was about, let's see here on the chart, 21 45 is our new all time high. Obviously we've come down a little bit here back at around 2061. At time of recording, the old all time high was around 2040.
00:00:32.490 - 00:01:00.764, Speaker A: So we broke it by about $100 here and you know it. The funny thing is, I was looking at the chart here and our old all time high was on the 20th of Feb, which is about six weeks ago now. Right. It really didn't feel like six weeks like thinking about it. You know, March was obviously a bit of a wild month as you can see here. Right. We basically started off at what, $1,300, went all the way back up to about 1940 and then came back down to 1545 and then obviously continued on from there.
00:01:00.764 - 00:01:37.734, Speaker A: But yeah, it hasn't felt like six weeks, that's for sure. It kind of felt like it's all time high was like last week and then we, you know, we broke it, get broke it again on the weekend. But yeah, been really, really cool to see that. I mean honestly, like, as I've been saying a lot on the refuel, I don't see any reason why ETH, you know, shouldn't be at what, what it's at right now. Like all the things happening with it. We have 1559 coming, all the ETH two were coming, you know, the continued growth of Defi NFts, all that, you know, sort of good stuff there. And as I mentioned on kind of like Friday's refuel, I talked about how like the sentiment of ETH is an asset is just completely different lately to what I've seen in the past in a very positive way.
00:01:37.734 - 00:02:03.626, Speaker A: So, you know, all of that kind of compounding here and all the other kind of updates, you know, that keep coming out for Ethereum, all of the mainstream attention. You know, I don't see any reason why we, we shouldn't kind of like stay over 2000 at this point, which is a wild thing to say. Right? Like a $2,000 ETH. It's just absolutely amazing. I mean I know we got, we kind of got there back in Feb, but you know, at this point we've kind of, like, stayed there. You know, when we hit all time high here in Feb. On the 20th of Feb.
00:02:03.626 - 00:02:25.016, Speaker A: Of, uh, of 2040, by the end of February, we were back to 1300. So it was like a week, essentially, or eight days. We went. We. We kind of fell, like, almost 40%, which was. Which was quite insane. But now it seems like, you know, we kind of, like, went down a bit, retested kind of, like the old all time high around here and kind of, like, continued back above 2000 here, which is.
00:02:25.016 - 00:02:58.526, Speaker A: Which is really cool. But I don't know what's going to happen in the short term, of course. I think, you know, the market's kind of, like, feels like it's entering another phase right now. And, you know, I kind of put out this tweet just before where I kind of said we're in the phase of the bull market where people are looking at things that haven't pumped yet and saying it's still so far below its old all time high, only a matter of time before it pumps, you know. You know, this can, of course, become a self fulfilling prophecy if enough people buy into this narrative. And I'm seeing this everywhere right now. People are bringing up literally, like, zombie projects that, you know, no one's even thought about in years and saying, oh, look at these projects.
00:02:58.526 - 00:03:39.850, Speaker A: They're still, like, way below their all time high, like, 90% below their old all time high from 2017. You know, it's only a matter of time before they kind of go up again. And the funny thing is, is this is what you kind of see towards, like, the mid to late stage bull markets, which is scary because, you know, I've spoken about before how I don't think we're gonna have, like, another two year bear market, right. I do think that the cycles are gonna be quicker, you know, in terms of, like, if we. If we kind of, like, have a down market, it's not gonna last for two years, maybe a few months at most. But, you know, when we're getting to a stage where people have these kind of, like, narratives that they're trying to perpetuate and it's actually working. Like, I'm seeing a lot of these kind of things that have no reason to be going up in value, just continue to go up, and.
00:03:39.850 - 00:04:09.836, Speaker A: Which is just. It's just insane to see. To see this happen. But, you know, when I see this, I'm like, okay, well, that means there's, like, a ton of kind of, like, new investors in the space, right? Which is obvious we know this. But there's also, like, a ton of kind of, like, irrational exuberance at this point where people are like, I can't lose, right? I can just invest in anything, and everything's gonna go up, and it's gonna be fine. This is exactly what we saw in kind of, like, late Q three Q four of 2017, and this culminated in, I guess, the start of 2018, where everything just went nuts. Right.
00:04:09.836 - 00:04:26.828, Speaker A: You know, BTC went to 20k, like, basically doubled in, like, a week. ETH went to 1400. All these other things just started popping off. Like, I remember XRP went up, like, five x in a week or something like that. You know, just. Just all this stuff that just didn't make much sense and was extremely frothy. We're not there yet.
00:04:26.828 - 00:05:09.328, Speaker A: I think we're at the beginning kind of stages of the, I mean, not of the bull market, but of the next phase of the bull market, where we go into this kind of, like, it's pretty much stupidity where people will just, like, bet on anything, which kind of scares me. But at the same time, you know, I think generally, the asset, like, the. I mean, I guess the assets that are the strongest, you know, the ones that the strongest fundamentals are going to be all right. Yes, they'll have drawdowns, of course, but, you know, I think a lot of these other things are going to burn a lot of people because, yes, they may go up, but, you know, there's going to be so many people that know that it's just going up for the sake of it. And they don't actually want to hold these assets, so they'll just sell, right? They'll just sell. And they might take profits into other things. And this is how you see the cycles kind of playing out where people will bet on these other things.
00:05:09.328 - 00:05:47.258, Speaker A: And then, you know, Ethan, bitcoin might sit flat for a while, and then people will take profits into those coins, and those will go up. And then eventually people, like, the money kind of runs out, and people are like, well, I want to cash out now. And we, you know, everyone goes to USD or fiat, and we kind of have those, those crashes. So I'm not ruling out another long bear market. You know, it depends how frothy the kind of market gets. If we have literally, you know, billions, tens of billions, hundreds of billions of dollars going into absolute kind of crap that has no long term value, then, you know, that doesn't last forever. That that very, that actually very quickly kind of peters out and we kind of lose these kind of, you know, new money inflows and, you know, momentum can shift pretty quickly.
00:05:47.258 - 00:06:38.622, Speaker A: We can go from a bull market momentum to bear market momentum, like very quickly. And, you know, things can drop like 50% in a week. You know, I just showed you how ETH dropped like 40%, almost 40% in a week. And, you know, I think obviously, Ethel, in a bull market it recovered, but one day it's going to drop like that and it's not going to recover again as fast as it has. It's, you know, this is exactly what happened during the last market cycle where, you know, ETH went to 1400, then it dumped like the 700, like really, really quickly. Then it kind of dead cat bounced up to, I think, $900 or something like that and then it just continued down from there. So, you know, it's very, very hard, this is why it's very hard to time the tops of these kind of market cycles because of the fact that you just don't know, you don't know if it's just going to be a short term kind of thing or if we've actually kind of topped out and we've broken the kind of momentum for the bull market and we're going into a kind of bear market and we don't know how long it's going to last.
00:06:38.622 - 00:07:00.926, Speaker A: Now, as I said, I think they're going to be shorter, but we just don't know at this point in time. I'm just making kind of like educated guesses. I'm not kind of saying that I know exactly what's going to happen. No one knows that. But at this stage of the market, not, not investment advice, but I would kind of like issue kind of caution here. You know, the way I kind of like, you know, play the play these kind of things, I always have the long term outlook. You guys know that about me.
00:07:00.926 - 00:07:30.474, Speaker A: But, you know, and that's what I encourage people to do just to kind of like always just like have the long term outlook. You know, if you're doing short term stuff, you're not really investing or speculating. And, you know, you, I've seen a lot of people get wrecked doing this as well. And, you know, the kind of, I guess more and more and more, deeper and longer we go into a bear market, the riskier it gets to invest in things. That's just the way it goes because things will have already gone up a lot. There'll be a lot of people in a lot of profit. They might, you know, might start taking profits on that and you might get left holding the bag sort of thing.
00:07:30.474 - 00:07:51.846, Speaker A: So you. Yeah, just, just be cautious. Just, you know, keep, keep your head on. I know it's very easy to get sucked into things because of the fact that, you know, you can see all these things going up a lot in value. Something's doubling overnight, and you get fomo, and you want to kind of fomo into it and stuff like that. And, you know, you might make some money if you can get in and out in time, but that's just not the strategy I like to take. It's full of stress, anxiety.
00:07:51.846 - 00:08:25.894, Speaker A: It's full of kind of, you know, a high chance that you'll lose your money and things like that. So, yeah, just a little bit of not investment advice there, just a little bit of general kind of like advice when we're kind of, I guess, like navigating through these markets here. So another really positive note for ETH is that there is now over 10 million ETH locked in Defi. So I think last time I checked on Defi pulse, it was 10.4 million, which is quite insane. I think what got us over the line here from like nine to ten was two specific events. So I'm going to talk about the fade protocol, genesis in a little bit.
00:08:25.894 - 00:08:49.256, Speaker A: I've got it here on one of my tabs, which locked up over 600,000 ETH in a uniswap pool. So that's contributed to it. But what also contributed to it was another around 600,000 ETH, or a billion dollars from Justin sun. So he put that into compound or Aave, one of the Defi protocols. I can't remember exactly which one. And I think he's doing yield farming with it or whatever. So that kind of contributed to it there.
00:08:49.256 - 00:09:35.496, Speaker A: And I mean, you know, it kind of hurts, right, that, that someone like Justin sun, who, you know, many in the industry, myself included, consider to be a pretty much a scammer, right. You know, I'm not afraid to say that there's a lot of scammy stuff associated with Tron and that whole ecosystem. It's a lot of misleading marketing, all that kind of stuff there. But I guess besides that, it's just like this one, you know, guy who doesn't really do anything for the Ethereum ecosystem is actually parasitic because he launched a competitor and kind of like, you know, basically said Tron was better than Ethereum for years and all this sort of stuff, the fact that he has this much ETH just kind of like rubs me the wrong way, but I'm not going to go on about that too much there. You know, it's not. It's not something I can control, so I'm not going to worry about it. But it's funny that he's still using kind of like, I still has like a billion dollars on Ethereum within Defi, doing things on.
00:09:35.496 - 00:09:55.568, Speaker A: On aetherium, even though he has his own network where he should be kind of supporting and doing things on. So obviously, he probably doesn't have much faith in Tron, um, you know, at this point, which. Yeah, I mean, you know, I don't think anyone kind of, like, would, would have at this point. Like, I just. I just don't see it. So. Yeah, funny to see that, but really positive to see, you know, the amount of growth in.
00:09:55.568 - 00:10:09.760, Speaker A: With ETH locked in Defi at this stage. This is so, this is over 10 million. I think the total supply of ETH is like 114 million right now. So this is almost 10%. And this is not even including ETH two, which has 3.7 million ETH in it. Right.
00:10:09.760 - 00:10:51.074, Speaker A: And I've kind of spoken about this before, how there's so much ETH kind of like, you know, spread out everywhere that's kind of locked or sitting in kind of cold storage. You're getting taken off, you know, exchanges, like, especially centralized exchanges, which are at like, almost two year lows now, I think, in this, in their kind of balances for Ethan exchanges. So that's all, you know, kind of what's pushing the ETH price up as well, I think, is that there's just less and less east to buy on the market. So, yeah, really, really cool to see that. I'm excited to get to 20 million maybe one day. You know, it's funny because I guess as time goes on and, you know, as the ETH price goes higher, I kind of expected the ETH locked in DeFi thing to kind of, I guess, um, grow at a. At a slower pace.
00:10:51.074 - 00:11:14.042, Speaker A: Right. Not as fast as it has in the past, and. But it's still growing, like, really, really quickly. So I'm surprised by that, because right now, 10 million ETH is, you know, a huge chunk. I mean, like, that's what, like $20 billion something like that at this point in time, it's kind of like a huge chunk of money there. But, like, it's great. It's great for all of Defi because it means we have more economic bandwidth within the ecosystem to back a lot of the apps that we're kind of doing.
00:11:14.042 - 00:11:54.666, Speaker A: So, yeah, we'll see how much more ETH gets locked in defi over time going forward. So a quick shout out to my good friend DC investor here. He created a new newsletter called the catalyst where he'll be kind of like he says he'll be periodically sharing his random thoughts, and he actually put out a really great first post. You can see here are not welcome to the catalyst that was linked from there. I already subscribed to this, but yeah, will we see a multi chain world where he basically runs through kind of like, you know, what, what does the world look like in the future with ethereum and bitcoin and all the other chains out there? I read through it earlier today. I suggest you go read through it as well. Highly recommend subscribing as well if you haven't yet.
00:11:54.666 - 00:12:16.050, Speaker A: DC Investor is one of the clearest thinkers in this space. He's been around for quite a while. You know, he writes a lot. I mean, he used to write a lot on Reddit as well. For those of you who kind of looked during the ETH Trader ETH finance days, he was very active on there. He does a lot of kind of twitter threads as well. So if you've seen any of that, if you've been following him, you know, you'll kind of get the gist of, I guess, what he's trying to do here.
00:12:16.050 - 00:12:53.646, Speaker A: But yeah, it's great to have more kind of content as well, like coming out of the ethereum ecosystem because we have obviously the Daily Gwei, right? We have bankless, we have the defiant, we have, you know, a bunch of other kind of publications out there. But, you know, always room for more, I think. And, you know, I made a joke here. I said a Daily Gwei challenger appears, and I don't really consider it to be a challenger. I consider it to be extremely additive and really exciting that someone else is giving their perspective and writing about kind of the ethereum ecosystem. Because, you know, I have my views, I have my opinions, I have my perspective. But DC investor brings, you know, I guess, like a very different perspective, especially on things like nfts.
00:12:53.646 - 00:13:46.372, Speaker A: He spends a lot more time in that ecosystem than I do. He spends a lot more time, I guess, in, in the ecosystems where kind of like coordination problems need to be solved and governance and things like that. He's very interested in that sort of stuff as he worked as a management consultant in government for about 15 years prior to, to leaving recently. So, yeah, I think if you're interested in kind of like following along with his writings, you should definitely go subscribe to this, it'll of course be linked in the YouTube description for you to check out. So Justin Drake posted this, I guess, tweet just before a screenshot of a telegram group or a telegram poll here, basically asking is it possible to ship the minimum viable merge for the ETH one to ETH two merge in 2021. Now, what the minimum viable merge would be, it would be literally minimum viable. It would literally just be getting rid of proof of work and securing the ETH one chain as we know today, with proof of stake.
00:13:46.372 - 00:14:43.390, Speaker A: That's it. There would be no transfers from the ETH two beacon chain and kind of like all the validators in there to, I guess, the ETH one chain, there'll be no withdrawals to the ETH one chain. There'll be no statelessness. So for those who know about the stateless statelessness clients that are kind of coming out soon and no major EVM changes or anything, this is literally minimum viable, which I think, you know, I mean, you can see here 86% of the researchers that have voted so far agree with this. And Justin notes down here that there's still ETH one, kind of like devs that haven't voted in this poll yet. But essentially, you know, I think that we might be able to do this in 2021 if the researchers are this kind of confident here. And, you know, I think it's okay to leave these kind of transfers, withdrawal, statelessness, whatever, for further kind of hard forks once the merger is in because at this point we just need to get rid of proof of work.
00:14:43.390 - 00:15:22.698, Speaker A: It's as simple as that. We need to get rid of, you know, miners need to be full proof of stake network. And we need to kind of simplify things where it's just one ethereum, again, where you have the consensus layer, which is the beacon chain, and the application layer, which is ETH one. And then, you know, next year we can kind of add all of these features in like the transfers, withdrawals, you know, from, from the e two to 8th, one chain, sharding statelessness, all that, all that kind of good stuff that we've been building towards. So, yeah, I mean, I'm fully on board with this. If we can get it by end of year 2021, that'll be a huge, I think, boost of confidence. And then the other researchers and developers can just focus on getting these, these critical features like sharding out and statelessness out next year.
00:15:22.698 - 00:15:43.526, Speaker A: So, yeah. Interested to kind of see how this goes. Obviously, 1559 is still slated for the London hard fork, which is happening hopefully in July, if not August. August is the absolute latest it can happen in because of the difficulty bomb. So, yeah, this would happen, obviously, after that as part of the Shanghai upgrade. So, yeah, we'll see what happens there. I.
00:15:43.526 - 00:16:23.112, Speaker A: I don't know. I'm still kind of, like, on the fence about this happening in 2021. You know, I wouldn't mind if it happened in Q 120 22. I don't think that would be a big deal, but if we can get it done this year, all the more better, I think. So starkware announced over the weekend that they have kind of like, I mean, come up with a new, I guess, design for a new l two powered amm called Caspian. So essentially it's the TRDR here. And it gets a bit complex if you read through the post, but it's simple enough to understand what ends up happening is that the liquidity for this amm lives on layer one, but the order orders and, like, exchange and everything happens on L2.
00:16:23.112 - 00:16:44.040, Speaker A: So this is done using StarQuest, you know, kind of ZK roll up technology. At L2, they've got like a few different kind of designs that they've come up with here to basically do this with operators using Starkware's technology. There's always diagrams here that you can go through. I'm not going to explain, you know, how it works. I'm not going to read through the whole thing. You can go check it out. Check it out for yourself here.
00:16:44.040 - 00:17:15.126, Speaker A: But essentially, this is one of the concerns that people have had, right, about, I guess, l one, you know, al two s and kind of like crush l two sort of thing, basically having this fragmented liquidity. And if Caspian works, as it's detailed here, this would solve this, at least between l one and l two, where all the trading would be done at l two. Liquidity lives on l one still. And, you know, you can kind of tap into that. And this isn't to say that liquidity can't live on l two as well. But the thing is, you know, moving liquidity is, I mean, it's. It's not easy.
00:17:15.126 - 00:17:47.276, Speaker A: You know, liquidity is very sticky to a kind of base layer. You know, you can move liquidity between protocols kind of quickly, I guess, depending on, like, if you do, like, a vampire attack or. Or if you kind of, like, do token incentives. But generally, liquidity is kind of pretty sticky. You know, even though that other chains have gotten a bit of liquidity lately, ethereum just hasn't really lost anything. You know, we're still at record highs for kind of TVL locked, you know, ETH locked volumes across Dexs. So this is kind of like what Starquest trying to solve here is that they know that liquidity is very sticky on l one.
00:17:47.276 - 00:18:16.750, Speaker A: They know that a lot of people are going to stay on l one, especially whales who don't care about the gas fees. So why not tap into that for l two? And why not do it in a way that kind of doesn't break the compressibility and doesn't fragment things. So that's what Caspian is in a nutshell here. So definitely go check this out, if you haven't already. I think it's really interesting. As I've said before, Starkware is an absolute machine of a team here. They are basically building some extremely novel technology that is going to change the face, I think, of ethereum scaling.
00:18:16.750 - 00:18:31.742, Speaker A: For sure. They already have a few things live. Right. We start, we're diverse stockware with Dy DX and diversify. And they've got, you know, they've got their stock x 3.0 engine coming in June 2021, which will support Caspian here as well. So, yeah, interesting.
00:18:31.742 - 00:19:03.338, Speaker A: Interested to see this go live and to see if it actually lives up to the hype as well, because if so, this, that definitely solves a lot of the issues that people have been bringing up lately. All right, so let's talk about FaE protocol that you may have heard about over the weekend. It was literally all over Twitter for a lot of the weekend because of what happened. So I wrote about this in today's Daily Gwei newsletter as well, with a more detailed kind of explanation. So definitely go read that if you want more detail here. But I think I'll end up covering most of it now anyway. So, yeah, you can listen in or read whatever, whatever kind of floats you're bringing there.
00:19:03.338 - 00:19:38.520, Speaker A: But essentially, Fay protocol is an algorithmic, stable coin kind of protocol that had their public sale over, I guess, like late last week into the weekend, they raised $1.2 billion in the protocol as part of the Genesis event, which was essentially $1.2 billion worth of ETH for a total of $2.6 billion, because then they minted the Fae stable coin, kind of like, after that. So you had like a 50 50 pair on uniswap of fae and ethnic. Now, I do want to kind of, I guess, like, give a disclaimer here that I am a seed investor in Faye protocol. So just to get that out of the way before I kind of dive into the mechanics of it and everything.
00:19:38.520 - 00:20:05.144, Speaker A: So I'll try and be as unbiased as I can with this analysis. But, yeah, obviously, like, because I'm invested in it, there might be a little bit of bias there. So just a bit of a warning there. But anyway, what happened with Faye is what happens with stable coins in general. Like basically all, I guess, non fiat backed stable coins. So not USDC, not GUSD, not like tether and things like that. Basically synthetic stable coins like dai, SUSD, and now Faye.
00:20:05.144 - 00:21:03.948, Speaker A: What always ends up happening is that they very easily can lose their peg because they rely on supply and demand fundamentally to drive and keep their peg at a dollar. Now, what ended up happening with Faye is that everyone kind of, like, put their ETH into this genesis event because they wanted to get the tribe token, which is the governance token of the platform. So a lot of people thought to themselves, well, I, I can just put my ETH in, and then once the sale finishes, I'll just, you know, I'll just use the, because when you put your ethan, you technically bought the fae token, which is the stablecoin, but people basically thought to themselves, well, then I can just trade my fae for, for the ETH, get my ETH back, and then I get my tribe tokens as well. Now, this is not what happened, and this is not what's happening, because this is not how the protocol works. Essentially, the way that FAE keeps its peg to the dollar, they use two different kind of mechanisms. One is something called PCv, or protocol controlled value. Now, what this is, it basically uses the treasury, which is currently holding $1.2
00:21:03.948 - 00:21:46.772, Speaker A: billion worth of ETH as a kind of like, reserve asset to essentially act as, I guess, like a way to buy, to kind of meet new supply or burn supply of FaE to get it back to peg, essentially, if the kind of, like, wider market isn't doing its job. But the first line of defense to get feyback to peg is what's called direct incentives. Now, this is what's screwing everyone up right now, because what, the only way direct incentives work is if you basically have a balanced supply and demand kind of ecosystem here. Now, as you can imagine right now, because everyone wants to sell their Fae to get their ETH back. There's just a glut of supply out there. So there's too much supply. There's hardly any demand for Fae because you can't do anything with Fae right now.
00:21:46.772 - 00:22:03.320, Speaker A: It's not integrated into defi apps. You can't lend it out on aave or compound. Right? You can't, like, yield farm with it. You can't really do anything with it at all. I don't even think you can put it in a curve pool yet as a stable coin. So, from that point of view, you know, the, the peg has gone under. Like, it's not at a dollar, it's at like $0.95
00:22:03.320 - 00:22:29.014, Speaker A: now. Now, the reason why the peg hasn't gone even lower than this is because if you're selling Fae under peg, you're actually penalized for doing so. And the penalty exponentially increases the further away a Fae is from its peg. So, to put this in simple terms, if you were to sell your Fae right now to, I guess, like the Uniswap pool at $0.95, you say, okay, well, I'm just going to take a five cent haircut. I don't care. I want to get my ETH back.
00:22:29.014 - 00:23:06.066, Speaker A: Well, no, no, no. That's not how it works. What ends up happening is that on top of that five cent kind of, um, I guess, like discount you're taking there, you're also taking a 30% burn of your, of your fae, because the protocol is trying to discourage people from selling more fae so that the, the peg doesn't keep falling. So, and you know, the worst thing about this is that uniswap, the interface doesn't tell you this. It won't tell you, hey, if you sell Fae right now for ETH, it's going to actually burn 30%. And you're going to be, you're going to get 30% less than you would have then what the interface shows you that you will get. So a lot of people have been burned by this, but this is exactly how the protocol is supposed to work.
00:23:06.066 - 00:23:38.110, Speaker A: Now, how do you get Faye back to a dollar now? Well, you need people to buy Faye, right? You need people to buy Faye from the pool using ethnic. But as I said, no one wants to do that right now. So from that point of view, that's why Faye is in a rut right now. That's why it's at $0.95. That's why it can't go higher. Because every time it goes higher, you're inevitably going to have people who want to sell Faye again to get their ETH back, right? Because the penalty will be less and less severe. Now, the way that Faye gets out of this, right, is by using pcv protocol controlled value, by using that mechanism.
00:23:38.110 - 00:24:04.590, Speaker A: Now, what this does is it uses the treasury to buy back, fail to burn Fay to bring it back to peg. So, as I said, it has a $1.2 billion worth of ETH in its treasury right now. So it can use that. But the way the mechanisms currently work is that it's set up in such a way that it only does that at, when certain conditions are met. And it hasn't done it yet because the conditions haven't been met yet. So this is essentially, I guess, like the most battle testing that Faye's probably ever going to get.
00:24:04.590 - 00:24:55.086, Speaker A: I think because of the fact that they have essentially an extremely imbalanced supply and demand kind of thing here where the supply is essentially vastly outweighing the demand. And to use even another example here of where we've seen this play out before is with Dai. If there's too much dai in the ecosystem and not enough bias for Dai, Dai is going to lose its peg as well. It's as simple as that. So, you know, and then the way maker controls this or the maker protocol controls is they raise or lower stability fees. So a lot of you may have remembered that back in, I think, 2019 makers stability fees went up to like 21% because they wanted people to close their, their kind of like loans out to pay dai back to the protocol to shrink the supply because there wasn't enough demand, essentially. So from that point of view, you know, Faye does this in a different way, but it's the same kind of game.
00:24:55.086 - 00:25:35.278, Speaker A: It's trying to maintain the peg through these kind of incentive mechanisms that have been set up now. You know, I think, and I said this in my newsletter as well, I think they could have done this in a lot better way. They could have done this sale in a lot, in a lot of a better way here, for one. I think they could have capped it right at maybe like, I mean, $50 million or something like that. Because, because they, I guess, like, because they kind of, like, raised so much right and had an uncapped sale, people could just ape in and people were just aping in for the tribe token at the end of the day. So, you know, I don't, and I think the team explained it quite well. They had a post about this, but people don't read right people FoMo into things.
00:25:35.278 - 00:26:11.040, Speaker A: And, you know, I think people, as I said, had the wrong idea that they could just put their ETH in and get their ETH out after it. And as John in his thread here explains, is that that's exactly what didn't happen. And what ended up happening was that a few whales kind of, I guess, took advantage of people here because they had an exit plan, because the first people to kind of exit out were fine because they were the ones that were selling it around. I think it was a dollar zero one, I think. Yeah. So basically a dollar zero one here. And basically after that, you know, people started selling and then it obviously went under the, under the peg and now it's stuck at like $0.95,
00:26:11.040 - 00:26:57.034, Speaker A: essentially. So, you know, as John kind of puts it here, you basically got wrecked. Unless you were one of those kind of like early exeters and had like a programmatic exit plan, which means there was like a bot that triggered this for you or like a very detailed kind of plan here that kind of triggered for you. So, yeah, I. And you know, as I said before, like, I obviously have a bit of a bias here, but I don't think this is a death knell for the FAE project. I actually think this is a really cool kind of test of its mechanisms and to see if it actually works over time to bring it back to peg under some of the most extreme conditions I've ever seen for something to be kind of like under so much pressure. Because you can imagine that even if the reserves itself start, I guess kind of like buying up FAE to get it back to, to peg, there's going to be so much sell pressure still.
00:26:57.034 - 00:27:17.388, Speaker A: Like, think about it. There's still a billion dollars worth of people. I guess, like Faye, I think. I think there's a billion dollars of the Fae. I might be kind of getting it wrong. I haven't looked at the latest numbers here, but essentially there's, there's a, there's a lot of fae cell pressure right now. So, you know, is it going to be a thing where it's just going to be a balancing act or it's going to be something where the protocol keeps having to.
00:27:17.388 - 00:27:42.288, Speaker A: To buy more and more Fae and then people keep selling, and then eventually you reach kind of an equilibrium of a dollar. And it's probably going to take a little while for this to happen unless they speed it up. You know, they, you know, the team and governance in general can change the parameters here and kind of speed up that. You know, that PCV there, all the mechanisms there. And I think that's what they're going to do. But at the end of the day, this is just like as simple as I can put it. It's a supply and demand thing.
00:27:42.288 - 00:28:14.166, Speaker A: So, you know, I highly suggest reading this thread. Cause it does a really great job of breaking it down as well. I may have missed some things, or I may, may still be confusing you with it because this is something that a lot of you, if you haven't kind of looked into before, can be confusing. And I don't blame you for being confused, but really, at the core of it, and at the core of every single non fiat backed, stable coin is supply and demand. And that's it. That's how they keep their peg at the end of the day. So I think the fastest way Faye can kind of, like, get back to peg naturally is just start doing integrations, get fey integrated everywhere.
00:28:14.166 - 00:28:49.624, Speaker A: But the problem is right now is that, you know, a lot of the Defi apps out there, especially the bigger ones, they don't want to add Fae because it's untested. Right. It has already shown that it can remain under peg for extended periods of time. So it's kind of like a rock and a hard place where it's basically relying on the PCV to get it back to peg, with some direct incentives thrown in there for good measure as well. So maybe we won't see too many defi integrations for the short term, but I think if they can get back to peg, it'll be more attractive for people to kind of add this, or at least for defi apps to kind of add this to. To their apps here. So, yeah, I'm going to keep a.
00:28:49.624 - 00:29:22.344, Speaker A: Keep a lookout for that and see how that goes. So, Ryan, Sean Adams had an interesting tweet here where I think there was a conversation about, you know, ETH as an asset and kind of ETH being ultrasound money. And then someone kind of came back and said that ETH is kind of like digital fuel, digital oil. And then Ryan kind of says he thinks the oil analogy is slightly flawed because the Ethereum block space is oil block space is the commodity, not ETH. ETH is the reserve currency that pays for that oil. And so ETH is not oil itself. ETH is used as money outside a blind block space.
00:29:22.344 - 00:29:47.132, Speaker A: So ETH is like the petrodollar, except sound. Now, for those who don't know what the petrodollar is, essentially, you know, USD is the, I guess, currency that the world denominates in for oil, for petro, you know, for petrol, for oil and things like that. So whenever you buy and sell oil in the world, you're basically denominating that in USD. And that's. That's kind of what the petrodollar refers to. Now, obviously, whenever you. You're kind of like buying ethereum block space, you.
00:29:47.132 - 00:30:09.580, Speaker A: It's like buying oil, right? And that's denominated in ETH. So ETH is not the oil. ETH is the petrodollar in this kind of sense. And it's sound because it is not being kind of inflated away like the USD is right. And you know, we have ultrasound money coming with 1559 and pos issuance, putting ETH as a deflationary asset eventually. Well, hopefully, we hope. Um, so yeah, I think this is a really good analogy.
00:30:09.580 - 00:30:37.784, Speaker A: Um, uh, and I think, you know, very clearly states why ETH is kind of like not oil here and block space is, is the commodity and is the oil here. So the CEO of Shopify was dabbling with Ethereum smart contracts over the weekend. Uh, he basically sped said, not sped. See, speaking of crypto, I spent the morning dabbling with eat smart contracts mainly to understand how ERC 20 works better. Fascinating world remix. Ethereum.org has real has been really helpful.
00:30:37.784 - 00:31:29.154, Speaker A: This just continues the trend of kind of more and more people outside of the Ethereum ecosystem taking notice of this. And Shopify, for those who don't know, is the biggest e commerce kind of, I guess, like e commerce as a service kind of company in the world. Like billion dollar company, huge company, like the public and everything. So could this be Shopify kind of like playing with integrating crypto payments, integrating kind of like crypto into their systems? I know there's probably like apps you can get on Shopify that allow you to accept kind of crypto, you know, I'm pretty sure there already is, but it's good to see like the CEO basically talking about, and talking about a theorem in particular, which is, which is really cool. So, yeah, just something I wanted to kind of, um, you know, point out there, and I think we're going to see more and more of this as time goes on. So Sam Richards from the ethereum.org website team basically posted this chart over the weekend with the q one data of ETH.org.
00:31:29.154 - 00:32:13.782, Speaker A: So traffic, traffic exploded to their translated content as well, up four times since December. So this is like all content on the website, excluding English, which is awesome to see. I mean, I very much said that a theorem is still too western centric, so too still to like us, Europe, you know, centric, where basically all the english speaking countries are kind of like of the focus. And there's a lot of like, I guess, blind spots in the, in the asian countries especially, you know, people like eastern european things like that as well. So, yeah, we're really, really great to see that and see that growth kind of happening over Q one. And, you know, I guess like you can see the, the currency kind of. Not the currency, the, the country kind of like shorthand here, but I don't know what each of them are.
00:32:13.782 - 00:32:34.742, Speaker A: Guess like the blue here. I mean there's too many to kind of point out here. But you know, I'll leave this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out yourself and to see which countries kind of like I guess have the most market share here. Or at least um, a traffic share here. Sorry. So Danny Ryan posted the latest edition of Finalized, which basically goes over a theorems consensus layer.
00:32:34.742 - 00:33:22.308, Speaker A: So essentially we have rayonism going, I guess like a project that's being worked on during the upcoming Ethereum scaling hackathon that'll basically work on the ETH one to ETH two merge and with doing sharding on top of it as well. I've spoken about that before and I think last week's refuel, an update on the BL, BL, BLST security advisory here and an update on the beacon chain security and testing request for product here. So yeah, if that interests you, definitely go check out that post from Danny. Next up we have, we have here that the DefI Pulse index completed its March rebalance and added two new tokens. Farm and cream have been added and also all assets are at. Capped at 25% allocation now. Now I think, you know, before this was actually put in place, Uniswap accounted for like 33% of the index.
00:33:22.308 - 00:33:54.680, Speaker A: Now obviously we don't want like an unlimited kind of cap here. We want to kind of put on a cap so that the specific assets don't become too big in the kind of like the index because then they, I guess, lead to perverse kind of like, I guess, growth and retraction here. So I think the 25% cap makes a lot of sense. But yeah, I guess congrats to, to harvest finance and cream finance for getting their tokens included in the DeFI pulse index. I think that it's a prestigious thing, honestly. I think, you know, obviously not every token is going to be in the DPI straight away. There's a six month kind of waiting period for tokens.
00:33:54.680 - 00:34:21.022, Speaker A: So kind of getting to the point where you're accepted is a pretty good goal, I think. So last up here we have David Mihal. He has these websites that he builds that basically tracks various things in the ecosystem. Um, his most popular one is crypto fees dot in Fo. You may have gone to it, so he created a new one over the weekend called Open Orgs Dot in Fo, which basically tracks the treasuries of different DeFi apps here. Now, I might. I actually may have covered this last week.
00:34:21.022 - 00:34:45.772, Speaker A: I. I think maybe on Friday's refill I covered this already, so maybe I forgot about this too much happening in this ecosystem. But essentially here it tracks the different treasuries in DeFi. Obviously, you can see Uniswap has the biggest one, compound Rv, and then Alchemyx, which is really funny because Alchemyx is a very new DeFi protocol, I think, like three months old at this point. Not even. Maybe even two months. So the fact that they've already got a $780 million treasury is pretty big deal.
00:34:45.772 - 00:35:01.646, Speaker A: Tornado, cash, badger, and then a bunch of kind of smaller ones here, which is. Which is really, really cool to see. So, yeah, great website here. And now that I think about it, I pretty sure I did cover it on. On Friday, but. Oh, well, you know, for those who didn't see it then, you're kind of seeing it today. And that's it for today because I've gone way over time here.
00:35:01.646 - 00:35:11.574, Speaker A: So thank you again, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
