00:00:00.330 - 00:00:33.400, Speaker A: Our sponsors are going to be sharing some really cool updates that they've had made for you. They're designed to be asynchronous so that they can also be on the chat and answer any questions. So we have some of our messages from our sponsors that are going to be talking about. So our first sponsor for the day is going to be Ave and we have Stani from Ave who has made video for us to watch and I'll have him share the video here and have us watch it.
00:00:35.770 - 00:02:01.806, Speaker B: Hey everyone, this is Stani, I'm the founder of Ave and Ave is a money market protocol built on Ethereum and part of the sponsors of this hackathon. First of all, congratulations for everyone for joining. This will be very interesting experience for you and I think you will grow quite a lot during the next three weeks. So hackathons are very interesting places to learn more about technology and not just technology but meet new people, peers that you can build together projects that you are following or get introduced to new kinds of things in the Ethereum community. And one of the interesting projects here is of course Ave. And what Ave does is that as a money market you can deposit cryptographic funds such as Stablecoins or Ethereum for example into a lending pool and earn interest from that by depositing. And on the other hand, when you are depositing into the protocol you can also draw credit line from the protocol by borrowing.
00:02:01.806 - 00:03:13.350, Speaker B: So Ave as a project started a few years ago, we built the first lending protocol in Ethereum called Ethereum Lending which started as a very basic proof of concept and we have been evolving our protocol since then. The current protocol Avoid protocol has been launched this year, January and it has grown quite substantially. So there is 1.5 billion locked value in the smart contracts which means that you can actually utilize that value in whatever you're building during this hackathon. Now what makes Ave interesting is that it's quite developers first protocol. Most of the liquidity comes from projects that are actually building on top of Aave or are utilizing our liquidity and not directly from our user interface such as for example Wire or DeFi Saver. And besides the normal depositing borrowing functionality, we also have a couple of very interesting functions built on such as for example Flash loans.
00:03:13.350 - 00:04:29.950, Speaker B: And Flash loans means that you could borrow without a collateral from the protocol as much as there is liquidity and then utilize that liquidity on whatever you are basically building. So in essence, Flash loans allows you to use liquidity without actually having it in the first place. For example DeFi Saver is using Ave Flash loans to close MakerDAO CDPs without returning the capital. You could use Flash loan to build refinancing products for example to offer the borrowers on Ethereum the lowest possible interest rate on their borrowings despite of what currency they borrowed and there is many, many interesting functionalities that you could actually build. Another very interesting feature that is related to Ave is so called credit delegation. So credit delegation is a function where when you deposit into Ave to earn interest and you're not borrowing, you could delegate your credit line to someone else who you trust or to a smart contract. For example, Wyrn's, Ya Link vault borrows at the moment 20 million worth of USDC with the credit delegation functionality.
00:04:29.950 - 00:05:44.380, Speaker B: And credit delegation is interesting because you can make it completely as borrowings to a smart contract that does some kind of predefined function. Why it's interesting is that if that smart contract doesn't have any credit risk, you could actually use this credit delegation to get capital into one smart contract that might do some sort of interesting function such as yield, farming or so forth. Or you might have a credit delegation vault where actually credit is delegated by based on actual legal agreements such as open law. So the interesting idea and concept about these hackathons is that you always don't need to think about heuristically DeFi, you could use DeFi in something else that you're planning to build. It might be related to NFTs, social tokens, e commerce, anything that's very interesting at the moment, privacy or somehow to connect it to the real life and solve real life problems. Now, Avatim is going to help you during this hackathon. So if you have any kind of ideas or you want some sort of brainstorming help, I'm there for you.
00:05:44.380 - 00:07:10.434, Speaker B: I will help you in terms of if you need some ideas, you need some technical help or economical help, I mean in terms of economic ideas, anything that makes your kind of like gets you forward, I'm here for. So you can find us on the discord as well, our own discord or in the hackathon discord. And also from our team there is Mark Zeller as well, one of our integration leads and also David Wong is here to assist you and he's one of our community developers. And our goal is that we make most out of you when you are building on top of Ave or using our protocol and trying to kind of help your implementation and product wise. Currently we're building the version two of our protocol, but you can integrate for the version one and probably at some point during the hackathon you might see version two on testnet. So it's up to you to think and figure out which version you want to actually use for this hackathon. One of the important thing is there is over three weeks time to hack.
00:07:10.434 - 00:07:59.480, Speaker B: So it's quite a lot of time, spend a lot of time to designing the product to make a good architecture. Keep always security in mind, especially if you are taking the project further. And yeah, create something that's very unique, something that helps people, something that interests you or whatever you actually want it's pretty much free zone for you. And, yeah, ping me if you have any kind of need for help or you're stuck in the documentation or the hack itself. We're here to help. So I wish everyone very good luck, and I hope you guys enjoy this and eager to see what you guys are building. Thank you.
00:08:59.390 - 00:09:52.918, Speaker C: Hey, guys. I'm Hart from Uma, and we're super pumped about being here at ETH Online and supporting ETH Global in another awesome hackathon. So, Uma is a protocol for building synthetic assets and other types of financial contracts. We really consider ourselves a platform for your financial innovation, which is why we're so pumped to be here at this hackathon and see what you guys dream up over the next month. So how does Uma work? The protocol is really designed with two interwoven components. What we call priceless financial contracts are one part, and the DVM, or data verification mechanism, is an enforcement mechanism to resolve price disputes from those priceless contracts. This priceless design is pretty unique and novel in the DFI landscape, where we are really designing contracts to minimize Oracle usage.
00:09:52.918 - 00:11:12.370, Speaker C: And as an example of that, we can look at this yield dollar product that's existed for a couple of months now and had over 20 million of locked collateral, over 40 million of locked collateral at various points, and yet has had only two on chain price requests. We've been able to support the whole product without any form of onchain price feed or price Oracle. And one of the really exciting things about this concept is that it supports a long tail of assets and a lot of innovation. We can get super creative about the types of financial contracts, types of synthetic assets that we can create using this priceless framework because we don't require an on chain price feed or don't require access to any kind of on chain API. So what can you build on? Uma? At the hack money hackathon Potion Labs built this truly amazing insurance protocol, and they've since gone on to build a real business around this and raise venture money. This insurance protocol can protect against price drops in any asset, and they did it by inventing a pretty novel form of an options contract that uses this priceless framework. We have other partners, like Perlin, that have built custom synthetic assets using the priceless synthetic tokens that have been collateralized with their own token.
00:11:12.370 - 00:12:01.570, Speaker C: A couple hacks ago, Barf was created a Bay Area real estate fund, which was a synthetic token that tracks the price of San Francisco housing. Kind of creative example of a new type of asset class that can be created using synthetic tokens and DeFi concepts. And I think at Boston last year, Swan Dai was created, which was an innovative token margined in USDC that could hedge against any dislocation in Dai. So this is a token that can pay you out, kind of like insurance. If Dai deviated from its peg. This is just a taste of the types of things you can build on Uma. And we again consider it a really flexible platform for financial contracts and synthetic assets of all types.
00:12:01.570 - 00:12:52.338, Speaker C: So what are we doing in this hackathon? In this hackathon, Uma will be rewarding $5,000 worth of the Uma token in prizes. The breakdown is going to be 3001st place, 1502nd and 503rd place. A unique and innovative thing here is we are actually going to have the Uma community vote. Uma token holders are going to vote using Snapshot page voting page to determine the winner of this hack. We'll distribute that link closer to the voting period, but it's a pretty exciting way for us to involve our community in judging your hack. We have office hours that are shared in our Discord Channel and are also published on our calendar, which is publicly available. So some links about how we can collaborate, please use the Discord Channel.
00:12:52.338 - 00:13:20.810, Speaker C: We will be active imprompt in responding to you. Follow us on Twitter, visit our website, check out our developer docs, check out our GitHub. We're entirely open source and would love you to pick through our code. And lastly, of course, I should introduce our team, the people that will be in our Discord and will be interacting with you. On our engineering team, we have Matt, David, Nick, and Chris. And our community team. We have Clayton, Sean, Tom, Henry and Raya.
00:13:20.810 - 00:13:28.800, Speaker C: Please ping us. Please reach out to us. We're here for you, and we're excited to see what cool stuff you guys will build. Thanks so much.
00:13:35.750 - 00:14:22.174, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much. Hart, Uma has been a great partner for us, and as Hart talked about is in his video, we've seen a lot of cool projects over the last two years or a year and a half that have built on top of Uma, and some of them become really cool companies. For example, Potion that just talked about. We're excited for everybody to play with the Uma protocol for this event as well. So next up, I want to introduce our next sponsor, and that is Isaac from Bloom. And we'll have Bloom talk about what they do, why they're excited to be part of ETH Online, and also share a bit more about themselves and how you can potentially win Bloom prizes for this event.
00:14:22.174 - 00:14:24.240, Speaker A: So I'll let them take it from here.
00:14:26.850 - 00:15:18.674, Speaker D: Hi, everyone. I'm Isaac, the CTO of Bloom, and I'm excited to be here at ETH Online today to talk to you about what prizes we're sponsoring and what we're hoping to get out of this. So throughout this hackathon, we're sponsoring $5,000 in prizes, and we want to see projects that help us bridge the gap between the decentralized identity and decentralized finance world. I'll explain in a bit about exactly what we mean by that, but for most specifics, please join us after this in the ETH Online Discord Channel for details on the prizes. Today, Bloom has a consumer application that allows you to monitor your credit and pull in various identity information that you want to store and maintain and share locally. For developers, we have tools that allow you to request data from these users. So it's a simple concept of there's an application where users can get pre verified information and developers can request that from them.
00:15:18.674 - 00:15:59.470, Speaker D: It's very simple to share this data. Here's a quick demo of me sharing an ID document and other KYC information that Bloom has pre verified with an external application. You can see that on the screen. It's prompting me what exact data do I want to share, and showing me who it's going to go to. And on the right hand side of the screen, you'll see that the server has received my ID document and informed me of the verification status. It's very easy as a developer to get started. Here that QR code you can play around with right on our demo site, where you can specify exactly what information you want to request from the user.
00:15:59.470 - 00:16:58.490, Speaker D: So this is what we've had for a while now, this system of verifying information and sharing it with the developer. What we want to get out of this hackathon is understanding how exactly we get this data on chain. We have some specs, we have some ideas for how we think that this data can best interface with on chain lenders and just any smart contract. But we want to hear from the community on how it's useful and if our ideas are sound. So again, $5,000 in prizes to help us figure out these tough problems of now that we have this data verification system off chain, how do we get it on chain? A very specific example would be a smart contract that depends on knowing a user's country of residence. They could use a Bloom Verified ID document as a source for that data, exactly how that happens on chain. Please join us in Discord so that we can discuss it and we really look forward to seeing what you guys come up with after the hackathon.
00:16:58.490 - 00:17:25.290, Speaker D: We are also going to start accepting applications for a series of grants to help us build out the next phase of the protocol. The identity layer is something that we've been working on for a few years now, and it's gotten to the point where it's mature enough that we think that these connections between decentralized identity and decentralized finance are possible. So we have a lot of really exciting stuff coming here and we want to build up a community of people that are going to help us see it through. So thank you and see you in Discord.
00:17:30.430 - 00:18:07.160, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Bloom. So for all of you hackers who are interested in getting your product in the hands of other people where there is a component of identity and KYC, bloom is a perfect opportunity for you to integrate. So you have to do the work yourself and really take advantage of all the work that the Bloom team has done themselves. So with that, we'll move on to our next sponsor demo, and that is from the Teller team. And they'll be talking about what Teller is and how you can use that SDK in your hack. So I'll let them present from here.
00:18:09.950 - 00:18:14.202, Speaker C: Hi, Ethanline. We are Teller and I'mike the CSO.
00:18:14.346 - 00:18:16.058, Speaker E: And I'm Brenda the CEO.
00:18:16.154 - 00:18:17.978, Speaker F: And I'm nick the CTO.
00:18:18.154 - 00:18:45.670, Speaker C: And we're a decentralized Oracle network on Ethereum. But more than just an Oracle. We're a permissionless community of token holders, data providers, and validators. And together we put real world data on chain. How are we different than our competition? Well, we're actually decentralized and censorship resistant. We use proof of work competition to bring values on chain and we reward miners for participating and we secure it through a robust dispute mechanism.
00:18:47.450 - 00:19:33.270, Speaker F: So to tell you guys just a little bubble what you might build here at this hackathon. So we're just kind of an Oracle on Ethereum. If you look at DeFi projects or projects that are currently on Ethereum and look at the ones that need Oracle, so these are namely going to be stablecoins derivatives, insurance contracts, lending protocols, all of these things need access to off chain information and all of them use Oracles. So if you're building something and you need access to information that isn't natively on Ethereum, you can probably use Teller for a little bit on the Bounties. So the first bounty is going to be just the best overall project using Teller. These are going to be some high quality projects and we look forward to kind of seeing what you guys build here. The next one is going to be the most creative use.
00:19:33.270 - 00:20:05.200, Speaker F: So if you have, say, some novel idea that something that hasn't been built on Ethereum before, maybe hasn't been built on crypto in general, that needs access to off chain information and can use Teller, we're excited to see it. And last but not least is just going to be the best implementation of Teller into a pre existing project. So this is where you would look at, say, a current DeFi project that's using a centralized Oracle or one that isn't very censorship resistant, you strip out that awful Oracle and you throw Teller in there and we'll give you a bounty for it.
00:20:05.650 - 00:20:32.182, Speaker E: Our model has always been to make things that build things that make sense, build things that you can build right now with the current technology and build systems that you want to be a part of. I can't wait to see what you actually build with Teller. And our office hours are from nine to five Eastern time. Reach out to us if you need any help or just want to give us some feedback. Thank you and good luck.
00:20:32.246 - 00:20:33.050, Speaker C: Good luck.
00:20:35.870 - 00:21:16.280, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Teller, the whole team. I believe they're also on the chat here and we're seeing some of the other sponsors on the chat just interacting with all the hackers. So if you are interested in using any oracle or if you need to do anything that requires talking to any other service off chain, Teller is a great candidate for that and want to thank them for being a sponsor for Meet Online. So, next up we have Ahmed from Biconomy and he'll be going over what they're able to offer as Biconomy as a protocol and how you can make your life easier by using their SDKs in your project. So I'll let him tell you what Biconomy is from here.
00:21:20.090 - 00:21:44.782, Speaker G: Hello Eve Global. My name is Ahmed Belari and I'm from Team by Economy. At Biconomy, our mission is clear. We are simplifying web3 experiences. We're on the path to unlocking 99% of the wealth who are still not in crypto. So what are we doing exactly? We are a noncustodial gas efficient relay network that is engineered as a transaction highway for cheap, reliable and secure transactions. We're not a layer two.
00:21:44.782 - 00:22:20.090, Speaker G: Think of us as a layer 1.5 for ethereum transactions and we are actually compatible with layer two such as Matic Network and Xdite. Our value add really lies in its developer, friendliness and rich feature set that enables gasless metatransactions, flexible payments and transaction optimizations which have already powered AMMS, liquidity pools and marketplaces. We're super excited to join ETHGlobal and let me pass you over to my co founder Eniket who's all the way in India to tell you how we'll be getting involved in the next couple of weeks.
00:22:20.240 - 00:23:02.722, Speaker F: Thanks a lot, Ahmed. Hey guys, this is Anikit here from India and along with Team by Economy, super excited to be part of ETH Global and looking forward to contribute and learn as much as we can over the next couple of weeks. So yeah, without wasting much time, let me dive deep into the bounty ideas that we have and also tell you more of the prices associated with them. We are issuing in total 4000 worth of prices and then that can be awarded to four teams with the problem statement that follows. The first problem statement is for $1,500 and it's lay two exits. We're looking for a solution that can provide instant gasless exits from lay two where a pool of tokens can be maintained both on layer one and lay two. And we expect the entire experience to be gasless by using my economy.
00:23:02.722 - 00:23:34.530, Speaker F: So we are seeing a lot of projects trying or already building on a two. But one of the major problem of exiting silky wheels. So by this problem, we're looking for a team that can come up with a creative idea and solve that problem. The second problem statement is for $1,000 and it's for payment of fees in ERC 20 tokens. We are looking for a team that can find a way of managing the risk associated with paying the transaction fees for the end users in ERC 20 tokens. Third problem Statement is by Economy Explorer and it's for $500. And last Problem Statement is an open idea guys.
00:23:34.530 - 00:24:22.418, Speaker F: You can come up with any solution by using Biconomy in any space, whether it's DFI gaming, anything that can feel like where Biconomy plugs the most or Biconomy suits the most. We expect you to be as creative as possible and we do have some extra points and bonuses for creativity as well. So here are lists of collaterals that we have from bunch of technical documents to articles written on Biconomy that can help you explore more ideas and more use cases, and also some videos that can help you to do integration faster and learn more about Biconomy. Here's our awesome team guys. I'll be mostly available in every activity that is happening by Biconomy on E Global for the next couple of weeks. Also, we have other team members always available. We have the discord channels written over there so you can hit them up anytime, whenever you want.
00:24:22.418 - 00:24:34.920, Speaker F: Ask your queries. We are more than happy to help you. And also we have office hours every Saturdays. You can book a slot with us and we are very much happy to help assist and do some with you. So looking forward guys. Thanks a lot.
00:24:37.930 - 00:25:11.140, Speaker A: Thank you so much, ahmed, Aniket and the Biconomy team. For all of you who are planning on building something in DeFi, you know that the gas may be an issue, slightly an issue over the time. So do check out Biconomy for making that part a lot more easier for all of you. Next up, we have Jessica from One Inch Exchange and Jessica will be telling us about how One Inch is excited to sponsor this event and I will let them take it from here.
00:25:14.760 - 00:25:55.920, Speaker E: Hey, I'm Jess Solomon and I work for an adventurous project called One Inch. Our adventurous founders are busy building earth shattering DeFi tech. So I'm just going to take a quick minute here to explain to all you how you too could help us build earth shattering DeFi tech in this awesome ETH online hackathon that we're all a part of. So just a quick bit about One Inch. We are a leading Dex aggregator that's of course the One Inch Exchange we're very proud of. Also a next generation automatic market maker, mooney Swap, another cool one. And a team of DFI innovators.
00:25:55.920 - 00:26:48.452, Speaker E: So the MVP was actually built at the ETH New York 2019 hackathon by our founders, Sergey and Anton. So we're a great example of how hackers can very quickly become sponsors. The first customers of One Inch were actually our founders, Anton and Sergey. It was exhausting and inefficient for these superstars to manually check for the best prices on all the DEXes. They, like all crypto users, needed an elegant algorithm to search every Dex for the best trading price and instantly deliver on that optimized trade. Of course, the solution came with One Inch Exchange, a decentralized exchange aggregator that sources liquidity from various exchanges by splitting a single trade transaction across multiple DEXes. Quick look at some of our stuff.
00:26:48.452 - 00:27:18.910, Speaker E: In one year we've executed over 3 billion in trading volume prices. Best prices on the market. That's the point of the Dex aggregator and the aggregation and some really amazing innovations. Qi Gas Token reduces gas prices on one inch by up to 42%. Super cool, very helpful. Pathfinder is a search algorithm for the most efficient swapping route. So basically how all the magic happens.
00:27:18.910 - 00:28:02.190, Speaker E: And I really want to talk to you guys about Mooney Swap because it is out of this world. Mooneyswap. We launched in August. It's a new automatic market maker to increase liquidity provider earnings. The Mooneyswap AMM revolution uses virtual balances to enable liquidity providers to capture profits otherwise captured by arbitragers. This slows down price changes to prevent arbitrage traders from earning up to 100% the swap slippages. And here's an example of liquidity provider earnings on Mooney Swap, which you guys can actually look at on your own time to see just how beneficial this technology really can be.
00:28:02.190 - 00:28:42.584, Speaker E: And of course, the one inch mission solving problems benefiting the overall DeFi space in as many ways as we can. Our founders have been discovering vulnerabilities, saving people from losing lots of money and dramatic hacks redistributing profits to deserving parties like liquidity providers and saving people money on gas. All very beneficial. We're stoked to see our users living their best lives because of our technologically advanced products and we want you guys to help. That's why we have the one inch bounties. We have five k die in total bounties 2.5K for the overall coolest, one inch hack, 1.5K
00:28:42.584 - 00:29:49.244, Speaker E: for second coolest, one k for third coolest. We've got some suggestions. Firstly, an embeddable one inch swapping widget that some of our favorite sites might want to add tools to help people launch IEOs on Mooney with an emphasis on it being better for initial liquidity providers. Take profit and stop loss limit orders with Mooney Swap using price Oracle since the price cannot be manipulated in a positive direction. A clue for you if ETH buy price on Mooney Swap is 310 die, then sell one WETH for 300 die prices cannot be improved by manipulation on Mooney Swap bounty suggestions continue a way to automatically donate part of a swap transaction to some charity if you want to do that. A nice flowchart which shows the complex swap paths from transactions on One inch more user friendly UI for using one inch API and use Mooney Swap volume weighted Oracles to do some crazy stuff but be fearless. These are just some recommendations of things we would like to see.
00:29:49.244 - 00:30:13.060, Speaker E: Of course, if you have a cool idea of your own that you're excited to build, then go for it. Be our guest innovate and here's some contacts for you guys. So hit me up on that One Inch sponsor discord with your brilliant ideas and questions that I know all you folks have. So thanks a ton everyone, and can't wait to see you all soon and see what you build. Bye.
00:30:15.960 - 00:31:11.190, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Jess. This was a great intro to One Inch Exchange, and the best part about all of this is that One Inch, for those of you who don't know, started as a hackathon project at ETH New York last year. So it's really great to see the One Inch team giving back to the community and coming on as an official sponsor, making it easy for others to use what they've built to make their lives easier. So thanks again to one inch. Be sure to check out their SDKs and what you can do with the One Inch exchange protocol and how you can integrate that into your own hacks. And with that, I want to move on to our last sponsor video for today, and that is Barney from Vega, and he'll be talking about the Vega protocol and we'll kind of go into how you can use that in your project. So I'll let the Vega team share what they have to say.
00:31:17.920 - 00:32:20.304, Speaker H: Hi, my name is Barney Marin, and I'm a co founder of Vega vegas is a decentralized exchange or Dex protocol that supports capital efficient derivatives trading on a fully onchain noncustodial order book. In 2018, when we started designing Vega, we anticipated many of the issues you see in DFI today, like front running or minor extractable value, the need for sustainable liquidity mining incentives, and problems with capital efficiency versus centralized exchanges due to over collateralization. I'm super excited that Vega is participating in ETH Online, so I'm going to spend a little bit of time today telling you more about Vega and how you can get involved. First off, let's dig into some of the things that makes Vega a little bit different. Vega is the start of a new generation of decentralized exchange protocols. It runs on its own customized proof of stake blockchain, which gives the Vega designers and engineers the ability to optimize the whole stack for trading from the consensus layer to the APIs exposed by Vega nodes. The protocol is primarily order book based, allowing for the most efficient price determination, but it will also support passive AMM style liquidity.
00:32:20.304 - 00:32:43.800, Speaker H: For those who want to support markets on Vega with their capital and earn yield, the network subsecond block time means that even though Vega is fully decentralized and noncustodial trading is fast and responsive, it feels like using a centralized exchange. Vega initially supports futures with up to 100 x or more leverage for some markets. Vega is designed to make it easy for anyone to propose and create a market on the proof of stake network.
00:32:43.960 - 00:32:47.688, Speaker C: But this is ETH Online, so I'm.
00:32:47.704 - 00:33:15.056, Speaker H: Pleased to tell you that. Vega works excellently with ethereum. Vega was always designed to act as a kind of layer two. All the assets traded on Vegas start off on other chains, and the first integration for the Vega blockchain is with Ethereum. That means it'll be possible to connect MetaMask and send Ethan ERC 20 tokens to the Vega network for fast and completely noncustodial leverage trading. Once the Vega network is live and running. The Ethereum Bridge will also eventually allow for DeFi composability between products and markets on Vega and Ethereum smart contracts.
00:33:15.056 - 00:33:46.864, Speaker H: And DApps in Ethereum will be able to deposit and withdraw tokens and trade on Vega just by calling methods on the Vega Bridge contract on Ethereum. As I mentioned, Vega is fast and fully featured. This is a screenshot of the current testnet. This trading DAP uses no central servers and relies on the same APIs that you'll have access to for this challenge. It has streaming prices and order book depth and a full suite of market data and trading tools. But I'm also super excited to see what the community can build with these Vega APIs. The Vega blockchain exposes tons of detailed trading and risk data completely for free and to everyone.
00:33:46.864 - 00:34:26.508, Speaker H: For example, you can find out at what price levels other traders might get liquidated visualize the settlement cash flows between traders, or look for traders who are making lots of profit and try to copy them. So that brings us to the econline Challenge. The judges are awarding $5,000 across three prizes for the most innovative, creative, and exciting new visualizations you can build with data from the Vega testnet. You have access to everything from margin movements to all orders and positions, from price monitoring, circuit breaker auctions to liquidations. And of course, the balance is held by every public key. The judges would love to see colorful, novel and interesting visualizations of this data. Perhaps you'll show risk and leverage broken down by trader, or maybe capital flows are your thing.
00:34:26.508 - 00:34:57.184, Speaker H: Perhaps you want to analyze the data and highlight market opportunities. Or maybe you want to use the data stream to generate procedural music and real time visualizations that show what's going on in a more stylized way. We recommend building something that works in a browser, unless that doesn't work for your idea. And whilst your entry can be a serious trading tool, that's not the only way to go. And I'd personally love to see some Monarchic, psychedelic and Whimsical entries too, that embody the spirit of this community and showcase novel ways to illustrate and explain what's going on in the market. So that's the challenge. I'm really excited to see what you come up with.
00:34:57.184 - 00:35:24.110, Speaker H: But remember, you're not on your own. In addition to documentation for the full APIs at Docs Ethonline, Vega XYZ and even more Docs and other materials available once you get onboarded to testnet, you can also join the community forums and get help, or just chat about Vega and trading at community Vega XYZ. We also have a Discord server which you can join by the link shown where a lot of the vega dev and leadership hangout and we'll be happy to help too. That's all from me. Looking forward to seeing what you create.
00:35:29.440 - 00:35:54.640, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Barney, for for those of you who are interested in using Vega protocol, be sure to check out their docs and also talk to them in our discord channel. And there's a lot of cool features that you can now enable by using Vega, so be sure to give that a try. And I can't wait to see what everybody builds with all the DeFi protocols that I've presented today. So that was our last sponsored video for today and we want to move on to our rest of the summit.
