00:00:06.250 - 00:00:24.880, Speaker A: We Are ready for our next talk, and this is going to be an exciting one. We're going to talk about some urgent calls to actions on how do we think about the evolution of Dows communities and governance in Web Three and want to welcome our Speaker Parker to get us started and appreciate you waiting. Welcome.
00:00:27.290 - 00:00:37.480, Speaker B: Hi. I'm super happy to be here. I have something to screen share today. Go for it. Amazing. Cool. Great.
00:00:37.480 - 00:01:20.482, Speaker B: Starting off with a quick intro. Super happy to be here today. I'm Parker. I'm very involved in the Crypto space across a few different contexts. I'm on the founding team of Boys Club, which is a social club community in Dow working to welcome women and nonbinary individuals into web three. You can check us out on Twitter at Boys Club Crypto. I'm also working as an early stage investor in crypto startups at Fintech Collective on their DeFi fund and specifically work there with our founders one on one to help them build skill and design their communities.
00:01:20.482 - 00:02:10.178, Speaker B: So everything from pre launch to even, like, communities and protocols later on, the appdow is helping them rethink their governance structures, et cetera. So today, what am I going to be talking about? I have a lot of thoughts and feelings and ideas around how we can be doing better in sort of the frameworks and assumptions that we are approaching dow's community and governance around. So this is going to be pretty high level. I'm aware that we only have about 30 minutes here. I don't know if we have a timer, but for the mods, definitely let me know when we get to, like, ten minutes, if that's okay with you. To kick things off. I want to talk about Dows.
00:02:10.178 - 00:02:34.430, Speaker B: Great. Thanks. So Dows have gotten huge, right? Like we're seeing new Dows spawn up every day. We're seeing web. Two companies want to make Dows at least. I'm seeing this in my work as a VC. Also a lot of founders will pitch their startup, will pitch their product and mention that they're also creating a dow.
00:02:34.430 - 00:02:56.818, Speaker B: This, to me is sometimes like a little bit of a jarring statement, because dows are such a huge project. Right? They're almost like starting a second startup. I think if you're doing it right. And so dows as a concept have gotten huge even though they're so new. But they're still failing massively in several ways. Right. They're failing to get off the ground.
00:02:56.818 - 00:03:26.560, Speaker B: We're seeing classic coordination failures. Low participation, low engagement. And even when success is found, dows are imploding. Right? We could point to some of MakerDAO's recent struggles with governance. I don't think Maker is a failure. But they are facing some struggles so big. Established dows that are sort of the name of the game even are encountering a lot of issues.
00:03:26.560 - 00:04:26.402, Speaker B: And so where are we really going wrong here? I think there's a few things that I'd like to draw our attention to here today. I think a lot of dow building or sort of thinking around Dow building that I'm seeing today focus on outcome rather than need or rather than demand. So we're seeing a lot of people that want to spin up dows that have ideas for dows but don't have the actual community or participants to start with. We're also seeing a lack of intrinsically motivated participants within dows, right? So we're seeing a lot of Dows that have a lot of members, a lot of participants, but not a lot of participation and not a lot of engagement, especially long term. And then we're seeing a lot of out of the box composition. Right? So lots of dow tooling startups that are just, like, easily spin up your own dows. No hit on that.
00:04:26.402 - 00:05:32.070, Speaker B: But I think there is a little bit of lack of nuance in some of the Dows that are being created, right? So not fully thinking through all of the design pieces that make up a dow and that will greatly affect how the Dow operates in the future or maybe not even knowing what those pieces are really that need a lot of thoughtful consideration. So what are some Things that we could do or some frameworks we could use to try to approach some of these issues that I just mentioned? I think first, validating demand, right? Startups, one to one product, one on one. Same for dows, same for community building. I'm a firm Believer that community should come before the Dow. Once again, we're seeing a lot of people who want to Create dows and are looking to find the community to fit into the dow after. I don't think that works. I think you need a community that a Dow will only bring value to.
00:05:32.070 - 00:07:10.534, Speaker B: Right? So another important thing here would be asking, why are we even creating A dow? Do We Need A Dow for this use case or for this community? Or is the motivation to create one maybe motivated by a bid for relevancy? Right? Trying to stay relevant or trying to follow the buz? This is a hard question to answer and it takes a lot of I don't think you can even answer it right away. It takes a lot of thoughtful consideration, writing, talking to other people to really understand why do we need a Dow? Why are we doing this for Boys Club? We're creating a Dao to enhance what's already working really well within Boys Club, right? Which is a lot of participation, a lot of different ideas, a lot of different segments and pockets of our community that want to spin up different things. So the Dow structure, which we're still iterating on, we're still taking very slowly. The Dow structure, though, allows us to super efficiently, or at least more efficiently than before, streamline ideas from the idea stage into actual execution and allows us to make sure that there's not as much imbalance of power or say, in the dictation of where the community Goes in the future. Optimizing for sustainability over speed would be a second one. Again, I Think we're seeing a lot of Out Of the Box solutions, people that promise use this toolkit. Spin up your dow in a few days.
00:07:10.534 - 00:07:46.900, Speaker B: In a week, we'll get everything set up. I think that Dao should take a very slow approach. I'm very bullish on experimentation and Iteration and Also research. So when Boyzcop was founded, I immediately knew the Dow aspect is what I wanted to kind of focus on and It's Been like eight or nine months since then. The dao is not done. And I was expecting this to Be maybe like a three to four month Process. But after three or four months, I was not even done with the research Phase of the process of Dow Building.
00:07:46.900 - 00:08:38.174, Speaker B: And this is because I wanted to really there's so much information about Dows, there's So many different Ways to create them. We also don't have a current body of literature formalized body of literature around Dows and Dow building. So there's a lot of Personal Initiative research that you have to do and I Think Sustainability Is really important, right? So when you think about your community and how to build a dow that's sustainable for them, I think it's best to really take it slow. Right? Test. And iterate these processes before you decide to implement them. And test, and iterate many different processes before you decide to implement them. With this comes like a willingness to look beyond traditional methods out of the box solutions.
00:08:38.174 - 00:09:50.220, Speaker B: And maybe people who want you to build your dow with them in a week might suggest the most traditional or widely accepted methods for participation. Streams for governance design for token model or tokenomic model? I strongly Believe that every Dow is Different and needs A different thing. Just like every person has different preferences in personal taste, personal style, in what works best for them and what's best for them in health and in their diet and in their workout routine. Dows are similarly different and the communities are similarly different and need different things. So yeah, I sort of think about Dow Building in a very nerdy way, almost kind Of Like A science experiment. There's all these different Variables and all these Different Things that have to fit together in factors that influence each other to drive the outcome of the experiment. And there's many different Things that you have to sort of fine tune within that Experiment to make it right.
00:09:50.220 - 00:10:24.622, Speaker B: Moving on to Dow governance. Lots of thoughts here. I'm going to give a very high level overview. So I think the current mental model of Governance in Dows generally in the space today is Token or Coin voting. So this would be like when I buy a token, for example, I have governance rights. This is how it works in Dows. Like Maker other Dows where there's no kind of opt into governance.
00:10:24.622 - 00:11:14.738, Speaker B: It's just like when you have a token, you are automatically eligible to participate. I think we're also seeing a lot of proven failures with this system, though, right? So even Vitalik recently published a piece against token voting and sort of providing some alternative ideas around it. But it's still the most widely accepted and thought of governance mechanism in this space today, at least as I see it. So I'm seeing recently, like, a lot of rejection of dows and a lot of rejection of dow governance. A lot of people on crypto Twitter are saying dows don't work, DAOs don't work as a business model. They're a failure, it's proven. And I'm like, no guys, token voting is maybe not a proven failure, but not working.
00:11:14.738 - 00:12:13.798, Speaker B: And that's the thing. That's the similarity across these dows that you're pointing to as examples, right? So I think we have an urgent call to action to explore other kinds of governance mechanisms and really focus more resources on experimentation, research, and just like, iteration on alternative and emergent forms of governance. One I'm really excited about is conviction voting, which is sort of a mechanism of staking your vote, gaining more power over time or weight over time. And I think we need governance mechanisms that really capture more of the dynamic nature of humans. So, like a snapshot voting proposal works, right? But new information is revealed over time. Ten minutes. Okay, thank you.
00:12:13.798 - 00:13:26.526, Speaker B: New information is revealed over time, human change over time, their opinions change over time. So that should be able, in my opinion, to be reflected within governance decisions. And I'm like, where's the disconnect, right? There's actually a lot of really great peer reviewed research, academic research on emergent forms of governance and on some of the ways in which current mechanisms of governance are failing. But these don't have widespread attention in crypto. So there is this disconnect, and I'm wondering, how can we work to begin to not only continue exploring alternate mechanisms of governance, but also begin to change and shift the mental models of governance within the Crypto community to see governance as this plethora of options and also as this completely unexplored and open design space that still exists, rather than accepting governance and dow governance as something that's failing currently. So I could get into community. It's something I talk about a lot.
00:13:26.526 - 00:13:39.860, Speaker B: I have lots of thoughts here as well, but I guess I don't know if the chat is open. I do want to pause and open to any questions so far. Is that possible?
00:13:43.430 - 00:13:51.670, Speaker A: We'll source in anything that comes in from the attendees, but in the meantime, you can kind of continue with the rest of the slides.
00:13:52.250 - 00:14:50.650, Speaker B: Awesome. Great. Community, like a very nebulous word and one that's thrown on a lot. So community is not fluff. Let's get this straight, community is crucial, especially in crypto, right? In a bear market, in tough times, what is holding your protocol up, right? If you have a token, you need that price up, right? And so your community is going to be the one powering that but I think community goes way beyond just financial incentive as well. There's a lot of big brain energy entering the crypto community space and I think we're really beginning to see how sticky community is. And community, if done right, can be an absolute leverage for every aspect of your business and every aspect of what you're building, right? These are your evangelists, these are owners, these are people that will be contributing in the future and providing you feedback.
00:14:50.650 - 00:15:25.700, Speaker B: But I think too many in the space currently mistake community for marketing. And I think sometimes community is marketing and that's great and there is some crossover, right? But it's not always marketing. And I think it's a fatal flaw to view community as marketing. Here's why I also think it's kind of cringe. Here's why. Marketing is all about capturing users and getting your brand out there. And community inherently, if it's successful, will work as a marketing engine.
00:15:25.700 - 00:16:38.010, Speaker B: But if you treat community like marketing when you're first trying to think about how to build it and how to sustain it, it's never going to work because you're going to need to see community as an ecosystem, right? It's ever evolving and it's ground up. So you need like a sustainable foundation in order to build a community. That in turn can be a marketing engine for you. And I think there's like a several step process here which I'll just briefly sort of walk through and how I think about community building both at Boys Club and when I'm working with some of my portfolio companies at Fintech Collective. So I think the first step is defining what you are, what is your community about, and also what is it not about, what do you stand for, what do you not stand for? And I think getting as niche as possible here is really helpful. Once you understand what you're all about, what your community is all about, and what you want people to get from it and take away from it and learn from it, you need to attract those members. So, like, top of funnel awareness, right? And once you have sort of like had those first community members trickle in, you want to activate them, sorry, this should say activate.
00:16:38.010 - 00:17:46.866, Speaker B: So start finding ways to get them comfortable, get them involved, have them intro themselves, make sure they have all the resources they need to succeed and be able to navigate the community and all the things that it provides. And then you'll start to see people who actively want to get more involved. Maybe they'll pitch in with ideas, maybe they'll have feedback, maybe they'll come to you one on one and you want to harness that power because that is like magical energy. And there is a special window of time that you need to capture that energy within. So then involving them, right, giving them more responsibility, maybe Azure Community skills, they can take notes on community calls, they can jump in to moderate, finding ways to give them more responsibility and finally giving them responsibility and opportunity for ownership. So enabling ownership. And I think, I guess, to close out this sort of high level segment here, a lot of companies that I work with, when we start working together, immediately say we want to optimize for ownership and building our community.
00:17:46.866 - 00:18:24.954, Speaker B: But I think one thing that's too often overlooked is all of the steps that it takes to set up ownership. And it's almost like that meme of the guy with the domino and the many dominoes. You need to first know what your community is about, then attract those members, then activate them, then involve them to enable sustainable ownership, in my experience. Yeah, I think that's pretty much it for me. But if there are any questions, happy to answer them. I can go deeper into any of these subjects. But yeah, I'm at Parker, J-A-Y-P on Twitter.
00:18:24.954 - 00:18:36.606, Speaker B: If you want to chat, follow me. DM me, I'm around. Yeah, and super happy to be. So thank you so much, guys, for having me.
00:18:36.708 - 00:19:31.186, Speaker A: Thanks, Parker. No, that was very insightful and also a little bit spicy, I think. Just some good direct and actionable things that we can talk about. Maybe my kind of first question would or rather, how do you differentiate between knowing what to do and sort of how do we get there? You kind of talked about a lot of things that you've seen firsthand not work as well as either people think or you yourself thought they would. Is this largely a mindset thing? Is this largely a tooling issue? Is this largely something that we have to kind of instill at the beginning? At what point of the process of a lifetime of a member joining a community do these things need to be addressed? And sort of how would you kind of think about backtracking and implementing where these things should be actually put in?
00:19:31.368 - 00:20:22.750, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. So obviously I take a very methodological approach to community building, and I don't think that's bad. And I think sometimes people are a little bit shy to take kind of almost like strategic approach. But I do think there are ways to activate a community and it's not necessarily extractive. I think just keeping these things in mind throughout the process, I think it is sort of a framework, and I wouldn't say mindset, but more of a framework that can be reevaluated over time. So at any point in the process, even if you already have a community and you've had one for two years and never even thought about this, you can still sort of walk through this and think through this and look for the sort of user journey or pipeline within your community. And I don't think it's a one size fits all approach.
00:20:22.750 - 00:20:42.140, Speaker B: The way that certain communities might work to attract their members or define what they're about might be different from others, and that's okay. But it's sort of like the general idea and just hitting those steps, making sure they're accounted for that I think it's important. Does that answer your question?
00:20:42.750 - 00:21:12.450, Speaker A: It definitely does. And maybe one kind of other follow up would be do you think there are not do you think I guess. What are some examples that others should shamelessly steal from? Like, who do you have you seen has done a really good job at implementing some of the changes that you proposed, in addition to obviously kind of a view, but what are some of the nice ways to kind of understand if this is working in practice and kind of contrasting with the alternatives?
00:21:12.870 - 00:22:09.974, Speaker B: Sure, that's a great question. I think there are a lot of great committees out there that are each doing have strengths in different ways. I don't think there's anyone that's nailed this down perfectly. And that also is just inherent to the fact that communities are ever changing and their needs are ever changing. I really admire some of the work actually done by a woman not in the Web three space, but named Priyanka Parker. So I read her book, The Art of Gathering, which actually focuses on in real life events and community building in real life. And I loved the way that she broke down almost like literally the art of gathering and bringing people together in a very thoughtful and strategic way.
00:22:09.974 - 00:23:09.900, Speaker B: And the way that I talked about Dabbling community building as an experiment, I saw her view gathering as an experiment. So she lays out all of these different almost like, experiments that she's done about the amount of people that you bring in and what kind of atmosphere that creates intention, setting explicitly before the event, how to make people feel comfortable, methodologies, literally, that she's refined and composed and put together in different ways. So that thinking I really love. And, yeah, there are, again, so many great communities out there. Mochi Game has done a great job of world building. I think that's something I should have put in this presentation. But world building is like an essential aspect of community in my mind, and Mochi has done a beautiful, illustrative, magical job of that.
00:23:09.900 - 00:23:30.000, Speaker B: The govern community is great. Erin Stefan are great. They're constantly iterating like we're working with them and they're constantly coming to us with feedback questions. I love the thoughtful and long term approach that they take. Yeah, so many communities I could gush about.
00:23:31.650 - 00:23:52.760, Speaker A: Right? We have another question from the audience, which is, what are your thoughts on proven corporate structure and kind of do you think if somebody found a way to easily merge those kind of proven ways to behave or operate at scale with kind of that formations? Would that actually make things easier or do you kind know we reject some of those existing things?
00:23:53.930 - 00:24:58.122, Speaker B: That's a great question. Okay, so I guess to answer that, I'll say first of all, I'm taking my own opinion here with a grain of salt. There's actually a book that I just ordered on Amazon to read about this and it goes over this thing called the Teal Structure that I read about in Rook Protocols. Let's see if I can put this in the chat. I really loved the way that I was reading this and I love the way that they were thinking about I just put it in the Chat community building. So they think about it as almost very similar to Orca protocol love orca love the Orca community by the way, as well, but like modular and delegated decision making, but they borrow, at least within protocol documentation, this corporate kind of method of the Teal Structure, I need to read more about it. Which is why I ordered the book that they cited it from.
00:24:58.122 - 00:25:27.106, Speaker B: But I think it could sound actually, when I read it, I was like, this sounds a lot like what we're doing in Boys Club. I didn't even know that this existed, right. So I don't know, it could work. I think there are proven things that work in corporate structures. I personally have been more involved in the startup kind of world. So I don't really come from that experience. But yeah, why not, I guess.
00:25:27.106 - 00:25:33.254, Speaker B: But again, I think every Dow industry is different. I don't think a corporate structure would be the best for everyone.
00:25:33.452 - 00:25:43.018, Speaker A: Absolutely. And our last question, which interestingly comes from our next speaker, and that is do you think tokens help with community building?
00:25:43.184 - 00:26:33.980, Speaker B: No, I don't. I think it's really concerning when people think that it does. So let me just quickly explain my thinking here. I think it's a fatal flaw. I think it's a fatal flaw to use a Token as a way to try to bolster either marketing, brand awareness, relevancy brand exposure, or community building and community activity. I am of the personal belief, not reflective of my organization with Boys Club or like my firm, but of personal belief that you should wait as long as you can to launch a Token. I think finding Product Market Fit really hard, building a successful, sustainable, active community really hard.
00:26:33.980 - 00:27:29.634, Speaker B: Launching a token really hard. And that should come after you've found Product Market Fit and after you have a community. And that's because the Token relies on those other things as well. So to set the Token up for success, you need to have the most solid foundation possible. And I think we've seen across the board also there's examples of this, right? Like communities and projects and protocols and companies that launch a Token when they're first starting out or launch a Token to help the product are usually literally just go on CoinMarketCap and look through. No, I don't think tokens help community building. But I do think if there is a successful, sustainable, strong community and a token is launched, those should work to reinforce each other as a flywheel so they can help each other, but from not as incentive.
00:27:29.682 - 00:27:30.014, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:27:30.092 - 00:27:30.720, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:27:31.170 - 00:27:42.030, Speaker A: Awesome. Well thank you so much for that amazing talk and going into all those questions. Really appreciate taking the time. And with that, we are ready for our next speaker.
00:27:43.010 - 00:27:45.614, Speaker B: Thank you guys so much. Have a great day.
00:27:45.732 - 00:27:47.610, Speaker A: You too. Bye.
