00:00:00.360 - 00:00:42.320, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 3 May 2021. Alright, let's get into everything that happened over the weekend. Now, the first thing I wanted to start with today was this absolutely silly thread I saw, I think it was on Friday or Saturday here. That was basically a fud thread on Ethereum where this guy named Nick started this thread off by saying, here are seven reasons I am not optimistic about Ethereum's long term future. Now, I felt like I had gone back in time and read a thread that was put out in maybe 2018 or 2019, because the kind of like points that Nick brings up here are absolutely horrible. It is the weakest kind of fud that I've ever seen.
00:00:42.320 - 00:01:28.514, Speaker A: And because of that, I wanted to address this for maybe newcomers into the space that might look at this and might think, okay, you know, what's going on here? Like, you know, am I crazy for liking Ethereum? Is this Nick guy, right? And I mean, I can say for sure that he's not right here. And I'm going to explain to you why, but I will be going basically back and forth between Nick's tweet thread here and Figo's tweet thread here, where he actually kind of went through and debunked each of these points, which I thought was really good here. But yeah, so let me, let me kind of go through these points. So the first point Nick makes here is that Ethereum is not immutable and can be censored. The developers can roll back transactions and change the rules whenever they want. They can also be pressured by others, such as governments. Now, this statement is, I mean, just on the surface here, I'm just reading this, it's just like, I don't understand where he got this from.
00:01:28.514 - 00:02:15.450, Speaker A: I really don't. I can kind of like draw a conclusion that he probably looked at the Dow, what happened in 2016 and probably thinks, okay, well, you know, in 2016 when the Dow happened, the chain was, you know, it was altered, I guess you could say. And, you know, the, the Dow hackers kind of eat was, was taken away. Now, there's a lot of context that needs, needs to be given here, especially with kind of like, you know, when he says the developers can roll back transactions. Because what actually happened with the Dow hack was that it was, what happened was, he's called an irregular state change. So essentially what happened was the, the attackers. So that the Dow hackers eat was actually taken from them and basically put back into the, the Dow contract that people could essentially, you know, withdraw right after that happened.
00:02:15.450 - 00:02:58.564, Speaker A: Now, there was no rollback. The chain wasn't rolled back or anything like that. There, there was, were no transactions reversed. The Dow hacker, I mean, you could say was censored here or whatever, but it wasn't done by a central party. The community at the time and the ecosystem came together and basically said, okay, well, we're going to run the node software that has the kind of a regular state change to take back this kind of ETH from, from the Dao hacker here. So, yeah, I mean, even if you look at the Dao hack as that kind of like one time that, you know, this kind of thing was done, it wasn't a rollback of transactions and it was what's called an irregular state change. Now, if we look into the future and why this hasn't happened before, Figo has a great kind of point here and says if client teams don't integrate AI piece, no change is applied.
00:02:58.564 - 00:03:31.348, Speaker A: And then miners have to run the clients and users have to run the clients as well and run the full nodes and have to use the network. And then he says, you clearly don't understand how decentralized networks operate. Now, this is true. This is very true. The only things that go into the Ethereum network and the only changes that happen is through the EIP process, the Ethereum improvement proposal process, which goes through, you know, a rigorous kind of review on a lot of these eips. And a lot of them, you know, don't make it in. A lot of them kind of like, you know, some of them are contentious.
00:03:31.348 - 00:04:08.836, Speaker A: You know, remember, prog power was very contentious. There was no central party that was saying, you know, prog pal is going to go in, and that would actually favor the miners as well. So anyone who tells you that miners are in control of things doesn't really know what they're talking about either. So from that perspective, you know, there is no central party that can just control ethereum or can just basically say, okay, well, but I'm going to do this to a theorem and this is what's going to happen. It needs community buy in. And if you look and even look at like the most popular EIP 1559, it took two years to get integrated into the network from the IP first being specified because it needed community buying. It needed audits and needed review.
00:04:08.836 - 00:04:42.914, Speaker A: It needed economic analysis because it was such a big change on the network. And even though it had that community buying for such a long time, there was no central party that could just say, okay, well, 1559 is in, and that's it. Right? There was a consensus eventually among the core devs, after the core devs had absorbed all of the kind of like, feedback and knowledge from, I guess, the ecosystem, about 1559. And it was very clear that, you know, everyone wanted it. So even a very popular eIp like that took forever to kind of get into the network. And there was no one that said, you know, it should go in now or we need to do it now. There was no central party kind of dictating that.
00:04:42.914 - 00:05:01.770, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but I think just on the surface, what Nick has said here is just like, there is zero evidence. He's given no points of evidence here. He's just basically made a statement. And then for some reason, you know, 2500 people have liked it, 676 people have retweeted it. Absolutely, you know, insane. Okay, so that's the first point.
00:05:01.770 - 00:05:25.134, Speaker A: The second point, he says, is that its scarcity is artificial. The developers who prefer inflation control its monetary policy, which is arbitrary, uncapped and challenging to audit. What will the ETH supply be in five years? It could be 120 million, 500 million, 200 billion, 2 trillion, nobody knows. Again, statements with zero evidence to back them up. Right. Its scarcity is artificial. What? Like, I don't understand what, what his point is here.
00:05:25.134 - 00:05:55.254, Speaker A: Is he saying that it's artificial because the ETH monetary policy has been changed? I mean, that is the whole point. We, we changed it and we altered it to be able to come up with a monetary policy that makes sense to secure the network. Whereas, you know, I actually think that Ethereum's monetary policy is more egalitarian and kind of like more decentralized than bitcoins because it was formed by the community. There was no central party saying what its monetary policy can be. Whereas with bitcoin, there was. Right. If you think about it, Satoshi basically set the monetary policy.
00:05:55.254 - 00:06:26.214, Speaker A: And then he goes on to say, the developers who prefer inflation, what? Like, where is this coming from? I don't understand where this is coming from. Like, it's just a statement that he's made. And then he says that it controls. They control the monetary policy. They do not control the monetary policy. All changes in the past to the monetary policy were done based on community consensus. It's when the community came together and said, okay, we're overpaying for security here because the price of ETH went up so much and the miners are making so much money, let's kind of lower it.
00:06:26.214 - 00:06:49.914, Speaker A: And there was kind of like a cadence to that and it was the community. You can go back. I mean, Eric Connor was, was a champion for one of these kind of issuance reductions, and he gave like a really sound reasoning behind it. And there was discussion behind it. I mean, I have a thread somewhere that discusses this. So. Yeah, and then basically Nick goes on to say the monetary policy is arbitrary, which is insane because it's not arbitrary.
00:06:49.914 - 00:07:45.940, Speaker A: There has been lots of analysis done on ETH monetary policy being, you know, proof of stake issuance to secure the network, perpetual issuance, and then AIP 1559 to burn ethics and then potentially making ETH, you know, deflationary, where more Ev's burned that he's issued each day. Then he says uncapped. I mean, yes, it is uncapped, but it's uncapped because its monetary policy is set like that. We are fine with an uncapped supply because we are confident that the, that more supply is going to be burned each year than is going to be kind of like issued by proof of stake. And then he says, and it's challenging to order, and he's referring to being able to kind of audit the full supply of ETH, the current supply of ETH, which again, has been debunked many times in the past. There's, I think there's like four or five scripts you can run using an Ethereum full no to calculate the current circulating supply of ETH and the result across all kind of full no clients should be the same. You know, from the scripts that I've seen.
00:07:45.940 - 00:08:17.648, Speaker A: Then he, you know, you ask the question, what will the ETH supply be in five years? And it could be all these numbers. No, it can't be. We have certainty or relative certainty about what the ETH supply will be in five years. We don't know for sure because each monetary policy works off variable issuance in proof of stake, and also variable fee burning with ERP 1559. And Figo's reply here was to link to Justin Drake's kind of monetary policy thing here called ultrasound money. Right? And I'm sure you've all seen ultrasound money before. It's basically this concept that sound money is a cap supply.
00:08:17.648 - 00:08:42.668, Speaker A: Ultrasound money is decreasing supply. And we can do that with the fee burning. So that point, again, just really dumb. Third point here, ethereum's large pre mine created ownership, centralization and legal risk at the US government may consider it as the sale of an unregistered security with so much dependent on Vitalik burden and others. There is also significant leadership risk. Again, I just, I don't know where this is coming from. It's like he literally came from the past into the future.
00:08:42.668 - 00:09:05.816, Speaker A: It's like he came from 2017, 1819. To put this thread together for just like, I just don't understand. Like, it boggles my mind that he put this together. But anyway, I'm gonna address it. So he says, ethereum's large premier pre mine created ownership centralization. It didn't. If you go and look at the top holders of ETH besides exchanges, it's not the Ethereum foundation, it's not Vitalik.
00:09:05.816 - 00:09:26.138, Speaker A: Joe Lubin is definitely a top, one of the top holders. But a lot of the ETH that Joe Lubin has actually been distributed through his work at consensus. Consensus was funded by selling Ethan to the open market. Right. Ethereum has had a long proof of work issuance schedule where a lot of coins were distributed. The price has gone absolutely nuts since the ICO of $0.30. So a lot has been sold over time.
00:09:26.138 - 00:09:53.698, Speaker A: And the ICO was also open to anyone. And the pre mine that he's quoting here was, most of it was sold off, I think, from memory, 12 million was kept for the Ethereum foundation, and most of it was 12 million each. Sorry. And most of that was kind of, and then the rest of it, which I think was 60 million pre mine, was, was, was given in an open sale that anyone could participate in. And there was not even any KYC. There was no, from memory, there was no countries barred from doing it either. So anyone could participate in this.
00:09:53.698 - 00:10:39.084, Speaker A: And then he goes on to say it's a legal risk and the US government may consider it a sale of registered security. The SEC has actually already come out, or at least someone who's working at the SEC higher up, I can't remember exactly, but they've actually come out and said that they don't consider ETH a security. So it's pretty safe that, to say that ETH is not a security at this point. And the sale, they did say the sale at the time, I think, was a sales of an under adjusted security, but they weren't going to pursue it because it had been so long. So, yeah, no legal risk there. And then he's saying there's leadership risk here because of it's dependent on Vitalik Abuder and others. I mean, I am meeting more and more people these days who have no idea who Vitalik is because he is in the background just doing really good, really solid research and development, but he is not basically controlling the network in any way.
00:10:39.084 - 00:11:15.486, Speaker A: He is a very big contributor, but he's not critical. And then he's, and then nixes and others. Well, yes, there's, there's a bunch of core devs, a lot of them actually, like, um, you know, across ETH one and ETH two, there's plenty of core devs now. Um, and then he goes, significant leadership risk. I mean, uh, I mean, ethereum evolves over time. So obviously there are people in positions of leadership, or at least in coordination, like Tim Bico and Danny Ryan are pretty important to both the ETH one and ETH two efforts. But that doesn't mean that if they were to go and kind of get hit by a bus, right, that bus factor, that ethereum development would stop, right? There's a bunch of decentralized teams and decentralized people working globally on this sort of stuff.
00:11:15.486 - 00:11:46.382, Speaker A: So again, statements without any evidence to back it up, which I just, I just think is really dumb. And I'm curious to see what Figo said here. I said, nope, ETH is considered a commodity by the CFTC. Okay, well, that's pretty cool there, that he, that he addressed this. Okay, so the fourth point here, Ethereum's network infrastructure is not decentralized. Infuriate, which relies on Amazon, could be a single point of failure. If Ethereum ultimately depends on Amazon, why not just use a faster and more efficient centralized database system like AWS? So let's address his first point here, which again is, you know, the favorite FUD from 17 1819.
00:11:46.382 - 00:12:17.290, Speaker A: He says that Ethereum's network infrastructure is not decentralized because infuria can be a single point of failure. We've already seen that this is false because a few months ago, you'll remember, in November of 2020, Infuria actually went down because there was a bug in the go. Ethereum client, the geth client. Now what ended up happening is that the Ethereum network kept running just fine. And you know why? Because inferior is not most of the network. Inferior is a big part of the network that a lot of people use, and Metamask defaults to it. But Infuria can't do anything on its own.
00:12:17.290 - 00:12:38.594, Speaker A: It is just a node that relays transactions. Yes, if everything was running on infuria, like absolutely everything, then yes, it would be a single point of failure. But that's not the truth, and it's never been the truth. There are, there are lots of people running their own full nodes. There's thousands of them. There's multiple infrastructure providers, infuria, there's alchemy, there's the graph. There's lots of these kind of things that are offering infrastructure here.
00:12:38.594 - 00:13:10.512, Speaker A: And then he goes on to say, if Ethereum ultimately depends on Amazon, why not just use a faster and more efficient centralized database system like AWs? Well, I mean, Ethereum is not depending on Amazon here. I mean, a lot of the full nodes are not on Amazon. Like, yes, probably a fair chunk of them are, but like a lot of them are run by kind of like people on their home node software or software on their home pc. Sorry. And then you have ETH two as well, where people will run their stuff on their own home network too. But yeah, of course, like if it was all running on AWS, then that would be a concern. But the same could be said for bitcoin.
00:13:10.512 - 00:13:39.026, Speaker A: Like this isn't unique to a theory and this is, this is like any network, right? Any decentralized network. If all of the nodes were running on, you know, AWS, like literally 100% of them, then sure, Jeff Bezos could be like, okay, let's shut all this down. And they just shut off all those instances and then the entire network of nodes would go offline. But that, as I said, like, that's not the reality today. That's not the reality for either bitcoin or Ethereum. And again, you're not unique to Ethereum. So the fifth one here, there is an unclear use case.
00:13:39.026 - 00:14:29.820, Speaker A: What real world problems does Ethereum solve to provide economic value instead, east tends to latch onto ever changing use cases, mostly centered around hype cycles, buzzwords and narratives that come and go. I mean, it actually pains me to have to address this stuff, but I think it's important. But for someone to say this, there is an unclear use case when Ethereum is processing more transact, more fee revenue than, than bitcoin is by a large margin, and has been for quite a while. It is settling more value than bitcoin is, right? But then, more than any other network is, Defi is a real use cases. NFTs are real use cases that have been around since 2017 or even before that. The Ethereum white paper mentioned Defi and NFTs has been a concept for ages. But just in general, the reason why Ethereum has so many use cases is because it is a network that you can build anything you want on.
00:14:29.820 - 00:15:17.164, Speaker A: And because of that, some things will fail, some things will succeed, some things will change the world. That doesn't mean that Ethereum's use case is ever changing the use case is that you can build anything you want. That's the whole point, right? And on top of that, bitcoin's use case also changed over time. It went from a peer to peer electronic cash system or peer to peer money to digital gold, right? And people will say, I was always meant to be digital gold, not to the community at the time. There's a lot of people that were around back in the early days who didn't view it as digital gold, did not view it as a store of value. They viewed it as cash, as a new currency, as something that you could use as peer to peer money. So to say that, you know, Ethereum's use case is unclear when bitcoin's use case has changed as well, because I'm assuming this guy's a bitcoin just from the way he talks about Ethereum is just really bizarre to me.
00:15:17.164 - 00:15:41.474, Speaker A: And again, Ethereum's use case is the fact that you can build anything you want on it. And just because its use cases, quote unquote come and go, which really, I mean, they don't, they evolve. So ICOs evolved into yield farming and iOS to distribute tokens. You know, tokens never went anywhere, just the distribution mechanism did. And now we have like balancer liquidity pools as well for sales. So sales of tokens are still a thing. It just evolved into a better thing.
00:15:41.474 - 00:15:59.954, Speaker A: Like icos were obviously terrible, but you know, we evolved and we got better at that. Defi is going to take over the world, there's no doubt about that. NFT is going to reinvent culture and is already doing that. He's got another one here. ETH is oil on the picture. I mean, ETH is oil and gas for the network. It always has been and always will be.
00:15:59.954 - 00:16:21.934, Speaker A: And we've even improved that with EIP 1559. So again, just silly kind of statement to make and just utterly bizarre. I'm curious to see what figure said here as a fifth one he linked to crypto fees. Yeah, exactly. Ethereum processing more fees. But anyway, the 6th point here, the economics of the token model are not appealing. Many people who buy crypto tokens are confused.
00:16:21.934 - 00:16:41.868, Speaker A: They think they earn some sort of scarce asset or ownership stake. That would be similar to mistaking Chuck E. Cheese arcade tokens for shares in Chucky the cheese company. What? To be honest, I'm not even going to spend much time on this point because just what? I just don't even understand what he's saying here. It's utterly bizarre. I'm skipping that I can't even with that. The 7th point.
00:16:41.868 - 00:16:59.832, Speaker A: Ethereum is an early stage experiment. It has enormous implementation risk. The Ethereum ecosystem was not built upon a workable, finished product, but rather the ever changing theories and promises of an alpha stage experiment. I don't believe this is a stable foundation. Again. What I mean, just Ethereum is working fine. It's, it's doing fine.
00:16:59.832 - 00:17:18.384, Speaker A: Its future is brighter than ever. We have major upgrades with ETH two coming that have been planned since Ethereum was, you know, invented. Right. Proof of stake has been coming. It took a long time, but it has been planned for a very long time. Sharding has been planned for a very long time. A lot of the stuff that we want to do has been planned for it for at least a few years at this point.
00:17:18.384 - 00:17:46.346, Speaker A: So I just, what? Just, like, seriously, I get that you can call it maybe an experiment, maybe it's not early stage anymore. Um, and bitcoin, I would consider still an experiment here, um, an implementation risk. I mean, okay, I guess. But like, we've already got ETH two up and running and it went very smoothly. And there's only been one kind of like, edge case bug with, with mainnet so far. Um, you know, and, and, you know, bitcoin isn't immune to this either. Bitcoin has had plenty of bugs in the past.
00:17:46.346 - 00:18:05.950, Speaker A: And then his final two tweets here, where he says describing Ethereum as decentralized is misleading because every aspect of it is centralized. When it comes to decentralization, it's black and white. There are no shades of gray. That becomes crystal clear when something goes wrong. Again, I don't know what he's saying here. It's just a statement with no evidence. And then by contrast, he ends with.
00:18:05.950 - 00:18:36.762, Speaker A: By contrast, bitcoin has a crystal clear use case. It's a hard monetary system that is accessible to anybody and controlled by no body. It works in the real world and it solves probably mankind's biggest problem, which is storing in exchanging value reliably. What did I say? This guy's a bitcoiner. I actually forgot that the last tweet here was him just shilling bitcoin. This whole thread feels like he came from 2018 or 2019. Put this together, and it also feels like it's written by a bot that just kind of learned all the bitcoin of Fud talking points about Ethereum, like a Markov bot.
00:18:36.762 - 00:19:15.002, Speaker A: And put together this thread, I think it is one of the stupidest and most embarrassing things I have ever read. I really, I just realized I spent 19 minutes on this. But I think, is it critically important? And I think that a lot of newcomers are coming into the ecosystem now. So I really wanted to educate you all on why this is just like complete bullshit and has no basis in reality. And just in general, when you're looking at things like this, where there's literally statements and no evidence to back it up, you can pretty much write it off straight away because you can't just make a statement and then, and then it just be true, right? You can't just say something and then it's. And then everyone's supposed to believe you. But anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that because I spent a long time on this.
00:19:15.002 - 00:19:29.874, Speaker A: I want to move on to some more positive stuff. I will, of course, link this in the YouTube description. You go read it yourself and go read all the replies. I mean, you can see in the replies like a ton of people. Kind of like, you know, saying the same thing as me. It's the most idiotic and outdated thread I've ever read. It's embarrassing.
00:19:29.874 - 00:19:53.344, Speaker A: It's, you know, thanks for this 2017 flashbacks, sir. Those really were the days. It was just all crap. And you know what the funny thing is? It didn't even make sense in 2017 or 18 or 19 either. Recycled FUD I expect this when it's moving up in price, especially against bitcoin, because, you know, bitcoin has started to get scared. They're like, oh my God, is ETH actually going to flip BTC? You know, they won't, they won't ever admit that they think that, but they do. They do.
00:19:53.344 - 00:20:33.944, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm going to leave it at that. Move on to more positive news. I think the most positive news was that over the weekend there was a super experimental ETH one to ETH two post merge test network launched. This was basically a very early stage of, I guess like the rain ism project that how Proto Lambda is kind of heading up here as part of the scanning Ethereum hackathon and they had four consensus clients and three execution clients working. So take you lighthouse, Prism and Nimbus, which is the ETH two clients or the consensus clients as they're known as, and three execution clients or the ETH one clients base who geth and never, nevermind. Here are open Ethereum missing unfortunately. But they were all running just fine.
00:20:33.944 - 00:21:09.426, Speaker A: I don't, I think the, the, the network eventually forked, but this was just like a radical test network. Wasn't meant to be anything longstanding, but still it worked. So major progress being made on the merge here. And you may be wondering, you know, what's this terminology, consensus and execution clients? Well, essentially what the consensus clients refers to is the clients that you run to perform consensus on the network. In this case, ETH two is performing the proof of stake consensus. Right. Whereas the ETH one clients, once the merge happens, they're going to be referenced as the execution clients, the things actually processing transactions on the ETH one network.
00:21:09.426 - 00:21:33.170, Speaker A: So when the merge happens, there's going to be that how it's going to be split out there. So yeah, this was, I guess, like the biggest and most exciting news from over the weekend. I think the merge is the, going to be the most historic thing that's ever happened to Ethereum. It's going to be, you know, bigger than 1559, bigger than anything else we've ever done in the past. Finally going to get rid of proof of work and get onto proof of stake here. So really excited to see that play out. I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:21:33.170 - 00:22:30.458, Speaker A: There's a few resources you, you can go check out, especially on GitHub and things like that. So Trent from the Ethereum foundation has announced a new project called the Ecosystem Readiness Project. So he's working with Tim Baiko and the all core devs with a goal in mind to get Ethereum dev tooling ready for the London network upgrade, which is obviously due for July 14 with EIP 1559 included in it here. So this is a thread about like, I guess, like who's helping and what's happening, what they're trying to do. So if you're interested in helping with this and kind of being part of, I guess, like the effort to kind of get this done and get the ecosystem ready for London, be sure to kind of, I guess, go read this thread. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, and I'm pretty sure that you can reach out to Trent as well here. So speaking of London, there's another EIP that's going to be included into London with EIP 1559, and that's the one that makes gas tokens no longer viable.
00:22:30.458 - 00:23:28.522, Speaker A: So if you remember, I've spoken about gas tokens before, but essentially what these allowed people to do was to stockpile gas when it was cheaper and then use it when it was more expensive. And some people kind of speculated on this, and you could trade these tokens on the open market, but a lot of people would use them as basically a futures bet on the, on the gas token market here so come London, this will no longer be possible, which I think there's a reason. I don't think they're removing it, you know, the ability to do this, but they're basically changing the feature that allows you to do this, called the refund feature, to make it, like, untenable, to basically make it unprofitable, I think so, yeah. Really cool to see another EIP included in London here. So aztec protocol, or aztec network, announced on Twitter that they have launched their private die, which is now live on the aztec private roll up. So you can get your zero knowledge die or zk die with free transactions for the next seven days. I think this goes, goes to May 8, and you can enter a draw to win 1000 ZK die here.
00:23:28.522 - 00:24:10.758, Speaker A: So this will be linked in the YouTube description. Of course, there is more, there is more information in this blog post here and basically, you know, explaining why they picked die and all that sort of stuff. And, yeah, what you can look forward to in the future. So if you're interested in getting involved and going in for a chance to win the 1000 ZK die here, definitely go check this one out. So Bilaji put out a really great tweet today where he said, ethat three k learn solidity today. I mean, I don't know if you meant for that to rhyme, but this is so true. If you're a developer, if you're a builder, if you're someone who wants to be a developer or builder and you haven't learned solidity yet, I think it is the, as, as 1729 says here, it is the single most valuable skill in the world today.
00:24:10.758 - 00:24:25.536, Speaker A: You can obtain it without years of formal education. And they'll, and, and as I say here, they'll even pay you to learn it. But essentially, there's so many resources now. I linked it. I linked one here. You can go to the ethereum.org developer section and it'll have a bunch of resources for you.
00:24:25.536 - 00:24:57.018, Speaker A: But think about it. By learning solidity, you can launch and do whatever you want on the Ethereum network. You can create our bots, you can create, you know, you can do Mev, you can create new apps, you can launch whatever smart contracts you want. You can do anything you want. And, you know, there's a lot of profitable opportunities for that because there's not many people in the world that know solidity. And you can also join a bunch of teams, like, pretty much every team is looking for solidity developers right now. Whether it doesn't have to be defi, it can be like in the DaO space or in the social token space or in the L2 space.
00:24:57.018 - 00:25:25.396, Speaker A: Pretty much like all these teams are looking for solidity developers. So if you're, if you're a developer or want to be one, learning solidity is the highest kind of value thing you can do right now in the world, and I don't think that's hyperbole to say that. So yeah, if you're interested in that, you can go check out the ethereum.org developer section here, which is ethereum.org en developers if your preferred language is English, but they have this available in multiple languages as well. So yeah, you don't have to basically read it in English either. But yeah, I guess kudos to Balaji here.
00:25:25.396 - 00:26:15.854, Speaker A: He's got a massive Twitter following of 362,000 followers here. So it's great that he's getting the word out about ETH and obviously the price movements, but also about learning solidity. And, you know, people probably went and googled what solidity was and hopefully have jumped down the rabbit hole there. So a really interesting metric from glass node today, as the ETH price obviously crossed $3,000 over the weekend and set a new all time high. So this, this thing I should have covered in yesterday's data pump, but I didn't actually kind of know about this, this metric, or maybe I don't have access to it because there's higher tiers you can access on glass note here. But essentially what this metric is called is the network value to transactions ratio or the NVT ratio. And what ended up happening is that low NBT ratios indicate transaction volumes are high and growing faster than the network market cap.
00:26:15.854 - 00:26:58.688, Speaker A: And the market strength over 3000 is supported by volume settled on chain. So you can see on the picture here that essentially during the bear market and increasing NVT was, was very bearish. The transaction volume growth was less than the market cap growth. But during the entirety of pretty much 2020, or at least the second half and the entirety of 2021, so far, the NVT has been going down. So transaction volumes on the network, aka fundamental drivers, have been much greater than the market cap. And you can see the price overlaid on this as well. And you know, this is really, really positive to see, and not just these on chain metrics and the ones I showed in the data pump video yesterday, if you haven't checked that one out, you can go check it out on the channel.
00:26:58.688 - 00:28:45.912, Speaker A: But what's really positive about this is that this is the fundamental drivers, is what makes it so that ETH doesn't like have those massive kind of swings, right, where it goes up really fast and drops really fast because it's basically not being driven by fundamentals. And speaking of market structure, lately you may have been seeing some people talking about this on Twitter, where the leverage in the system for ETH is actually really low compared to other rallies, which means that a lot of this price movement is driven by spot buying or just like, you know, pure market buying, which could signal that a lot of new people are coming in and buying ETH, but it also could signal because the price is going up so far, so now, you know, so much that institutions are actually buying ETH as well, which I think they are. Like I've been saying it for a few months now, but I think they have been and they ramping up their buying here and it's accelerating because they're buying into and they realizing the power of Ethereum's monetary policy post 1559 and post merge. So I think that's why, you know, we have this kind of like perfect storm of Ethereum's fundamentals being extremely strong and also there being this massive buy demand from institutions that haven't typically been into ETH before and all these other people that have kind of like tried to chase Ethereum killers and all that coming back into it and bidding ETH back over $3,000 here. And I mean over $3,000 for the first time and onwards to obviously like higher than, than here. So yeah, really positive news all around for ETH right now, not just on the speculative side, but also on the fundamental side. So Jay from OKX, I guess he's the CEO of Okxia, announced today that they are leading the way in Ethereum l two adoption by being the first major cryptocurrency exchange to enable direct deposits and withdrawals to arbitrarium, which is an Ethereum layer to optimistic roll up protocol.
00:28:45.912 - 00:29:01.772, Speaker A: This is awesome. This is what I've been saying. We need these centralized exchanges, especially the larger ones, to enable deposits and withdrawals for Ethereum L2s. I'm really glad that OKX has done this. They're not going to be the last one to do this. There's going to be other ones that, that do it as well. But this is what we need.
00:29:01.772 - 00:29:33.834, Speaker A: This is like, when I saw this, I was like, holy shit, this is awesome. This is super exciting. The ball is finally moving here. We can start kind of onboarding newer users to, I guess, like these solutions rather than going to something like BSC and I want newer users to go to Ethereum L2s because they get the security, they get the decentralization of a theorem, they get to enjoy a theorem without the high gas costs. And on that note, arbitram isn't on Mainnet just yet. They're going to be on mainnet very, very soon. But they're basically, main net implementation is on Testnet and is working fine.
00:29:33.834 - 00:29:59.434, Speaker A: They've got a bunch of apps on there and they've got more in the pipeline as well, I'm sure. So from that point of view, having like day one deposits and withdrawals to arbitrary and once they launch through OKX is going to be huge. And I'm sure OKX is going to advertise this to their users and things like that and do some marketing around it. That's going to be absolutely huge. And I'm really, really excited for that. So thank you to OKX. Yeah, for being the first major, major centralized exchange to support an ethereum L2.
00:29:59.434 - 00:30:38.562, Speaker A: So Mariano had a really great tweet today where he said even with ether three k, gas prices remain low. Defi Altoos 1559 3074, which is the EIP 3074 is the AIP to basically make it so that you only have to do one transaction to approve a token and do like a Unisop trade, for example. Then he says the merge as well, everything we've been working for over the years is converging and creating a truly unstoppable platform. It is, right. It is creating this platform that, you know, we knew about all these things were coming, but it's finally being kind of priced in a bit here. And I don't think it's being priced in in a big way. It's just finally the market's waking up to it.
00:30:38.562 - 00:31:04.770, Speaker A: We knew about 1559 for, you know, at least two years. We knew about the merge for, for a while, right? We knew that the plan was to launch these proof of stake network and then merge it with, with ETH one and then drop the issuance considerably. And the ETH two monetary policy has been public for a while. I mean, Eric and I wrote the page on Ethub for it. We know how long it's been around. And we were telling people all throughout the bear market, we're like, this is going to happen, guys. You know, this is not a pipe dream.
00:31:04.770 - 00:31:51.224, Speaker A: This is exactly what's going to happen. But now the market's caught up, right? They're pricing it in. People are finally fomoing into ETH. Could have bought a lot lower. But, you know, Fomo is what it is. So, yeah, really exciting to, to see all these stuffs finally converging here and basically making it so that ethereum kind of like, I guess, you know, making it so people have more confidence in Ethereum's ability to basically take the long term path, build out things, deliver them properly, and not take shortcuts and still be able to drive value to both ETH as a token and a theorem as a network through the fundamental drivers as well. So very, very positive, I guess developments here, as I said when I just as before when I was talking about the glass node metric, all positive fundamentals and kind of like the speculative market structure side, it's just a perfect storm happening for ETH right now.
00:31:51.224 - 00:32:24.742, Speaker A: So last up here, Zero XM from, I guess Zero X monsters here have launched a new decentralized exchange or a p two p asset swapping platform powered by Zero X that they're calling pseudo swap. So what pseudoswap allows you to do is swap any asset to any asset. That means you can trade any ERC 27 21 or 1115, aka nfts for any other ERC 27 2115 here. Peer to peer and instant. Just send a link to your trading partner. It's gas optimized. You only pay for the approve in this swap, and assets never leave your asset until swapping.
00:32:24.742 - 00:33:11.020, Speaker A: So this is essentially, I think, like Xerox's early request for quote, product, or kind of like basically peer to peer order product where you could send basically your kind of order through a link to your trading partner and they could fulfill it and it could be done in a decentralized way across Ethereum. But this basically extends on what Zero X did and basically allows you to do. This is built on Zero X, but like, I'm talking about Zero X back in 2017, but this extends on that and allows you to use Zero X to basically trade any asset for any asset through the pseudoswap interface. So really cool to see here. Check it out. If you're into nfts and stuff like that, and if you want to basically see what you can swap and how it all works under the hood, I think it's really, really cool there. But that is it for today's episode, everyone.
00:33:11.020 - 00:33:27.404, Speaker A: Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord Channel actually join the Discord channel because it's popping lately. It's very active, lots of cool stuff going on there, so definitely check it out if you haven't already. But on that note, I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:33:27.404 - 00:33:27.844, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
