00:00:00.160 - 00:00:22.518, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 2 August 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I'm sure you've all been seeing all the kind of like proof of work fork talk. Fork talk. Didn't mean to rhyme there over the last, I guess like couple of weeks. And I've mentioned it and spoken about it on the refuel I think last week.
00:00:22.518 - 00:00:55.134, Speaker A: So I'm not going to get into the details, but I put out this tweet because the concern trolling just got too much for me. I basically said, you know, Ethereum devs and researchers have spent countless hours ensuring that the Ethereum network will have the safest merge possible. Ignore the concern trolls. They only started paying attention to the merge a few weeks ago and have no idea what they're talking about. And I really mean this. The people that I see talking about this sorts of stuff have absolutely no idea what the process has been to get Ethereum to this point where we're only, you know, six, seven weeks away from a main net merge here. They have no idea the amount of testing that has gone into the merge.
00:00:55.134 - 00:01:27.364, Speaker A: There's been so much testing, right. They have no idea how many smart people have been working on how many eyeballs are on it. They have no idea how it's been developed in, in the safest way possible. Because we launched a bitcoin chain first, let that bake for a while, and now we're kind of like merging the two networks. They have no idea that all of the kind of like, I guess edge cases and, you know, as many kind of like bugs as possible, as many kind of like possible exploits of pos as possible have been looked into. You know, they have no idea about this. Or a lot of the people pushing this sorts of stuff are just doing so because they want to make some, what they perceive to be free money.
00:01:27.364 - 00:02:09.474, Speaker A: And I explained last week why I don't think there's going to be much money to be made from, from this sort of stuff, especially because this fork wouldn't be ideologically driven. It would be kind of like purely speculative driven. And I don't think we have enough kind of like new money or retail investors in the industry right now or in the community right now because it's not a bull market. Maybe in a bull market would be different where this thing would get more kind of like speculative attention, but right now, the only people that would be kind of, like, buying this thing or trying to trade this thing would be people that are already here and they know the game. Like, it's not, it's not a secret to them. So I don't expect this to be, you know, anything kind of, I guess, like lucrative for very many people. I do think that maybe there's, that the Mav, people can make some money out of this.
00:02:09.474 - 00:02:43.560, Speaker A: But again, like, as I, as I warned last week, it's, it's just definitely not something that I am interested in promoting. I'm interested in kind of like, paying much attention to. I know I talk, I'm talking about on the refill, but that's because I ask questions about it all the time, so I, I feel like a duty to cover it. But, yeah, it just seems like it's being pushed by people who actually have no idea what's going on. And there's other people even trying to push the kind of narrative that tether. There was a, there was kind of like a more than 0% chance that tether would essentially pick the ETH one chain, or they're trying to call it ETH one. It doesn't even make sense, but would pick the proof of work chain over the proof of stake chain.
00:02:43.560 - 00:03:00.252, Speaker A: That's just not going to happen. Like, yeah, okay, it's not a 0% chance. Like, there's always. Nothing's ever a 0% chance, right. But these people were trying to say that it was like, a maybe a 510 percent chance that tether would kind of, like, pick the proof of work chain over the proof of stake chain. And it was just such a bizarre narrative. Like, that's not going to happen.
00:03:00.252 - 00:03:40.136, Speaker A: And then Paulo from Bitfinex and, and Tether basically confirmed that they're going to be sporting, you know, quote unquote ETH two, which is obviously the proof of stake chain. So I just kind of, like, really hate these narratives because I believe that they're actually very harmful to people, especially people who have absolutely no idea what's going on. I've seen people have, like, some of the weirdest takes about this fork or potential fork. I don't even know if it's going to happen. Right. But I've seen people have, like, the absolute weirdest take saying, you know, this is going to be worth more than proof of stake Ethereum because proof of work has intrinsic value and all these sorts of stuff. And I'm just like, what are these takes? Like, where are these coming from? And it's either people just kind of like bullshitting, or it's people kind of like coping because they don't want a theorem to go to proof of stake.
00:03:40.136 - 00:04:19.880, Speaker A: Obviously, there's a lot of people outside of the Ethereum community that don't want this to happen. Um, but yeah, it's just, it's, it's really like inaccurate, it's not good information, and it's definitely not something that I think is going to manifest in reality. There might be a fork, it may get some value because maybe some centralized exchange will list it. I believe Justin sun said that pollen Poloniex would list it, which I guess isn't surprising, but, you know, if he did that, there might be some liquidity for it. And then I think what would happen is people would just trade all of their, you know, forked coins for real ethics, and then maybe they go to fiat, I don't know, but I don't. And all the kind of like fork tokens, whatever they could get for them, they'd probably just trade for forked ETH and then, and then real ETH. Right.
00:04:19.880 - 00:04:55.902, Speaker A: So, and I think a lot of people don't understand that within defi, things break and break really, really badly. And I. People are going to learn that lesson pretty, pretty quickly if this does happen. But, but, yeah, I just wanted to kind of like, put that energy out there that like, the merge is not something that was just kind of like, concocted a few months ago. And we're going to know going about it in a fast way. No, it's taken a very long time for it to come to this point. And as I said, there's been countless hours, like, I couldn't even quantify the amount of hours that has been put into this from the hundreds of developers and researchers working across both the execution and consensus layer at both the research and development.
00:04:55.902 - 00:05:32.430, Speaker A: Kind of like verticals there. So. So, yeah, just wanted to kind of, I guess, chime in there. But moving on to the, I guess, biggest news of the last 24 hours was another, I guess, like, bridge was hacked here. So Nomad, which I've talked about, I think, on the refuel a couple of times before, I believe they were working with Kinext, but they were drained for over $150 million in one of the most chaotic hacks that web3 has ever seen. And Samsung here has a good breakdown thread of kind of like what the root cause was, how it all happened, and the craziness around it. But for the TLDR, there was a bug in the smart contract on Ethereum that kind of like handles the bridged assets.
00:05:32.430 - 00:05:52.924, Speaker A: And they were able to kind of be drained. And they were able actually to be drained, I think, by anyone. So in, it was basically like people posting memes saying it was like a department store that had no security, had no employees. It was just open for in a free for all. Anyone could go steal funds from it. And I think some people took advantage of this. But I think really the hacker got, the first hacker got away with a lot of the funds.
00:05:52.924 - 00:06:21.758, Speaker A: But yeah, I want to kind of like, start off by saying this has nothing to do with bridges, guys. Like, I know I've been really bearish on bridges in the past because of the fact that they're inherently insecure. The, the of cross chain bridges, or I guess like the cross l one, kind of like bridges. They're very insecure. They're not great constructions. And also, I've been very scared of them because they're honey pots at the end of the day. Like, these things have hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars put in them, and it's just a massive target for hackers.
00:06:21.758 - 00:06:46.118, Speaker A: But what happened here was just a typical smart contract bug on Ethereum. We've seen these time and time again. It had nothing in it to do with kind of like the bridge itself. It wasn't inherent to the bridge itself. It was just inherent to the smart contract being, you know, having a bug in it that was exploited. This could happen to literally any type of smart contract on Ethereum. It doesn't mean it just, just because it's a bridge, it could only a bridge contract or a contract that did bridge things could, you know, could result in this.
00:06:46.118 - 00:07:31.544, Speaker A: And this contract was mainly used for, I believe, kind of like the moonbeam network and the EVM OS network. And essentially what ended up happening was that all the assets on those chains that were kind of like bridged over from Ethereum were basically worth zero because there was no, nothing backing it up. Again, like these assets, as I've explained before, that are stored on the smart contract on Ethereum are the real assets. They're, they're the kind of like collateral, so to speak, for these assets on these other chains that basically act as kind of like an iou. Now, when that collateral is drained or taken or non existent, well, then the ious aren't worth anything anymore. So logically they trend to zero, which wreaked havoc on a lot of the, these kind of like other networks now, Moonbeam and EVM Os. EVM compatible networks, part of the Polkadot and Cosmos ecosystems, respectively.
00:07:31.544 - 00:08:01.964, Speaker A: So. So, yeah, they kind of like had a bit of bridging activity going on there. But this sucks, obviously, for the people affected by this. But I did want to make it very, very clear that this wasn't anything to do with bridges, it was to do with smart contracts being hacked. Right. We see this time and time again. Now, people always like to bring up Vitalik's kind of, I think, blog post he talked about six months ago where he argued that cross chain, Cross l one was inherently kind of like insecure and would never be as secure as say, cross roll up or l one, l one to l two.
00:08:01.964 - 00:08:25.716, Speaker A: He's still right about that. But I don't like how people bring that up as kind of like, oh, look, Vitalik called this. No, like, as I said, this was just a normal smart contract exploit. So it's very different to the actual bridge construction being exploited. Right. And that, I believe has happened before, but not in, in this case here. So, yeah, if you want the full breakdown of what happens technically, you can give this thread from Samsung a read.
00:08:25.716 - 00:08:56.980, Speaker A: They're always a good rate. Obviously. I think all of you would know who Samsung is, is pretty famous within the community for being a famous, kind of like white hat hacker. And he's kind of found multiple bugs and he now works in, at research at paradigm here. So. So, yeah, but I think, like, when, when talking about these sorts of things, I think it's really good to stay to the facts. But at the same time, I think that it's, it's kind of funny because as I said, this can happen to any smart contract, but because it's like a bridge smart contract, it may make people kind of like even more cautious on bridges, which they should be like.
00:08:56.980 - 00:09:40.054, Speaker A: I actually think people should be very, very cautious of bridges. I've warned about bridges in the past, not only because they're smart contracts, it can have bugs in them, but also because if you kind of like bridge your assets from Ethereum to another chain and for some reason the assets on Ethereum are kind of like frozen or stolen. Well, like anything you were doing on the other chain is affected. Right? On the other chain that you bridge to is affected and it gets really messy. Like, especially say you had kind of like assets in, in defi, you could get kind of like a double whammy there, right? So it's, it's not fun. Like, and, and, you know, I was talking to some friends today about this and it's kind of funny because I don't actually use any of these bridges, but it's not out of some kind of, like, ideological notion of not wanting to use an alternative l one. It's got nothing to do with that.
00:09:40.054 - 00:10:19.408, Speaker A: And it's also got nothing to do with being able to afford the fees on Ethereum layer one. Like, if I, if I wanted to, I would use these other networks, but for me, I experienced Defi Sami in all its glory. And there were a lot of exploits in Defi Sam, and I didn't get involved in any. I've never actually gotten in, kind of lost any money to an exploit. But that experience, seeing people lose money then, is what kind of, like, made me cautious on these things and kind of like, makes me not want to use these, these sorts of things, especially at the, say, the early stages of them, especially bridge contracts, because they're massive honey pots, right. And I think the people using them these days, I mean, there's probably a wide variety of people using them for different reasons, but they, they learn the lessons the hard way now, which is just. It just sucks.
00:10:19.408 - 00:11:00.246, Speaker A: Right. But I think at this point, we've had enough of these kind of, like, exploits in these bridges, in the story, in these bridge contracts to show people that building kind of like these sorts of things is definitely a big honeypot. People are going to exploit them. And at the end of the day, like, it's not just going to be people that are based in, or individuals or maybe like, hacker groups that are based in. In the US or Europe or anything like that. But there's plenty of hostile nation states out there, like North Korea and China, that definitely have hacking groups going after these sorts of things in order to get money? Like, North Korea, especially, like, they're not a rich country, right? So they need money. Well, what better way for them to get more money than hacking smart contracts where there's no retaliation at all? The US isn't going to go after North Korea, right? Like that.
00:11:00.246 - 00:11:29.028, Speaker A: Just, it's just not going to happen. So the north korean kind of, like, group, I think they call the Lazarus group, there are, there are kind of like, they what's called an apt, which is a advanced persistent threat. They're very active in the cybersecurity kind of like scene or, you know, outside of crypto. But for them to be active in crypto is like a no brainer because there's just money to be made at the end of the day and, like, very, relatively easy money to be made, too. They don't care about cashing anything out. They can just hold the ETH. Right? Like, obviously they're not going to hold any centralized stable coins because it'll probably get frozen.
00:11:29.028 - 00:11:44.720, Speaker A: But if they just hold the ETH then it's, it's whatever. Like, obviously they have to kind of like put up with the vault volatility, but it's better than what they had before, which was zero. Right? They get all the ETH. I mean, if it goes down 50%, who cares? They still had like more than they had before, so to speak. So. Yeah. Anyway, give this thread from Samsung.
00:11:44.720 - 00:12:09.862, Speaker A: Reed. I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, so Kevin Orwocky has given us a reminder today that Gitcoin grants round 15 is starting on September 7 and runs to September 22. So not too close. It's about what, five weeks away at this point. But you know what's funny? This is going to possibly run during the merge event, which is just kind of like a nice little crossover there. But round 14, I believe was the biggest kind of like bitcoin grants around in history.
00:12:09.862 - 00:12:40.770, Speaker A: Hoping round 15 is just as big. It's always a bit of a kind of like toss up here because it's a bear market. You know, obviously in the bull market, people, people feel richer, they have more money, they're more prone to donating. So I'm curious to see if kind of like in the bear market we get the same thing. I think we. We will not, maybe not this exact same thing, but I think that there's still a lot more, I guess, like attention on Gitcoin these days and a lot more money flowing into public goods and a lot more kind of, I guess, like awareness around public goods that we're going to see a really, really great bitcoin grants around 15 here. So I just wanted to give a heads up there.
00:12:40.770 - 00:13:05.442, Speaker A: You guys know that I'll be reminding you when this goes live. I always do that. But yeah, I'm looking forward to it in around five weeks from now. All right, so Coinbase's institutional arm has announced that they are now offering Ethereum staking to institutions in the US. So they say here, using our industry leading cold storage, you can now generate yield by staking ETH. And they have a blog post here detailing all of that. I think this is a pretty big deal.
00:13:05.442 - 00:13:44.398, Speaker A: I've said before that the ETH staking opportunity is absolutely massive, not just for individuals, but also for institutions and corporates and all that sorts of stuff. And I think what's going to end up happening here is the institutions are going to wrap each staking in their own kind of like vehicle and sell it to their customers. Now, people, people talk about this sometimes on Twitter, saying this is basically like the world's greatest grift, right? You wrap the existing product up in your own product, you charge a fee on it, and you kind of like on sell it to customers, to, you know, pension funds, to endowments, all this sorts of stuff, and you get to collect a nice juicy fat fee for essentially not really doing much. Right. You're. You're basically like the very definition of a middleman. But that's how things work.
00:13:44.398 - 00:14:05.222, Speaker A: Like, that's the way of the world. So I don't think it's worth kind of like harping on about that or getting too caught up in that. What I think is, is cool is that it, like, I've always believed that the e staking ecosystem would be very diverse. It wouldn't just be solo stakers. It wouldn't just be liquid staking providers. It would be, you know, centralized exchanges are doing staking. It would be some staking service providers.
00:14:05.222 - 00:14:37.806, Speaker A: It would be institutional staking that is kind of done. There'll be decentralized services, obviously, like rocker pool and things like that. So it's going to be a very wide and diverse set of stakers. And as I said before, that's what we need in order to make sure that no one party or no one, kind of like group or corporation or institution or whatever, has a majority, or even a close to majority control over the beacon chain. Obviously today there's a lot to be desired. You know, Lido has over 30%, even though Lido is like 28, I believe. Kind of like unique and unique.
00:14:37.806 - 00:15:02.830, Speaker A: Kind of like staking service providers. It's still all going through kind of like the lido system. So there is a risk there. And there are some centralized exchanges that have a lot of stake already. But as I've said, like once beacon chain withdrawals are enabled, we're going to see a bit of a reshuffling there, I think. And also as more competition comes online, it just naturally distributes out the stake, which should make for a much healthier and decentralized kind of beacon chain. So, very cool to see this from Coinbase today.
00:15:02.830 - 00:15:24.918, Speaker A: Obviously, it's probably not going to apply to anyone. Maybe watching the refuel here, maybe it will. I don't know. I obviously don't know everyone who watches the refuel, but I imagine a lot of you are just kind of like individuals that do your own staking or maybe stake through something like rocket pool. But this is still very, very cool. It means probably more ETH demand, more ETH locked up, and maybe at least to an appreciating ETH price because, because of that, right. And obviously it leads to a more secure theorem network.
00:15:24.918 - 00:15:52.292, Speaker A: The more ETH that he staked the most, you know, the more expensive it is to attack the network. So it's all good. Right. With kind of like staking here. So very cool to see this from Coinbase today. Alright, so Rainbow has announced today that there to commemorate the launch of L two nfts in the Rainbow Wallet, they collabed with optimism to make a special token gated custom optimism x rainbow app icon which you can unlock by claiming the optimistic Explorer NFT. That's a mouthful.
00:15:52.292 - 00:16:33.410, Speaker A: So you can get the optimistic Explorer nft here at the get started page on optimism, which I actually spoke about the other day, that new kind of get started page that I have that I really, really liked. But essentially you can now unlock this kind of like new icon for your app. I think only I don't know if this is both on iOS and Android, but you can see it here on iOS, the cool little new kind of like rainbow icon for the app here. So this is cool. I guess this is another way to kind of like use nfts and kind of, I guess like expand the utility of nfts. And I think that, you know, rainbow doing this is obviously very natural of them. I've spoken about rainbow countless times on the refuel, but they're always on the forefront of these sorts of things and they always love doing these sorts of things.
00:16:33.410 - 00:17:16.176, Speaker A: So if you want to get your optimistic Explorer NFT, you can go mint it and then you'll be able to get a fancy new icon if you're a rainbow kind of mobile wallet user. Alright, so the July 22 stats for Ens are out. So I think they had kind of like a record month. So 378,000 new ETH registrations, $6.8 million in protocol revenue, 5400 ETH in revenue highest ever month, 48,000 new ETH accounts with at least one ens name and over 99% of Opensea domain volume. So yeah, I do believe, just eyeing the chart here, that July was the biggest month in ENS history, beating out may by just a little bit there in terms of monthly registration numbers. That is insane.
00:17:16.176 - 00:18:04.096, Speaker A: Like it's crazy because I've said before, I mean, it's crazy because if you look at last month, June, the registrations were, registrations were down a lot from maybe, but they've seemed to have spiked up again. Now, I do think that, like, probably, I don't know, it's kind of hard to quantify how much of this is speculative activity, but a lot of it would be. I saw, like, a lot of people speculating on the three digit ens names, on the emoji ens names and all those sorts of things there. But I don't think that's a bad thing. I think, you know, people often look at speculation as all bad and no good. I think speculation is kind of a delicate balance. You can have things which are purely speculative, which add no value to the world, and kind of like just like a pump and dump or a ponzi, and then you can have things that have speculative elements attached to it, but are also, like a great product that people love to use.
00:18:04.096 - 00:18:29.030, Speaker A: ENS is an amazing product. No one can deny that. Like, it's so good. I mean, being able to kind of like, just have an EnS name attached to your Ethereum address is a huge ux benefit. And, you know, there's obviously a bunch of other benefits on top of that as well. But there is a lot of speculative activity for people who are trying to make money on things like three digit ens names and emoji ens names, and that's totally fine. Like, you, you can't take that away.
00:18:29.030 - 00:19:02.186, Speaker A: I don't think there's any way to kind of, like, get rid of that speculation. Maybe you don't want to either because this speculation would lead to more marketing, you know, better kind of revenue for the Dow as well. Better kind of like revenue for Ens in general and more awareness around ens as a product are generally. So I don't think it's a negative thing. I think people often like to look at speculation as all negative, but that's only if you're looking at it from a pure, kind of like, I guess maybe you could say markets perspective, where it's like, okay, well, you know, this thing went up all like ten x and then it dumped 90%. Like, this is just kind of like a rug. You know, this is like a ponzi.
00:19:02.186 - 00:19:33.874, Speaker A: This is a scam. But, like, I don't think Ens falls into that category at all. And I think that, you know, anything that has speculation tied to it has to be looked at in that frame of mind. You can't just say, oh, this is speculative, which automatically means it's trash. I think you have to take all of the arguments and points together and kind of like, add the nuance to it and then come to a conclusion. And my conclusion of ENS is that has an amazing product, has speculative activity attached to it that doesn't take away from, from the product. And I think it actually enhances the product by bringing in a lot more attention and a lot more awareness around ens.
00:19:33.874 - 00:19:57.214, Speaker A: Alright, so this NFT, I guess like marketplace on Stocknet launched today called aspect. So you can check this out at Aspect Co. And this is the first time I've actually heard about kind of like aspect here. So if I actually go to their website here. Yeah, so they're on main net. You can enter aspect and connect your wallet here and everything like that. Looks pretty cool, looks pretty modern.
00:19:57.214 - 00:20:27.364, Speaker A: I guess it's using some of the ethereum.org artwork here which is, which is kind of cool. It's got obviously your buy and sell sections. There's not going to be that much on here just yet given that it is on stock net, not on, on Mainnet that you can see here. And like I don't recognize any of these kind of like nfts here, but you can buy, sell and create using stocknet, mainnet, which is very, very cool. I think. I think that you know, obviously stocknet is very early still, but there is a lot of people building on them, a lot of projects building on them that I haven't heard of before.
00:20:27.364 - 00:21:09.418, Speaker A: I mean this is the first time I've heard of aspect today. I don't know if I've talked about them on the refill. Maybe I've forgotten about it, but I think this is the first time I've heard of them today or at least kind of like paid attention to them and they're already live on mainnet with their NFT marketplace which is very, very cool. So looking forward to seeing more of these kind of like types of apps going live on stock net. Obviously they need to build out their ecosystem to get to probably the same level as optimism and arbitrary in terms of kind of like what defi they have, what nfts they have, what kind of like tooling they have and all that sorts of stuff. But I think they will get there. I think, you know, betting like even though I've been bearish on Starkware's token distribution or Stocknet's token distribution, I've always said that the technology is, is real, what they're building is real.
00:21:09.418 - 00:21:38.376, Speaker A: They have a really good ecosystem building up around it that I can't be bearish on stocknet just because the token distribution is something that I don't really think is great. I'm actually more bullish on stock net than I've ever been because I've just seen so much traction kind of building up around it. I'm seeing so many people kind of like embracing them and so many people wanting to build on there that it's kind of like impossible for me to be bearish. So, so yeah, you can check out, I spec if you want to as well. You can check it. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right.
00:21:38.376 - 00:22:18.264, Speaker A: Another, another project that I've come across recently is something called Flash stake, and they're going to be launching very, very soon. So they have a thread here saying the flash stake launch month is here. Amplified unlimited time yield for early adopters. Let's time travel into the future for a look at everything you need to know for the launch of the time travel, the time travel of money protocol. And you can see kind of like this little calendar here of what the flash stake flush month, or I guess like launch month will look like they're planning to launch, I believe, their liquidity mining program on kind of like August 11 here. So they're going to be kind of like juicing up those apys with assumed kind of like a token emissions here. And then they've got like a bunch of other things planned for August.
00:22:18.264 - 00:22:59.988, Speaker A: Basically it's all happening in August. From what I can see. There are some, I believe, kind of like contracts going live at the end of July, July 31 here and early, early August. And then throughout the rest of August, you've got like a roadmap here of what's happening. So for those of you who don't know what flash stake is, it's, it's going to be obviously a new protocol here that allows you to essentially get your yield upfront from kind of like any strategy that is basically created as part of the protocol. So for example, the reason why they call it the time travel of money protocol is because say you're going to get like a 10% yield or something and you want, you don't want to wait to get that yield. Well, you can kind of enter into flash stake and kind of get that yield immediately.
00:22:59.988 - 00:23:28.578, Speaker A: Right, which is, I think, very, very cool. There's obviously different risk trade offs here and things that you would need to take into account, which you, you can kind of like visit Flash take to learn more about it here on their website. And there's also this thread about their kind of like launch month and how everything is kind of like happening here as well. So very, very cool. I think August is obviously the month to look at for flash stake. I think it's going to be an exciting new Defi protocol. I'm, as I said, guys, I'm always on the lookout for new and exciting, actually innovative defi protocols.
00:23:28.578 - 00:23:56.080, Speaker A: Not just ponzis on Ponzi's, on Ponzi's. You, you know, you guys know I hate those sorts of things. But yeah, this is one of them and one of them, one of the ones to pay attention to. So you can go to flash stake IO to check out their website and everything. But this thread will also be linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. I finally here, I just wanted to give a shout out that I'll be doing a talk today with the SSV network on the merge series. Again with Gupta Mood.
00:23:56.080 - 00:24:19.912, Speaker A: Gupta, sorry. From Polygon here. He's the chief information security officer at Polygon. We're going to be talking about all things related to the merge. I'm going to be asking him a bunch of questions around that, of course, and also questions around the proof of work chain, what his opinion is on it, what his opinion is on things like, kind of like the merge itself and what he's excited about, all that sorts of stuff. So if you want to listen in, you can. It's on Twitter spaces.
00:24:19.912 - 00:24:46.994, Speaker A: I'll link it in YouTube description below for you to do that. If not, you can kind of like listen to the recording because obviously all Twitter spaces are recorded because I think this is at a time where the US is definitely still awake, but Europe is definitely sleeping. I think some of the US is awake. Maybe not the east coast, but the west coast might be. It's really late there because this is 02:00 p.m. My time, my time being australian, eastern standard time. So yeah, anyway, I'll link that in YouTube description for you to set a reminder there.
00:24:46.994 - 00:25:41.098, Speaker A: But yeah, I got a few minutes here, left again today. So I wanted to talk about something else that I kind of was thinking about over the last 24 hours especially. You know, it was funny, I was thinking about this yesterday and then I started thinking about it even more today because of the nomad kind of like hack. But essentially I was thinking about kind of like smart contract security in general because like when you, when you kind of like say these hacks, you kind of like think to yourself, are we ever gonna get to a point where these smart contracts are going to be secure enough to actually run these things at scale run Defi, at scale run you know, anything at scale and get everyday people using them. I think, yes, I think we're still in the pioneer phase. We're still in the really early adopter phase. I think that it, you know, some of these stuff is really, really amateur hour, but there are plenty of examples of things that haven't been exploited or hacked yet.
00:25:41.098 - 00:26:10.042, Speaker A: I mean, I'm not gonna say they're not going to be exploited or hacked, but there have been plenty, there are plenty of examples of apps that haven't been, that are really trusted that work really well. Makeup for example. Right. Uniswap Aave compound, compound did have an exploit, but it was relatively limited and it was kind of like related to the liquidity mining, I believe, if I remember incorrectly. But generally the reason why. And synthetics I don't think has been exploited before. Maybe it has, but maybe really early on in its life.
00:26:10.042 - 00:26:50.482, Speaker A: But you know, when you think about kind of like things, you always think of the bad things first. Like you think, oh my God, there's been so many hacks and things like that. And there has been, don't get me wrong, but if you kind of put it all together and look at what has actually been hacked and drained, most of the time it's really early stage protocols that are just not taking security as seriously as they should be. Secondly, it's protocols that are just forks that are just trying to change code because they want to make more money, whatever it is, like just a pure speculative thing. And third, sometimes they're just like outright scams, right? And they get exploited because the creators of these things don't care about security. So you have to take it all together and look at smart contracts as a kind of like general thing. And you have to look at the trend over time as well.
00:26:50.482 - 00:27:31.694, Speaker A: Yes, the hacks may be bigger today because the dollar value is bigger, but in, and maybe the frequency is up, but that's because there's just so many more smart contracts out there today than there was even just a few years ago. So we should look at the kind of like the percentage of things. So I haven't done this myself, but I'm curious if someone has done it where they've looked at, you know, how many smart contracts are deployed today and how many have been exploited. You'd have to probably look at economically relevant smart contracts. You can't just look at all of them because, you know, probably a lot of them are just trash. But looking at the economically relevant ones and then doing a percentage of those that have been hacked and has that been trending down over time? I think it would be. Has the dollar amount been trending up over time? Over time, certainly it has, but that just shows that the ecosystem is growing.
00:27:31.694 - 00:28:15.430, Speaker A: That just shows that the value of money in these protocols is growing. And I don't think that's a really good measure of anything, because the kind of like a smart contract would have $1 million in it or $100 million in it. The bug would still be the same, right, if you were kind of like, if you had a bug to drain that amount of money in it. But obviously, as the kind of like, value goes up, the more eyeballs go on that contract, there's kind of like a huge honey pot. It becomes more and more worth it for people to kind of spend time finding a hole in that contract. That's why I've said, you know, for a long time now that bridges are the best honey pots out there for hackers because they've just got so much money in there, and it's basically worth their time to look into it to see if they can poke holes in it and see if they can get away with the capital. So, yeah, just something generally I've been thinking about.
00:28:15.430 - 00:28:28.094, Speaker A: Maybe you get your brains turning about this as well, but I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
