00:00:09.400 - 00:00:26.676, Speaker A: All right, so our next speaker, second time on stage today, is a lawyer and also an important link between the builders and the regulators. She is also co founder of Kiom Protocol. So welcome back on the stage, Ana Grace.
00:00:26.790 - 00:01:12.558, Speaker B: Thank you. It's here. Hello, everyone. Hopefully you're all awake on this rainy day and doesn't slow down your interest. So I'm back as mentioned, but this time for a very different topic. I'm asking the question, is Defi inclusive and what can we do to revamp it and make sure it does does include financial empowerment? And you may ask, why is a lawyer and someone working in a DeFi protocol actually tackling that question? Rather that someone who already works on impact related issues? Well, I had a past life where I worked on collaborative practices when sharing economy was a thing. We investigated how these practices could help to achieve some of the sdgs.
00:01:12.558 - 00:02:08.104, Speaker B: So basically, this is the whole path that led me to now DeFi and trying to reconnect it with what I've done in the past. And when I think about what happened yesterday on stage, if I managed to change the slides, it works perfectly. I found a quote on LinkedIn that is pretty useful. So I really thank the person for summarizing it. We had a great fireside chat yesterday that precisely introduced my topic by asking, why is it that only less than 1% of the population still uses blockchain, and if we ask uses defi, it's even less? Well, one of the answers was that it's a technological and financial tool that places high demands on the user and therefore it's not relevant to most people. It's just too complicated to adopt. Well, if we think about it, another presentation yesterday highlighted how the promise of blockchain was financial inclusion.
00:02:08.104 - 00:02:51.880, Speaker B: We can create an alternative financial system where no one asks questions, no one is excluded unduly. So there was this beautiful idea behind it. But where do we stand today? And in one of the slides of that presentation yesterday, there was just an emoji questioning because we don't have really many answers there. So the first step would be to define what is financial inclusion, because inclusion is a broad word. So I went back to the source. If you scroll through the website of the United nations, you realize that those four points included as part of financial inclusion. So we need tools with universal access at a reasonable cost to a wide range of services, both that are provided by sound and sustainable institutions.
00:02:51.880 - 00:03:17.214, Speaker B: Now, let's maybe go through all these four points and check. Is Defi anyhow providing this currently? Well, first, universal access. Well, thanks to public blockchains. Actually, for peer to peer, it's great. Thanks to decentralized applications for the rest too. So it should be fine here. Well, actually, when you think about it, because mass adoption of crypto as means of payment is lagging, there are dependencies.
00:03:17.214 - 00:03:48.992, Speaker B: So for real life use cases, the ones where you could really use some defi in your life, you need on and off ramp solution. Most of the time, if you don't have tokens that you gain through some airdrops or because you somehow generated them for your work, you simply need to buy them somehow. You need to get them. So you need to on ramp. And then we still cannot pay for rent, you cannot pay for supply of stock, you cannot pay for a lot of things. Still with crypto, it would be too easy. So you still need to off ramp, and now you have a block or two.
00:03:48.992 - 00:04:28.868, Speaker B: So in terms of universal access, great, you access the crypto ecosystem, but then you still kind of stock. If I'm paid in crypto, but I cannot off ramp it, I may still get kicked out of my apartment if I'm not paying my rent over. I might have a huge savings in crypto. So is there a potential solution? If you take, for example, the example of lending projects, tokenizing assets, let's say I tokenize crops, for example, and issuing their tokens, which could in turn be used as collateral. Hey, I have crops being tokenized. I can get some USDC. And by chance someone accepts USDC for payments of bills, then there would be no need to onprem, right.
00:04:28.868 - 00:05:01.898, Speaker B: Well, the practical issue here is who will accept to create a pool actually for this. And in terms of risk, you may be able to create your own pool with a lot of tools, allowing you just to bootstrap a pool without having any selection process. But still, there may be not enough liquidity. Those assets are still considered as risky. They could be manipulated, so it may be tough. And then how do you attract liquidity to this kind of pool? This is always the question that will come up. And Kiom has a lending protocol as part of the offering.
00:05:01.898 - 00:06:24.220, Speaker B: How do you attract liquidity? Why would you create a pool where that barely anyone uses? Well, actually, when you think about it, well, if you know that people will utilize that liquidity immediately because there's a need, like those farmers actually going to deposit those tokens because they're going to borrow immediately using them as collateral, well, this should be actually a major incentive to deposit, for example, USDC so that people can borrow it. Because after all, rates are influenced by utilization at a reasonable cost. Well, when you think about crypto, and I found like a nice comparison here, fintech apps are the worst in terms of how much you pay, and anyone who used one of those very easy tools in terms of, hey, let's purchase some crypto for revolut or like for Swissborg, you kind of pay a lot at the end, and if you compare it to defi, it's less. But then you have still fees that you cannot deny. You have the gas fees, and depending on how many transactions you have, they may amount to a lot. You have potential service fees. Like by service fees, I mean transaction fees in general, whether these are swap fees or others, you may have conversion fees on top of that if you need to convert first to be able to use that specific service, and then also on and off ramp fees if you cannot access the service simply because you don't have crypto yet.
00:06:24.220 - 00:07:03.874, Speaker B: And on top of that, it's not mentioned expressly when you think about cost. But there's also just a cost of understanding the Dapp and what you want to use. And this is an initial cost. Like, do you have time and resources to simply understand what you're about to use in terms of costs? I digged out yesterday numbers actually from the czech banks on loans provided to czech residents. Since we're in Prague, thought about being local. When you check at households and consumer credits, you're at a rate that's just like above 8%. If you check on Aave, if you want to, for example, borrow USDC at 9%.
00:07:03.874 - 00:07:35.744, Speaker B: So we're kind of in the same range. When you think about it, at the end of the day, maybe you would expect to have better rates. But is it so bad if it's actually comparable? I wouldn't think so. Plus, depending on the asset, you can go below a wide range of services. Well, here, what is a wide range of services? If you look into some of the financial inclusion reports, you can see. See the services I listed here. Like you need an account to store the value, you need payments, loans, investments, insurance.
00:07:35.744 - 00:08:04.864, Speaker B: If you check some other classifications, as the one I posted here, it's phrased somehow differently. But when you think about it in Defi, well, we have a wide choice of non custodial wallets, but is that choice suited? I'll come back to that. Not everyone will be able to use that kind of wallet, just because when you think about it, there's a lot of information. And if you're not that crypto savvy, it's still a blocker. Payments. You have a wide choice indeed. So that's good loans.
00:08:04.864 - 00:08:42.134, Speaker B: Well, it depends what you're looking for. I'll come back to that too. Investments, well, you have a wide choice, but you don't have adequate filters. Normally, you know whether this investment is riskier or not, like a lot of people still, but are not that crypto savings simply select investments based on, oh, someone recommended that to me. Like who has received here messages from people asking what is the next token to invest in? Not sure it's the best way to proceed with handling your savings by investing them according to what someone recommended to you. Just because, I don't know, maybe they invested in Ethereum back in the time. So there's still some progress to be done then on how we present those investment opportunities.
00:08:42.134 - 00:09:25.588, Speaker B: And then insurers, well, they are solutions. You can hedge your positions and so on. But in general, let's maybe talk about it next year, because in terms of insurance and defi, we're not there yet. And on top of that, it's good to have a wide range, but this range needs to be appealing to people. So first of all, clear use cases. What's in it for? If you ask your neighbor about the lending protocol, like, hey, would you utilize a lending protocol? Chances are his first question would be, what for? So if I need to finance, for example, a co housing project, there was a great presentation about it yesterday, or a farm, but the protocol tells me how to gain points from the new quest. I'm not sure there's a match in terms of how we present things.
00:09:25.588 - 00:10:12.832, Speaker B: So we need to present solutions we have in a way that's appealing actually to real life use cases, because many still simply don't understand how to leverage the potential of DeFi. And numbers show that. I mean, DeFi is like, for example, landing protocols are mostly used for trading. Like you don't use those lending pools to finance your next crop, to finance your house, to finance any purchase of tools, you use them to go long and short. And this kind of things, they got people going to focus on the specific user base. So these are examples of how some protocols are trying to really appeal to real life use cases. So investor farm is an example of loans, for example, for farmers and so on.
00:10:12.832 - 00:10:49.560, Speaker B: So this is like a real life use case, but you could perfectly use compound for those kind of things if you simply understood the whole process and the fact that you can access the liquidity from there. Same for this example. I found that actually never heard about before researching education and lending same. You could do it with using existing protocols. Why do you need additional solutions while you have solutions that already exist? It just complexifies and adds fragmentation to the space. So appealing services also means they need to be same or better. That would be even better.
00:10:49.560 - 00:11:13.292, Speaker B: If they are better, what exists at than traditional financing. So for efficiency, speed blockchain certainly allows for that available seven days a week, 24 hours. You don't need to wait for the bank to settle the transfer and those kind of things. And transparency, you see exactly what's happening. So you still need to understand what's happening actually. And here we go back to crypto literacy and capability. It's great.
00:11:13.292 - 00:11:55.174, Speaker B: Everything is on chain, but most people won't actually be able to read what is the process and then risk. Is the risk the same as in the other solutions, or have we improved anything? I'll come back to that later. So, once again, in terms of appeal, I took the interest rates, but this time on deposits, on savings accounts. Well, for overnight deposits they are not great. If you check, for example, in other countries, sometimes they're close to zero, basically. So great you have savings, but you get nothing out of it if you don't invest it. If you supply your assets to lending protocols, well, you may get an interesting yield on that.
00:11:55.174 - 00:12:14.400, Speaker B: Not always. For some assets it's pretty low. It is actually comparable to banks. But in other cases it may be interesting. Now I'll come back to why some people still why we don't use necessarily lending protocols as a savings alternative. There are reasons for that. And this is the slide well, sound and sustainable.
00:12:14.400 - 00:13:16.778, Speaker B: So if we go snorkeling in the defi space, we might discover some things that are not that appealing, which is basically, there is no one. And it's basically enter the space at your own risk, so there's no one to control and exclude you. This is the nice part in terms of inclusion, but there's also no one to save you if things go wrong. And one of the things I've noticed in legal practice is when, for example, the terror events happened, well, people were turning to anyone just to get a solution, even if this person was not the right person. Because we are used to being able to call someone to save us and to remedy existing issues. And then also, well, the risk of a centralized entity doing FTX style manipulations is replaced by the risk of the code being simply exploited by third parties, which as a rescue, cannot exclude. Which risk is bigger? Which one do you feel more comfortable with? At the end of the day, if you don't have access to decentralized environments, you don't have much choice.
00:13:16.778 - 00:13:59.516, Speaker B: You need to endorse the other risk. So someone asked me once the question, why would I even deposit my funds into a lending protocol to get a small interest if instead of that, I could safely keep them on my non custodial wallet and simply hope for the value of these tokens to grow, right? In one case, because of that setting, I could lose it all. In the other, I could still lose it all because of some phishing scams and so on. But chances are smaller, right? This is also a major hurdle, like financial inclusion. Great. But if you already don't have much savings, if you put all your savings in DeFi and then you lose them all, not sure it's a perfect solution. So how can we revamp Defi? That's the interesting part.
00:13:59.516 - 00:14:50.492, Speaker B: Well, first of all, let's think long term DeFi currently, and this was luckily highlighted by some other presentations today and yesterday, and I'm quite happy to hear that. Well, for now, we're solving our own problems, like problems that are created by the Defi community, like how can we improve services that no one else actually cares about. So we are serving our own crowd in DeFi, and the system as it exists does not really provide incentives to change that, because we are all chasing TVL. How do you attract investors? By proving you have traction with TVL. And where do people want to invest in protocols that have a higher TVL? Because it's like platform effects. If it's bigger, it means it's better, right? And you cannot focus on two drastically different crowds. You cannot focus on those small wallets, people that just need financial inclusion and at the same time focus on degens whales, institutional investors.
00:14:50.492 - 00:15:42.762, Speaker B: You can't do that. On top of that, most of these protocols simply don't have the tools to do that. Like how do you deal with free tech clients? How do you deal with people who will complain because they don't understand your product, will ask you thousands of questions, need additional support? They may reach out to you on discord, asking questions you never thought about because it's not going to be a technical question, but something very potentially basic. The end result is that we have big players in the DeFi space that grow and could be utilized for impact purposes. But then you also have impact oriented projects like the one I've shown, for example, investor Farm, that try to bring solutions that are better fitted to real life use cases, but they have their own shortcomings. How to attract also liquidity, sometimes maybe from a technical perspective, they are less advanced simply because they need to bootstrap everything. You have this big player that could maybe be integrated or utilized somehow.
00:15:42.762 - 00:16:29.322, Speaker B: It's all open source protocol, so why don't we use that and simply create a new interface to access it? The other thing is, when you think about it, once we start thinking long term, the required changes are actually not that big. So because of what I've explained on the previous slide, no protocol alone will think about it like no one having a team of five and default will all of a sudden say, hey, let's hire someone. Thinking about impact doesn't make sense, but once you reach that state, the changes are not that big. So first of all, the idea of non custodial wallets like DeFi is all about being non custodial. And this is great, but it's too complicated, as I mentioned. So for now, maybe let's promote alternative means of access. It's like a necessary evil to kickstart things.
00:16:29.322 - 00:17:07.654, Speaker B: And I mean, for example, telegram is a big way of accessing some solutions. Like here I include the example of bongbot is actually a trading bot, which I believe is is quite funny just because of how simple the presentation is. This is the kind of solutions we need, like one click solutions, not something that's complicated with lots of information. People just don't get it. They get lost, they don't know where to click. So a sleek dapp, per crypto standards, is not necessarily the right one for this type of crowd seeking financial inclusion. You need to adapt the interface, not the tech, which actually makes it easier.
00:17:07.654 - 00:17:53.874, Speaker B: It takes time, but it's definitely less time consuming, expensive that reinventing the entire protocol. Then also you need to boost understanding. And it doesn't mean necessarily explaining the entire attack, which is great, and you have a lot of initiatives working on that, but it's a slow process. It's simply providing the right information that's relevant. Most of us drive a car, use a computer, without necessarily knowing how to fix that car or to fix the computer, but at least we have access to the relevant information to know what we are interacting, where we need to click, and so on. So it's basically a translation and presentation enhancement. And then finally, this is maybe like the ultimate step once all the other ones are implemented, just enhanced risk mitigation.
00:17:53.874 - 00:19:57.294, Speaker B: As I wrote, think provable compliance and beyond provable compliance is the narrative I presented earlier today. But basically the idea is to say maybe DeFi could simply change its mindset instead of providing those solutions that are non custodial that no one officially controls and simply are not subject to any regulations. We proved that it can also be built in a more responsible way by taking into account regulations, but defi style. Instead of saying we don't need to think about reserves, we don't need to think about protecting consumers, we do think about it, but we implement it in the code because currently there aren't that many guarantees in the code. So we started thinking about prevention of economic exploits, we started to think about insurance, we start to think about these kind of things, but there's a long way to go still to avoid hearing this question of why would I deposit my funds in the lending protocol? Why would I trade on the Dex? Why would I do these kind of things if there's this risk of my funds simply disappearing because of an exploit? And with the probab, I invite you to check out the presentation this morning with the probable compliance idea, we can actually become better than traditional and CFI because if the code does everything and actually prevents some sort of manipulations and risk instead of simply deterring them, because regulations rely always on a centralized entity just overseeing things and sanctioning when something goes wrong, they could be better. So ultimately, and this is one of the side projects ideas I'm working on currently, what if we manage to build a one inch for impact because we want financial inclusion? And as I mentioned, it's all about revamping the way we present in the first place, not actually rebuilding the underlying protocols. What if we aggregate everything in an interface that actually caters to a different crowd, instead of just having those thousands of aggregators that allow you to have smaller fees, better yield and whatever, just having an interface that presents the potential of those solutions.
00:19:57.294 - 00:21:05.104, Speaker B: I want to deposit my funds and have a small interest, as on a savings account or on the contrary, I want to be more active and trade more, but then still be aware of the risks and understand how things work. What if we had one interface where you connect all of it and allows a more retail oriented crowd to access Defi in a more convenient manner? It's basically DeFi on rails, like helping people to navigate those waters with I spending hours on discord and Twitter and trying to figure it out. Because currently, let's face it, DeFi is complicated and you need to really spend time on it. Some people will have time. The previous presentation was referring to the organization of hackathons and like mentioned a great data set of demographics, for example, in Africa, how many people are still young, willing to code, and this crowd could actually use DeFi. They have the time and the willingness to discover cover the entire tech, but not everyone does. So let's think about it and maybe think how to onboard the masses and actually meet this goal of financial inclusion through DeFi.
00:21:05.104 - 00:21:11.104, Speaker B: Thank you very much for your time, and if you have any questions, let me know.
00:21:20.384 - 00:21:42.124, Speaker C: Thank you for the talk. I feel like a big part of making DeFi useful and better is under collateralized lending. And that's how you get your mortgages, that's how you get all the capital for credit lines that you get for things that are useful. How are you thinking about under collateralized lending and where does it fit into your legal framework of things?
00:21:42.864 - 00:22:30.904, Speaker B: Legal framework is different than financial. I mean, there are some new means, thanks to ZK proofs and someone of trying to bridge the gap, while for oracles you could fetch data, for example, and then thanks to ZK proofs, for example, decide on whether you want to grant that long without accessing the data. So there is potential for DeFi offering this kind of solutions in a fashion that mimics traditional finance without the exclusion. But there is still exclusion, because if you have no assets to back and this kind of things, you will not access them. So it fits to a certain extent. Extent. But in terms of universal access, well, you will not be able to grant this kind of services to a whole bunch of people who simply don't have anything to provide as collateral at all, even for an under collateralized loan.
00:22:30.904 - 00:23:49.114, Speaker B: So it's interesting, I would say, but not the ultimate solution, probably over collateralized, those are better because it simply allows to, if you have enough assets to provide on chain, fine, and it works. But then I would say there's a leeway in terms of maybe having smoother liquidations, if you can on top prove that you have some assets off chain, for example, thanks to these systems, because otherwise, like one of the, this is maybe another risk I could have mentioned is the risk of liquidation. Like what if I deposit something as, as collateral and want to get like an interest just because I supplied, and then I also managed to finance something for it, but all of a sudden there's a major drop, and despite all the mitigations, mitigation measures, you still get liquidated. There's a problem there, like why would I do that? But if, for example, we put in place systems like, hey, you don't get liquidated for, I don't know, a couple of days. If you had on top of that, provided proof that you have some collateral off chain that could be utilized it could be an interesting solution just to make defi for lending, like, more approachable and useful for a different crowd, like especially for farmers and businesses. So this is, I hope it answers the question. Any other questions?
00:23:53.494 - 00:24:25.964, Speaker D: Yeah, I have just a question about the legal perspective. Do you think it's even possible to have this kind of platform in future? If you think about the legal perspective, because if you consider, for example, like Ethereum ETF, what kind of issues they have with it, with the staking and why they should basically turn off mistaking to have the ETF. So do you think it's even possible, like, to have a future for DeFi from the legal perspective, let's say globally? Because there will be a lot of, I think, issues with that in the future about the regulation.
00:24:26.124 - 00:24:30.212, Speaker B: I mean, there are two things, like just DeFi or like aggregating DeFi.
00:24:30.308 - 00:24:33.284, Speaker D: Maybe it depends, like, oh, I'm just.
00:24:33.444 - 00:25:10.860, Speaker B: Talking about the platform. Yeah, about your DeFi in general, there is a problem in terms of how DeFi, like what is DeFi? Because, for example, if you check the European Union, well, they said that DeFi is excluded, but for them, DeFi is fully decentralized protocols, whatever that means, because we don't have a standard yet for this. So it's possible. But there's certainly a risk for at least the upcoming year. So by the end of the year, the EU is supposed to hand in a report on what is considered Defi coding to them. There is some movement in the US as well. Some other jurisdictions have more clarity, like Switzerland is pretty good for that.
00:25:10.860 - 00:26:01.660, Speaker B: So in Switzerland, actually, it would be quite, not quite easy, but still reasonably easy to set this up in other less so. Yeah, it's not easy from a regulatory perspective in general to tackle anything that's DeFi related. But this is why I suggested that idea of maybe just simply aggregating things. It could also act as a selection of like quality projects, because in DeFi you have a lot of things. So if you take into account regulatory constraints, you basically, for example, connect people only with Defi projects that had a clear structure, had a legal opinion, even reached out, for example, for some non action letter or something like this, where you know that they will not, for example, get a notice, like an enforcement notice the next day, because you need this kind of security to feel comfortable about using DeFi. And there are projects like that. So it's not a bad thing.
00:26:01.660 - 00:26:35.214, Speaker B: And this brings me to this comment of basically, how do you research Defi projects if you don't know much about this space? You're going to just type down lending and then you have Google results and just going to select whatever is recommended or you read something on Twitter. It's not the best. It's not how you select investments in traditional life. So why would we do it that way with Defi? Just because you don't have better tools. Right. So it's not easy. But I think that we have enough, let's say tools and hands to make it work out.
00:26:35.794 - 00:26:36.734, Speaker D: Thank you.
00:26:38.994 - 00:26:46.554, Speaker B: Any other question? Last call then, I guess. No. Thank you very much for your attention.
