00:00:17.450 - 00:01:02.654, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm Jesse. I'm the program manager for Crypto Startup school. And prior I was on the investment team at Andreessen Har. Prior to that I was also a founder of a project in the space called Mediachain. And today I'm going to talk about progressive decentralization and give a playbook for building crypto applications. Now, before we dive into this playbook, why are we even talking about decentralization? And why is it so important for crypto apps? Decentralization is important because it's a way to build trust. The internet is based on open decentralized protocols like IMAP, Pop and IP, and these form the basis of the internet services that we use today.
00:01:02.654 - 00:02:02.078, Speaker A: On top of these neutral protocols, entrepreneurs have built some of the most valuable companies in the world. These companies are valuable because they extend the functionality of the bare internet protocols and give us rich experiences like search, email and social media. But today we know that these types of internet companies follow a predictable pattern. When internet platforms start out, they do everything they can to recruit users, developers and businesses to join the platform because each of these community members forms the basis of a multisited network effect that makes the platform more valuable and defensible. Yet, as we know, as platforms grow, they move up this adoption curve and they follow a predictable pattern where they slowly start to change their behavior. Instead of cooperating with their communities, they start to extract value from them. For example, many web two platforms used to have rich developer ecosystems.
00:02:02.078 - 00:02:47.170, Speaker A: I think at one point Twitter had more traffic going through third party clients than through their own official app. But in order to capture more of the value, twitter changed rules and handicapped the API and centralized the client spotify and countless other platforms have done the same thing. So for users and developers, this is a bait and switch. These rich ecosystems that started out cooperative ended up getting killed off and the innovation emerging from them was stifled. In contrast, crypto networks offer a new model for building internet platforms. Unlike corporate owned networks, crypto networks aspire towards being decentralized. And what I mean by that is that they strive to be community owned and operated.
00:02:47.170 - 00:03:45.560, Speaker A: But that sounds kind of crazy. How is that even possible? Well, here it's important to understand that crypto tokens are an exciting new innovation in that they enable value to flow at the cost of information that's pretty much zero marginal cost. And that means it's now possible to financially reward independent users all over the world for their contributions to a network. And the result is that crypto networks can have a more cooperative economic model. Instead of having to extract value from users in order to return that value to shareholders, a well designed crypto network routes value directly to those who contribute it. And that in turn means that crypto networks can be much like earlier internet protocols in that they can grow to much larger scales of adoption while enabling sort of unabated and innovative ecosystems on top. So that's why decentralization is so important.
00:03:45.560 - 00:04:56.250, Speaker A: And now I'm going to talk about sort of how building in crypto is actually different from traditional platforms. So in order to explore that, we should probably start with things that are the same because there is a lot that is the same in traditional startups and crypto startups you need product leadership, you need rapid iteration and a managed go to market. But this is where the differences start to come to the fore because in crypto you also need to consider how the product can successfully run in a community owned and operated manner. So that's tricky because community ownership is often at ODS with these other three things product leadership, rapid iteration and manage to go to market require a core team. So how do crypto founders resolve this tension? And that's where the playbook comes in. So to help founders think through this, I'm going to run through this three step process that hopefully serves as a guide for how to run a process of progressive decentralization. And taking a step by step approach allows teams to focus on the right thing at the right time and also posits a path towards regulatory compliance.
00:04:56.250 - 00:05:34.406, Speaker A: And so before I jump in, I want to note that crypto is still operating in a pretty uncertain regulatory environment. And so the final stages of this playbook are really only pointing towards potential solutions rather than identifying proven winning strategies. But you can think of this as a possible path forward. All right, so let's start with an overview. So I believe that a successful crypto project will need to execute three objectives in this sequential order. The first should be obvious, which is building a product that people want. Without a product that people want, you don't have much.
00:05:34.406 - 00:06:25.560, Speaker A: So objective two is building a community around that product. And then finally, the thing that's new and exciting about crypto is giving ownership of the product to the community. So let's start with the first. The earliest stage of building a crypto application is all about finding product market fit. And as I mentioned earlier, this requires a lot of the same ingredients as a normal startup, you need a great team, you need lean development, you need tight execution and quick learning. And again, all of this is in service of product market fit and here it's important to avoid designed by committee or the community. Great product needs opinionated, leadership to do all these things, to hire a great team to execute quickly.
00:06:25.560 - 00:07:58.440, Speaker A: And so in practice, this could mean having admin privileges on an application that uses smart contracts, for example, that would allow the team to affect upgrades or shut down the application quickly as needed and in turn iterate rapidly. So at this stage there should be no pretense of decentralization since a core team is driving all product decisions by necessity, and accordingly, launching a token at this stage probably isn't advisable because the product is dependent on the core team's efforts. And dependence on the efforts of others is one way you might fail the Howie test, which is an SEC regulatory framework that you're going to hear a lot about in the coming weeks. And you don't want to fail that Howie test because thinking about security as regulation is a huge distraction from product market fit. So the idea of a core team controlling all the aspects of a project may sound weird because we're talking about decentralization, and it's likely to ruffle the feathers of some of the people in the early crypto community who hold decentralization in high regard. But if users are complaining about the control you've got, that's actually a good problem to have because it means that someone cares about what you've built. That said, it's pretty important to communicate about control where it exists, because if you're faking decentralization, that's a quick way to undermine trust with your users, whereas transparency about control is a better way to build it.
00:07:58.440 - 00:09:21.818, Speaker A: So at early signs of product traction, which could include a growing user base, developer ecosystem, or some network effects starting to take shape, it's time to start devoting more cycles from thinking about product to thinking about how to engender harmony between the core product team and the community. And that's what objective two is all about. So this is going to look different for different types of communities, but a lot of the products building in the crypto space are developer facing. So for developer facing products, community building might involve investing more heavily in the best practices for running open source communities, which could include good documentation, building a developer evangelism program, or issuing bounties and grants and other incentives for third party development. And going even further, it could make sense to start thinking about how to eliminate dependency on the core team in order to build more trust with the community. And so limiting control over the product is one way that you can start to invite community participation. For example, Compound, who we're going to hear from later, made a change to their smart contracts that delayed upgrades for 48 hours, which allowed time for the community to sort of review the upgrades and respond.
00:09:21.818 - 00:10:36.710, Speaker A: So relinquishing some control comes with this opportunity to invite community participation. But as you go about engaging community members, it's important to revisit their incentives and ask the question, why will community members contribute to the product in the first place? So last week you heard from Ali about business models for crypto projects, and hopefully you recall from that presentation that the business model for crypto is actually somewhat similar to the business model of web two platforms. Crypto applications are multisited marketplaces, and like web two platforms, their defensibility comes from network effects. Those network effects create switching costs, which allow for the possibility of charging a fee so long as the fee that's charged is less than the cost of switching to a new platform, this model is sustainable. And so the concept of charging a fee for a service, of course, is nothing new. But as we touched on earlier, what's new in crypto is who benefits from that fee stream. So because crypto tokens reduce the distribution cost of moving value to the cost of moving bits, it's now possible to distribute economic value directly to community members to incentivize their contributions.
00:10:36.710 - 00:11:37.818, Speaker A: That being said, it may not make sense to start charging a fee right at the outset of the project. And it almost certainly doesn't make sense to start distributing fees right at the outset either, because that has the potential to trip regulatory wires. So what is important is to think about how to design an effective incentive and token distribution plan. And part of that needs to mean conceiving of a distribution of incentives that's both fair and effective. Fair in that it rewards past participation, and effective in that it will sustainably reward ongoing contribution from community members in the future. In 2017 we saw a wave of ICOs, which is one way to distribute value selling tokens to a community. But I think since then we've learned that the ICO model is somewhat suboptimal in that ICOs invited sort of unengaged communities of speculators and a ton of regulatory scrutiny that distracts from finding product market fit.
00:11:37.818 - 00:12:47.006, Speaker A: So crypto applications that focus on product market fit have an opportunity to do better than ICOs did because they can distribute tokens to an already active user base. And to start, teams might do this by testing an initial distribution of tokens with a managed group of community members. A number of layer one blockchains have done this by running testnet programs where independent community members can register to run node. Those test network participants are promised tokens from a future distribution, but only after they've demonstrated their ability to run the network. So a permission group can be an effective way to demonstrate that a network can operate in a truly community owned and operated fashion. And once you've got a sustainable network operating a service, it's time to start thinking about how to scale this distribution of incentives to a wider group of active participants that might contribute to the network in the future and the wider community to boot, that might join even later on. So an effective distribution should of course consider the core team that built the product as well as the users that make it useful.
00:12:47.006 - 00:14:05.674, Speaker A: And some common questions to think through here are what percentage of tokens should be allocated to the initial team versus how will you reward different types of contributors to the product or service in the future? And one important one is how will technology leadership be rewarded going forward? And getting this right is hard. And I don't know that any single project has figured it out perfectly yet. But starting to model this out is really important at the stage where you're thinking about building a community because communicating about incentives and the roadmap for community ownership in the future is a powerful way to invite community participation. And once you've got a model in mind, it's time to move to the last and final objective which is all about actually distributing ownership to the community. Now I keep coming back to this idea that crypto tokens are a new instrument for distributing value, including a fee stream to a community of stakeholders. And what I mean by this is I mean actually giving that community tokens. So in practice, how do you actually do this? I like to call this stage exiting to the community because I think one way you might do it is by actually airdropping tokens to users based on the plan that you mapped out in the previous step.
00:14:05.674 - 00:15:13.390, Speaker A: So imagine there's a smart contract that mints and distribute tokens per the distribution schedule defined prior. At the moment that that smart contract is triggered and those tokens are minted and distributed, a number of exciting things will have happened. Number one, core team will have ceded control of the application from the company to the community. So the product is now governed and owned by its users and that of course mitigates the risk of the platform changing against the rules, against the wishes of the community. The community can now sort of make changes to the product that they agree on. And hopefully another thing that will have happened is that the company will have found a sustainable business model by having retained enough tokens to benefit from the fee stream of this product and its growth in the future. And similarly, community members who are now part owners of the product will also start to be rewarded economically for their contributions and hopefully they will see increasing returns to scale as the cooperative economics of the service allow for continued growth.
00:15:13.390 - 00:16:42.246, Speaker A: And finally, because the product is no longer dependent on the core team, it's possible that the token may not be considered a security which eliminates some of the regulatory overhead that comes with SEC securities regulation. So the spirit of this objective is really all about marking a specific moment when you call this smart contract where a crypto product completes its journey from a traditional product company to a sustainable community owned and operated network. Now a reminder, if you're a crypto founder and you're ready to exit to the community, that means you've done objectives one two and are on number three. So you've built a product that people want built a robust community around that product and figured out a way to incentivize community participation on an ongoing basis such that you can turn over ownership to the community. And I think right now we haven't seen a crypto application execute on all three of these yet. But there are a few that are well on their way, and one of those is Compound, which is why I want to invite Robert Leschner, the founder and CEO, to help us think through how they've been approaching progressive decentralization in real. And so, for those that don't already know, compound is a money market for borrowing and lending crypto assets, and it runs as a smart contract on Ethereum.
00:16:42.246 - 00:17:01.474, Speaker A: The company was founded in 2018 and they've been executing a progressive decentralization plan ever since. So with that, I'm going to invite Robert to join me here on the zoom and we're going to sort of have a little chat about what their journey has been like. And afterwards, we're going to open it up to questions from you guys. Robert, are you out?
00:17:01.592 - 00:17:03.262, Speaker B: Yes, I am. Hey, Jesse.
00:17:03.326 - 00:17:22.570, Speaker A: Okay, nice. Awesome. Thanks for joining us. First of all, looks like from the Compound office, which is great. I guess let's start from the top. First, I briefly introduced Compound, but maybe we can just start with your quick summary. What is compound?
00:17:22.990 - 00:17:49.810, Speaker B: So Compound is a market for interest rates on crypto assets. It lives as a smart contract on Ethereum and for a number of supported Ethereum assets. Our protocol has created interest rates that an application or a user or any Ethereum address can earn if they have the asset and supply it to the protocol, or that an application or user can pay to borrow an asset from the protocol.
00:17:50.470 - 00:18:05.126, Speaker A: Okay, got it. That's great. That's a much better explanation than the one I gave. So also, I'm curious, I'm sure a lot of folks are curious. What were you doing before crypto? How did you get into all this?
00:18:05.308 - 00:18:29.710, Speaker B: So before this, I went down the traditional Silicon Valley founder and product manager track. So I founded two software companies prior to this, built teams, built products, brought them to market. And I also worked in a large tech company as a product lead, going through a large software development cycle, building hardware and software.
00:18:30.370 - 00:18:37.406, Speaker A: Okay, cool. So I imagine a lot of that experience was useful and applicable to Compound.
00:18:37.598 - 00:18:50.790, Speaker B: It's actually surprising to a lot of people, but I think there's a lot of similarities between developing a product for crypto and developing a product that's traditional software. It's more similar than it is dissimilar in a lot of ways.
00:18:50.940 - 00:19:13.454, Speaker A: Okay, cool. Yeah, I agree. As you probably just heard in my presentation, I think finding Product Market Fit is still the very obvious number one objective for all founders in crypto, just like traditional startups. So I'm curious, what did Compound look like at the early days as you guys were striving to find Product Market Fit?
00:19:13.652 - 00:20:15.262, Speaker B: So most people don't know this, but there's actually been three versions of Compound that we've built over time. And the goal has always been to find Product Market Fit to iterate, to incorporate feedback from users and the community and into a cycle of building a better product. The cycle for us really has been one of three phases. In the first phase we had version Zero, which was an unreleased product that was really for our team, our friends and a very small number of people to privately test and sandbox the core idea behind Compound that we could create interest rates for cryptocurrencies. It was clunky, it was difficult, it was ugly, but it helped us get the principles into the hands of a very small user base. We then used that to build and launch the first main net version of Compound, which we launched in August of 2018. And from there, there's nothing that gives you data and education and product feedback like being live in the market.
00:20:15.262 - 00:21:02.400, Speaker B: And then we used the opportunity to be live starting in 2018, to learn as much as we could before building and releasing what we consider to be the final version of Compound that incorporates all of the lessons learned from having a first product live in the market. We made a number of incredibly large changes based on user and developer feedback, including tokenizing balances, which is now C tokens, including having risk parameters that are set for each asset and streamlining the code base to make it simpler for developers to use. And so for us, our vision has always been the same. From day one, we're going to create interest rates for crypto assets. And we followed a very traditional product cycle to find and refine the product until we've achieved a semblance of product market fit.
00:21:03.330 - 00:21:32.700, Speaker A: Cool. So it sounds like when you started out, you guys kind of built full stack. You built the original protocol, you were the first consumers of that protocol, building your own user interface. And then you started to open it up to what you learned from building full stack. And then you started to focus on the developer community. Can you talk a little bit about this sort of second phase of developer community building and what that looked like?
00:21:33.150 - 00:22:29.414, Speaker B: So most people won't remember this, but we've always envisioned Compound as a protocol that developers could build, that you could launch applications with interest rates built on top of Compound. And this has always been the idea that we've been pursuing. But the very first version of Compound didn't see developers building on top of it. What we did is we actually built the first interface on top of Compound version one in order to prove that we could to dog food the process of building on top of the protocol and to create a very basic interface to help bootstrap liquidity. Because the basic idea is until there's usage, other developers don't want to plug in. The same thing happened as we launched the second version of Compound, but this time we had the advantage of knowing what the underlying system should be to make it easier for developers to build on. And so when we launched Compound version two, we had a depth of experience so that we could launch with a number of partners.
00:22:29.414 - 00:22:45.700, Speaker B: From the moment that we put it on testnet, we actually worked side by side with a number of different teams preparing to go live for when we finally launched the production protocol. It's when we launched, we actually did so with a couple of core developers that had been building with us the entire time.
00:22:46.310 - 00:23:09.000, Speaker A: Cool. Okay, so very much the case that you found product market fit by dog fooding and building a product yourselves, bootstrapped some liquidity in your marketplace and then shifted gears to focus on the developer community. Can you talk a little bit about today, what that looks like? How do you work with the developer community? And what's the relationship between the company and the community?
00:23:09.530 - 00:23:54.006, Speaker B: So this goes to phase two of decentralization building a community. We view developers as the users of compound, as the community of compound. And at this point, 100% of our effort is focused on enabling developers to build on top of compound. For us, that means thinking about the product as being holistic and everything that developers need. So we spend a lot of time doing things that most people find boring, like working on documentation, working on guides, working on content, working on things that really make the entire product experience. When the user is another developer, it starts off with thinking about what is the product that you're offering. For us, that's a protocol and the ability to build on it.
00:23:54.006 - 00:24:24.790, Speaker B: So we spend a lot of time on docs. We also spend a lot of time building a community of developers. And we do this in a few ways. So one is we get everyone into one place. You'll notice that when we talk about how to interact with compound, we always say, join us in Discord. It's a chat server that we really try to focus on developers and creating an environment where everyone can ask questions, can compare notes, can share code, can collaborate, can trade ideas, and to build collectively. And it's extremely active.
00:24:24.790 - 00:25:04.346, Speaker B: We probably have one of the most active Discords in crypto. And it's been a way to bring everyone into one place to enhance what everyone's already doing. And lastly, we try to celebrate and market what our users build. Our homepage of Compound is just a list of the products built on Compound. We think that the most important thing we can do is enable other developers to succeed for themselves, to go through the cycle of finding Product market fit to building a community to decentralizing on their own. And that means doing everything we can to empower them. It means helping them think about product development, it means helping them think about fundraising.
00:25:04.346 - 00:25:10.670, Speaker B: And it really means leveraging our expertise and giving that as much as we can to other teams.
00:25:11.250 - 00:25:36.790, Speaker A: That's great. So earlier in the talk, at the very beginning, I talked about why Community ownership is so important for compound or for crypto at large, but also for compound. So I guess I want to hear from your perspective. You've been very vocal about the goal of turning ownership over to the community members. So why is that important for compound?
00:25:37.290 - 00:26:20.898, Speaker B: So, for us, we believe that having a decentralized protocol does two things very powerfully. One is that it allows the protocol to live forever. Right now, our team is necessary to maintain the protocol, but if we can distribute the responsibility and the ownership of the protocol to a wide audience, there's the expectation that it can run forever. I like to say that if bitcoin was run by the bitcoin corporation, nobody would trust it or use it. It's the fact that it's not run by any one company that you expect that it's going to be there next year, next decade, next century. And we want to put compound into the same position. That's the biggest advantage, especially if you're building a developer centric product and something that you want developers to build on.
00:26:20.898 - 00:27:11.190, Speaker B: They want to know that it's going to be there. They want to know that the rules aren't going to change because I wake up one morning and feel like it, and they want to know that it has a sense of permanent. And so that's the first major advantage of decentralization. The second, and I think this gets talked about a lot less frequently, is that it enables a wider audience to upgrade and to contribute to the now, you know, we're a small team based in California. There's only so much that we can do to upgrade the protocol. But if you can open up to the entire community of open source developers to enable them to contribute changes, upgrades, and improvements, then the speed at which compound advances can accelerate on its own. And so we see that as one of the biggest things that's going to change, is that the pace of evolution is going to accelerate once we decentralize.
00:27:11.610 - 00:27:35.866, Speaker A: Got it? Okay. That's awesome. Yeah. So I guess another thing I want to touch on is right now, you're in the middle of this process, right? You've got the community going. You're trying to figure out how to turn ownership over to them. I'm wondering, has there been attention there? How do you talk about this plan with the community members? How do you keep everyone sort of rowing in the same direction?
00:27:36.058 - 00:28:22.042, Speaker B: That's a great question. So since day one, we've always communicated that the goal eventually was to decentralize the protocol. And when you're day zero just launching, nobody really takes you at your word because you haven't proven anything yet. Everyone says, oh, of course you're planning to decentralize. But it's been like us pounding the drums about this for two years consistently, and we've taken a number of steps along the way, such as restricting our ability to make sudden changes to the protocol, creating a significant number of pages around transparency of governance, starting to show people how the protocol operates. We're now going through what I consider to be the final three changes as we start to hand it off. And this really is step three that Jesse was talking about before, which is the decentralization process.
00:28:22.042 - 00:29:56.954, Speaker B: Compound has a three phase decentralization, and right now we're starting to talk about it heavily. So phase one is the company that built the protocol, the team that built the protocol is still generally responsible for making changes, but they're done in the open, they're done transparently, they're done with some limitations to slow us down, and they're done in a way that brings people into the process. Even when we're the ones shipping the code, we still try to incorporate the community's involvement, voting for what they'd like to see, even if they're not doing it with a token or they don't truly have the ability to make the change on their own. Next, we're going to move to a sandbox decentralization, where we're going to be testing on chain mechanisms of decentralization, where it won't be just our company, it'll be sort of this middle step where we can test the end goal platform of decentralization, but with a limited number of stakeholders. Really, it's our team and our company and a slightly wider group of people that are going to be able to test the governance mechanisms before they're rolled out to the entire community of users and ethereum. And so then, lastly, once we've been able to ensure that everything's operating smoothly, that there's a huge amount of transparency about how compound governance works, and we think that the variables and parameters that we've set are the right ones, then we're going to take the final step, which is handing it off entirely to the community to run from there on. And by the time we do that, we're going to have a lot of confidence that the governance mechanisms that we built that are very customized and calibrated to Compound work.
00:29:56.954 - 00:30:01.210, Speaker B: And then from there, we will have achieved complete decentralization.
00:30:01.550 - 00:30:34.694, Speaker A: Yeah. And that maps perfectly to the sort of three step plan or the distribution plan that I'd talked about, where you start with sort of a permissioned group and then you move out to sort of a group of active participants in the protocol. And from there you can imagine going even further to potentially all the sort of users that come down the pike in the future. Yeah. That's awesome. So it's pretty exciting because I think you guys are literally, like, a couple of weeks away from doing the first permission distribution, right?
00:30:34.812 - 00:30:41.158, Speaker B: Yeah. I think by the time this talk goes live, we're going to have achieved the first major upgrade to the protocol.
00:30:41.254 - 00:31:15.810, Speaker A: Okay, that's incredible. All right, so another question is, I think you're sort of out in front in terms of projects that are executing this, and there's also been, I think, a lot. To learn from other teams in the space that got started, maybe 2017, a little bit earlier where this playbook wasn't quite clear. So I'm wondering if you had some advice for founders, what would you tell them to avoid? How do you not get stuck executing this playbook?
00:31:16.230 - 00:32:06.738, Speaker B: So there's really two things that I think founders can do to execute this playbook. One is to have an extreme laser focus and tunnel vision on the goal that you're working towards. I've seen a lot of teams and a lot of founders try to do too many things and try to spread themselves in many different areas. At compound, we always had a very specific vision of what we were trying to create. And we started off very simple, we started off very rough, and over time we've kept focused on improving. That one simple thing that we're trying to do. The second is to leverage the sort of decentralization playbook to start from a position of extreme efficiency, prove out product market fit while you're still efficient, while you're still making all the decisions yourself, and then eventually using decentralization and using the superpowers of blockchain for what they're best at.
00:32:06.738 - 00:32:58.470, Speaker B: Making a system that's unkillable, that'll run forever, that's transparent, that's frictionless, and that's open, but not starting, though I think it's very easy to get caught up into it backwards, where you try to start with decentralization and then design something that has product market fit. I don't think any product that's been successful has ever been designed by committee or has ever been really, truly designed in a completely decentralized fashion. There is a wisdom to the crowds, but the crowds need very specific tools to be able to express their views. And so I think that the real success that we've had has really just come from being very focused on building one thing extremely well and iterating on both the product as well as the amount of decentralization up until the point that we can step back, that it runs without us, and that ideally it runs forever.
00:32:59.370 - 00:33:26.014, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's really great advice. Basically stay focused, don't do these things in the wrong order, and iterate your way towards community ownership. Well, yeah. Thank you so much for bringing to life all the ideas that I discussed in the presentation. I guess is there anything else you want to leave students with? Anything where they can learn more about what you're up to?
00:33:26.212 - 00:34:13.578, Speaker B: So we're one of the first teams to go through this entire decentralization process, but we're not going to be the last. There's probably thousands of teams that hopefully learn from what we're doing, learn from what other teams are doing, and don't have to reinvent the wheel. We're doing a lot of work right now as we think about governance and governance mechanics and how we're building the compound governance token that we hope can be recycled by other teams. So I would encourage people to go check out the announcements that we've done around Governance, look at the code, look at how we're implementing on chain voting, and look at how we're incorporating into the protocol. And we'd love if other teams can use that as just a starting block for their own efforts later. But I would say until there's a community that is excited and ready to take over Governance, don't try to implement it too soon.
00:34:13.744 - 00:34:42.520, Speaker A: Yeah, that's great advice. Okay, awesome. So with that, I think let's open it up to questions. So it looks like we've got a bunch of questions from the Slack. So the first one is from Guy, and I'm just reading this one out loud. I think it's for me. Jesse, you mentioned there is no gold standard for a project that has found a balance between allocating value to the original development team and distributing tokens to all network participants once the network is live.
00:34:42.520 - 00:35:58.478, Speaker A: Can you talk through which projects occupy different parts of that spectrum and what the trade offs from each choice are? Yeah, I guess one thing I'll say here is that I think a lot of projects that I touched on this earlier, but a lot of projects that got started in 2017, they ran ICOs, and so essentially in my playbook, they started backwards. They started with Decentralization first and they tried to get that decentralization by literally selling it, selling ownership to the community. And I think crowdfunding is a cool idea and it's exciting, but when you're doing it in this sort of speculative Maniate, it sort of invites the wrong crowd. And so I'd say that's on the wrong end of the spectrum. And what we've learned since from projects like Compound is that it's much more effective if you're out there with a product first and people can wrap their heads around why this thing is useful, why they might want to build on top of it and what it means to actually own a piece of it and sort of the value of that in the future. So, of course, Robert's here because we think Compound is very much on the right end of this spectrum. And so if I had to assign a gold standard, I'd say Compound is it today.
00:35:58.478 - 00:36:30.010, Speaker A: And like Robert said, hopefully there's many more to come. So hopefully that answers that question. Next one's from Paul, and this one is sort of when exiting to the community, will the community be expected to purchase tokens at that time, like in an IPO perhaps beyond any tokens they've already earned? That's an interesting question. I guess maybe, Robert, I'll turn that one over to you and maybe you can again touch on exactly how tokens are going to get distributed in Compound.
00:36:30.430 - 00:37:10.738, Speaker B: So we haven't released the exact mechanisms that we're going to use yet, but I will say this now, this can be exclusive to crypto startup school. You can be the first to hear exactly how it's going to work. So no, no one's going to be buying tokens. What we're going to do is distribute tokens for free to the users of the compound protocol over time. Right now, the primary users of the protocol are other applications. What we're looking to see is for the applications and users that know the protocol best to wind up receiving for free ownership and governance rights in the protocol itself. And so the idea is we're not using this to raise funds.
00:37:10.738 - 00:37:32.250, Speaker B: We relied on venture funding years ago to be able to build the protocol. We don't view tokens, when built correctly, as fundraising mechanisms they're used to align incentives and to decentralize governance and to create a stronger, better protocol. And so for us, there's not going to be any sale of tokens, they're going to be distributed for free to the users.
00:37:32.850 - 00:37:48.434, Speaker A: Cool. Yeah. I'd add to that that I think one of the benefits of running the playbook is that you have the active user base to sort of gauge and let the sort of analytics there inform what the distribution should look like.
00:37:48.472 - 00:37:48.674, Speaker B: Right.
00:37:48.712 - 00:38:14.874, Speaker A: So you actually have some data to go on in terms of determining what a fair and effective distribution might be. And that, I think, is really important and advantage that Compound has that ICO projects. So, okay, next one's from Sarah for Robert. What kind of user research around borrowers have you discovered? Are they mostly traders trying to short currencies? What other applications are there for borrowing that you've seen?
00:38:15.072 - 00:38:59.866, Speaker B: So that's a great question and the longer you're live in the market, the more you learn about your users and it helps you think about the use cases. So we've seen three primary use cases and these all surprised us. It's funny because when we launched Compound originally, we didn't even launch with a stablecoin. Who would have thought that stablecoins were the primary use case? The three use cases that we see, one are traders and speculators. So they're typically interacting with borrowing assets for leverage or to hedge a portfolio. So they're either borrowing stablecoins in order to buy more crypto assets they like, or they're borrowing crypto assets. They might borrow ether to sell it as a hedge against other assets they may hold.
00:38:59.866 - 00:39:58.442, Speaker B: Traders are of dominant use case. The second one we've seen is we've seen miners actually borrowing stablecoins to finance their own operations and to smooth out the cost structure that they have so they don't have to sell in certain market conditions. They can basically plan their financing more seamlessly. The third that we've seen are we've actually seen some teams borrowing stablecoins to actually do international global payroll without having to figure out how to manage a treasury. There's a lot of teams out there with large amounts of crypto that are just borrowing stablecoins so they don't have to think about how do they manage a treasury, sell crypto, pay, people do all these things, they just say, oh, that's complicated. We're going to put crypto and Compound take stablecoins out and pay our developers. So we've seen a couple of different use cases and I actually think the number of use cases are actually going to increase as more applications get built.
00:39:58.442 - 00:40:24.354, Speaker B: So as there's more stablecoins in different currencies, as other blockchains start to get bridged into Compound and Ethereum for that matter, I think you're going to see more borrowing use cases that just aren't available yet. Like being able to settle transactions in different currencies internationally, being able to settle OTC trades in different assets seamlessly. I think the use cases go up over time, not down.
00:40:24.552 - 00:40:44.294, Speaker A: Yeah, totally. And that's very much aligned with your sort of reason for decentralizing in the first place. Right. Which is if the community owns this thing and they can trust it, they can continue to build all kinds of use cases on top of it without fear that the rules are going to change on them. And as a result, you just get way more use cases than you imagined at the outset.
00:40:44.422 - 00:40:45.100, Speaker B: Exactly.
00:40:45.870 - 00:41:01.760, Speaker A: Cool. All right, so next one is from Mark. Besides building Community, how do you think Compound came to dominate this market? Looking at loanscan, you can see a number of platforms using Compound under the hood. What pitfalls did you avoid in order to get there?
00:41:02.390 - 00:42:12.614, Speaker B: It's a great question. So we've always focused almost entirely more so than anyone would think reasonable on security and safety. We move extremely slowly in the sort of development cycles that we have. And everything that we do internally in the company is always about asking questions about how do we derisk, how do we do this safer, how do we think about every possible edge case? And the thing that I like to communicate to developers is that we spend an exorbitant amount of time thinking through what could go wrong because developers are trusting the code in a lot of ways, they're trusting us. And so the thing I think that we've really excelled at in rising up the ranks is getting other teams to be able to build an application on compounds, know how it works, know that they can trust the process that we've used and know that it's okay for them to build on top of it. And a lot of the volume at this point comes from other interfaces, a huge amount of compounds, numbers come from applications and tools that other teams have built, not us. And that ethos goes into how we think about the future.
00:42:12.614 - 00:42:16.274, Speaker B: Just trying to create fertile ground for other teams.
00:42:16.402 - 00:42:45.214, Speaker A: Yeah, I think one thing you guys have done super well is basically run a great developer evangelism program and you touched on a number of facets of it. And we're actually, I think in a few weeks we're going to hear from Tom Preston Warner, founder of GitHub, and he's going to talk about developer evangelism. But this is like a well understood sort of go to market strategy for developer facing products. And I think you guys are executing from that playbook quite a bit, right?
00:42:45.332 - 00:43:05.638, Speaker B: Yeah. Thank you. Yeah, we think crypto is great and blockchains are great. I mean, the thing that got me excited in the first place was that you could program money. Right. Ethereum was, in my mind, like the killer developer platform for us. I was enamored and just impressed wildly with Vitalik and all the work he's done.
00:43:05.638 - 00:43:40.830, Speaker B: Ethereum had a developer first approach as well. And we're just one more stack on top of another developer first product. And we're taking that ethos that people can build on top of compound. But we're not the first ones to do this extremely well in this space of crypto. I think the best delivery of a developer led ecosystem really is Ethereum. I think Ethereum has just knocked the COVID off the ball and done a better job of this than anything else. And so we're not writing this approach from scratch.
00:43:40.830 - 00:43:42.306, Speaker B: We're learning from the best.
00:43:42.488 - 00:43:58.440, Speaker A: Yeah. That's awesome. Okay, cool. So. Next one from Abhishek. Do you find some jurisdictions to be more friendly in terms of regulation for decentralizing a product and feeling comfortable that it is compliant with securities and financial regulation? And is the US. One of those?
00:43:58.970 - 00:44:27.700, Speaker B: So I can only really speak to the US. Because we're located here in the US. I would say that within the US. It's probably harder than many other jurisdictions, but it's not impossible. The regulatory landscape in this country is people just want you to build things that protect your users, that are safe, that you're playing by the rules which have already been written. And they're not there to stifle innovation. They're there to help create a safe environment for innovation to grow.
00:44:27.700 - 00:45:20.770, Speaker B: Everything that we've done so far has been within the context of regulations that exist. In some ways, it'd be great if there was no regulations because we could just go hog wild. But I actually like the ecosystem that exists here because the playbook that we're following, the sort of decentralization playbook, works here. It's build something that works, that people want, that you don't have to do a public token sale for. You don't have to violate securities laws to finance. You can use venture capital financing to build a product that's not controversial at all, then to build a community that works great within the existing regulatory structure. And then finally, once you can have an asset, you're decentralizing it in order to strengthen the underlying system.
00:45:20.770 - 00:45:54.206, Speaker B: You're not doing it to raise money. You're doing it to make what you've already built safer and better. And I actually think this playbook here can operate extremely successfully here and in any country around the world. I think a lot of other strategies and approaches won't work here. I think the era of the wild ICO is over for a reason. There was a lot of bad behavior there. I think we've done a great job as a society in a country of cracking down on some of the worst behavior that I think a lot of us grimace when we remember from 2017.
00:45:54.206 - 00:46:05.370, Speaker B: And so I think it is a conservative and cautious approach, but it allows good teams with good products to excel wildly and I think that's the goal totally.
00:46:05.450 - 00:46:43.322, Speaker A: And one thing I'd add there is in 2017 there was a lot of bad actors, as you mentioned, and certainly there was a lot of greed involved in people looking to sort of get rich quick from the bubble. But I do think that something else important was expressed during the ICO boom, which is that people want to own a part of the platforms and services that they use every day. And here is the technology innovation that allowed them to do it. And what you're doing today has the same result. Right. Like the users of the protocol will own a piece of it. It's just you're doing it in a way that sort of eliminates all the bad actors from the equation.
00:46:43.322 - 00:46:45.680, Speaker A: And I think that's great.
00:46:46.450 - 00:47:27.820, Speaker B: Yeah, what's great about this sort of increasing decentralization approach is you don't have speculation on the success of the project until it's already successful. And that changes everything. When there was teams that were raising capital using tokens before a project existed, of course it was going to be speculative, of course it'd be mania and booms and busts because there's nothing there. And so I think that being able to exit to the community at the very end as the final step will reduce a huge amount of speculation and create much more stable and responsible assets that the community can use.
00:47:28.350 - 00:47:44.020, Speaker A: Right, okay, so next one is also from Paul. If you were to start compound from scratch today, would you consider using a token or affiliate fees to incentivize third party front ends or third party smart contracts building on top of it from day one?
00:47:44.390 - 00:48:32.366, Speaker B: It's a great question. I don't think so. I think one of the things that's really interesting is that post decentralization, once the community and a much wider audience are the ones managing compounds, if that's the best approach, if that's what creates the largest outcome, then the token holders can vote for that. But those decisions you don't have to make. Day one, I've really enjoyed not having a token and not having any commercial interactions with the developers on top of the protocol at all so far. It's been freeing in a lot of ways to enable us to just do one thing really well and that's focus on building the underlying protocol. So I actually don't think I would have a token or affiliate fees going back.
00:48:32.366 - 00:48:55.510, Speaker B: I think post decentralization as people see how we distribute tokens to users and how we can allow developers and the applications in the front end built on top of compound to participate in governance and to be able to upgrade the protocol. I think people are going to say, wow, that's a great way that the front ends, the applications can have a say and be involved and have a stake in the yep.
00:48:56.010 - 00:49:04.620, Speaker A: Okay, next, next question is from Rochelle. Can you talk about the monetization model for the core team after ownership of compound is turned over to the community?
00:49:05.070 - 00:49:49.370, Speaker B: So that's a great question as well. So at Compound, it kind of goes to some of the things Jesse said know we're focused first on decentralizing the protocol. Our company as a business model hasn't looked too far beyond building something that's widely adopted, widely used, beloved, and can grow to be really big because until something is really big, there's no sense trying to monetize it. So I think over time, our company might develop alternative revenue streams similar to how Red Hat built an amazing business off of Linux, where we can build an amazing business on top of the Compound protocol, still in support of other developers and still in support of other teams and helping the entire world build on top of Compound.
00:49:50.270 - 00:49:59.020, Speaker A: Right, makes sense. Okay, so next one is also from Sarah. What are your thoughts on under collateralized loans and the risk associated with that?
00:49:59.870 - 00:50:33.320, Speaker B: Another great question. So DeFi in general is still in extremely early stage. One of the reasons why DeFi works so well and so efficiently is everything is contained on the Ethereum blockchain right now. If you look at a lot of the projects that are starting to work, it's because all of the data, all of the value and all of the state is sort of in one place and so it can operate very quickly. Compound doesn't need to know who you are. It treats everybody the same. It just says how much collateral do you have to be able to borrow? That's it.
00:50:33.320 - 00:51:14.850, Speaker B: I think one of the things that's difficult about under collateralized loans is if you looked at traditional finance, it requires really a sense of identity that right now is not contained on the blockchain very well. So either you have to build a sense of a credit score within this bubble of ethereum for it to work, or you have to be able to import it from outside of ethereum, which doesn't work very well yet, or you have to find some completely new approach that doesn't rely on the traditional ways of doing under collateralized loans. I think it will absolutely happen. I'm a huge believer that someone's going to solve this. I don't know if they're going to solve it next week, but I know it's going to be solved.
00:51:15.670 - 00:51:19.998, Speaker A: Right. Maybe it could be solved on top of compound and it could be solved.
00:51:20.014 - 00:51:24.760, Speaker B: On top of compound. The future is bright. If you're working on something, let me know, right?
00:51:25.130 - 00:51:52.430, Speaker A: Okay, cool. So. Next one from Blake for Robert. When the protocol becomes more owned and operated by the community and they start actually contributing code and such. What is the spectrum or distinctions between compound employees and simply highly engaged community members? Would users be rewarded for code contributions or would be more that community members with lots of the network token have a high amount of say on upgrades and features.
00:51:52.870 - 00:52:26.090, Speaker B: So here's the cool part. The employees are just individuals. We'll each have our own tokens, our own personalities, our own individual ethereum addresses. There's going to be a lot of cool things you're going to see about compound governance. People are going to be able to voluntarily identify who they are. There's going to be a leaderboard of all the different contributors to the protocol. We hope to see crypto politicians emerge who are responsible for just contributing code and ideas.
00:52:26.090 - 00:53:06.710, Speaker B: But you're not going to see compound, the corporation or the company involved in governance. There'll be a lot of people participating and our employees will just be as individuals, not as the company. And so everyone is going to be free to contribute code to compound. Anyone can receive the sort of strength and support from the network that they need the proposed changes that the rest of the protocol can vote on, and we'll see. The answer is it's an unknown. It's going to be a lot of fun to watch. This unfold governance that we're building is designed to be upgradable by governance, and so there might be changes, but it's going to be a lot of fun.
00:53:06.710 - 00:53:45.830, Speaker B: And I'm really excited for members of the community to be extremely active. I'm excited for applications built on top of compound to be active. A great example is like if you're a developer at an application that's built on top of compound today, like Instadap or Dharma or Linen or any application that's built on top of compound and you would like to see a change. Even if it's as simple as reducing the gas of the protocol to make it more cost effective to interact with the protocol, you're going to have the opportunity to propose those changes. And so I think it's going to bring a ton of people into the process. It's going to be a lot of fun, and just like many things in crypto, it's uncharted territory.
00:53:46.730 - 00:53:53.800, Speaker A: Okay, so next one from Paul. How important have C tokens been for compound's continued success?
00:53:54.890 - 00:54:19.230, Speaker B: I think they've been very important for one reason. And the reason is it's enabled developers to more easily build products on top of compound. It makes it easier, I think, in some ways to understand what's happening. You could do a lot of the same functionality before C tokens as you can with C tokens, but really, these are just programmable compound balances.
00:54:21.650 - 00:54:29.266, Speaker A: Could you just explain what they are? I should have prefaced with that. But for those that don't know what are C tokens and then why are they a big part of the success.
00:54:29.368 - 00:55:11.386, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a great point. So within the compound protocol, every balance of a user is represented as a C token. So it's just an accounting object that tracks how much of an asset you've supplied to the protocol. But it allows developers to do really cool things and to basically do magic tricks with compound. The protocol, it allows developers building applications on top of compound to program C tokens to send them to receive them. It allows people to transfer a balance to an address they control, like a cold storage address, and retrieve it later. It enables people to use the underlying protocol in whatever ways that you can imagine, because you can move your balance anywhere.
00:55:11.386 - 00:55:33.266, Speaker B: You can move your balance outside of compound, you can move your balance to another application that combines them in interesting ways. And so we think C tokens have been extremely important just because it's teed up the creativity of developers to think about what can they build on Compound and manipulate the balances of users inside the protocol more easily. And for us, that's been like a really nice advancement.
00:55:33.458 - 00:55:38.902, Speaker A: Yeah. Just all part of the developer evangelism playbook and making it a nice experience for them.
00:55:39.036 - 00:55:52.006, Speaker B: Yeah, it's why we designed them, because developers, before we had them said, oh, it's really hard to program a balance inside compound. Why can't I figure out a way to manipulate the balance inside the protocol?
00:55:52.118 - 00:56:15.038, Speaker A: Yeah, totally. Okay, great. So next one is from Nori. Did you see any issues with collateralized loans on compound during the past few days? Know, for folks who are watching this later, we just saw a huge drop in the cryptocurrency markets alongside the main financial markets. So Nori is saying, I heard that maker Dow had some issues. What about compound?
00:56:15.214 - 00:56:47.790, Speaker B: Yeah. So for anyone who hasn't been paying close attention, yesterday, crypto prices dropped by about 40%. It was basically the worst sell off in one day in history. It happened alongside massive declines in global financial markets. It was the worst day since Black Monday, 1987. Compound performed phenomenally and there was no issues with under collateralized loans on the platform. One is we were lucky, but two is we benefited from the fact that compound is not yet massive.
00:56:47.790 - 00:57:42.318, Speaker B: We spent a lot of time thinking about market risk. We actually recently commissioned a paper by a team called Gauntlet to actually analyze the conditions of the compound protocol, how liquidation works in different settings, price declines, order books, slippage, time delays, all these things. And it's really interesting, if you Google compound market risk assessment gauntlet, you'll probably get there. If you go to our website, you can find it. But we spent a lot of time looking at the market parameters and what that would mean for the health of the protocol and the positions in it. We actually didn't anticipate a day where prices moved down 40% or more, because the worst day in history was like 25% in ether declines, but compound held up phenomenally. I'd like to think we're lucky if compound were ten times the size, there might have been significantly more issues.
00:57:42.318 - 00:58:21.930, Speaker B: But even on the worst day in history, the protocol that we've built performed phenomenally. There were other issues elsewhere in the ecosystem. I think it's a great learning opportunity and moment for every project, every founder, every developer to see what's working and what's not working, because the goal is to build things that work over the next 100 years, and there's going to be hiccups along the way. Certain projects will always have a stumble here or there, but it's really about how does the entire community and ecosystem learn from it, fix it, and become so, you know, it was definitely a wild day yesterday. There were definitely some problems. But this is not the beginning of DeFi. This is probably the beginning.
00:58:22.350 - 00:58:40.770, Speaker A: Right, okay, cool. So next one from meta. Could you explain your relationship with companies like Dharma and how they've evolved, as in going from previously competitive to then dharma building on top of compound? What type of support do you give these companies in your ecosystem?
00:58:41.430 - 00:59:15.706, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. So we like to give every company that's building on top of compound a huge amount of support. Really? It's access to our team, access to our knowledge. We like to help celebrate the teams building on top of compound. We're just trying to build neutral infrastructure that everyone feels comfortable building on top of. It doesn't matter if someone was previously building their own product, we want them to enjoy working with us and building on top of the protocol that we built. Huge fans of them, huge fans of every team that's building on top of compound.
00:59:15.706 - 00:59:41.990, Speaker B: I don't think there's any secret sauce or hidden things here. It's just I think teams try to find the best way to achieve a goal and for some teams, the best way to achieve a goal of an extremely simple wallet that anyone in the world can use to earn an interest rate and send and receive money between fiat and crypto. Compound as a piece of its toolkit.
00:59:43.050 - 00:59:57.610, Speaker A: Right, okay, so last one, finally. So this one's sort of on hiring and sort of how you build out the team at compound. What does staffing and marketing look like for compound?
00:59:58.350 - 01:00:35.320, Speaker B: So I'll start with marketing. Marketing is zero. I'm the only person within Compound that you could really even consider a marketing employee. We have zero members of our team focused on marketing at this point. But in terms of staffing, I think this is actually one of the most important things for a crypto company, because if you have a great team, you'll go extremely far. And I think if you have a team that doesn't work well together, you'll go less far than a traditional software company because building on top of a blockchain five times harder. Than building a traditional Web stack product.
01:00:35.320 - 01:01:17.922, Speaker B: So we spend a lot of time as a team thinking about hiring. What we've done is we've set an extremely high bar, and we try to put a lot of effort into meeting that bar, bringing people onto the team. We're still mostly engineers at the end of the day, and we're very cautious. You're building financial software. You're building software that moves money. You have to be extremely cautious, and you have to make sure that the people that join your team have the ability to build software that moves money responsibly and safely. And so for us, the question I always ask in my interviews is whether or not I can get to the point of trusting someone to build financial software.
01:01:17.922 - 01:01:35.260, Speaker B: And it's a very different process than hiring for your standard mobile app where you can look for different characteristics. At Compound, we're always looking for extremely quality people that we trust to build software that moves money.
01:01:36.830 - 01:01:59.390, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, well, thank you for answering all these questions and for being here again to sort of elucidate in real time how to run this playbook. That's all the questions we've got for now. So I think with that, we can give you a virtual round of applause for being here. Thanks so much.
01:01:59.540 - 01:02:01.040, Speaker B: Go build great products.
01:02:01.970 - 01:02:02.526, Speaker A: Awesome.
01:02:02.628 - 01:02:17.410, Speaker B: Thanks, Jesse. All right. Thanks, Robert. It's.
