00:00:00.360 - 00:00:32.770, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 28 September 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I was talking yesterday about kind of Virgil Griffith and his case and how it was kind of being held yesterday or the trials being held yesterday. And in a bit of, I guess like a surprise, he just straight up pleaded guilty to the charges. There was no kind of like long form trial or anything like that. He went into court, judge was there and everything, of course, with lawyers and all that sort of stuff.
00:00:32.770 - 00:01:08.628, Speaker A: And apparently he just pleaded guilty and has made a plea agreement with the government for a recommended five to six year sentence. So obviously this isn't the kind of like resolution that we would want to see here. This is really shitty. The fact that he felt the need to plead guilty without even kind of fighting his case means that either his lawyers told him that he had no chance of kind of like winning the case, taking the plea bargain was, or sorry, the plea agreement was, was the right path forward. But I don't really have any details outside of that. But he won't be sentenced until January and apparently it's up to the judge now. So the judge can go anywhere they want.
00:01:08.628 - 00:01:37.964, Speaker A: Essentially, from my understanding, they can either accept this plea agreement and say, okay, yes, that's fine, you'll do five to six years in prison or they can say, well, no, I don't accept this. I recommend the full 20 year sentence because he was facing up to 20 years or the judge could be really kind of like, and basically say, well, you know, I'll just do it as time served. You won't actually have to, have to serve any, any time in prison. Maybe he gets some community service or stuff like that. I don't know which way it's going to go. I don't know enough about the case. I don't know enough about the american kind of like justice system.
00:01:37.964 - 00:02:04.906, Speaker A: So I'm not going to make any, any kind of comments on that. But just generally this is just a shitty outcome for Virgil. I think it's, I mean, as I explained yesterday, I don't think he exactly did anything wrong. Obviously going to North Korea and actually giving the presentation was stupid to begin with. I'm not excusing that. I'm not saying that what he did was, was smart or anything, but at the end of the day it feels like the government's just making an example of him, like I mentioned yesterday. So I don't think we'll be hearing much about this until January.
00:02:04.906 - 00:02:46.800, Speaker A: I think it's January 13, maybe the sentence date, and then we'll see what happens there. And obviously, I'm hoping that the judge kind of like, you know, has leniency here and sees what's going on and kind of like, has some sense, but you never know, right? It definitely varies, judge to judge. I don't know anything about the judge that's kind of like overseeing this case, so we'll have to wait and see. And I mean, you know, he kind of, like, was keeping us updated with this sort of stuff and has his thread that I said for you guys to go check out yesterday, but there was a bunch of other people making comments about this. I don't know exactly where it is. It may be appended to a means thread. If I scroll down through his thread here, I think he was appending some, you know, people's kind of, like, sentiments around this and, and stuff like that.
00:02:46.800 - 00:03:20.916, Speaker A: Yeah. So people for like, Nick Johnson, who's long time Ethereum core developer, um, saying that, you know, he was devastated and just doesn't really make much sense. Gabrielle Shapiro here, who's actually a lawyer, basically said five to six years for amorphous conspiracy to provide services is a travesty. When the indictment first dropped, I, like a lot of the others, assume that there must be something more serious than a more general, mere general, a theorem presentation involved, but. Nope. And then Jake Chavinsky, who's another lawyer in this space, says, I'm hopeful he'll end up with sentence of time served. He has some of the best defense lawyers in the country, but it's in Judge Castell's hands now.
00:03:20.916 - 00:03:43.628, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, that's, you know, just what I said then. So, yeah, sad to see, but we'll have to kind of, like, see what happens in January. I mean, I'm hoping, obviously, for his sake, that he's going to be able to get through this. Best case scenario is time served. Worst case is 20 years. Middle case, I guess, is the judge accepting his plea bargain of five to six years, which is still shit. I mean, spending that amount of time in prison is crazy.
00:03:43.628 - 00:04:06.152, Speaker A: Like, I, whenever I think about this sort of stuff and think about prison, like, you always hear about it in like, you know, you're watching tv shows, movies, maybe you hear about it on the news, but. But, you know, unless you actually go to prison, you don't know what the experience is like, but you really think through it and you're like, it's not. It's not. Obviously, it's not a fun time. It's really, really, really shit. Like, I don't think, you know, in my mind, any crime is really worth going to prison for. It just doesn't really make much sense to me.
00:04:06.152 - 00:04:33.464, Speaker A: I know this may seem obvious, but it's just something that I've been thinking about since yesterday, especially since I saw this. Cause this news came out about, like, an hour after I recorded yesterday's refuel. And I was kind of thinking to myself, like, just in being in COVID lockdowns as well, like, not that COVID lockdowns is anything like being in prison, of course. But, you know, it's kind of like gravit lockdowns are shit, right? You feel really bad about it. You're stuck at home. You can't go anywhere. You feel kind of like a criminal if you're breaking some of the rules of, you know, going.
00:04:33.464 - 00:05:03.394, Speaker A: Going somewhere where you shouldn't or going outside of kind of like. Or spending more time exercising than you're allowed to and stuff like that. But think about, like, that and how crappy that feels for those of us who have experienced lockdowns. I know a lot of fellow Aussies have experienced that and then apply that to something like prison, where literally, like, you are, you know, there's armed guards around you 24/7 you know, your entire life is controlled by the prison. Like, they tell you when to get up, when to eat, when to go, when to go to sleep, all that sort of stuff. And you have really hardly any freedoms to do. To do.
00:05:03.394 - 00:05:30.194, Speaker A: To do anything. And you're stuck there for six years. Like, five to six years in Virgil's case. So, yeah, just me just thinking about that over the last 24 hours has been quite, quite, quite crazy. And it depends on the person, too. Like, Virgil isn't a hardened criminal who's been doing bad things and illegal things for years. He literally went and did something in North Korea where he was teaching, gave a presentation on, you know, on ethereum, and now he's facing, you know, getting sent to prison over it, so.
00:05:30.194 - 00:05:56.602, Speaker A: And then you think about, like, all the people who get away with much worse stuff. Like, think about all the white collar crime that basically goes completely unpunished. Like, it doesn't matter if you, you know, you got caught money laundering, you got caught kind of like, siphoning money off. Sorry, siphoning money off companies or whatever. Like insider trading. There's hardly anyone who goes to prison over that, especially not for five to six years. A lot of the time they end up paying a fine or they'll, they'll basically.
00:05:56.602 - 00:06:35.340, Speaker A: It, they'll basically get off of it with just losing their job at the firm that they were out or whatever. But yeah, a lot of the time it's just not that I end up in prison. Whereas Virgil, obviously, he was charged with breaking sanctions, which is a serious offense, but you have to contextualize that. It's not like he leaked state secrets, like us state secrets to North Korea. He presented a, I guess, like a PowerPoint presentation on ethereum that is freely available on the Internet like this. None of that information was what was, was privileged or anything like that. But, yeah, I mean, I spoke about that yesterday, but just something that I thought about over the last 24 hours with regards to kind of like just what Virgil's facing here and I can only imagine what he's feeling.
00:06:35.340 - 00:07:12.564, Speaker A: So I'm hoping that, you know, come January, the judge kind of like sees sense here and gives him time served. But, you know, I guess, like, hopefully it's not the worst case scenario where the judge basically says, no, you're going to prison for 20 years. Like, that would be crazy. And I know there's been other examples of this within the crypto ecosystem, like Ross Ulbricht, for example, who serve it, I mentioned yesterday, is serving multiple life sentences for, for running Silk Road, which I think, I mean, I don't think the punishment fit the crime. Obviously, what Ross did was, was a criminal activity. But at the same time, he's been sent to prison longer than drug lords get sent to prison. Like the actual manufacturers, actual distributors of this stuff.
00:07:12.564 - 00:07:56.762, Speaker A: And that was obviously just the US government making an example of him, just like they have done with Virgil. So, yeah, lots of examples of this through the justice system. It is definitely far from perfect. So I'm hoping that come January, Virgil will have a better outcome than he did over the last 24 hours. All right, speaking of governments doing shitty things, Frank Shaparo shared an article from the block, I think, earlier today, basically saying Coingecko and Coinmarketcap have now been blocked by China's Internet firewall. And this comes, I guess, like as the latest crackdown from China over crypto. Like I mentioned the other day how they banned crypto again and they're basically cracking down on exchanges saying that they can't service mainland, mainland chinese investors anymore.
00:07:56.762 - 00:08:28.738, Speaker A: From what I'm seeing and hearing from few people I know in China, they just get around this through VPN's and stuff like that. They're still doing OTC trades, but obviously there's like a massive push to kind of like, clamp down on all the crypto activity in China. And I think yesterday, Sparkpool also announced that they're ceasing operations as well. So they're the second biggest, I think, mining pool. They're ceasing operations by September 30, their mining operations because of this crackdown. So it is definitely real. It's not like your traditional kind of like fud that has come out before.
00:08:28.738 - 00:09:00.564, Speaker A: Maybe the other day I presented it as that, but the crackdown definitely is real. But, you know, as I mentioned the other day, it. I don't think it's actually, like, structurally really, really bad over the, kind of like the long term for China to ban things. I mean, think of all the trillion, not just the trillion dollar companies, but the massive Internet tech companies in the US that were founded in the US. They're still global companies that have market caps of hundreds of billions of trillions of dollars. So I don't think, you know, China's going to exactly stifle crypto adoption. Yes, they have a big population and everything like that.
00:09:00.564 - 00:09:29.622, Speaker A: But, you know, I don't see like the US or kind of like Europe outright banning these things. Maybe parts of Europe, Europe might. I don't see other parts of Asia outlawing this like China has. You know, I don't see many countries going the path that China has here. So we'll have to see how it plays out, of course. But, you know, as much noise as the SEC has been making around crypto and just regulators in general in the US, there's no way they're going to be able to just outright ban it. That's just not what happens in the US.
00:09:29.622 - 00:10:16.488, Speaker A: And I think it'd be very hard for them to do that just generally because of the way the US kind of like, I guess, political system works. And as I said before, I'm not an expert on any of that stuff, but they're going to, you know, it's completely different to the way kind of like the CCP operates in China, of course. But, yeah, I guess, like they can still get around these blocks with, with VPN's, but the exchanges, it's a lot harder because exchanges obviously required KYC and they're just going to shut down their operations, the ones that located in China, and ban chinese kind of like investors. But apparently there's still a vibrant kind of, I guess, OTC market going on there. So, yeah, the chinese investors are still able to buy and sell crypto. It's just a lot more cumbersome for them to do so at this point in time. All right, so a few things to talk about with the L2 ecosystem.
00:10:16.488 - 00:10:49.906, Speaker A: So DC investor put out an interesting tweet yesterday where he said, a universe of varied l two s using ethereum for security is an incredibly decentralized, market driven future. Decentralized apps on l one ignited a cambrian explosion of innovation. L two s will do the same while scaling participation by orders of magnitude. What a time to be alive. And then I replied saying, the L2 era has begun. And if you've been watching the refill for months, I have been saying, you know, similar things to what DC says here, but I think he puts it in a really great way where he basically says that, you know, l two. I mean, he basically implies l two opens up a whole new design space for, you know, for.
00:10:49.906 - 00:11:25.628, Speaker A: For people building, for developers, for people building kind of like things and people innovating, and they're going to be able to. To build apps then there just hasn't been possible to build on l one. And as I mentioned yesterday, now the compute layer is a commodity at this point in time, but the decentralization security layer is not. So we can keep Ethereum decentralized and secure at layer one, and then L2, we can have all this innovation happening, all these apps being built that are just, like, definitely not possible in layer one. Ethereum, and there's been rumblings about things like decentralized social media. I mean, rvs seems to be building a decentralized Twitter. There's not much information about that yet.
00:11:25.628 - 00:12:13.644, Speaker A: I'm curious to know if they're actually going to be doing it using a L2, or maybe they create their own side chain or something like that. It'd be really cool if they use the L2 to do it, because I think that there are some L2s out there that will definitely be able to handle the load of that. You know, I mean, for example, Reddit has committed to building with arbitrum already, so there's already an example of a social media kind of like platform working with L2 technology. And Aave has always been very ethereum aligned, so I'm sure they would prefer to do this on a L2 on ethereum rather than, I guess, like a side chain. But either way, still, it, you know, it would still be fine, I think. But, yeah, I mean, following on from DC's tweet here, we also had Pauline, who I talked about a lot on the refuel lately, saying, you know, he, they talk about modular blockchains a lot. Not l one s and l two s.
00:12:13.644 - 00:12:34.996, Speaker A: And I'm just quoting the tweet they said here. To me, execution, security and data availability layers are equally important. And I've, I've observed the hierarchical nomenclature. Nomenclature has a tendency to ignite tribalism, a hangover from the monolithic perspective. And then they go on to say, when I talk about stocknet, I just talk about stocknet. I leverage whatever. The best security and data availability layers are never mentioned.
00:12:34.996 - 00:13:07.566, Speaker A: Ethereum. So please stop sending me angry messages about ETH, Maxi. I'm not interested in tribalism. Build a better security layer instead. I really appreciate Polynyar's kind of approach here because, I mean, this, I think I mentioned this yesterday. Ethereum is the best security and data availability layer available today for L2s to tap into. And then these L2s, obviously, the ones that Polina talks about a lot of, like Starknet and Zk sync, you know, and Hermes, the Zk rollup stuff, are the amazing execution engines that run on top at kind of like l two.
00:13:07.566 - 00:13:57.318, Speaker A: But as Polynya says here, says here, they don't refer to it as l one s and l two s. It's just referred to as execution, security, and data availability layers, which I think, you know, I think the l one and l two term is fine for, I guess, like the mainstream. It lets them kind of, I guess, latch on to something easy to understand. I don't think we're going to be able to educate the mainstream or nor should they really have to know or care about the difference between, you know, execution, security and data availability layers. They should really only, I mean, even, they shouldn't even have to care about l one versus l two. But I think the, I guess when I say mainstream in, mainstream within crypto, and then you have, like, the really technical people, the people who kind of, like, pay attention to this stuff, like at the, at the lowest levels, like people reading my newsletter, watching the refill. Of course, you know, all of you doing that, definitely, you want to know the difference between these things, but most people don't.
00:13:57.318 - 00:14:30.924, Speaker A: Most people don't have to either. But I still think, you know, for what we talk about on the refuel a lot, I think it's important to, to realize that L2 is what we know, what we know as L2s or the execution layer. It can tap into any security and data availability layer it wants to. It doesn't have to just use Ethereum but the logic flows is that, well, if you're building an execution engine, then you should use the most secure kind of like layout to build on top of. And right now that's a theorem. And Ethereum will have better data availability with sharding. But before Ethereum gets sharding, there's probably going to be better data availability layers.
00:14:30.924 - 00:15:22.602, Speaker A: There's going to be polygon avail Celestia. I think a few others out there can't remember the names, but there's going to be those before sharding comes along. So maybe L2 decided to use that, and then we're going to have hybrids like the lidiums and the volitions of the world where they have off chain data availability or kind of like with a volition you have the choice of off chain or on chain, so and you kind of like choose where you want your data to be stored. So from that point of view, it's always good to kind of, I guess, understand how the language is evolving because, you know, the term modular blockchain hasn't actually been used by most people at this point. I think Polynya may have been the one who coined it, or maybe someone else did, but he's definitely the one who popularized it. I don't know if it's a he or she, by the way, but I just, just say he because it's a habit. So, excuse me, Paulina, if I'm getting that wrong, but yeah, modular blockchain, execution, security and data availability layer.
00:15:22.602 - 00:16:17.328, Speaker A: It's basically saying that you can mix and match between these things and you want to leverage the best that's available at that point in time. So it's up to us as an Ethereum ecosystem and community to ensure that Ethereum is the best security and data availability layer. And then we can have the most awesome kind of like execution layers, the L2s building on top of it. Now, is Ethereum going to be the best data availability layer going into the future? I don't know if it actually will be. I think it will be the best security layer for sure. I don't think anything's going to come close to that unless bitcoin adds the functionality to verify stocks and all that sort of stuff, but I don't think it will. So Ethereum will be the best security layer, but when it comes to optimizing just for data availability availability, like a Polygon avail or a Celestia, they will probably do a better job than Ethereum does, just simply because that they are not optimizing as much for security as they are for data availability, whereas Ethereum is trying to do both.
00:16:17.328 - 00:17:20.051, Speaker A: It's trying to do security and data availability because it has security in the form of its decentralization, keeping layer one as simple as possible, making sure that we don't kind of increase the gas limit too much, make it hard for people to run nodes and doing data availability through sharding, which obviously is still a little while out, whereas far as I know, avail and Celestia are just simply focusing all their attention on the data availability aspect. But it doesn't mean it has to be like an either or. It can be, and you can use Ethereum and Celestia and veil and whatever else, it doesn't matter, or some off chain data availability committee that it doesn't even have like a, have like a specific name to it. I mean, there's going to be things like ZK Porter as well, and of course Starknet and stock, all of stockware stuff that they're building, which I'm going to talk about in a sec. But yeah, I mean, it's just like, it really is the era of L2. Like we haven't, or the error, I guess, of the execution layer. We really haven't seen anything like this before in the ecosystem, not even with, you know, not just within Ethereum, but within crypto more generally.
00:17:20.051 - 00:18:12.088, Speaker A: It feels like, and I've discussed this a lot on the refuel, but it really feels like we're entering like an entirely new paradigm shift here of how we view blockchains. And I mentioned how I think the monolithic ones, the monolithic l ones that have been popular from 2016, 2021 are going to fail and go by the way, of the wayside. And they're going to make room for, you know, the next maybe five years for these execution layers, which just work much, much better on both, I guess, like the security and decentralization side, but as well as the scalability side. So that's going to be really interesting to see play out there. And on that note, you know, when I was just talking about Starknet, Greg from, from Nethermind here put out a tweet today where he said, it's hard to express how exciting stocknet is. I think lots of devs are starting to realize the opportunity. Easy l one to l two messaging, fast finality, gas cost gets cheaper as more people use the network, which is the opposite of Ethereum.
00:18:12.088 - 00:18:45.466, Speaker A: No locking time is required by fraud proofs. And then he goes on to say the first Turing completes CK language, arbitrary composability and amazing dev tools. For most of ETH's history, high cost of experimentation has been a major hindrance of innovation. People aren't ready for what comes when Starknet bulldozers. Bulldozers. This wall, for those of don't who you don't know, Stark net is kind of like Starkware's generalized, I guess, like L2 platform, execution platform. And I've been hearing this from so many people, not just like Greg here, but a lot of people who've been working with Starkware and Starknet.
00:18:45.466 - 00:19:16.276, Speaker A: They are saying that they're just building some really amazing stuff around zero knowledge proofs and just zero knowledge technology in general. And, you know, I mean, DyDX is a perfect example of this that's completely built on Starkware's tech. And they've been doing an amazing amount of volume trading volume and activity on their network. And I haven't heard anyone complain about it. Seems to be working well, like nothing seems to have gone wrong with it. So there's a, you know, there's, there's obviously already production stuff happening here. But as I mentioned just before, this is like the next era that we're moving into all of this stuff happening.
00:19:16.276 - 00:20:02.522, Speaker A: That as Greg says here, it's been like a high cost of experimentation on ethereum, layer one, that is, now that that wall has kind of like been bulldozed, and now we're going to have this low cost of experimentation and a camber and explosion in new apps and new kind of like experiences that are leveraging ethereum security, but, and leveraging the scalability of execution layout. It's sitting at L2, which I think is super, super exciting. Another kind of tweet here from stockware where they said the first step for Dai coming to Stocknet. So there's a vote going forward. Right now it's a ratification poll for stock, for the stocknet engineering core units to basically, I think, accept Dai into Starknet, which I think is cool. I mean, there's a discussion here, I think, in the forum. Yeah, you can go here.
00:20:02.522 - 00:20:20.490, Speaker A: Adding the stocknet engineering core unit. So these are the first steps to getting die on Starknet. And you know, you may be wondering when Starknet is due to come out. I think end of year, early next year maybe, or maybe, maybe Q two. Maybe I'm getting my, my timelines wrong there. I would say Q one or Q two. So it's not that far away.
00:20:20.490 - 00:20:48.896, Speaker A: I mean, we're almost in Q four now. Um, so even if it takes like another few months, like maybe three to six months, say, uh, that's still amazing, because, I mean, we have these other solutions, live optimism, arbitrum, um, a bunch of others coming out soon. Uh, you know, obviously, zK sync has ZK Porter. We got Hermes. They're going to be doing more than just payments. And there's, I mean, there's plenty of them. And it's funny because people always ask me, like, are arbitrary and optimism going to be obsolete in the face of a zero knowledge, uh, world? It's like, not at all.
00:20:48.896 - 00:21:23.168, Speaker A: I mean, I bet, I bet you like money that arbitrage and optimism are both working on their own ZK staff, and they're going to be rolling that out. But in the medium term or short to medium term, we do need these kind of, like, bridging solutions through optimistic roll ups. And optimistic roll ups have their own, I guess, kind of like benefits as well. It's not just all drawbacks. I know some people point to the drawback of a long withdrawal delay, but we have bridges and stuff like that happening. But, like, the longer term definitely is ZK roll ups, volydians, volitions, all that sort of stuff. Like anything using ZK tech, I think, is the long term arc of this sort of stuff.
00:21:23.168 - 00:22:21.252, Speaker A: So I, that's why I've been focusing a lot of attention on that lately, and a lot of other people have. But I would kind of, like, temper your expectations about when a lot of this stuff will be delivered and also when it'll be kind of, like, ready, as arbitrary is ready today, because getting your generalized platform to the point to where arbitram has gotten their generalized platform, too, where there's no whitelist, anyone can deploy to it, anyone can kind of, like, can, can use it, but also having, like, still training wheels on, like, the, the limits on the transactions that can happen, you know, per second and per day, and also, you know, the cost being higher because there's not many people using it just yet. The layer to roll out is not going to happen overnight. I've always said it's a marathon, not a sprint. But really, I mean, at the beginning of this year, I did say one of my predictions for this year, that it would be the year of L2. And what I meant by that would be the year of L2 is actually going live and people talking about it and realizing that the L2 ecosystem is just booming. Like, absolutely going insane.
00:22:21.252 - 00:22:59.212, Speaker A: There's so much people, so many kind of, like, teams and people working on it, and we're just like, at the starting line. So I'm super excited about it. Of course, I talk about it a lot on the refuel, but if you're not paying attention to the L2 stuff, if you're not just like, completely, you know, diving into all this stuff, doing all the research you can, then you're missing out. Of course, like, I highly recommend doing as much research as you can on everything L2, because that, I believe, is where the best opportunities are going to be going forward, both from, I guess, like a financial perspective, investment perspective, but also from a social perspective. There's a lot of these teams hiring, too. They're not just hiring technical people, they're hiring community managers. Being part of one of these teams is literally a rocket ship.
00:22:59.212 - 00:23:23.060, Speaker A: I'm not kidding you. Like, they're going to be some of the biggest protocols within crypto. They're going to be worth lots and lots of money when they do tokens because of the fact that they are the execution layer. And you've seen how people price these execution layers, like, all the other layer ones are execution layers as well, except. Except bitcoin, like, for smart contracts. Right. So what do you think's going to happen when L2s have tokens? I mean, the closest thing we have is the.
00:23:23.060 - 00:23:44.810, Speaker A: Is polygon, which has obviously L2s, but their most. Their most successful implementation is the PoS chain, which is. Which is. I mean, it's a side chain commit chain, not. Not a L2. But I think the Matic token has a $10 billion fully diluted value. So just using that as a kind of, I guess, like a relative valuation and barometer there, these protocols are going to be worth billions and billions of dollars.
00:23:44.810 - 00:24:20.260, Speaker A: So if you join one of these companies early on and get an equity stake, which can be trans, uh, you know, can be turned into tokens later on, uh, it'll do wonders for you. So definitely go check out, you know, starkware, arbitrum, optimism, uh, polygon. Like, all of those teams, I'm not going to name them all. All of the pen teams working on scalability, whether that be L2 stuff or app chains or, um, you know, even, even teams like, uh, working on, uh, the. The bridges, of course, as well, are very important. And I think the bridge protocols are going to end up being worth a lot, too, uh, to kind of like the arbitrary message stuff that's happening, like Rari capital doing their Nova stuff. I know Starkware is building the damm.
00:24:20.260 - 00:24:41.866, Speaker A: Um, any of these things, I mean, just for your, I guess, like, career trajectory. Uh, not just like on the money side. But on the social side, I couldn't think of better teams to work for right now than the L2 space. And as I said, they're not just looking for technical people, community marketing, business development, any of that sort of stuff. They're all looking for this. So definitely go visit their websites and go visit cryptocurrency jobs.com as well.
00:24:41.866 - 00:25:19.004, Speaker A: And you can kind of like see on there which volumes are available for which kind of companies. As I said, I'm pretty sure all of them are hiring. And the last thing about starkware here is that Georgios posted that open Zeppelin and starkware kind of like working together on some standardized contracts for Cairo, which I've mentioned before. A starkware is native kind of like programming language that's different to solidity. And for those who don't know, open Zeppelin is basically, I mean, they do a bunch of different things. I think they do like audits, but they do a lot of stuff around smart contracts and creating like standardized smart contracts for different kind of platforms. So it's great to see them building stuff for Cairo here, which I think is just going to push things forward.
00:25:19.004 - 00:26:18.770, Speaker A: All right, so Polygon announced that Avicenn Ventures has launched a $30 million fund for supporting gaming projects building on Polygon. So Vice and Ventures is a cryptocurrency venture capital fund, venture capital Fund, which is committed to ramping up investments and support in the field of decentralized gaming. So you can read the full announcement post here. It'll of course be linked in the YouTube description, but it's really awesome to see more focus on crypto gaming specifically within the Polygon ecosystem, because I think Polygon is actually perfectly positioned to capture a lot of this activity because a lot of the gaming stuff doesn't actually need like the full security of Ethereum, right? It's fine to live on a side chain, at least in the short to medium term. Maybe when the kind of like L2 ecosystem matures a lot more, we can get to the point where it's like really, really, really scalable gaming will move to that. But of course, Polygon is working on those solutions as well, right? Like the Hermes stuff and, and generalized ZK roll ups and all that sort of stuff. But when it comes to just gaming in general, crypto gaming, I was listening to a podcast today from bankless that they did with Aria Ariana Simpson.
00:26:18.770 - 00:26:56.616, Speaker A: I recommend checking that one out, but I don't think people realize just how big the gaming wave is going to be in crypto. If you look at the NFT wave and how many, how many new people have, have kind of like been on boarded to crypto through the NFT mania or the NFT kind of like growth times that by like at least ten for gaming? There is a strong overlap between people who like nfts and like, games. But also the gaming industry is absolutely massive. Like gaming isn't, isn't, isn't just like people sitting at their PCs anymore. It's, it's everything that's like, you can do pc game, you can do console gaming. Mobile gaming is absolutely massive. There's going to be tons of mobile games coming out that have tied to crypto.
00:26:56.616 - 00:27:34.522, Speaker A: I mean, look at Axie Infinity. That's a mobile game and it's extremely popular. It caught a lot of people off guard by how quickly it grew. So I think these kind of like venture capital funds and kind of like all these teams working on funding crypto gaming, bringing it to, you know, bringing it to life, are going to get an awesome return on investment here because, I mean, I think people are severely underestimating how many people will be on boarded through gaming, probably more than anything else. And I, you know, nfts and gaming, obviously the lines are blurred there because you can have NFT items within the games. Obviously with like Axie Infinity, you have the axies that are nfts and stuff like that. But there's other aspects to nfts as well.
00:27:34.522 - 00:27:58.246, Speaker A: Like there's the art stuff, there's collectibles and all that sort of stuff, but those are going to blur together and you're going to have like an explosion of the NFT kind of community and mania coupled with the gaming community in mania. And there's going to be so much overlap that they're just going to feed off each other. And I think it's going to be like a really big deal. So that's something that I'm paying attention to especially. And I think a lot of you would be as well. Considering the growth that axie infinity has had. I'm pretty sure you've all seen that by now.
00:27:58.246 - 00:28:39.530, Speaker A: It's just been crazy to watch play out. All right, so yesterday there was, I think, the largest ever transaction fee paid on Ethereum. That was an error between Bitfinex and diversify. So I mentioned the other day Bitfinex has a bridge to diversify. I don't know if this was that bridge that I was talking about or whether it was just a normal withdrawal to the diversify, a kind of like wallet here, but the gas price I mean, sorry, the fee that was paid was 7676 ETH or at the time it was worth $23 million worth of ETH. And the thing is, this wasn't burned either. With EIP 1559, only the base fee gets burned.
00:28:39.530 - 00:29:26.472, Speaker A: And you can see here the base fee was only 58 guys. So only I think it was like $25 worth of ETH was burned in this transaction. Whereas the rest of that money went to the miner that mined the block, as in the form of a tip. So you can see here that the error was this person sending the max fee per gas at 115 million and then the max priority fee per gas at 53 million. And they were, they were actually refunded 9000 ETH. So if one, if they, if this wasn't a 1559 style transaction, they would have ended up like paying like, you know, this 9008th, basically, which is, which is crazy, of course. But the good news is, is that the funds were actually returned in the end from the miner to, to the kind of like correct account here, which I mean, obviously that's a good samaritan thing to do.
00:29:26.472 - 00:29:53.902, Speaker A: They didn't have to do that. I think that. Wait, seven, six, two. Yeah, I think they returned like, like most of the ETH. It seems that they kept about 58th for themselves, I think as like a, I guess like just a fee they took for themselves, which, you know, is still not a, not a kind of like low, low amount of money there, obviously six digits. But, you know, I like diversify. His tweet here where they said the blockchain is immutable, but the revolution we are part of is defined by our values as humans.
00:29:53.902 - 00:30:15.254, Speaker A: Thank you to the miner of block such and such, who we can confirm is returning all the ETH that were incorrectly paid today as a transaction fee. A post mortem will follow tomorrow. I haven't seen the post mortem yet, but I'm sure it was a fat finger or some kind of like bug that went on within the transaction here. But good to see it returned. And I completely agree with diversify. It doesn't matter if the blockchain is immutable. You know, we're all humans at the end of the day.
00:30:15.254 - 00:31:01.272, Speaker A: The miner felt it in his heart, basically, or she basically, basically kind of like send the funds back, which I think is just shows kind of like the Ethereum community's power and how nice the Ethereum community is. But, you know, maybe that in the future there won't be someone as nice as that and they'll just keep the money for themselves. We'll have to see how that all plays out. Of course. Interesting tweet here from value disciple, who's part of the index cop, and they put out product lines being supported by the index cop. Currently there's sector indices, the DPI, MVI and the data index, structured indices like the fly and in the pipeline they have a bunch of different products like the pay and yhit indices, ecosystem indices being PDI, NFT indices, JPG, all infused with index DNA. So all infused with the index tokens, of course.
00:31:01.272 - 00:31:51.862, Speaker A: I just thought it was a cool little tweet here to point out that the products index co op has today and will have in the future disclosure, of course, like I hold index tokens and through my advisory to set, I have exposure to index because set was the run to originally launched it. But I think the index co op is still one of the best kind of like defi platforms or apps or guess what projects out there right now. They're making great progress and they're one of the best daos as well. So definitely go check them out if you haven't already. And this is something I just want to quickly power through, but I wrote more about it in today's newsletter, so definitely go check it out. But this person, Matt Veloso, quote, tweeted Chris Dixon here, one of Chris Dixon's tweets where he said, where Chris Dixon said, tokens give users property rights, the, the ability to own a piece of the Internet. And then Matt Veloso, who's a technical advisor to the CEO at Microsoft, so not like a nobody.
00:31:51.862 - 00:32:37.964, Speaker A: Definitely, definitely someone who, who I guess like is not a random, or like some, just random anal on Twitter. He puts in quotes, own a piece of the Internet and then laughed at it. Now, today's newsletter went into this deeper, so you can go read that. But I just wanted to point out that these kinds of people that I've been seeing lately who are like anti crypto, anti innovation, think that it's all just a Ponzi and all scams. They're just simply not going to make it. Like betting against innovation in history has been the worst thing to do, especially when it comes to technological innovation. Betting against, I mean, look at, look at the famous example, Paul Krugman, who said that by, he said in 1998 that by 2005 the Internet's impact on the economy will be no greater than the fax machines.
00:32:37.964 - 00:33:14.798, Speaker A: He was so completely, stupidly wrong. It was, it's not even like worth discussing it, like. And he bet against that if he had instead bet on the Internet, he would have been able to kind of like ride through the.com.com dot bubble early on, would have been able to ride the Internet up and just like invest in it over time and it would have been better off. And, you know, there's countless examples of this of people betting against innovation, betting against new technologies for a variety of different reasons. I think with Matt here, he definitely is in like the web two world stuff, you know, because of his high up position within Microsoft and stuff like that. So maybe he's just protecting his vested interests.
00:33:14.798 - 00:33:39.174, Speaker A: But there's just so much ignorance in this, in kind of like, sorry, outside of the crypto ecosystem that it just signals that we're really early and it signals that we have a lot more work to do when it comes to the education of these sorts of people. So, anyway, you can read the newsletter for more details on this, but I think I'm going to wrap it up there for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
