00:00:00.870 - 00:00:44.674, Speaker A: You. So yeah, thanks a lot for joining me here. So yeah, I know you might feel pretty exhausted from the conference, but yeah, I'm going to try to get your attention for 15 minutes. So yeah, let me introduce myself. I'm Matteo, I'm so, I'm french, sorry for my accent first, but I guess that if you're here you learn how to decode French English. So yeah, I'm the CEO of Empiric Network. So we're basically the first oracle on Starknet.
00:00:44.674 - 00:01:42.780, Speaker A: We are deployed on Starknet for more than ten months now, powering the best Defi applications on Starknet. And today I'm here to talk to you about leveraging Starknet to build better oracles and so leveraging validity rollups to build better oracles. So let's first take a look at how oracles are currently being built. And most of the oracles are an off chain network. So you have an off chain peer to peer network that computes and aggregates data from different data providers. And so this sits completely off chain. And what you get if you want to get data on chain is just a final piece of data.
00:01:42.780 - 00:02:29.222, Speaker A: So for instance, you'll get a final price of ETH, final price of BTC. And the main problem here with this design is that you have no way to verify where the data came from. And that's the main problem. The off chain oracle network acts a little like a black box where you get just the final price. You're not able to verify how it was computed and that's the only information you get. So that's the big problem we see with oracles. And so we have now the tools to build better oracles in 2023.
00:02:29.222 - 00:03:54.078, Speaker A: Validity roll ups are coming and so we're going to have new tools to build on top of validity proofs and zero knowledge proofs. And we are going to have a lot more computation that we had before and so we can take those components and build better oracles. That gives us better transparency. So that's what we aim to do. So in an ideal oracle we should be able to verify data, where the data comes from, how it was computed to get the final result. We also want to be able to compose data and so mix the different data sources to get different data feeds and also have high frequency updates depending on the use case you have. And so we asked ourselves, what's the best technology to get transparency and data composability? Let's forget first about high frequency, but the answer here is blockchains because you get transparency.
00:03:54.078 - 00:04:59.240, Speaker A: Verifiability and you get composability as well. So what we did is basically build, we built an oracle that sits fully on chain. So you get different data, so you have different data sources that are directly sent on chain, signed by data providers. And this data is then aggregated on Starknet and so aggregated on chain. And so this is game changing because you can now verify where the data comes from and how the computation has been made to get the final piece of data. What we got as well, by doing this design, is programmability. And so now you're able with Kro, to take data feeds and perform any computation, any logic you want.
00:04:59.240 - 00:06:03.420, Speaker A: So we built some computational feeds just to see what we could build with this. So if you combine spot prices with futures prices, you can get a yield curve. And so we've built the first crypto nailia yield curve, which is live on Starknet Testnet for two months now. There's also realized bodat, so if you combine spread with historical data, you get realized volatility, but you can of course get a lot more. This is just a basis. So defi today is pretty naive and like tradify is running on some more complex data. And that's just a first step here to get more composable and more data so that we can onboard more people.
00:06:03.420 - 00:06:52.890, Speaker A: So this is great. This is what we've been running for ten months on Starknet, but there are some limits, especially around scalability and update frequency. So we are pretty dependent on Starknet itself and the TPS of Starknet. Also, if we want to just push data on other ZK roll ups, we have to just deploy the same thing on every roll up. So that's another limit. And finally, we do not really need to push every data on ethereum at the end. So there's challenges around data availability and privacy.
00:06:52.890 - 00:08:29.210, Speaker A: So yeah, we want to introduce you empiric, the second version of Empiric that is going to be basically a layer three on top of Starknet so that you still have transparency, you still have data programmability, composability, but on top of that, we're able to control the frequency of the network and to which frequency the data feeds are updated. And so how we go multichain with the system is basically misaging the data we have on the layer three to any other chain thanks to storage proof. So there was heraldist before who was presenting to you storage proofs, but that's trustless way to message the data feeds to other networks. Yeah, let's just talk a little bit about how this layer three is going to be built. So it's going to be on top of substrate, which is the blockchain SDK from Polkadot. So it's a rest blockchain SDK. And we're basically going to add the Kro VM inside substrate so that we can use Kro to deploy smart contracts and verify it on top of starknet.
00:08:29.210 - 00:09:52.702, Speaker A: Now, there's also a lot of optimization we can do so that the blockchain we are running is really optimized for the oracle needs and the messaging needs. I don't know if I have a lot of time to talk about it, but just a few words about the consensus. We're exploring deck based consensus. So basically in the consensus you have two parts which are data dissemination and transaction ordering. And so deck based consensus are just splitting those two things so that you have higher throughput about the storage. So the goal of the storage is to be able to generate really short storage proofs so that it's really easy to verify those storage proofs on all the networks. And finally, about messaging, we are pretty big fans about what Erodotus is doing on Starknet and storage proofs and so the goal is to generate the lighter storage proofs possible afterwards.
00:09:52.702 - 00:10:35.360, Speaker A: And this on other ZK Warl apps. So yeah, that's pretty short time to present all of this, but I invite you to get in touch with the team if you want to learn more about it. We are developing everything open source, so yeah, if you want to contribute, take a look at it. Come talk with us. Thanks a lot. Feel free to go on our website, check our docs, integrate with empiric on the testnet and on the mainet and we'd be really happy to chat with you about potential integrations. Thanks.
