00:00:01.160 - 00:00:33.628, Speaker A: All right, everyone, thank you for coming. Welcome to the second Ama, the Deluguay Ama. We've got a lot more questions this time. Thank you to everyone who put their questions in the AMA series channel. If you do want to type out your question instead of asking it live here, you can do so, and I'll answer it. Please make sure to make sure you're on mute so that there's no background noise, you know, as we're going through the AMA here. And just a note, this will also be recorded and uploaded to YouTube tomorrow if you want to kind of, like, look through it or if, I guess people that have to go early or just aren't on the call, they'll be able to kind of do it there.
00:00:33.628 - 00:00:56.240, Speaker A: But, yeah, the way I'm going to run this one is I'm going to do one question from the AMA series channel and then take, like, one live question as well and then just go back and forth like. Like that. I think that that'll work quite well there. Camathy, I think your, your mic. I'm getting some background noise. Could you go on mute, please? Yeah. Awesome.
00:00:56.240 - 00:01:38.048, Speaker A: Awesome. All right, well, the first question here came from Gottman in the Discord channel here, where they said the one thing they keep thinking about is how crypto will translate to actual financial infrastructure for regular individuals. They went on about how they like to think about the potential future of where this technology is going. And a few things come to mind. Like someone needs to, like using, I guess, like, real world assets as clients collateral or using them within defi and things like that. But they asked, you know, if we are fully decentralized, how. How does this happen? Like, you know, you still need a government governing body in kind of like meat space or a government to kind of, I guess, have that charter or have that kind of legal document that says that you own that real world asset and things like that.
00:01:38.048 - 00:02:07.572, Speaker A: So my. I guess, like, my. My answer to that is, I don't think that just because something's on a blockchain or an ethereum or whatever, I don't think that means it has to be decentralized. And we've seen this play out already, right? Right. We've seen tons of kind of, like, centralized assets, be that USDC or WBTC or there's a bunch of others out there, uh, that are fully centralized. They've got kind of multisigs that, that, that kind of control them and everything like that for various reasons. So from that perspective, I think that it's fine.
00:02:07.572 - 00:02:55.742, Speaker A: I think that the, the efficiency gains you, you bring by, by having things on a blockchain is what is the main value draw here. So say you want to tokenize your, your house or the deed to your house, for example, and you want to use that as collateral within some sort of app on Ethereum, then by using it as collateral, I mean, we've already seen Makerdao do this where they've got some real world assets as collateral. But by doing this, the blockchain is not the kind of, I guess, record of ownership. What's the record of ownership still falls back to the legacy system or the old system, where your local government will basically have a record, a legal record of your ownership there, but you're able to kind of, like, translate into, I guess, like crypto and use that as collateral on there. So I guess that's, that's how I envision it happening. And there are a few projects working on this. I don't know the names of them off the top of my head, I think.
00:02:55.742 - 00:03:30.676, Speaker A: I can't remember the name of it right now. But there's one that kind of worked to get real world assets into maker, which is pretty cool. So, yeah, it's already definitely happening here. And I guess on the broader point, it's like, where does this tech fit into? I guess you could say, like normal, normal people's lives, like, outside of the crypto bubble. I mean, I think I alluded to this, and I wrote about this in one of the deli Gwei newsletters this week, where I said that it'll just become kind of ubiquitous for people. Like, they won't even know that they're using crypto or using kind of like Ethereum. You can imagine an entire payment system built on Ethereum that people just use without knowing that they're using it.
00:03:30.676 - 00:04:15.790, Speaker A: And it's the same thing that happens with, I guess, Visa and Mastercard and things like that and PayPal. No one really cares about the infrastructure in the backend, right? Like, no one asks, okay, what data, what database are you running? What backend infrastructure you're running? Are you on AWs or you want Google Cloud? No one asked those questions. So from that perspective, the way people will be using crypto in their everyday lives is mostly that they just will have no idea that they're using it. They'll just be using it and getting the value out of it that, you know, we all know and love from it without having to kind of, you know, learn about all that sort of stuff. And I think the same thing applies to the Internet as well, where, you know, there's tons going on in the background. Not even just the Internet, but computers in general. Like there's so much that has to go on in the background for you to be able to use like a graphical user interface, for example.
00:04:15.790 - 00:04:56.350, Speaker A: You know, windows itself is just like a bunch of backend stuff with a nice interface put on it. And most users have absolutely no idea how any of that works, and they shouldn't have to at the end of the day. But I mean, the more I think about it, it just applies to everything, right? Like most people don't know how their cars operate, you don't know how your cell phone operates. Like there's all these kind of things that go on there. So I think taking that kind of view is how I envision kind of this technology going kind of like mainstream, so to speak. And for those who want to dive deeper and actually kind of, you know, be in the weeds and be on these ama's and things like that, you, you get access to the, what we call alpha, right, where you get to basically, uh, have better opportunities than other people. You get to access higher yields.
00:04:56.350 - 00:05:33.804, Speaker A: Yeah, it's probably more, more risky, but you get to be at the forefront. And that's why I like to call the people that are in the ecosystem today pioneers. And you know, that's really what we are. We're pioneers of a kind of new infrastructure, new kind of revolution here, where, uh, we get to experience this and get the fruits of, of the labor here. So hopefully that answers Gottman's question here, which was essentially like, how is this technology going to touch people's everyday lives? And, you know, I think just all the apps that we have today are just going to be the apps that people use, but they won't know that it's using kind of backend infrastructure here. So, yeah, that was the first question from the Discord channel. I'm happy to take a live question now for anyone who has one.
00:05:34.584 - 00:05:37.288, Speaker B: I have a question regarding the productivity of Ethereum.
00:05:37.456 - 00:05:38.800, Speaker A: Because if you look at DeFi Pulse.
00:05:38.832 - 00:06:04.160, Speaker B: And the amount of eats take, you can see that about 80% of ETH is only being used for trading, selling, or being put to cold storage. And it seems that people are unaware that Ethereum is a productive asset which you can generate yields with. I think they're just speculating. You don't have to sit on it like a dragon to do nothing with it. And I still have the feeling that people are being a dragon with it. They're doing nothing with it. And everybody's speculating in a bull or a bear market, but it might take a boring sideways market before people start using it productively.
00:06:04.160 - 00:06:14.692, Speaker B: So do you think it'll take another boring sideways market before it will be finally used as a productive asset or even more as a productive asset, less than it is right now that is being dragonized?
00:06:14.828 - 00:06:53.408, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's kind of, I mean, it's kind of like a big question because you got to look at, like, all the participants in kind of like, the market, all the ETH holders, you know, why they're holding ETH like a dragon, for example. Like, is it because they just don't want to take any additional risk at all? They just want to keep it in kind of cold storage and they just want to hoard it. And I think that is definitely a big use case for a lot of people. But on your note, about, like, do people just not know about this and it will it take, like, sideways markets for them to kind of know about it? I actually think that it's bull markets where most people figure this out because there's incentives to do so. Like, if you think about DeFi summer last year, you could always do defi stuff, and lots of people were doing it.
00:06:53.408 - 00:07:19.716, Speaker A: But then, you know, tons and tons of people, like, I would say, like, maybe even hundreds of thousands of people came into the ecosystem because of these incentives. Because obviously the compound liquidity mining kind of launched and then yearn finance and all the, all the wifi stuff and things like that. And people had a reason to come into the ecosystem and had a motivation and incentive to do so. So I actually think that we get the most adoption from these kind of bullish markets. I would say, if I recall correctly.
00:07:19.740 - 00:07:26.220, Speaker B: DeFi summer was during a time that it was pretty stagnant. I think it hovered around 300, $400, around that mark, around that range.
00:07:26.332 - 00:07:44.384, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. It trended up with defi because more people were accessing ETH to use it, whether that's to pay fees or to use it as, like, collateral or things like that. So maybe, I mean, maybe to your point, maybe it takes, like, going quiet for a bit, and then, you know, someone releases something that spurs in other bull markets, like compounded.
00:07:45.284 - 00:07:46.260, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:07:46.452 - 00:08:28.496, Speaker A: Awesome. Awesome. All right, onto the next question from the Discord channel here. So this was actually a bunch of questions about Polygon l two s. You know, what the l two landscape looks like. So I thought this will probably take me a little bit to answer, but I think this will cover a lot of people's questions. So the first question was from Andreas here, who said, if Polygon builds a robust ecosystem, do users or the apps themselves have any incentive to move to a roll up, or is it just advantageous for new creations to use them? And the second question here is, does the centralized sidechain always maintain usefulness, even in an optimistic ZK future? This is an open question right now among a lot of people, and my general view is that there's not just going to be one size fits all.
00:08:28.496 - 00:08:59.588, Speaker A: There's not just going to be one winner. It's going to be a bunch of different kind of solutions out there vying for, you know, onboarding the apps at the end of the day, because the apps are what drawing the users. And I think the solutions that do these best will be the, will be the winners here. And I've also said before, and I've spoken about this a bit on the refuel, I think that developers have a lot of power in this ecosystem because the users are following the developers and following the apps. Then, you know, the users don't go to, say, an l two chain and just sit there with no apps on it. Right? They. They go there because there's apps in on it.
00:08:59.588 - 00:09:18.910, Speaker A: There's something for them to do there. You know, we don't drive out to, like, the desert and just sit there waiting for something to happen, right. If there's like a festival in the desert, we go there to the festivals. Just as an analogy there. So I think that that's kind of what's happened with the. With polygon, the pos chain, right? Like, obviously, that is not an, like an l two. Like a roll up or something like that, that we.
00:09:18.910 - 00:09:43.656, Speaker A: That we've come to know, you know, and love it with arbitrary and optimism and stuff like that. But I think that the Polygon pos chain has filled a really great role and will continue to fill a very great role in offering kind of this ethereum like experience with just some trade offs. And the trade offs that you make, obviously, you know, it's. It's less decentralized. It's. It's less secure because of that. And, you know, you're basically relying on a multi sig right now.
00:09:43.656 - 00:10:14.460, Speaker A: If you bridge a bridge across. Bridge across, because the bridge is a five of eight multi sig. So there's definite trade offs. Trade offs there. Now, do I think that as soon as arbitrum, you know, and optimism and whatever, and all these other solutions go live, will all the apps and users just port over? No, I think there's going to be a world where people are using, you know, different apps or like the same apps on different solutions. So you're going to have like an arbitrary, a Polygon Aave and Ethereum Aave. And you're already seeing this play out where Polygon has a really big aave market.
00:10:14.460 - 00:10:50.096, Speaker A: I think it's $8 billion locked in there. But Ethereum also has a really big aave market as well. And I think they service two different types of users because Ethereum, at least until the last few days, was obviously like very expensive with the higher gas fees hovering around 100 way. And now we're down a lot here, but, you know, and that prices out a lot of users. So what ends up happening is those users will migrate to polygon and enjoy the low fee environment. But the whales and the users who don't really care about the fees and aren't fee sensitive, they'll stay on Ethereum. So because they either want the more security of Ethereum or they're just happy staying on Ethereum, they have no kind of incentive or motivation to move across.
00:10:50.096 - 00:11:34.232, Speaker A: So as I said, there's going to be multiple solutions that appeal to multiple different kind of stakeholder groups, user groups, and there's going to be, I think, like, you know, an rv on every chain. There's going to be like a kind of like curve on every, every chain or every kind of like l two, you know, and all the other popular apps like Uniswap. I mean, you would have seen during the week that Uniswap, I guess, sorry, someone from the community said that Uniswap should be on arbitrum, you know, gathered some, some votes together and actually put a proposal through to do this. And then Hayden Adams, even from, from the Unisub core team, said, yeah, okay, if the community wants this, we'll support that. And, you know, Uniswap has been married to optimism for quite a while now. And people thought that they would be optimism maximalist. They wouldn't even, you know, dare think about going to arbitrary or some other l two solution.
00:11:34.232 - 00:12:29.630, Speaker A: But I think, you know, the Uniswap team is smart enough that, to know that, you know, being kind of like just, you know, hitching your kind of, I guess, product to kind of one horse is not the best kind of play right now. And I think that they're smart enough to realize that, uh, you know, doing the pragmatic approach of being on, like, every scalability solution is the way forward. And then long term, what will end up happening is that the best solutions out there, the ones that users enjoy kind of using the most, with the least friction, the most integrations, you know, the most centralized exchange bridges in and out, I think that's when we'll start seeing winners. But it's going to take a while. There's going to be like, at least, at least a couple of years of, of just like this rapid experimentation across all these different things. But it's probably going to be more than a couple of years because, you know, crypto moves fast, but at the same time it moves slow when it comes to bleeding edge stuff for security reasons. So, yeah, that's kind of like, I guess, my view on the multi kind of scaling kind of solutions here.
00:12:29.630 - 00:12:48.994, Speaker A: Sorry. Sodium star, could you please go on mute? Some background noise here. Is he on? I think you. Yeah, I think they've gone on mute there. Yeah, so that's, that's my kind of view on the, on the poly. Sodium star. Sorry, could you please go on mute? There's a little bit of background noise.
00:12:48.994 - 00:13:31.394, Speaker A: Don't think they can hear me. I'll mute them. It's all good. Cool. Yeah, so there was a bunch of follow up questions around that as well about like, I guess it was the same kind of like, questions, and it was a follow up question from crypto Spanglish, who said, you know, matic has had a massive kind of run, the token, the token price. And so with like, all these optimistic roll ups or like ZK roll ups launching soon. Can Matic sustain its run? Can polygon sustain its kind of, you know, TVL growth and its usage and all these sorts of things? And will projects just move across or be, or be loyal and things like that? And I think, you know, what I just said answers most of that.
00:13:31.394 - 00:14:01.176, Speaker A: I don't really have any opinions on the tokens. Like, there's another question later on. I think about, like, how does matic kind of accrue value? And I will, I think I'll answer that in a sec. I'm just reading through the questions here. But yeah, I think, you know, my answer to crypto spanglish here is the same as I just gave is where I think that it's just going to be like a bunch of rapid experimentation going on. There's going to be a lot of different things going on on these l two s and all these different scaling solutions. And it's just going to be who can offer the best experience with the best apps for users at the end of the day.
00:14:01.176 - 00:14:37.660, Speaker A: And then on that note, there was another follow up question about Polygon from bar jiggy Boo here. When, and what happens when Polygon builds their own actual l two s? Well, I mean it's the same kind of thing. They just enter the arena. They enter kind of like the competition, the battle for different l two s and kind of like different users and things like that. And you know, I actually think that, you know, if they wanted to, the Polygon Pos chain could actually be changed into an l two, something like an optimistic or a ZK roll up and still retain, you know, the EVM compatibility and all the apps and users on there. I'm not sure technically how you would do this. I'm not sure how hard it is, but I don't think it should actually be impossible.
00:14:37.660 - 00:15:26.504, Speaker A: So that I'm actually looking forward to that myself. And I should actually state here that I'm an advisor to Polygon. So, but these were, you know, I know there's a lot of questions about this right now because Polygon got so much attention lately and so much usage, people were like, well, you know, Polygon is not like a quote unquote true l two that people refer to in the ecosystem. What happens when these go live? So I hope that kind of like answers that. And then the final follow up question about this was from digital Henry, who said the Polygon team has hinted on a pod, on a podcast they would be okay with using ETH for gas fees on the Polygon network. If that's the case, what would be the purpose of investing in the Matic token if besides for staking and securing the network? So the Matic token itself, and again, this is an investment advice or anything like that, but the Matic token itself currently serves two functions. You know, it's a fee token and it is a staking token.
00:15:26.504 - 00:16:18.194, Speaker A: Now the fees on Matic are basically negligible. So I would say that the value being kind of like accrued to Matic from is basically non existent. I wouldn't say that that's driving any kind of value to the Matic token. And I do think that having ETH as the gas token on the Matic network, the polygon Pos kind of network here, would be beneficial for a number of reasons, and it's not to accrue more value to value to ETH because it probably wouldn't, because again, the fees would be negligible here. It's just to keep kind of coherence between kind of ecosystems because I've had multiple people kind of like say, oh, it's really annoying when I go across to Matic that I have to, yeah, you know, they give you a little bit of tokens to start, but I have to kind of like buy more token, buy more matic instead of just being able to bring my ETH across to pay for fees. And that's kind of like what the coherence is there in terms of like being able to just bridge across really easily. So I think just having ETH for gas fees is a no brainer.
00:16:18.194 - 00:16:50.084, Speaker A: And, you know, arbitram already announced that they're going to be using ETH for gas fees. And, you know, the other function of the matic token is staking. So you stake to earn, I guess, like inflationary rewards right now. And then, you know, if the fear of revenue gets large enough, you earn kind of like portions of the fees, which would actually put a dent into that. I'm not sure, you know, what the plans are for future value accrual mechanisms, but the way I view these sorts of things is that generally, like, you can just accrue value like much later. You don't have to do it from kind of like the beginning here. And you can even look at something like ETH as an example.
00:16:50.084 - 00:17:27.524, Speaker A: ETH, the token itself, besides kind of like, you know, we had staking go live in December and ETH uses collateral, has been happening for a while, but besides that, you know, ETH didn't really accrue value from, from the value generated on the network. Now with 1559, it will. And this is coming, you know, many years after the Ethereum network launched. So from that perspective, I think just, I guess a general note on tokens is that a lot of them will remain, you know, your, your favorite valueless governance tokens for quite a while. Or like, you know, they might, may not seem like they have very good value accrual mechanics, but that doesn't mean that they never will. It's not like it's bitcoin where, you know, things don't change. Things definitely do change.
00:17:27.524 - 00:18:16.904, Speaker A: And people will speculate on things for a number of reasons. And you know, there's also the speculative, speculative value attached to any token as well, where, you know, if you do like a classic kind of price to sales or price to earnings kind of thing on a lot of tokens, especially a lot of the layer one tokens out there, you'll find that a lot of them do not trade anywhere near kind of like, I guess you could say fundamental value, but that's what it is in crypto. It's all it's all very speculative, so I hope that answers some questions around polygon. But yeah, I'll take a question from the call now and feel free to follow up with polygon questions if you have any as well. If there's no questions from the call, I can move on to the questions from the channel there.
00:18:18.564 - 00:18:20.724, Speaker B: I have a few questions.
00:18:20.884 - 00:18:22.264, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, go for it.
00:18:23.564 - 00:19:17.264, Speaker B: Okay, so I wanted to ask you about like a few different topics. Maybe I can only ask one. I'm not sure how this is scheduled, but I wanted to ask you about the yield farming. You mentioned in many occasions that you do yield farming. So I wanted to ask you, like, do you do it on l one on Ethereum or do you also do it on matic? And what is a good strategy to start from somewhere? And also on another note, a lot of times it was mentioned that if you want to yield farm on Ethereum, you need a huge amount of money. Otherwise it won't make any sense.
00:19:18.284 - 00:20:00.468, Speaker A: Mm hmm. Yeah, I mean, that's, that's correct. With, with ethereum, even at the lower gas fees, maybe these days it still might be too, too high for some people. But definitely when the gas fees are higher, like 100 gwei or something like that, it's probably too expensive because what you ends up happening is you end up paying more in fees than you would have generated in yield for a very long time. So it makes it not worth it for you. So the approach I take is I do a little bit of, a little bit of kind of like everything I do kind of test out different things, but in terms of like, what I'm yield farming these days, I tend to just do kind of stablecoin yield farming where, you know, and it depends on your risk appetite too. So for me, I have like a higher risk tolerance, I think then, then, you know, a lot of people do.
00:20:00.468 - 00:20:44.036, Speaker A: I obviously understand, you know, all the risks associated with these sorts of things. And I make sure that I'm managing my positions correctly. But, you know, what a lot of people do is they'll lend or they'll put up their kind of like ETH or some other asset as collateral on a money market such as, you know, aave or compen or they'll put it in maker or something like that. They'll kind of borrow stable coins against it. So whether that be USDC or Dai or some other stable coin, and then they'll go deposit those stable coins into some yield farm. Normally you can go to the yearn vaults which actually do it all for you, where they'll give you kind of like a vault where you put in USDC and then they'll manage it all for you. So once you've put it in there, their backend kind of does all the yield farming and they kind of like seek out the best yield for you.
00:20:44.036 - 00:21:14.884, Speaker A: That's kind of like the draw of the, of the yearn vaults here. So that's one way a lot of people do it. But if you already have stable coins and you know, you don't want to, you know, you don't want to borrow stable coins because obviously that comes with the risk of getting liquidated and you have to actually pay to borrow stable coins as well. So that eats into the yield that you'll be able to generate. You can just take your stable coins and I think the easiest for newer people is just to go to yearn vaults. So why earn vaults? You can google it. It'll come up, I think the websites, yearn vaults or something like that, or yearn finance.
00:21:14.884 - 00:21:55.876, Speaker A: And you can go there and basically it'll show you like the available options for different stable coins and even different other assets too. It's not just stable coins. So that's kind of like, I guess, one kind of yield farm there. And those are probably, I would say, like the easiest and the quote unquote safest in terms of the fact that, you know, especially if we're just putting stable coins in without borrowing them, you don't have any risk of liquidation or anything like that. You know, you don't have to kind of like manage your position, you don't have to pay these, these kind of like, I guess, like borrow. So you have to, don't have to pay to borrow the kind of assets from these money markets and stuff like that. But then on the kind of like riskier side of things, you can do a lot more.
00:21:55.876 - 00:22:49.822, Speaker A: If you're happy with taking on the risk, you can do a lot more and you can generate a lot more yield. So for example, there are incentivized pools on kind of uniswap or sushiswap where you can put, you can provide liquidity to them with two different assets, um, in a 50 50 split or even on balancer. I mean, you know, there's ways to do it on there too, but just for simplicity, you would put up like 50% of ETH and 50% of, um. You know, what I'm doing right now is I'm, I'm farming the ETH Alcx pool. So I put up 50% ETH, 50% ALCX tokens and I'm providing liquidity and I'm getting paid in ALCX tokens for that. So I'm, I'm essentially yield farming that. But the reason why it's riskier is because you have the, what's called impermanent loss risk, where depending on the way the market moves, you could end up worse off than when you started providing liquidity, as in you could have, you could end up with less money from your principal than you started with.
00:22:49.822 - 00:23:30.384, Speaker A: And that's just a risk you take. Now, if it nets out to being profitable because you earned more in token rewards than you lost in a permanent loss, then it's probably worth it. But as I said, it's much riskier because it's just, you don't know which way the market's going to go. So you are taking more of a calculated kind of, kind of risk here rather than, you know, just, just kind of like doing stable coin yield funding, which doesn't carry that impermanent loss risk if you're just doing kind of like a yearn vault or something. Whereas, you know, you can do stable coins in uniswap or unsushiswap, for example, but you're again, taking on this, this impermanent loss risk there. So yeah, it's definitely a wide field here. There's a lot that you can do, a lot of different things you can do.
00:23:30.384 - 00:23:52.184, Speaker A: And I would suggest reading some of the guides that bankless puts out. They, they definitely have some of the best guides out there for yield farming. So I'm sure you can google bankless yield farming. There's a guide called getting started with bankless that has a bunch of resources too, if you haven't seen that yet. Um, because, yeah, with, it definitely goes deep. And as I said, it depends on how much risk you want to take on. Um, and you know, kind of like, I guess like how much money you have to.
00:23:52.184 - 00:24:11.484, Speaker A: If you, if you're, you know, uh, you're farming with lots of money, then maybe you can afford the ethereum fees. If not, you can go to, um, the, you know, the matic network or the Polygon network as it's known, you know, bridge over your assets there. And it's basically, the fees are basically negligible there, but there's less opportunities than there are on Ethereum. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there.
00:24:12.464 - 00:24:49.898, Speaker B: Yeah, of course. It was a great explanation. Basically, I haven't tried the borrowing side of things yet, so it's kind of an explored territory. I was afraid of the liquidations and that kind of stuff. But regarding the sushi, I have tried actually doing that with some small amounts. And my reasoning about impermanent loss is like, if you are comfortable with holding both assets long term, you don't care. I mean, I'm maybe missing something there.
00:24:49.898 - 00:24:57.014, Speaker B: Maybe it's a stupid reasoning, but I guess I thought that was the right way to think of it.
00:24:57.534 - 00:25:27.826, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it can be. It depends. It definitely depends on the assets and, like, how far they move as well, because, and it depends if you take out your liquidity position or like remove liquidity before it goes back to where, or it goes like, near where you first provided liquidity. So, yeah, impermanent loss definitely, I think, trips a lot of people up because they just don't understand how it works, you know, in detail. There's a few tools out there that will help you with this. APy vision is one tool that I use. They're really good at calculating kind of gains here.
00:25:27.826 - 00:26:13.598, Speaker A: So gains and losses on these positions. But yeah, you're right. If you're providing liquidity for like, you know, an ETH slash, another token pair, and you don't mind holding either asset over the long term, then yeah, it could work out. But definitely there's still a risk of being net down in dollar terms, you know, and even in like, ETH terms, if you're trying to stack ETH or like the other token, it's just, it depends on when you get in, when you pull liquidity and, you know, where the prices were at those points in time. Awesome. All right, another question from the discord. So basically, Java lasers asked what apps do you use or recommend for tracking for taxes? So the way I do mine, I'm a bit old school here.
00:26:13.598 - 00:26:57.190, Speaker A: I use like Google sheets. And the reason why is because I don't. Because a lot of the tax tracking apps lag a lot of the time, and they do not have, you know, because I do a lot of different things within defi, I'm basically a power user. They do not have what I've been doing for like, and for a while, like, a lot of the things, they don't add in time. The features are often lagging, like, by a lot, and I like having more control over everything. And also because there are always like edge cases, you know, that I've had to deal with so many edge cases with how is this going to be taxed? And if it's taxed this way, then can I argue it another way? And I'm in Australia so I'm definitely going to be different to everyone else that's outside of Australia. So for me, I don't really use anything.
00:26:57.190 - 00:27:39.850, Speaker A: I just use a Google sheet and I track all my transactions on there and what I'm doing on chain and kind of like profits and losses and things like that and, like income and yield and whatever. But there are a bunch of tools out there right now. Off the top of my head. There's like turbotax, I think, which is pretty popular, you know, something crypto tax or something like that, or tax tools. There's a lot of them now. And I guess another reason why I don't trust those, those tools as well is because some of them, I don't know if they do this, but I don't trust them not to kind of like, you know, give my date, give my data to someone that I don't want having my data, like, my entire kind of, like, financial life. Yes, it's available on chain, but unless someone knows my, you know, address on chain and they don't know, they can't tie it back to me.
00:27:39.850 - 00:28:16.156, Speaker A: But, but if they have, like, I guess, like, details, depending on what the tool is, if they have some kind of, like, personal identifier, identifiable information on there, then they could somehow identify me and tie my addresses to me. And maybe they want to pass that on to some parties that I don't want having that information. Not, not the tax office, but maybe some other parties for marketing or advertising or something like that. So maybe I'm being paranoid. Maybe they don't do that. But, you know, from, from, I think, you know, over the last few years on the Internet, being on the Internet, I think we've all wised up to the fact that a lot of these companies, no matter who they are, like, love to harvest our data and sell it for advertising purposes. So for me, I don't tend to use any of those tools.
00:28:16.156 - 00:28:39.476, Speaker A: And in saying that, obviously, Google sheets, you know, the data is still going to Google there. Um, but, you know, I I, like, I guess, like, I'm, I'm fine with that. Uh, given that, I think, you know, the tax tools are definitely more targeted. Google sheets is not targeted at all. Like, people use Google sheets for everything. Um, and, you know, maybe it's even better if you're super paranoid to just use, like, a local kind of copy of excel or something like that. But, yeah, that's kind of how I play it.
00:28:39.476 - 00:29:19.010, Speaker A: But if anyone else has any tools that they use and, you know, feel free to speak up and kind of like, you know, give your opinion on them. All right, all good. I'll move on to the next question from sodium star in the Discord channel here. So they ask, as far as I understand, amm based dexs rely on oracles. So the actual price determination happens on centralized platforms. So I will start off by saying amms do not rely on oracle. So the way that amms keep their price in check is through basically arbitrage.
00:29:19.010 - 00:30:19.646, Speaker A: So essentially, if prices of the different kind of assets get out of whack on an Amm or like, I guess, like go kind of like from the market price, there'll be bots that essentially arbitrage between all the different decentralized exchanges and all the different centralized exchanges to bring the prices back in line here. And that's why I think you see a lot of the kind of activity on the network, especially like Uniswap accounts for, I think, 25, 35% of the activity on the ethereum network. A lot of that's got to do with these kind of arbitrage transactions where different kind of like bots and traders will, and even MEV extractors will basically arbitrage and front run and try to, like, I guess, make profit from doing these transactions to make sure that the price is kept in check here. So, yeah, just that, just that note there that the breakthrough of amms is that they do not rely on any type of oracle here, which I think is really powerful. It just relies on, you know, a robust set of arbitrage bots, which the ethereum ecosystem has today. And it's not hard to have these things. They're very easy to, to set up.
00:30:19.646 - 00:31:12.228, Speaker A: There's the generic ones that you can do. The best ones, obviously are custom made, and people don't just release them to the wild, but in general, you know, there's, there's tons of bots that do that. Um, and then, so I just wanted to kind of like, clarify that, that for you there. Uh, and then they go on to say, uh, you know, is this, uh, that most of the questions were about, like, based on the assumption that amms have relied on Oracle Cr, but then they talked about like, order book exchanges as well. So same kind of thing here. I think it depends on what you look at, too, because with order book exchanges, there are some of them that are synthetic kind of order book exchanges. So you can kind of look at the synthetix platform, for example, you know, or like Quinta or like other things being built on there, like synthetic products definitely rely on oracles because at the end of the day, you need to kind of be able to track the price of the underlying asset.
00:31:12.228 - 00:31:53.802, Speaker A: And no one's going to do arbitrage because it's a synthetic asset. So when you're looking at something like, I guess like margin exchange or like perpetual products, a lot of them usually kind of a synthetic products where essentially you're just trading like a price ticker and even things like within the synthetics ecosystem, you have a lot of like, I guess, like stocks like S. Tesla and things like that. That is just using an oracle, a price oracle at the end of the day to track the price. And then the way it's kind of like kept in check is by that oracle. And the oracle can be something like Chainlink that gets its price feed from multiple places out there. Chainlink depends on the asset, but they have multiple kind of price feeds.
00:31:53.802 - 00:32:38.874, Speaker A: They get it from whether that be the stock market itself, maybe the Nasdaq for Tesla, but other stuff like that out there. So that's kind of like how it works there. And I think there was another question here from sodium star about this was, yeah, man, about the real world assets and the synthetic assets for stocks and things like that. And like oracles introduces, I think, let me have a look here. How can, I think they were asking, like, how can we bring these real world kind of assets in without them being synthetic assets? I mean, I don't know. I don't know if we would say this is a bit of, a, bit of a tricky thing because this goes back to what I was saying before about how these real world assets aren't native to the blockchain, right? They're not crypto native. They're not bearer assets.
00:32:38.874 - 00:33:19.686, Speaker A: They still have a kind of, I guess, legal claim in the real world or in the kind of non blockchain world where your claim to your stock or your claim to your house or your claim to your car still exists in the legal system, whereas, for example, your claim to your ETH doesn't exist in the legal system. There is no kind of, I guess, like institution or anything saying, well, you know, this ETH belongs to this person. And if this person's ETH gets stolen, well, that's not actually, you know, that ETH didn't actually get stolen because you didn't steal the piece of paper saying that it was your ETH. Well, that's not how it works because ETH and a lot of other tokens are bare assets. So if I, if my ETH gets stolen, well, then it's not my ETH anymore. Because the. The blockchain is the.
00:33:19.686 - 00:33:35.692, Speaker A: The kind of like source of truth here. The blockchain is what records the. The ownership here. So once, you know, if my ETH gets stolen, that person now has my ETH. I don't have it. There's no legal recourse here or anything like that. Whereas with these real world assets, there is always kind of recourse because they're just not digitally native.
00:33:35.692 - 00:34:25.636, Speaker A: And I don't think that can ever change because a house is never going to be digitally native. Unless it's like a virtual house in like a virtual game, then fine, but like a, you know, a house in the real world is not going to be digitally native. So we always have to have that kind of layer in between where you have the claim in the real world and then you have a tokenized representation of that kind of claim on chain. And then, you know, it kind of like works the same way as a lot of the centralized assets, like stable coins, for example. You know, it's already. It's already happened, I think, in the past where tether can basically revoke ownership of USDT and like issue new USDT, you know, based on like, I mean, a number of factors, usually kind of regulatory stuff here. And you know that they can do that because the token is just a representation of dollars in a bank account.
00:34:25.636 - 00:34:50.320, Speaker A: Whether you believe tethers actually backed by dollars in a bank account, that's another story there. And same with USDC. So if they wanted to, they can freeze the USDT C tokens. But the thing is, the underlying USD that's sitting in the bank account is still there. That is the kind of, you know, I guess like ownership claim, the actual USD, not the, I guess the. The IOU essentially that you have on. On the kind of exchange here, it's the same as like a.
00:34:50.320 - 00:35:19.096, Speaker A: A bank, for example. I mean, if you put your dollars into a bank account, technically the bank owns your money now, right? Like technically the bank or the government could take those dollars away from you. And they do. I mean, for criminals, they seize assets all the time. But you know, if you have your assets on Ethereum, digitally native, you know, unless someone knows, like the pin to your ledger or something like that, or your seed phrase, they can't actually access your, your ETH. They would have to basically get that out of you. So, you know, from that perspective, it's.
00:35:19.096 - 00:35:55.794, Speaker A: It's. The property rights are much stronger there as well, but it only works for digitally native things. So I think maybe that's a roundabout way of answering the question of like, how do we get these kind of like real world assets into defi natively? I just don't think it can happen unless they issued on the network, you know, as digitally native assets first and have no real world ties. But I don't think we're, we're going to get there for quite a while and I don't think we can get there for a lot of the physical kind of things in the real world, for obvious reasons, I think. And on that note, yeah, feel free anyone who wants to ask a live question, or else I'll move on to the next one from the Discord channel.
00:36:01.694 - 00:36:02.794, Speaker B: Can you hear me?
00:36:05.174 - 00:36:32.936, Speaker A: I just had a quick question. Do you have any. I guess like airdrop Alpha. I saw a Twitter feed that kind of listed some projects saying like, oh, these ones might have like, or being speculative about projects that would have airdrops specifically. I saw Zapper was on there and I just started using zapper. I feel like you've heard of them. So I don't know, it's like just being a user, does that make me eligible or what kind of things make.
00:36:32.960 - 00:36:35.164, Speaker C: You eligible for airdrops?
00:36:36.064 - 00:37:33.352, Speaker A: Yeah. So my general rule with these kind of things is that every single project within crypto is going to have a token at one point or another, for better or worse. Like I won't go into if they should or shouldn't, but I, from what I've seen and from what I kind of like, kind of like assume, yeah, I just assume that every project, DeFi or outside of it, even things like, kind of like not exchanges, sorry, coin tracking websites, like even something like Coingecko, I would assume that maybe one day they have a token. So in terms of like getting access to these tokens into these airdrops, usually it's done through, you know, using the network, of course. So if it's a defi app, using the defi app, doing a bunch of things on there, obviously for Uniswap it was very simple, where even if people had tried to use Uniswap and their transaction failed, they still got the airdrop. So they didn't even have to kind of use it successfully. They just had to touch the Uniswap contracts once and they got the 400 uni on per address as well.
00:37:33.352 - 00:38:16.952, Speaker A: So there's very, there's simple ones like that, then there's more complex ones where it depends on like a bunch of different actions. Like, and the more actions you did on the platform, the more on chain stuff you did, the more kind of like tokens you got. But generally, yeah. I mean, then there's other, there's other things as well where if you're an early contributor to, I guess, the project, you also get kind of like more tokens in the airdrop or something like that. But generally, yeah. The easiest way for an airdrop to kind of be distributed is through these on chain actions, because you can basically get what's called like a Merkel route of everyone that's used your app and that'll have all their addresses on there, and then you can just airdrop it like that. But, you know, if you want to go a step deep up, which a lot of teams, I think, are doing these days, you can, you can basically look at a number of different things.
00:38:16.952 - 00:39:02.172, Speaker A: And just to give some tangible examples here, say you find like this really cool new DeFi project doesn't have a token yet, but it's live. And you, you know, you assume they're going to have an airdrop one day. Well, the first thing you would do was, would be obviously use the app itself. You would go in there, you would kind of like do some on chain transactions. You would kind of like play around with that, and then that would probably make you eligible for that portion of the airdrop. Then let's say you want, you kind of like speculate and you're like, okay, well, what else can I do to add value here? What else am I assuming they're going to give kind of like tokens to? Another thing is getting involved with the community, getting involved with the governance process. Like if there's a, if there's kind of governance set up in any kind of way in the forum or on the Discord channel, just getting involved there and becoming an active community member is a big way to kind of like get that as well.
00:39:02.172 - 00:40:01.402, Speaker A: But on top of that, becoming an active community member also kind of like gives you access to rewards. So when the token goes live, uh, they might just pay out contributor rewards on top of the airdrop to people that are actually helping the project and helping the Dow and all these sorts of things. But yeah, generally the most of the airdrops will be done when you just touch and kind of like the app itself through an on chain transaction. And I don't know if using multiple addresses to try and game the system will actually work too much anymore because I don't know if, if any of you saw this. I think some of you would have, but when one inch did their airdrop, they actually noticed someone trying to game the system where they were doing like, I think, I think it was transactions under $20 on, like every address that they could do it with. And then what one inch ended up doing was saying, well, you know, you had to have done a transaction of at least 20 plus dollars in value to, to actually be eligible for the airdrop. So they basically cut off this person because they can see this, you can, you can download, as I said, you download the Merkel route, you can see all the addresses and you can see what they've done on, you know, with your app.
00:40:01.402 - 00:41:14.618, Speaker A: And if they're trying to game the system, well, then you can just cut them off. So I probably wouldn't try to do that because I think a lot of people do try to do that, and it just doesn't, doesn't work a lot of the time, especially these days, because we're later in the game now where airdrops are like expected now and people and the teams know this and the teams want to get the tokens into the hands of people that are more likely to use it than just kind of sell it off straight away. So I think from that perspective, that's kind of like, I guess, you know, what's going to be going, what's going to be done with airdrops going forward. And I think Gitcoins probably a perfect example here of they airdropped a lot of tokens, but they actually airdropped a lot of tokens to the people who are on the platform and doing a lot on the platform for a while. So if you were like a funder and donating on the platform, you know, from, from kind of like the earlier rounds over time as well, you obviously got more. If you were like a receiver of funding, you know, whether you've had a grant up or something like that, if you did things like bounties and participated in, like their kernel program, they did a bunch of different things to try and get as many people who are long term aligned as possible to have tokens instead of just like speculators. And there's nothing wrong with speculators, but, you know, I know a lot of people get airdrops and, you know, some, you know, you'll dump some of them depending if you're actually bullish on the project or not.
00:41:14.618 - 00:41:50.940, Speaker A: I mean, I've done that in the past. I mean, I dumped my one inch tokens pretty much straight away as I got them at the time I sold them for ETH. But that's, I mean, I wasn't bearish on one inch, but, like, when you get something for free, it's kind of, like a bit different. But, you know, I think teams are wising up to that and airdrops in the future are just going to get smarter and they're probably going to get, like, smarter in the sense that this is going to be less that gets airdropped to early users and the token will be distributed in different ways, like contributor rewards and things like that. So hopefully that answers your question and maybe adds a bit more color to it as well. Yeah, no, thanks. I appreciate it.
00:41:50.940 - 00:42:32.848, Speaker A: And I guess, yeah, that's kind of in line with what I was thinking, that just being as engaged as possible is kind of the best way to go, I guess, in terms of, like, contributing, is this, like, you know, does this mostly require technical skills? Like, no. Should I pick up solidity or, like, you know, I'm assuming there's some other things, too, but I would assume, you know, having technical skills is the most important. Yeah, I mean, you can do basically anything. You don't have to be technical. You know, a lot of these projects are looking for all kinds of roles, whether that be as a developer or as a marketing, community management, business development. You can do all these sorts of things. You don't have to do, just like development.
00:42:32.848 - 00:43:13.936, Speaker A: But if that is in your wheelhouse, if you're a developer, you know, by trade or whatever, definitely do that. But, yeah, generally it's, it's everything, you know, especially if they're a newer project, they don't, probably don't have an established team. There's probably, like a core team of them. But a lot of teams want to turn into dow, so they want people from, you know, all over the world and to come in and basically create, like, an actual decentralized platform. So I think doing anything is basically adding value to it. And the easiest way is just to jump in and see what needs to be done. Like, you need to just ask existing community members, hey, like, I want to contribute kind of like, how do I do? So, and the best teams will have, will have like an onboarding flow or a contributor flow where it's like, well, here's, like, what we want and here's what we need.
00:43:13.936 - 00:43:27.148, Speaker A: Here's what you can do. And then you just go ahead and do it. Uh, and, yeah, you kind of, like, become, I guess, like a long term community member doing work for a dao, which, uh, which I think is pretty cool, actually. Cool.
00:43:27.196 - 00:43:27.824, Speaker B: Thanks.
00:43:28.404 - 00:44:04.860, Speaker A: Awesome. Awesome. So I'll move on to a question from the Discord channel here from hen f here or hen, what are your general opinions on other layer ones in the crypto space? Do you see them as a net positive for ether? And then there's, there's actually three different questions here. Are there any in particular you think will complement ether or ethereum? Well, for example, polygon uses a modified version of cosmos as consensus, and cosmos plans to bridge to ethereum with the gravity bridge. Is this good for ethereum? So I guess I'll start with, like, what my general opinions are of kind of layer ones. Generally. I think a lot of them are garbage, if I'm being honest.
00:44:04.860 - 00:44:53.566, Speaker A: I think a lot of them are either misguided projects, outright scams, or just money grabs in general, which probably falls into the outright scams category because of the fact that it's just very easy in this ecosystem to sell a narrative. And, you know, there's a lot of narratives out there right now that know these chains are, like, cheaper to use than Ethereum and we have more scalability than Ethereum, blah, blah. But no one ever tells you the trade offs, right? They're not going to tell you that their chain is more centralized or it's just completely centralized. They're not going to tell you that they're using a different programming language. So getting developers to get on board is just going to be really hard, and they're using like a different virtual machine. I mean, we've seen that there's a lot of EVM compatible chains because the Ethereum network uses the EVM. The EVM compatible chains get adoption much quicker because of the fact that developers can just clone apps over to them and kind of like, be done with it.
00:44:53.566 - 00:45:40.612, Speaker A: There's not much of a hassle there. So from kind of like that, that's my general opinion on most other layer ones, is just. I just think that. I don't think most of them are scams. I think some of them are definitely scams, and most of them are just misguided projects. And most of them are just, like, going to die out and, you know, they couldn't, they can go up in value. I'm not making any comments on the tokens or anything like that, but I think generally, from what we've seen, you know, if the grand irony, I think, and what's actually particularly hilarious to me is that we've had these other layer one projects spend billions of dollars collectively on, you know, marketing and building and researching and all this sort of stuff, only to be completely leapfrogged by EVM compatible chains that aren't Ethereum, because it was never about building something that is, like, completely new and, you know, quote unquote better technology or anything like that.
00:45:40.612 - 00:46:12.546, Speaker A: What it's about is tap is a network effects, and Ethereum has an incredible amount of network effects. And developers don't want to have to rewrite their entire app for a new ecosystem in a new language. They don't want to have to get their code audited again. They don't want to have to boost up an entire new ecosystem. They're happy and very, very sorry, very happy to essentially just, like, clone over their app to one of these other EVM compatible chains and essentially just like, have a liquidity port over in one way or another. And they don't have to get new audits. They don't have to kind of, like, change their code at all.
00:46:12.546 - 00:46:34.996, Speaker A: They don't have to hire people that may know a different programming language. So I think that's kind of like, why I think most of these other layer ones are going to just, like, fail and die out. And a lot of them already have, like, the 2017 era ones. A lot of them pretty much, like, failed and died out. And the ones that are still around don't even have anything to show for it. I mean, I'm a very big critic of Cardano. I'm not a pick on any particular project, but Cardano doesn't have smart contracts.
00:46:34.996 - 00:46:59.792, Speaker A: It's 2021 and it doesn't have smart contracts. And I know they say, oh, we're trying to do it, like, you know, peer reviewed, and we're trying to, like, research, and we're trying to do, like, make the best system ever. It's like, that's just not going to work. It's just not. Not how technology works. What you do is you build maybe a system that you don't consider to be the best system ever, or like something that would be maybe an inferior system, and then you get, like, these network effects, and then you keep building. As time goes on, you keep upgrading.
00:46:59.792 - 00:47:31.554, Speaker A: If, you know, perfect is the enemy of good. So if you're aiming for perfect in everything that you do, then you're never going to ship anything. I think Cardano is the perfect example of that. But there's so many other chains out there that have all the promises in the world of solving all of Ethereum's issues, and literally none of them even come close to doing that. I think ETH two is probably the closest to doing that, honestly. You know, Ethereum's proof of stake mechanism, which is live today, yes, it's not live, you know, in the full capacity because we don't have the, we still have two separate networks. But Ethereum's proof of stake is the best proof of stake implementation ever out of any of the chains.
00:47:31.554 - 00:48:25.412, Speaker A: And you know, that took a while to get there. But, but the thing is we didn't wait until, you know, ETH two was out or whatever, or proof of stake and sharding were done. We had the ETH one network bootstrap itself and kind of grow these amazing network effects over time so that we don't have like a ghost town like a lot of these chains do when we want to essentially, you know, migrate these people over to a better ecosystem or to upgrade the technology. So that's how I kind of view these things, especially in software development and then stuff like that. I mean if you're, if you're always trying to optimize for being perfect, which a lot of these other layer ones seem to be doing, you, you're just going to be left behind. And you know, they're not fighting for second place, they're fighting for third place because there's, to me there's no third place right now in terms of like, I guess like the blockchains, like this bitcoin, Ethereum, and then there's a bunch of other chains and I kind of, I kind of think if you look at smart contract chains, I mean, Ethereum's number one and there's no number two. If I asked ten different people what they thought number two was, I'd get ten different answers.
00:48:25.412 - 00:49:12.484, Speaker A: So, you know, from that perspective that just generally I'm bearish on most, on most layer ones here. And I do, I see them as net positive for ETH or Ethereum. I don't know, you know, from, from a kind of like token price perspective, I actually think they're a net negative because they take money away from money that could go into, to ETH. But I also think that that's a deeper discussion and deeper question. And I've said before that I don't necessarily believe that just because money goes into one token, it means that, you know, it would have gone into this other token. It takes value away from it. But I do think on top of the the token kind of value accrual, it also just like fragments, things where a lot of, you know, new users fall through this sort of stuff and a lot of, you know, people outside the ecosystem come in and they kind of like waste time learning about all this stuff that's just not worth learning about.
00:49:12.484 - 00:49:46.696, Speaker A: So maybe it's just like a neutral thing for Ethereum. I think it just, you know, I think, actually, if I ever had to give a positive case, I would say that the more of these layer ones that kind of fail to gain traction, the better it is for Ethereum, because it just reinforces Ethereum's network effects here. And then the other question here was, are there any of that you think will complement Ethereum? I think we've already seen that play out. Like, look at the polygon Pos chain. That is technically another layer one, because it is not secured by Ethereum directly, like a L2 would be. It is secured by its own validator set. It does commit itself to Ethereum.
00:49:46.696 - 00:50:39.956, Speaker A: It's staking logic runs on Ethereum and things like that. But it is, for all intents and purposes, it can be considered another layer one. And I think it definitely benefits Ethereum, because I've explained many times that I think Polygon, the Bos chain, or at least the polygon ecosystem right now, is just very Ethereum aligned and is not trying to be parasitic to Ethereum. He's trying to help Ethereum. And it basically acts as, like, a pressure release valve for the Ethereum network, while we kind of, like, scale and while these L2s come online and polygon builds their L2 infrastructure as well. And, you know, I even think something like BSC has been a net positive for Ethereum because BSC was able to get millions of new users. I'm not sure if it's millions, but, like, a lot of new users that never touched, you know, crypto outside of an exchange before to set up Ethereum wallet or, like, a BSc wallet, which is essentially Ethereum wallet because it's got the same kind of address space, it's got the same block explorer.
00:50:39.956 - 00:51:13.508, Speaker A: BSC scans, you know, a clone of Etherscan, you still have to install metamask. It's pretty much the same experience, just like, a centralized version of it. But I think that that basically, you know, skips a lot of the kind of, like, headaches people have and just onboards them really quickly into, like, an ethereum ecosystem. So. And that kind of, like, answers the last question they had here about. About Polygon and, like, saying that, you know, Cosmos plans to bridge into Ethereum with their gravity bridge. Is this good for Ethereum? I think anything bridging into Ethereum is obviously going to be good because of the fact that it's making, you know, value come to Ethereum and.
00:51:13.508 - 00:51:25.824, Speaker A: And reinforcing Ethereum as, like, the centerpiece of the entire crypto ecosystem. So yeah, I think that's overall a very positive there. But yeah, thanks for the question here. I'll take the next one from the audience if anyone has one.
00:51:29.524 - 00:51:30.780, Speaker B: I have one.
00:51:30.972 - 00:51:57.340, Speaker A: Go for it. So is it, have we talked about. I just woke up, but have we talked about bitcoin being a thorn in our side yet? No, but I see your question here. There was actually the next one after his. You had a couple of questions about that. But yeah, I mean, we haven't talked about it yet, so feel free to ask it. Okay, so we're at .068
00:51:57.340 - 00:53:21.830, Speaker A: for the ratio of ETH BTC. And before the crash we were at like. .077. I kind of wonder, like when are like how I'm worried about like, how bitcoin maximalists will take seeing how they will, how it will affect them, seeing Ethereum take off in comparison to bitcoin, just kind of like, you know, stagnating. And I wonder, like, who are these people? And like, have you met them and do they exist where they're okay with that? Like, do these people exist? Like, I'm just, I don't understand their mentality and I wonder, I have this question because Ethereum is tied to the hip, uh, hop with bitcoin during crashes. But like, uh, so, like, if, if bitcoin maximalists end up like, um, uh, switching over to ethereum, then bitcoin will crash and ethereum will come with it. So I, I don't know how to reconcile those two thoughts in my mind.
00:53:21.830 - 00:53:40.744, Speaker A: You know, me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So this is, yeah, this is a pretty, pretty broad, I think, thing to talk about when it comes to, I guess, both the social layer here of, you know, bitcoin is and bitcoin maximus, like, embracing ethereum or, you know, you know, being detractors of Ethereum and the token prices as well.
00:53:40.744 - 00:54:17.316, Speaker A: So I think I'll focus on the social stuff first and then move into how I think it affects the token prices. So I have met Udi, one of the most famous, I think, bitcoin maximalists out there. You might, you know, a lot of you might know him from Twitter. I met him in real life in Berlin at an ethereum conference, ironically. And we had kind of like traded kind of like, I guess, tweets a lot and battles and debates on Twitter prior to meeting. And I've had him blocked for quite a while now because he just got annoying. But at that point, when I talked to him then, it was funny seeing how little he knew about Ethereum.
00:54:17.316 - 00:55:07.568, Speaker A: I was talking to him about Ethereum and asking his opinions on things and, you know, from his own kind of bitcoin maximalist view, and he didn't even know about things like, you know, at the time, Erp 15 nine wasn't as popular as it is today, but he didn't even know about stuff like that. And, you know, I was asking him all these sorts of things and it just, he couldn't really give me any answers that, that satisfied me that, that kind of like showed me that he actually knew, you know, what he was talking about when it came to Ethereum or if he actually had like a proper bear case for Ethereum. And I'm not to just pick on him, but like from, from what I've seen, every kind of debate or every kind of like argument or every kind of point that bitcoin maximalists have brought up over time have been completely wrong. A lot of them said that Defi would never work. Now they're saying that Defi is coming to bitcoin. A lot of them said that Ethereum would never ship proof of stake while we shipped proof of stake. Just because ETH one isn't merging to ETH two yet doesn't mean anything.
00:55:07.568 - 00:55:25.570, Speaker A: We shipped proof of stake. It's exactly what's going to be running when we do the merge. Like, we're not going to change the proof of stake mechanism that we have today. We shipped it. A lot of them said that ETH would forever bleed against the ratio, against BTC. Well no, it didn't. It bled for a long time, mind you, but it came back because of all the value being generated.
00:55:25.570 - 00:55:52.946, Speaker A: A lot of them said that Ethereum was a scam. I mean it was never a scam. And I think more now more than ever, it's extremely difficult to make that, that debate. I think you'll regard it as crazy if you call it a scam. So when you kind of like just look back at all these talking points that they've come up with, they've all been wrong and they've always been wrong. I mean, I spent a lot of 2018 and 2019 fighting these people day in, day out on twitter because the, they were always just spreading all these lies about Ethereum. So, you know, I remember this quite vividly.
00:55:52.946 - 00:56:25.176, Speaker A: And they always just, they could never, ever give me like a proper bear case for Ethereum. They always focused on things that just meant nothing and just like, we're wrong, completely wrong. So, and you know, over, over the last kind of year or so maybe even 18 months. I've noticed a lot of the, I guess you could call them centrist. Bitcoin is not the bitcoin maximalist, but the ones that kind of never really used a theorem before. But we're on the fence about it and we're kind of like, just not, not necessarily ignoring it, but just like not interested in it because of the fact that they were interested in other things. I've just seen a lot of them come over to a theorem now and embrace it and use it.
00:56:25.176 - 00:56:58.960, Speaker A: I've seen a lot of them change to being, you know, way more bullish on ethereum than they are on bitcoin. And I think, I don't want to speak for anyone here, but I think, you know, there's, there's people like, people who know him. Hazu on Twitter. He started out as a, as a pretty hardcore bitcoin. He's still very much into bitcoin, mind you, but he definitely spends a lot more time in the ethereum ecosystem. And I think this is simply because the, the system is optimized for different things. Bitcoin optimizes for one thing, which is obviously like digital gold, whatever they want to call it, right? The network itself optimizes for one thing, which means that the people that attracts is, is optimized for one.
00:56:58.960 - 00:57:19.406, Speaker A: Kind of like, I guess you could call it social layer here, where a lot of bitcoiners share the same kind of views and beliefs. They want to go back to like a gold standard where, where it's bitcoin instead of gold. They, you know, they, they generally distrust, like, any kind of government or whatever. They. A lot of them bring up conspiracy theories. I see a lot too. A lot of them are like climate change deniers.
00:57:19.406 - 00:57:45.732, Speaker A: I mean, all this stuff. Not to get too political here, but there is a very specific set of, you know, people in bitcoin, maximalist, and they pretty, pretty much the same kind of people. There's not really much diversity there from what I've seen. Whereas, you know, because the ethereum network is so diverse, because there are so many different things you can do with it. If you don't like the monetary side of Ethereum, then you can go do stuff in Daos, right? If you don't care about DeFi, you can go do stuff with nfts. If you don't care about any of that, you can go do web3 stuff. You know, there's so many different things you can do.
00:57:45.732 - 00:58:15.370, Speaker A: So the plural plurality, plurality of the. I'm saying that wrong, but whatever you get. What I mean of the network lends itself to a kind of diverse set of minds and people. And also a lot of the problems within the ethereum ecosystem are just really interesting to work on. That's why you see the top researchers and top minds in this space coming into ethereum especially, you know, things like MeV attract very intelligent people because they want to solve these problems. They want to understand them, they want to kind of like, mitigate them. Whereas in bitcoin, you don't have this sort of stuff happening.
00:58:15.370 - 00:58:47.814, Speaker A: I mean, in bitcoin, like the most exciting thing that they had happening for a while, that they always talked about until the last year or so, was the lightning network. And for those of you who have been around for a while, you remember that pretty much all bitcoin has had the lightning emoji in their Twitter name, basically all of them. Now, I don't really see it anywhere. That's because lighting the lightning network failed completely, and it has failed to this day. And I believe that it is a dead end. I do not believe it's going anywhere. And, you know, I've been saying that for a long time, and so have a lot of ethereums and so have a lot of the smartest people in this ecosystem saying that it's just too complicated, it's not going to work.
00:58:47.814 - 00:59:19.704, Speaker A: And when you have a theorem as an alternative, it kind of like, you know, lends itself to that and kind of like, reinforces that. So on that point, I can move on to, like, the token price and markets. Now, markets work very differently, I think, to the social layer here where you can think about, I guess, like markets as a weighing machine. Like, it weighs the kind of opinions of people, the feelings, emotions, information that it's given, but it does this over time. It doesn't happen all at once. Yes, when bitcoin crashes, everything else crashes. That's just the way the market currently works today.
00:59:19.704 - 01:00:29.900, Speaker A: That's, I think, the way it's going to work for a very long time. But in saying that, I do believe that over the last few months, especially as the ETH BTC ratio has been going up, people have been selling BTC for ETH because they're either, like, you know, they don't want to hold BTC anymore for a number of reasons. I mean, BTC as an asset to me is, like, extremely boring. Why would you, why would you hold it when you can hold ETH and get like the same kind of stuff you can get out of BTC? People will argue against that and say, oh, well, bitcoin is more decentralized, blah, blah. I don't think that's necessarily true, but, and kind of like the way I view it as well, like the kind of like Ethereum network and ETH as an asset, it just has much more going for it. I mean, when you, when you kind of look at the narratives around it and the things coming to Ethereum that are driving value to ETH, like 1559 and the merge leading to what people memed as like the triple harvesting event where, you know, issuance is going to drop down dramatically and potentially go deflationary because of the mix of 1559 and the dramatically reduced kind of block rewards, you get this kind of narrative that's very powerful. And I think a lot of long term bitcoin is at least the rational ones, not the maximalists are definitely selling, or at least hedging and selling some of their bitcoin or all of their bitcoin for ETH.
01:00:29.900 - 01:01:15.296, Speaker A: And we see that play out in the markets because the ratio goes up. And obviously there's been more demand for ETH than bitcoin because of that ratio going up. But yeah, in saying that short term is always going to be for the foreseeable future, maybe I shouldn't say always, but for the foreseeable future over the short term, when bitcoin sells off, like, as hard as it does, the rest, the rest of the ecosystem will, it's just the way it works for a number of reasons. I mean, the markets in the short term are definitely ruled by speculators, especially those on leverage. And, you know, just, just traders in general and like arbitrage bots and things drag, drag everything down with it, whereas the long term, the market, you know, hopefully kind of like works itself out. But sometimes it doesn't. I mean, there's still things in the top ten that I thought would have been long gone by now.
01:01:15.296 - 01:01:43.064, Speaker A: Things like XRP, which I consider to be an actual scam. I mean, I can't believe XRP still, like, even I think it's in the top five or something like that. And then, you know, you have things like dogecoin and stuff. So the markets are definitely a whole different beast. But I do believe that over the long term, Ethereum will be number one. It will flip bitcoin, and I do believe it will go way beyond that. And I don't think that that pose like it poses a systemic risk that bitcoin is changing over to Ethereum or that they're signing their BTC for ETH.
01:01:43.064 - 01:02:13.596, Speaker A: I think that once they do that, all that happens is like, BTC goes down over the short, maybe to medium term, and the whole market maybe looks weak because it tracks BTC. But over the long term, ETH will bounce back stronger, is at least what I think will happen. You know, I don't know what's going to happen, but that's what I think is going to happen. ETH will bounce back stronger over time. And that's how you kind of get a flippening is that essentially, you know, less people are interested in buying BTC and holding BTC, more people are interested in holding ETH. And, you know, you have that kind of like a reweighting there. But it is not going to be pretty.
01:02:13.596 - 01:02:35.738, Speaker A: It's definitely going to be volatile because there's, you know, just the way the market works from a kind of market structure perspective. So yeah, maybe a long winded, winded answer there, but hopefully that answers your questions. That was a perfect answer, a beautiful answer. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you. Well, all right, I'll move on to the next question on my sheet here.
01:02:35.738 - 01:03:20.960, Speaker A: So this comes from Tiki Torcher, who asked about the ETH two x fly, or the flexible leveraged index from the index co op and why it was trading at a premium. So I should explain how this works, and then I can explain why it was trading at a premium, you know, I guess like about a week ago or something like that. So the way this product works is that it tracks, it's basically a two times leverage product for ETH. So, and it's backed by collateral, essentially. Now, there is the product that exists on set protocol, which is the infrastructure that backs it through index co op and this product. And this is basically a token called the ETH two X Fly token. Now, this token has what's called a net asset value, which is the value of the assets that are underlying the kind of product which is the collateral on set protocols.
01:03:20.960 - 01:03:58.946, Speaker A: So hopefully that's clear. But then you have like the secondary market price on Uniswap, for example. So people can either buy and sell the token on Uniswap, or they can mint the token directly from the set protocol smart contracts, or they can redeem the token for the collateral through the set protocol smart contracts. Now, because of the fact that you have these two separate markets here, or essentially these two separate kind of ways of getting exposure, you have two separate prices. So again, you have the net asset value and then you have the secondary market price. Those can diverge. Now, when those diverge what ends up happening is that there is arbitrage bots that go in and basically close that gap.
01:03:58.946 - 01:04:37.828, Speaker A: So if the net asset value gets ahead, sorry, if the, if the secondary market value gets ahead of the net asset value, well, then you'll have people minting more of minting more directly from the contracts and going and kind of like selling it into, into the markets here and kind of like making a profit from it. So that's kind of like what's meant by the premium. And there's a, there's a good article that discusses this on the index co op medium. You can, you can check that out. But what ended up happening last week was that the premium persisted for quite a while because the arbitrage loop couldn't be closed. And this was because there's actually a safety cap on the amount of fly that could be minted. So that was put in place, as I said, for safety reasons.
01:04:37.828 - 01:05:10.086, Speaker A: People, they didn't want people being able, or like the index co op didn't want, you know, the, the supplier fly getting too ahead of itself because it's a leveraged product. They wanted to roll it out safely. But, you know, ironically, that ended up kind of like handicapping the kind of token here on the product here, where the secondary market value was way higher. And no one could kind of close that arbitrage loop. And maybe another way to think about this is what's happened with the GBTC product from Grayscale. Some of you might have, may have seen that it's been trading at a discount for quite a while. That's because there's no functionality to redeem it.
01:05:10.086 - 01:05:35.560, Speaker A: You can't close that arbitrage loop. Um, I think you can, you can maybe. I think you can close it like once every year or something like that. There's like a period where they, they allow you to do that. Um, but like, normally you can't close it. So what ends up happening is that the GBTC price and the ETH e price, uh, the, any grayscale products price trades independently of the other markets. So, you know, GBTC traded, I think, like 15% discount to BTC.
01:05:35.560 - 01:06:00.908, Speaker A: So if BTC was like 40k, GPTC was like 15% less than that, and there was no way to close that loop, no one could arbitrage that. No one could make a profit from that. So it stayed like that until there was more demand for GBTC. That pushed it up. It didn't matter what BTC market was doing, it was all about the GBTC market. For the GBTC price, and there's a premium there as well sometimes. So maybe that's an easier way to kind of, I guess, think about that here.
01:06:00.908 - 01:06:36.444, Speaker A: But, yeah, that's. That's why you saw the premium persist on the fly. I think they raised the caps recently, and it's all good now. Um, but, yeah, I think, you know, if you had bought, uh, on market and then the, the caps are raised and you got kind of, like, I guess, arbitraged away here with the net asset value, you might have lost money here, which is unfortunate. But I think it just speaks to kind of like, you know, sometimes these things can be risky and you kind of really have to know what you're buying into, especially when it comes to these brand new, exotic products that, you know, have only been around for a short period of time. All right, I'll take the next question from the, from the audience here. Otherwise, I can go off my sheet.
01:06:41.804 - 01:07:12.120, Speaker C: Hey, Anthony, this is actually t torture. Thank you so much for that explanation. That was perfect. So, I have a question. So, first of all, I want to say thank you for what you do. I mean, your videos have, like, you and bankless combined. Both of you guys have, like, single handedly, I'll just say it, like, changed my life, literally, like, you know, I'm doing stablecoin farming, and I have all my eat positions, and I interact with pretty much every defi protocol, and so a lot of that credit goes to you.
01:07:12.120 - 01:07:44.326, Speaker C: So thanks for that. Starters, my question is, I've been doing all that I just mentioned for probably about, like, six months now. I'm pretty comfortable with it. I've learned a lot, interacted on polygon, a couple other networks, but, you know, as time goes on, you know, I'm still thirsty for knowledge, still learning. And, you know, there are. I want to hear your bull case for trading. I kind of know where you stand on it.
01:07:44.326 - 01:08:13.752, Speaker C: As far as you know, it's. It's extremely hard to do in general. You know, it's just holding ETH. You're going to outperform 90% of the people out there trying to do it. But at the same time, there are just, like, so many smart people on Twitter that are trading. And it reminds me of that Elon Musk meme from, like, a few months ago where it's like the medieval guy and he's walking in and girl bent over with her skirt up, and it's like bitcoin on her butt. That's how I feel about trading.
01:08:13.752 - 01:08:21.044, Speaker C: So I want to hear. I want to hear what your, your bull cases for it and then just kind of in general what your, what your perspective is of it.
01:08:21.664 - 01:08:30.838, Speaker A: For sure. For sure. Well, thank you for the kind words, by the way. I'm really glad that the content that I'm producing is having a profound effect on you. So. Really happy to hear that. But yeah.
01:08:30.838 - 01:08:56.710, Speaker A: My general thoughts on trading, I guess. Yeah, you probably already know that I'm not much of a trader myself. I'm definitely a longer term investor. I buy Ethan and tokens and I hold them for longer periods of time. I do that for two main reasons, actually. One, I am too emotional to be a trader because I have a very bullish bias on this entire ecosystem. I mean, obviously you can probably see that from everything that I do, I am always bullish no matter what's happening.
01:08:56.710 - 01:09:34.408, Speaker A: I mean, I was bullish when ETH was like $100. I was bullish when it was, you know, 4400. I'm bullish now. And that doesn't make a good trader because to be a good trader you have to separate that bias and those emotions to be able to make good trades. So that's why, that's kind of like the main reason I don't trade. And the second reason is where I am in Australia, it's not very favorable tax wise to trade because I have to make sure that I'm outperforming kind of like the taxes that I owe on a risk adjusted basis. So like is this worth it for the risk that I'm taking? And, you know, if I'm and kind of like making sure that I don't kind of like lose the money that I own, taxes and things like that by over trading and stuff.
01:09:34.408 - 01:10:15.296, Speaker A: So, so that, that's another reason there. But in generally, I think, yeah, just going back to what I said about being able to, I guess like separate your emotions from your trades is the key. And that's kind of like, I mean, I know some traders who are pretty good and I know a lot of bad traders, and the bad traders always have that common trait is that they're way, way, way too emotionally invested in a trade. They'll say, oh, you know, oh, I feel really good about this token because they've got this and this coming up and I spoke to this community member and I spoke to this founder or this team member and it's really cool. I love this project. It's like, well, I mean, are you an investor or are you a trader? Because that's what investors say. Investors buy things because they love the project, they love the team, they think the team's really great.
01:10:15.296 - 01:10:46.694, Speaker A: Traders trade based on a number of different things. But from what I've seen in my kind of, like, time in this space, a lot of them do not even pay attention to fundamental stuff. A lot of the time, what they'll pay attention to is, you know, either technical analysis or just the way the market's moving. Maybe sometimes they'll trade based on hype things. Like, sometimes some traders will trade based on, like, Elon Musk tweets, for example. Like, that was actually profitable to do when he was pumping doge and things like that during, like, the bullish, the more bullish market a few weeks ago. So there'll be those types, but they're kind of like the day traders.
01:10:46.694 - 01:11:12.640, Speaker A: They're definitely not kind of like sitting in discords talking to team members. You know, trading based on that, that's more of, like an investor thing. Um, so, you know, if you want to be a good trader, that would be the number one thing that I would say that you'd have to do is you'd have to make sure that you can separate your emotions from. From your trades. But in saying that, that's an extremely hard thing to do, because as humans, we have so many unconscious biases. It's not even funny. Like, you can look it up on Google and see how many unconscious biases we have.
01:11:12.640 - 01:11:24.886, Speaker A: It's. It's. It's insane. And you don't even realize you have them until you read about them and you're like, wow, I actually do this, and I didn't even realize I did it. And that plays a huge effect in trading as well. You have to be so disciplined. You have to be able to spot your kind of, like, bias.
01:11:24.886 - 01:11:36.430, Speaker A: You have to be able to spot your weaknesses and strengths, and you have to keep learning. It's like anything, really. It's a muscle. You have to keep kind of iterating on. You have to make sure that you don't get. Let bad trades get you down. You have to make sure that you don't over trade.
01:11:36.430 - 01:12:05.256, Speaker A: You have to make sure that you don't just, like, follow the crowd and trade based on what everyone else is doing and the best traders. And there was this quote that said that the really, the way to think about it is that the best traders are like snipers in a war. They sit and they watch for their kind of, like, pray, so to speak. Right. Whereas the worst traders are like the front soldiers or like the infantry, who basically just run in. You know, they might be you know, just. Just kind of people kind of conscripted into war off the street, and they're just going and running in.
01:12:05.256 - 01:12:30.400, Speaker A: They're just shooting everywhere. They don't know what they're doing, whereas the sniper is, like, trained. They sitting in the back. They're waiting for the perfect moment to strike and the perfect kind of opportunity to strike. That's a good trader. So you just got to kind of, like, I guess, you know, take all that together and just, you know, just go for it and make sure that over time, you note down what went right for different trades, what went wrong for different trades and things like that. Make sure you don't fall into traps and don't try to, like, chase pumps.
01:12:30.400 - 01:13:06.794, Speaker A: I think the worst thing that I've seen people do is they try to chase pumps where something will have gone up, like, 20% in a day, and they're like, wow, it's top 20% a day. I better get in now. Well, it's like, what do you mean you better get in now? It's already gone up 20%. Like, I know that's not a lot for crypto, but, you know, it can come down just as quick as quickly as that because it could just be, like, one or two whales trying to pump something up so that they can just kind of dump into, you know, some. Some new traders exit liquidity. And that happens a lot of the time, too. But if you want to, I guess, kind of, like, become, like, a really good trader and ignore a lot of the noise, I would also suggest probably not listening to a lot of the people on Twitter because they can post anything.
01:13:06.794 - 01:13:25.098, Speaker A: They can say anything. A lot of them are anonymous as well, so they can just be like, oh, I've made this trade and I made this much amount of money. Well, okay, show me, you know, you can say whatever you want. Like. Like, show me, um, in terms of, like, uh, I guess getting more education about trading. There are a few good YouTube channels. One that I watch kind of pretty regularly.
01:13:25.098 - 01:13:39.546, Speaker A: I don't. I don't consider him, like, a day trader, but he does kind of, like, take a technical view of the market. Uh, is, uh, into the crypto verse. He's big. He's got over 400,000 subscribers. So I'm sure a lot of you have heard of him. Benjamin Cohen is his name, and he runs into the crypto verse.
01:13:39.546 - 01:14:09.420, Speaker A: He does a lot of kind of macro analysis, but it really depends on what trader you want to be. You can be a day trader. You can be, like, a weekly trader. Or a monthly trader, or you can be like an investor trader, where you'll invest, but you'll trade back to something like ETH after it. You'll be like, okay, well, I think that I'm going to sit in this token for a bit. Say it's a defi token because Defi season is coming, and I believe Defi is going to outperform ETH based on blah, blah, blah. And then you can go back and trade that back into ETH because your goal was to stack more ETH using, you know, Defi tokens or something like that.
01:14:09.420 - 01:14:14.944, Speaker A: So hopefully that that answers your question, but there is a lot to it. And I guess I tried to give, like, a condensed answer there.
01:14:15.924 - 01:14:18.104, Speaker C: No, no, that was perfect. Thank you so much.
01:14:18.404 - 01:14:49.050, Speaker A: All good. All good. All right, so on to the next question from the sheet here. So from Dan PI 314, he asked, when charting comes out, could this result in many multiples of fee burning? Uh, what's your thoughts on that? Definitely. So the way to think about sharding is that when the blockchain gets sharded with ETH two, it basically turns, uh, I guess you could say, ethereum into a multi chain ecosystem where each shard is, is its own blockchain. So you have, like, you know, say ETH one is like a shard. Um, the current ETH one chain is like a shard.
01:14:49.050 - 01:15:38.074, Speaker A: Then you have, like, 63 other kind of, like, blockchains that are, you know, basically clones of that. And the reason why you shard a blockchain is so that you basically get more scalability without having to increase the load on full nodes and on the network because, and on validators. Because in proof of stake, the validators of the shards are kind of shuffled. So you're only ever validating kind of like one shard at a time. And then the beacon chain keeps track of this, but it reduces the load, and it's still secure because of that. And, you know, to answer the question about, like, will this result in more fee burning? I mean, yes, because eventually, like, you know, if there's enough demand there, these shards will fill up and there'll be, like, fees being paid on each of these shards. So if all of the 64 shards are, like, full or at capacity or whatever, they will, you know, it'll be 64 times the fee revenue, for example.
01:15:38.074 - 01:15:57.718, Speaker A: So that's a lot. And, I don't know, kind of like how it's going to all play out. It's definitely going to take, like, a lot more demand to fill up. 64, I think. But I think we're going to get there. But yeah, definitely it would result in more fees being burned because each shard would, would have like an implement. It'd be the same as like ETH one, for example, would have like fee burning in it.
01:15:57.718 - 01:16:26.170, Speaker A: So. So yeah, I hope that answers, answers that question there. Yeah. Next question from the audience, if anyone has one. Hello, Susanno Anthony. So about sharding, actually, I kind of read about Vitalik's article about that, but you need to have a lot of notes. That means not runners to secure the Ethereum chain, right? So kind of my question.
01:16:26.170 - 01:17:07.874, Speaker A: So kind of my question is that how to get them aboard actually how to recruit that many notes to be maybe more affordable for the common folks? Yeah, so I guess there's two different types here. You've got like the full nodes and then you have like the validators in proof of stake or the miners in proof of work. So to get people running full nodes, really it's kind of like an altruistic thing right now where there's no incentive to do so. You're not getting paid any kind of money. The incentive is being able to just validate the blockchain yourself and you can use your own full node as a transaction relayer instead of relying on a third party as well. So it's more secure that way. But there's no direct incentives for that.
01:17:07.874 - 01:18:00.346, Speaker A: Whereas as a validator or as a miner, your direct incentives are obviously the block rewards and the fee revenue from, from the network. So you're getting paid to do this. And, you know, Vitalik speaks about this a lot in terms of like making it as cheap as possible to not only run a full node, but also validate the network so that anyone can participate in this sort of stuff. So in terms of like keeping it low cost for a full node, this is why ethereum doesn't like, at least the base chain is not very scalable because the more you kind of like scale it, the kind of more capacity you give the base chain, the more load you put on full nodes and the more load you put on validators or miners to kind of verify the chain. So I can use a tangible example here of like two, two different spectrums. So you have like bitcoin on the very conservative spectrum where they're extremely limited in scalability. I think five transactions per second is the maximum there on layer one.
01:18:00.346 - 01:18:41.306, Speaker A: But it's very easy to run a bitcoin full node. You can run it on a hard drive. You can't actually run an ethereum full node on a hard drive these days, or at least it's very hard to do. You can run one on a solid state drive pretty easily. But yeah, bitcoin is very, very easy to run the full node because, I mean, bitcoin is very lightweight compared to Ethereum because it doesn't have a full virtual machine like Ethereum does. But then there's the other side of the spectrum, where you basically throw out all your kind of, I guess, goals of letting anyone run a full node, and you just say, who cares about that? Let's just blow out this whole thing and blow out this and kind of blow out the limits that Ethereum has on it to achieve the scalability. And this is what BSc has done where they essentially took away mining.
01:18:41.306 - 01:19:18.564, Speaker A: They took away kind of like staking. They created these 21 validator nodes, I guess, like these, these master nodes, as they used to be known as, but essentially 21 validators, all pretty much controlled by binance. And then they basically up the gas limit, which is essentially Ethereum's block limit, and they reduce block times as well. And that's how they achieve their scale. They essentially just centralized the chain, made it pretty much impossible for anyone to run their own full nodes, or at least very, very, very difficult for people to run their own full nodes. And you need higher end hardware to do so. So that's what Vitalik talks about in his blog post, is that you have these like two sides of the spectrum, and then you want to be somewhere kind of like in the middle.
01:19:18.564 - 01:20:14.954, Speaker A: You want people to be able to run a full node on consumer hardware, you know, just like a laptop or like a, you know, like a cheap laptop, like a $500 laptop or something like that. And you want people to be able to kind of like run validators on the same sort of thing here in proof of stake and mining is obviously very different because with mining, you have to buy specialized hardware, but with staking, you don't. You can just run it on a normal consumer pc. So that's kind of like, I guess, how it works within Ethereum and, you know, two sides of the other kind of like spectrum there. And that's why Ethereum on the, on the base layer isn't just like, you know, raising the gas limit to like really, really high, because it would essentially centralize the chain and it'd make it much harder for people to run a full node, and it would actually lead to instability of the chain because it would become harder for, for miners and stakers in the future to kind of verify it as well. So hopefully that answers your questions there. Yes, thank you very much.
01:20:14.954 - 01:20:48.984, Speaker A: Awesome. So next question here from the discord from Patrick. So this is actually a very interesting one and I'm excited to answer this one. What is your anti thesis for Ethereum? What needs to happen to sell your Ethereum bags and move on? I've never actually been asked this question before, or at least in this pointed way. Usually I'm asked the question of like, you know, what other ecosystems are you bullish on sort of thing. Not like what would happen, what would have to happen in Ethereum to make you bearish on it. So I think my simple answer is that the things that make me bullish on Ethereum would have to be invalidated.
01:20:48.984 - 01:21:32.096, Speaker A: So the things that make me bullish on Ethereum, number one, is that it is truly decentralized and it is not sacrificing its decentralization and security to achieve scale, which I just described how other chains do this and how Ethereum is kind of optimizing to not do this. Secondly, I would have to see like a mass exodus of developers and like the smart people in this ecosystem going somewhere else. That's definitely kind of like the second on my list there. Thirdly, I would have to see a max exodus of users as well. And like people. And like all the chain metrics that I follow, I would have to see them dropping off and I would have to see like network usage going back to basically zero. I would have to see, you know, people not launching new applications on, on ethereum, not, not using these new applications, I would have to see things just stagnating.
01:21:32.096 - 01:22:17.300, Speaker A: Uh, and on, on that, on a stagnating note, I would actually have to see the core protocol development stagnating as well here. Uh, and then I guess like fourthly, it would be the community. I would like the general community and the way the community is, if the community turned like really toxic, if we turned into like bitcoin maximalist for some reason, where it was just like super toxic all the time, we became very enclosed and we became very parasitic, sorry, very, very toxic to outside kind of people. And we didn't let anyone work with us anymore. And we basically said, ethereum is perfect, you know, it does everything we needed to do. Who cares about you guys? I would definitely, you know, reconsider my kind of like position in the ecosystem and definitely, you know, consider going somewhere else. But in saying all of that, I don't even know where I would go.
01:22:17.300 - 01:22:57.476, Speaker A: That's the thing. Like, if all these things happen for Ethereum. If Ethereum just like kind of died off because of all the things I mentioned, I don't know what other ecosystem I would go to. I definitely wouldn't go to bitcoin, that's for sure. But, you know, there's no other ones that I'm seeing today that have the same thing that Ethereum does, that have the same culture and the same values. All of them, literally all of them, are taking shortcuts to scale because they know that the only way in, the only chance in hell that they have of competing with Ethereum is if they can sell a narrative that they can scale. And then pretty much all of them started off in a very kind of grotesque way, which I actually think is the key here to a lot of this, is if your project starts off on the wrong foot, it's very hard to come back from that.
01:22:57.476 - 01:23:47.728, Speaker A: And what I mean by this is that if you launch a layer one blockchain, and most of the tokens are in the hands of VC's and it's a proof of stake blockchain, then all that's happened is you've basically given the VC's rights to forever validate the blockchain themselves and they basically control it. And a lot of these systems are distributed proof of stake as well, which means the people with the most kind of stake, essentially the early investors, are the ones validating the network. So, you know, that is kind of, very kind of, I guess, anti ethical to, I guess, like what Ethereum is trying to do, where it's trying to make as many people be able to validate the network as possible, and trying to get a really good distribution of ETH. Now people will say, okay, well, ETH was distributed in an ICO, it was pre mine, blah, blah. But the thing is, that was open to a lot of people. A lot of people were able to buy and, sorry, buy it from the ICO. Even us investors were able to do that.
01:23:47.728 - 01:24:12.888, Speaker A: And then over the last few years, Ethereum has been a proof of work network. So coins were distributed like that. And we've had multiple market cycles where people have sold and, you know, coins have gone from different people to different people, which has led to a pretty good distribution of ETH as a currency. I mean, even if you look at kind of like the Ethereum foundation, they only have 400,000 ETH. Vitalik only has about the same. I think that's nothing. That's like not even 1% of the supply.
01:24:12.888 - 01:24:54.762, Speaker A: So. And, you know, and the biggest investors I think Joe Lubin is probably still the biggest holder of Ethan and he probably only has like a couple million ETH left or something like that. You know, I think he had a lot more than that to begin with, but I think he only has about that much because he kind of like founded consensus. And then over time, the way he funded consensus was he sold off ETH to do so, kind of like distributing it into the market. And I think the reason why I talk about the token distribution a lot is that people don't want to be kind of like controlled by VC's or early investors. They don't want to be dumped on. They don't want to be kind of like beholden to these, you know, I guess like a plutocracy where it's like basically the, the people who got in the earliest have the most money now and they run it as if, like it's basically a cartel.
01:24:54.762 - 01:25:22.212, Speaker A: They don't want to be involved in that. And I've spoken to a lot of ethereums, a lot of the hardcore Etherians, that literally a big reason why they're in Ethereum is because it feels much more egalitarian, it feels much more equal. It feels like you actually have a shot here. And of course, in saying that, you know, staking in ETH two is very expensive now because it's 32 ethics minimum to stake on your own. But you know, the Ethereum community is always working on solutions to this. It is, in my opinion, not a death knell. You can stake in many number of providers right now.
01:25:22.212 - 01:26:00.000, Speaker A: And then in the future there'll be truly decentralized staking services like rocket pool and things like that. So from that perspective, I think it's, it's fine as well. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question about what would it need for me to kind of, kind of like, you know, go away from Ethereum? But then, as I said, what, what kind of, I guess, like, adds on to that is I just don't know where I would go. Like, I have absolutely no idea what other chain I would go to if I had to pick one. Like if I had a gun to my head and I had to pick one that at least shared some of the same values as Ethereum from what I've seen, maybe Cosmos, the rest of them, I don't really think so. I'm just thinking through my head right now. Polkadot no, because I just don't like the culture there at all.
01:26:00.000 - 01:26:34.524, Speaker A: It feels very, I don't know, it feels very culty and it feels very because they basically are a distributed proof of stake chain that launched with like massive VC backers. It definitely doesn't have the same culture as Ethereum. Not to say it's a bad project or anything, but I just doesn't really appeal to me. Cardano, I don't have to go into why I wouldn't go into that community and all the other ones. I mean, Solana, just to me, Solana is not even like a blockchain. It's more like an AWS with a token because it's so like centralized in my eyes. It just does not lend itself to decentralization at all.
01:26:34.524 - 01:27:21.220, Speaker A: But yeah, hopefully that answers. That answers your question there, Patrick. But yeah, I'll take another one from the audience here. If not, I can move on to the next one here from Lucas 5005. So he said, are there any project crypto projects that focus on fundraising for charity? And if so, how can one get involved? So there's a bunch of different crypto based charities out there right now. So there's one that Coinbase runs called give directly, I think, which is essentially giving crypto and kind of getting it into the hands of a bunch of different charities and distributing the value that way and the money that way. There's of course, things like Gitcoin, which I wouldn't consider a charity.
01:27:21.220 - 01:27:58.108, Speaker A: But Gitcoin is still a platform where people can donate to projects that kind of like, are open source and working kind of for free, uh, and funding them through that as well. Uh, there's a bunch of other drives out there I saw kind of recently, um, uh, Sundeep from Polygon was doing a drive for COVID relief in India. So there's that charity there. And in terms of getting involved with them, I assume I haven't tried any of this myself. I haven't done any of this myself, but I assume all you would need to do was basically go to, uh, their website or something and then there'll be a contact form or something there and say, hey, I want to get involved. Like, how can I do. So, um, with Gitcoin, it's very open.
01:27:58.108 - 01:29:09.642, Speaker A: You can go on the governance forum or at least the forums and kind of like, or in the Discord channel and just like say, hey, I want to help out. How can I, how can I help here? And there'll be someone to answer your question there as well. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question, uh, there, Lucas. Now I'll take one from the audience. Otherwise I'll keep moving down my list here. Um, how do I so, actually, I have a question in the MA series that I want to answer in advance. So, what you suggest for Ethereum to ease the mev problem in response to the recent Banners podcast, maybe like say, about the monster crypto experiment on that, that means that because based on the podcast, they said that basically minus, when they kind of like say, in order to be got more to the chain, because they have the rights to reorder transactions in the blocks, sort of that, then how can you feel can kind of ease this me problem or to make it.
01:29:09.642 - 01:29:53.134, Speaker A: Yeah. Less worse? Yeah, yeah. So I guess Mev is a big topic and has been for a little while now. And, yeah, I think if people want to learn more about Mev, you should definitely go listen to that bankless podcast that, that Rick was, was just talking about here. Um, but essentially, the way I think about Mev is the way I think about a lot of these other problems that people consider maybe systemic risks to blockchains or to a theorem in general, is that there are ways to mitigate it, but they're hard problems, and there are a lot of smart people working on this. I think with Mev, it's going to take a little while to get to a point where we want it to get to. And Justin Drake spoken a lot about this on the bankless platform podcast as well, where he basically said that there are a few different ways you can tackle MeV.
01:29:53.134 - 01:30:43.278, Speaker A: You can mitigate it at the kind of like application level, which is what something like flashbots does, where it essentially kind of like creates this service for people, for miners to kind of like tap into, and for MeV extractors to tap into, to access Mev and take the load off the main network. So essentially remove that negative externality on everyday users. Um, secondly, you can basically come up with a way to randomly order transactions, which is a lot harder. There are a few different solutions out there right now. I think Chainlink has one called fair sequencing. Um, but I'm not exactly sure that works, but you can google it and read on about that. Um, thirdly, I think there's a way that you can do this with zero knowledge proofs, where you can essentially make it so that you can have, uh, for example, a uniswap trade go through, but the actual blockchain, uh, doesn't know what, what that kind of transaction, uh, has in it.
01:30:43.278 - 01:31:27.886, Speaker A: So it's like completely private transaction, but the Uniswap protocol knows how to process it and knows how to fulfill that transaction. But no one else can see that your what your transaction is doing. And that means no one else can front run your sandwich, attack you or whatever. So that, I think, is what's going to be happening over, like, I guess like the next few years or next couple of years at least, is there's going to be a lot of mitigation tactics going into kind of mev and making sure that we can minimize it as much as possible and maybe eventually remove it. But I think the, from what I know, I'm not an expert on the topic, but from what I know, the, the holy grail is basically making it so that we can randomly. Sorry. That we can order transactions randomly, like truly random, not like randomness that can be gained, but like truly random.
01:31:27.886 - 01:32:12.090, Speaker A: That means that, you know, even though people can see the transactions, they can't front run them because it's all randomized. So even if they try to get their transaction in first, they won't be able to do so because they don't know what position their transaction is in the mempool. So. And yet even through flashbots, I don't think they'd be able to do that either, if, you know, the transactions were randomized, because the miner would still need to put their transaction into kind of like the public, public mempool here and it be randomized there. So. Yeah, but, yeah, I mean, I highly recommend people listening to that bankless podcast to get more details on this, though. Three guys that were on that podcast, I believe, or two guys that were there as guests, they definitely are experts on the topic and have a lot of knowledge and have been doing a lot of work on that for years now.
01:32:12.090 - 01:32:24.690, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but hopefully that answers your question here. Yes, it's free panelists. So, yeah, that's answer my question. Thank you. Awesome. All right, so next question from Hat Maserat.
01:32:24.690 - 01:32:51.978, Speaker A: I hope I said that correctly. They ask, is there still a need for Matic polygon when Ethereum 2.0 is finally here? So I think maybe the broader question is like, is there still a need for l two when ethereum two is here, or for like these other scaling solutions when ETH two is here? Yes. Yes, there is. ETH two alone is not going to solve all our scaling woes. And I, by ETH two, I mean like e two with sharding. What sharding does is it enhances L2.
01:32:51.978 - 01:33:33.618, Speaker A: It makes it so that we can get more scalability at L2. So what I would say is that ETH two, sharding and l two are symbiotic. They work off each other, they work to empower each other. And the reason they do this, and if I can put it in the simplest way, is that as I mentioned before and earlier in the, in the AMA, I said that sharding essentially splits up the blockchain into 64 different blockchains, because Ethereum will have to have 64 shards to begin with. And that may mean you have like 64 x the capacity of, instead of just like one x that you would get with just one chain. Now, because of this, you get 64 extra capacity for L2s as well. Because what L2s do and how they work is that they post their data to the ETH one chain.
01:33:33.618 - 01:34:08.488, Speaker A: So to like a shard, for example. So if they're posting to one shard, then they only get that shard scalability. And they're still limited by that. They're still limited by whatever that shard has, be it like 20 or 30 transactions per second, or whatever you want, whatever it is at the time. Whereas if you have 64, like more shards, then you have like 64 times, say 20 transactions per second, whatever that is, then you have like, you multiply that again for the amount of L2 scalability you can get out of that. So there's a really good research post from Vitalik called a roll up centric roadmap. If you google it, you'll be able to find it.
01:34:08.488 - 01:34:48.068, Speaker A: And that goes through essentially what ethereum two with sharding and L2 world looks like and why they're symbiotic and why they're complementary. So we will always need as many scaling solutions as possible that we can get, because there's not a one size fits all. There is no silver bullet scaling. It's a, it's a multi kind of yar rollout plan, maybe even multi decade, to get us to where we want to be, to service the entire planet, while also retaining the security and decentralization properties of Ethereum. So hopefully that answers your question there. And I'll take the next one from the audience or I'll keep moving down the list here. Cool.
01:34:48.068 - 01:35:47.598, Speaker A: All right, the next one from Howard here. So he says, any thoughts on Paki McCormick's concern that, that, and it's got in quotes here, maybe 100 transactions happen on l two, and the whole group shows up on l one as one transaction. That would decrease transaction fees by 100 x, end quote. So I think what this is talking about is how, like when you're on l two, you can do potentially thousands of transactions and only one transaction gets posted to the l one ethereum which is called the proof or the kind of like transaction proof or a roll up, as it's, it's called as a lot of you will know it by now, this is true. But the way to think about what's true is that like it reduces fees, obviously. But the way to think about the l one to l two dynamic is that if let's take a little bit of a, kind of like step back here and look into history, a little bit of how the ethereum blockchain has been treated over time. When you have like a blockchain that is I guess like generalized, it means that anything can be built on any transactions you can do.
01:35:47.598 - 01:36:44.644, Speaker A: You, you kind of like can do will be done on it. Then what ends up happening is that the low value transactions, the one that are the ones that are less profitable, will get pushed out by the higher value transactions. So for example, trading nfts like low, low cost nfts is low value because no one cares about trading one to two dollar nfts on l one because it's not going to make them as much profit as doing something else, such as like arbitraging between decentralized exchange pools or doing liquidations or doing yield farming or anything like that, that's more profitable. So those transactions essentially push out those other ones. Then what ends up happening later is that more, more higher value transactions push out those ones. And then you just keep having this kind of like evolution of transactions over time. And eventually you get to a point where only the highest value transactions, the ones that are the most profitable, the ones that people don't mind paying dollar 5100 fees for, are the ones left in the network and the ones the network is servicing.
01:36:44.644 - 01:37:50.320, Speaker A: And we've seen this play out on ethereum already where when the gas, the gas prices were at 100 plus way for quite a while because of the bull market, because it was just worth it for people to spend this money because their transaction was going to make them more money than what they were spending in gas fees. So to take this back to how l two s play into this, well, what do you think l two transactions are going to be? They're going to be the highest value transactions for the network because all the value in those thousands of transactions that they're putting on the ethereum network in one transaction has a lot of like a ton of value in it, right? More value than the, even the l one transactions have that are paying $50 to $100 fees. So that is the end state. The end state is essentially l one ethereum becomes a security chain for l two because l two s are the only ones that the l two operators essentially are the only ones willing to pay the really high fees because it's worth it to them and it's, and they've pushed out all the other transactions from l one. So that's kind of how it works. And in saying that, that means that l one fees are never going to be cheap. Like, and by cheap I mean they're never going to be in the like ten cent range again or like even under a dollar.
01:37:50.320 - 01:38:25.334, Speaker A: Um, I, I don't even at these like low gas prices now, I actually think that right now is the cheapest we're going to see gas for quite a while because right now is a holiday weekend in the US. So activities down the market is range bound. So people aren't really trading it because there's no momentum in either direction right now. So people don't, you know, scared to trade. No one wants to take leverage right now because people aren't trading. And because the market's generally rage bound, there's less arbitrage, arbitrage transactions to do because there's less volatility. So I actually think right now over this weekend will probably be the cheapest we see gas for quite a while, unless something changes on Ethereum, like we raised the gas limit again.
01:38:25.334 - 01:39:39.616, Speaker A: But if, you know, all else being equal, that's kind of like what I view it right now, but just over time, like I just, I just see it just keep, it just keeps going up like, and it reaches a point where it basically prices out every, every transaction, every user except l two s. And that's why we have the l two s, because most users will just sit on L2 experience like Ethereum as they know and love, but without the high transaction costs and with much faster kind of like transactions too, because you don't have to wait one Ethereum block, you can basically do near instant transactions there. So hopefully that answers the question of like, I guess, is this bearish that we have l two s that are going to take load off the network? No, I think it's actually incredibly bullish because it means we get to a point where we know who's going to be paying these transactions and these, sorry, who's going to be doing these transactions, who's going to be paying these fees. And it's basically not the end users now that have to suffer this pain of it. It's the infrastructure providers, the ones who are making the Altus, that are essentially making a profit from this and then paying it as part of their running costs, essentially. So hopefully that answers, I guess, that question, but also gives some context around how ethereum is going to work in terms of scaling and how the fees on l one will never be cheap again, in my view. And they're not optimized to be cheap.
01:39:39.616 - 01:39:58.164, Speaker A: They're optimized for the most high value transactions, of which l two s are eventually going to be the only kind of, you know, high value transactions that l one can process. One, I'll take one from the audience, unless I'll move on to the next one here. I've got just a few more questions left to here, but coming up on almost.
01:39:58.614 - 01:39:59.702, Speaker B: Yeah, I have a question.
01:39:59.798 - 01:40:00.382, Speaker A: Yeah, go for it.
01:40:00.398 - 01:40:12.994, Speaker B: Oh, perfect. How much power do you think Vitaly has over the Ethereum network? And what would happen if Vitaly at one point decides to back down from the project?
01:40:13.894 - 01:40:53.882, Speaker A: So I think he doesn't really have much power anymore. I don't know how much attention you pay to the core dev calls or how much attention you pay to just Ethereum core development in general. Um, he has, he still is still very active. He's still definitely very important for, especially the ETH to effort. He spends a lot of time there. He's obviously writes a lot, still writes a lot of research posts, a lot of blog posts and things like that. But I do think at this point in Ethereum's life, if Vitalik was to get hit by a bus, right, the, the classic thing people talk about, like, how high is your bus factor? Like, if it's a bus factor of one, that means that if one person in your kind of like, organizational effort was hit by a bus, then everything would fall apart.
01:40:53.882 - 01:41:23.858, Speaker A: I think with Vitalik right now, if he was hit by a bus, Ethereum would go on, it would be a great loss because we would lose all that kind of brainpower. But at the same time, the Ethereum network is extremely decentralized. There are multiple groups working on it. There are multiple core developer teams working on it. There are a lot of core devs these days, and there are a lot of people, the core researchers as well. And I just think that even Vitalik couldn't get anything into the network if he wanted it to go in either. Hey, we should do this.
01:41:23.858 - 01:41:58.704, Speaker A: You know, we should basically put this upgrade into Ethereum. And people are like, well, no, this is a stupid upgrade. Like maybe he says, hey, we should print 10 million ETH and give it to my address. Like, no one would agree with that. And he has no centralized power to be able to put that change into the network because he would have to convince everyone, essentially the nodes, the core developers, the exchanges, everyone, to kind of like go on board with this. So from that perspective, I think Vitalik plays a very important role within the ecosystem, but he is definitely not a central point of failure. Maybe he once was in the earlier days, but these days he's definitely not.
01:42:01.484 - 01:42:02.424, Speaker B: Thank you.
01:42:03.124 - 01:42:33.240, Speaker A: Awesome. So on to the next question here from Matthew T. So for someone new who is stacking, Ethan has a lot of it. What do you recommend doing with it? Running a validator, staking in a pool, cold storage or other. So this is the beauty of ETH, right? There's so much you can do with it, and I think it just depends on your risk appetite. So, like, obviously, how much risk are you happy taking now? I think the lowest risk thing you can do with your ETH right now is just having it in cold storage. Right? But other than that, the lowest risk productive thing you can do with your ETH right now is putting it into staking.
01:42:33.240 - 01:43:13.440, Speaker A: And I mean like solo staking, not staking through a pool, because a lot of the pools, or pretty much all of them are pretty centralized, but I mean solo staking. So if you have 32 ETH, you can set yourself up a validator on your computer, you just run it, and as long as you don't misbehave or go offline for extended periods of time, you're going to be profitable. But in saying that you'll be earning like 7% and that'll be going down over time right now, because you know the risk is lower and it's not paying as much. So that's one thing you can do, and that's the least riskiest productive thing you can do. Secondly, there's a ton of opportunities within Defi. You can basically use your ethos collateral to borrow stable coins and go and yield farm with it. A lot of risk there.
01:43:13.440 - 01:43:43.670, Speaker A: You have risk of being liquidated. You have a liquidity risk of not being able to pay back your stable coins because you can't get access to them. You have a smart contract risk all over the place depending on what you're doing. And yeah, just generally there's a lot more risk with doing that, but the rewards are more lucrative. You can sometimes, I mean, during like a more bullish markets, you can get 30% to 40% on your stable coins very, very nicely. I mean, even today, I think you can still get close to that in Alchemyx right now. But again, risky because smart contract risk and liquidation risk and all that sort of stuff.
01:43:43.670 - 01:44:14.608, Speaker A: Because you're using your ethers collateral to borrow stable coins against other things you can do is put them into liquidity pools on amms like uniswap. But you're exposing yourself to impermanent loss. If you do like an ETH USDC pool, you may be able to make a lot on fees if you're doing like a uniswap V three concentrated kind of liquidity position. But again, you're risking impermanent loss. You're risking the market moving, you know, away from you. And it kind of like, kind of like expediting that impermanent loss as well there. And.
01:44:14.608 - 01:44:57.746, Speaker A: And I guess, like lastly, there's much more you can do, but I just going over a few use cases here, there's. There's liquidity providing into the ETH Steth pool on curve, which is quite lucrative right now, where Stef is staked ether from Lido. And it basically tracks like the price of, I guess, like Ethereum with kind of like, sorry, the same price as ether. But the way that it distributes staking rewards is that it inflates itself. But if you put your Ethan St and paid with Steve in the curve pool, you can get rewards in the form of LDO tokens and CFE tokens and like APy from that as well from the trading fee. So yeah, there's. There's just so many things you can do with your ETH, but it just depends on your risk appetite.
01:44:57.746 - 01:45:27.660, Speaker A: And if you're. If you're risk averse, I would suggest staking if you want to generate a yield. That's what, like, I mean, it depends on what. What kind of stage you're in in terms. In terms of like, your, I guess like investing career or things like that. We were talking about this, um, in the, in the Discord channels the other day about how like, for me personally, I'm more in capital preservation mode these days where, um, you know, I bought a lot of ETH early on and I want to be productive, but I don't want to be doing like a lot of dj and stuff with it. I don't want to be like risking it on any kind of like, um, you know, by borrowing.
01:45:27.660 - 01:45:58.328, Speaker A: I do borrow against it sometimes, but not like, I guess, like I've been winding down those farms and going into. Into staking more. So I've kind of like switched from. From that into staking. So a lot of my ETH is definitely going into ETH to, to stake, still keep some of it, to do other things with it on Ethereum. But you know, everyone's individual situation is different. You have to, you know, come to terms, I guess, like you have to consider how much risk you're happy taking on and kind of like how much, how much you want to, how much capital you want to risk as well because you don't have to put all of it in it to one farm.
01:45:58.328 - 01:46:31.284, Speaker A: You can spread it out across different farms, but you kind of like, I think, have to consider risk the most here. So hopefully that answers your question. Matthew T. If you're listening to this, and I'll take another one from the audience, if someone has one. All right, next one from the sheet then. This one's from RPkt 13. So they are basically saying they're recently feeling some distortion between the chainlink and ethereum communities while they think that they are both supposed to work together.
01:46:31.284 - 01:47:14.138, Speaker A: He gave some examples here of Vitalik proposing uni as an oracle to replace Chainlink, some ETH Maxis questioning the use of chainlink, et cetera. What is your view on ETH and link within the ecosystem? I think that they're extremely symbiotic right now and extremely complementary. I mean Chainlink powers a lot of the ethereum ecosystem. Chainlink powers like rv and synthetix and a bunch of other kind of projects out there with oracles. So, and from what I've seen, the only blowback or pushback, sorry, I should say that I see from, if you want to call them ETH Max is around the token. They think that, well you know, the link token doesn't do anything right now, so why does it exist? You should just use ETH. And I don't really have an opinion on that, but I think that's a lot of, a lot of what you see.
01:47:14.138 - 01:47:51.870, Speaker A: I don't think people have a problem with Chainlink itself. I think some people may, may think that it's a, it's a subpar solution and that it's just like basically a centralized oracle. But you know, the oracle problem is very hard to, to kind of I guess, solve, and I don't think you can solve the oracle problem. I think you can just kind of keep improving it, keep making it, making oracles better, keep making them more resistant to attacks and things like that. So in saying that, I haven't noticed the kind of schism myself in the communities. All I've really noticed is over the token, I think, and I think, you know, the chain link community, I love them on Twitter. I love all the frogs and everything in the memes, but I think some people get turned off by that as well.
01:47:51.870 - 01:48:22.014, Speaker A: And they see the, like, all of that and they're like, oh, wow, this community's fake or whatever. And that's just, you know, people's opinions on things. I don't think it's targeted at the chain link product itself. I think people understand that Chainlink serves a very important purpose and a very important role in the Ethereum ecosystem. I just think that, yeah, some people can get turned off by the community and turned off by, I guess, like the token as well. So, yeah, hopefully that kind of answers your question about kind of like Chainlink and Ethereum and the relationship there. Right.
01:48:22.014 - 01:48:55.266, Speaker A: Moving on to the next one from the sheet. Unless someone had one in the audience. Hey, Anthony, I have a question. Yeah, go for it. I was wondering if there was another use case or application for Ethereum that will garner as much public inflow as NFTs. Yeah, so it's funny because NFTs actually, I think, caught a lot of people off guard and even myself, I didn't think it would get as big as it did. And I think maybe we can start from, like, why NFTs got so popular so quickly.
01:48:55.266 - 01:49:33.018, Speaker A: I think it's because it basically tapped into a community that, that ethereum hadn't tapped into before. Right. That blockchains generally hadn't tapped into before. And that was the creative, artistic, you know, gaming communities, they're huge, right? There's millions, billions of, at this point in time, there's probably billions of people that identify as part of those communities, whether they're artists or they're collectors or they're gamers, you know, at least the hundreds of millions of gamers out there these days, like people who actively play video games. And, you know, that includes everything from, from mobile games to, to desktop pc games to console games, whatever. And artists. I mean, art has been around for so long, and even if you're not an artist, you enjoy art collectors.
01:49:33.018 - 01:50:11.706, Speaker A: I mean, like, a lot of people collect things. I mean, I collect things you can see around me. So that, that in itself, I think, is the reason why NFTs got so big is because the total addressable market was so, so huge. And I often say that the total adjustable market of DeFi is also huge. But I think that DeFi is different in that finance touches everyone's lives. But for most of, for most people, I think for 99% of people, they don't actually do their financial activities on their own, they delegate that to someone else, whether that be a bank or a financial advisor or whatever. You know, I never touched any of my bank's financial services, and I still haven't touched them.
01:50:11.706 - 01:50:45.358, Speaker A: I haven't bought any stocks through them. I haven't kind of, like, I don't think I've even taken a loan from a bank before or anything like that. But in DeFi, I'm doing all of that and more. So I think that's why DeFi hasn't taken off, like, nearly as fast and as we would like it, even though we know that the kind of, like, addressable market is. Is huge. But with nfTs, I think it's just a much simpler thing as well, where people can come in, they can be like, wow, okay, I'm used to buying digital items these days because of video games, or I'm used to buying digital collectibles because of, you know, these. These kind of other things that I do, whether that be video games or, like, you know, there's.
01:50:45.358 - 01:51:29.470, Speaker A: There's tons of digital collectibles out there these days and stuff like that. So, um, when. I think when people saw that, they were just a craze around it, there was just, like, a mini bull market similar to what we had, like, with icos in 2017, where there was a lot of, like, opportunistic stuff and a lot of, like, crap out there. But, you know, people just came into the ecosystem because they either saw that it was money to be made or they were, like, just enthralled by this, I guess, like, new idea of essentially digital ownership. And the funny thing is, is that digital ownership, like, true digital ownership, where something can't be copied and it's unique, has existed since bitcoin was around. Right? Because bitcoin technically is, you know, a collectible, right? It's just a fungible one where no one can print more bitcoins or anything like that. No one can print more ETH.
01:51:29.470 - 01:52:10.956, Speaker A: It just. It's relegated by code or, sorry, regulated by code. Same thing with NFTs where, you know, you issue an NFT, and if it's a one of one, no one can copy it or print another one or do whatever. There's no copy paste. So I think that's what got a lot of people's attention. Um, but in, you know, I guess, like, uh, to your actual question here, I hope, hopefully that gave some background, I think, because I wanted to give the background before I answered the question. But the question, I think, is very hard to answer because of that, because there's a lot of things right now within Ethereum that I think are really big and can be really big, but I don't really know of anything that can actually garner as much attention as nfts did as quickly, because there's just, like, there's a lot of industries out there.
01:52:10.956 - 01:52:47.184, Speaker A: There's a lot of people who, who kind of, like, will use a lot of these apps, but maybe they don't know about them, right? Maybe they, maybe they don't know that they want them. Maybe people don't know that, that they can, that they want to manage their own financial server kind of like life, maybe, you know? And I think that when you talk about finance, a lot of people, they kind of gloss over it because finances has been traditionally very boring. So from that perspective, I actually think that defies bigger than nfts, but I think it's just the way it's framed, because nfts are fun collectibles, you know, shiny pictures everywhere. Shiny images everywhere. Gaming, whatever. Like, that's fun. Whereas, you know, financial products are boring.
01:52:47.184 - 01:53:29.512, Speaker A: Traditionally boring. Like in Defi, it's not boring, but traditionally, they are boring. And in things like Daos, for example, is another big use case. People think that dows are boring as well because they're like, oh, you know, what's a dao? It's like, okay, you can coordinate humans, like a company or whatever. Who cares about that? But then when you frame daos as something else, you can frame them as, like, guilds from, like, a video game, for example, because daos do represent kind of, like guilds and that, and people relate to that and they're like, okay, I know what a guild is. You know, I was part of a guild in this online game that I played, or you can say, like a party or something, or, like a group of people doing, you know, working towards a common goal, then people start to relate to it more. So I think it's a mixture of, like, we need better marketing for some of these things that we use, cases that we already have.
01:53:29.512 - 01:54:15.992, Speaker A: If we want to get that mass adoption out there, we need to gamify a lot of this stuff and, and to make it more flashy for people at the end of the day, because, yeah, as I said, like, finance is very boring traditionally, and people just don't know that. There is now this entire financial system with Defi and this kind of, like, entire new ways of coordinating humans with Daos. And even, like, this entire new kind of thing happening with web3, where people just don't know how exciting it can be because they just, it just hasn't been marketed correctly to them. Where I think NFTs were just very easy to market because you had a lot of artists coming on board that was showing off their art and being like, hey, you could purchase my art. You can actually own a digital copy of my art and it's yours. Right? There's no one, no one can kind of, kind of like, copy it. But I also think a speculative mania played a big part in it, too.
01:54:15.992 - 01:54:39.914, Speaker A: So there's, there's kind of like the two main things. It's like it has to be a really flashy use case that appeals to a lot of people and it also has to have, like, a speculative side to it, too. Because at the end of the day, I think all humans love to gamble in one way or another or love to speculate in one way or another. Um, it's not a bad thing, but if you tap into that, that's when you get the real kind of, I guess, like, usage and growth that you might want to see from a new use case. So hopefully that answers your, your question.
01:54:41.894 - 01:54:42.294, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:54:42.334 - 01:54:50.806, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Awesome. Awesome. So there's a few more here. I think I'm going to wrap it up soon. We're getting up to 01:00 a.m. My time here, so I'm going to just answer these quickly.
01:54:50.806 - 01:55:18.952, Speaker A: I think there's four more that I've got here. Maybe there's some more in the actual channel here. Yeah, there is, but if I don't get to those, I'll definitely answer them in the next one. But from my sheet here, I've got one from knowledge fight. Who says which people on twitter, YouTube discord do you follow to challenge your thoughts? So that is not only an ETH echo chamber of sorts. So this is a funny one. I actually don't follow many people who are outside of the ethereum ecosystem, and that's not because of, I've tried not to follow them or anything like that.
01:55:18.952 - 01:55:50.510, Speaker A: That's just because I'm just more interested in paying attention to what's happening in ethereum, but to stay out of echo chambers generally, I would. The way I kind of approach it is that I use multiple different kind of news sources in general. I don't just kind of go on Twitter and just take what Twitter says at face value. I don't just look at a tweet and be like, okay, well, you know, this person's tweeting about this. This is the truth. If I see something and I'm like, okay, well, that, that sounds like it could be right, but it sounds like it could be wrong as well. I go and ask someone like that I know, like a friend or something.
01:55:50.510 - 01:55:59.308, Speaker A: I go and ask a group of people. I'll go do some more research. I'll google about it. I'll look at, like, different websites. I'll go into different Discord channels. I'll go onto YouTube. I'll watch videos about it.
01:55:59.308 - 01:56:50.578, Speaker A: And I think that just applies generally to anything in life. And anything you read online is that there's a lot of stuff on Twitter that gets, especially Twitter, like, where nuance gets lost. You actually don't know, kind of like, where the truth is because people just put something out and put a simple tweet out because you only got 280 characters. And, you know, if you do a tweet thread, you still have a lot of nuance that gets lost there as well. So for me, I just read something, and then if it sounds too good to be true, if it sounds wrong, if it sounds, you know, if it sounds like something that is, is part of, like, there might be, like, uh, I mean, not too good to be true, but might be like, while someone's framing something as it's better than what it is, um, so to speak, uh, then I go and kind of, like, challenge myself outside of that. So I just, I personally, I don't really believe in following different people on Twitter or, like, I mean, Twitter specifically, because I know a lot of people spend a lot of time on there. I do.
01:56:50.578 - 01:57:29.602, Speaker A: I don't believe in following, like, you know, bitcoin maximalists. And if you're a maximalist at the same time, because it's just so much noise. Because what ends up happening is you get a lot of crap from one community, a lot of crap from the other community, and then you have to, like, weed through even more crap. Whereas if you can optimize your feed to have essentially, like, lots of smart people tweeting a lot of smart things with, like, some shitposting in between, I mean, I know I shitpost a lot. You can kind of use that as sources of, like, alpha and sources of knowledge and then go challenge it elsewhere. Because if you just, like, have a bombardment of you on your Twitter feed of, like, all these two varied opinions, I don't think that's very, very healthy there. So hopefully that answers your, your question.
01:57:29.602 - 01:58:01.336, Speaker A: Their knowledge fight. I'll take one from the audience or else I'll go on to the next one here. I've got three more on my sheet here. All right, onto another one for my sheet here from Ranta. I think it is. What do you think would happen if several major governments would entirely ban crypto? I think I answered this on the last AMA series, so I won't, I won't go too in depth here, but I think the answer that I gave last time is that the TRDR is that governments aren't like a coherent force. Like, it's not like all the world's governments work together and work in some secret illuminati.
01:58:01.336 - 01:58:34.960, Speaker A: I mean, maybe some people believe that, but I don't believe that. I think that they all, like, mostly work independently. They do have, you know, alliances and common goals and things like that. But I think that if one country bans crypto, there's just another country's opportunity to embrace crypto. And eventually you're going to see, like, people migrate from the countries that don't embrace crypto to the ones that do, and then that country just loses economic activity. And I think that crypto, as a revolution is as big as the Internet. So banning crypto is essentially shooting your country in the foot, I think, and, and basically ejecting a huge amount of potential GDP out of your economy to another one.
01:58:34.960 - 01:59:01.556, Speaker A: So I think banning crypto is just not going to happen in most countries. I think the fact that the US is, is regulating crypto is extremely bullish, actually, because you don't regulate something that you plan to ban. Um, and, you know, regulations. I'm. I'm not really a big fan of regulations in general, but it's, it's better that they regulate this, uh, because it just sends a signal to everyone that they're not going to outright ban it. And it's not just the US. It's like, pretty much, you know, most nations out there, I know we saw recently the crackdown with China, and, you know, it's.
01:59:01.556 - 01:59:47.174, Speaker A: It's very hard to get accurate information out of China because of the code, cultural and language barriers. But generally in China, you'll see, you know, they. I think from what I saw, it was basically they banned coal mining and they cracked down on leverage trading, but it wasn't like an outright ban. So you'll see some of these things happen to where some things will get banned. Like, I think leverage trading is on borrowed time. To be honest, I don't think leverage trading on, on most exchanges is going to exist in the future because, not that I like regulations, as I said, but I just do not think that people should be able to get 100 x leverage on day one of signing up to binance or something like that. A new trader, new retail trader basically being advertised, hey, you can get 100 x leverage with your, you know, the small amount of capital that you've put in.
01:59:47.174 - 02:00:20.874, Speaker A: You mean you can compound your gains and, you know, most people are going to lose that. And that's why we see such a volatility in the crypto markets because of these leverage. So I think long term, that's one thing that will definitely get very, very regulated. And it's already very regulated in the traditional system. And, you know, Defi will still be able to give you leverage. It's pretty much impossible to regulate deFi, but decentralized exchanges, I think, will get neutered in terms of leverage offerings there, which would actually be kind of bullish, I think, because I would rather the market not be just like 90% leverage, 10% spot kind of trading. I would rather it be the other way around.
02:00:20.874 - 02:00:42.276, Speaker A: But, yeah, we'll see how that depends out there. But yeah, I'll keep moving through the list here. Do interrupt me if you want to ask a question. I've got two more on my list, one here from snack daddy, who says, do you think there's a chance for ETH to lower staking requirements in the future? I don't think so. I think the staking. In terms. I think so this.
02:00:42.276 - 02:01:12.472, Speaker A: There's two kind of staking requirements here. There's the 32 ETH, and then there's the hardware requirements. I think what snack daddy is asking is the 32 eigth requirement. I think, you know, maybe technically it could be lowered in the future, but the minimum ETH requirement is actually based on the minimum validator. No, sorry, the maximum validator set that they want. So for every 32 ETH is equal to one validator. So that what the core researchers and protocol designers don't want there to be, you know, too many kind of like, validators at one time.
02:01:12.472 - 02:02:02.828, Speaker A: Because what ends up happening is the chain can become unstable, because if you have too many validators, say there's like millions and millions of them, they can't all talk to each other fast enough because they're spread over the globe, and it leads to what's called, like an influx of uncle blocks, or like, Oma blocks, as they sometimes referred to. So that's a bit more technical. But I do think that there's actually, actually, now that I think of it, there's actually a proposal to do a soft cap on the amount of ETH that can be staked at any given time where it's essentially 30 million ish or 32 million ETH can be staked and then it rotates through the validators. If there's more ETH staked than that, so say there's like 60 million ETH staked. Well, if the soft limit is say 30 million, then there will only be 30 million ETH or 30 million worth of validators. So half the validators active at any given time. So that gets around that problem of instability here.
02:02:02.828 - 02:02:39.960, Speaker A: So then potentially the, I guess like the staking requirement could be lowered. And, you know, if ETH goes to like some ridiculous value in the future, maybe it's worth it to do that, because then the barrier to entry. So to buy that 32 ETH to stake on your own just gets so, so big. But we'll have to see how decentralized staking pools kind of shake out as well if like, if they're truly decentralized and they can work very well. I think that that solves a lot of these issues too, where you can stake with like a little bit amount of ETH and still kind of do staking on your own. So hopefully that answers your question here. I'll move on to the last one from my sheet from MK Cole here.
02:02:39.960 - 02:03:16.956, Speaker A: Who said, could east survive on a fees only security model for stakers completely moving the per block issuance? No, no, I don't think so. Because, so there's two aspects to this. I think the way Ethereum is monetary policy is being designed is that it's a pretty beautiful and elegant mechanism. I think where post 1559 being implemented, post the merge happening, we have perpetual block rewards going to stakers. So anywhere from 0.5% to 1%, perpetual block rewards going to stakers. And then we have most of the fee revenue being burned, which basically takes the value and puts it back into ETH, the asset.
02:03:16.956 - 02:04:13.302, Speaker A: And then, you know, if we have, if there's enough fee revenue, ETH can go deflationary. And that means that it doesn't matter that we're paying out 1% extra each year to validators, to kind of stake here in, you know, some people call it inflation. It's technically issuance or new issuance, but yeah, so that's kind of like how the eats monetary policy has been designed. And the reason why it couldn't survive on a fee only model is there's been research put out. There's a research paper on this that shows that a fee only model, especially for expressive programmable blockchains like Ethereum actually leads to an unstable chain because what ends up happening is that MeV gets absolutely ludicrous and things that miners can do or stakers can do to extract as many much fees and MeV as possible gets really, really ridiculous. So that's another reason why ETH can't just survive on fees. And also by surviving on just fees, what ends up happening is that you basically have to rely on fees being really, really, really high all the time.
02:04:13.302 - 02:04:39.962, Speaker A: Now, maybe that can work for a blockchain like Ethereum because of the fact I just mentioned that just before where I said that l two s will eventually pay like really high fees to l one and we'll have like high fee revenue. But, you know, I don't think it can work for, for something like bitcoin. And this is why I'm actually bearish on bitcoin long term, which, where they don't have like a perpetual issuance model, they have essentially have to rely on fees. Well, bitcoin fees have been trending down. They're not going up. They're pretty much stagnated. Because the only thing you can do on bitcoin is transfer BTC.
02:04:39.962 - 02:04:57.852, Speaker A: You can't do smart contracts or anything like that. So the amount of fee revenue it generates is capped at the, at the most that people are willing to pay to move bitcoin around. So that's kind of like how I, how I view that. So hopefully that answers your, your question. MK Cole. Um, that's the last one from my sheet here. I'm going to have a quick look in the Discord channel for some last minute questions.
02:04:57.852 - 02:05:01.164, Speaker A: Feel free anyone to ask questions while I'm looking in there as well.
02:05:02.104 - 02:05:27.534, Speaker B: I have one question. So bitcoin becoming deflationary, ethereum also becoming deflationary. People have no interest in trading them from everyday objects. So do you think there would be a coin that can become like trading in every day that isn't paired with the dollar or any other coin from a country?
02:05:28.794 - 02:06:21.180, Speaker A: So the way I view kind of like ETH and BTC, I don't view them as, as currency or money. I view them as programmable collateral asset, so, or programmable kind of like store of value asset because of the deflationary properties. And I don't think they were ever created to be a currency. So the way I think about it is there are a lot of different things we can do on the application layer that sits above. Kind of like ETH, such as Dai, such as all these other kind of stable coins out there, like Faye and things like that, or things like rye, which is basically not technically a stable coin, but it uses ETH as collateral and is stable to itself. So I think we can get to a point where we can use ETH as, like, the collateral for a stable currency system, and then people will use that as. As money on these systems rather than using the underlying asset that is deflationary, that is extremely volatile.
02:06:21.180 - 02:07:01.088, Speaker A: Even if ETH wasn't deflationary, it would still be very volatile. You know, even if ETH was 1% inflate in, you know, 1% perpetual issuance without fee burning forever, I don't think it would ever get to a point where it's. It's, you know, stable enough to function as, like, a currency. I think it's been. It's kind of like not being programmed to, but it's. It's fallen into comfortably, I believe, into the collateral slash store of value use case and also the staking use case, too, and obviously to pay fees and things like that. So, yeah, I do think in the future, we're going to have maybe something like rye or a stable coin backed by ETH that's pegged to some fiat currency or pegged to a basket of currencies to reach that stability.
02:07:01.088 - 02:07:14.942, Speaker A: So, hopefully that answers your question there. Yes. Thank you. Awesome. So I've got to answer just this. There's a few more questions in here. I'm actually going to leave a lot of these for next AMA, because.
02:07:14.942 - 02:07:57.720, Speaker A: Because we've gone on 2 hours here. So I want to wrap this up. But just this last question from the princess here, who asked is a staking question. Where would you suggest staking less than 32? Ethan, why? In addition, could you explain how the pool staking works and how the rewards are distributed in such cases? So I'm not an expert here. I would suggest going and looking into all the different kind of staking pool solutions out there and kind of looking at the trade offs and everything like that and deciding which one's best for you. The one that I know probably the most about is Lido. And just to disclaimer here, I do own LDO tokens, but Lido is essentially still not trustless or decentralized in that it basically takes your ETH in, gives you these kind of STE tokens, which is basically a tokenized representation of your staking position.
02:07:57.720 - 02:08:26.914, Speaker A: So you can do things with that STeth, as I mentioned before, you can put it in, like, a Curve pool, or you can use it as collateral in different apps and things like that. But essentially what it does is Lido takes your ETH and distributes it to one of the many staking pools out there. So I think they've got like maybe eight right now on board. But essentially you'd be going through a staking service Provider to do this. So that's essentially, I guess, like the one that I've looked into the most. There's, there's plenty out there right now, don't get me wrong, but that is, I don't know. I'm not an expert on most of them.
02:08:26.914 - 02:08:51.136, Speaker A: You can join the ETH Staker Community on either Discord or Reddit and they'll be able to help you out more with that. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your, your kind of, like, question there. And I think I'm going to wrap it up for today, everyone. And if you've got any more questions, feel free to put them in the AMA series. I'm going to answer them in the next AMA, which will be in two weeks from now. But yes, thank you, everyone, for joining today's AMA. This has been recorded, so I'll be uploading this to YouTube tomorrow.
02:08:51.136 - 02:08:55.904, Speaker A: Tomorrow my time. So, yeah. Thank you, everyone, again for joining. And I'll catch you in the Discord channel.
