00:00:00.960 - 00:01:20.134, Speaker A: Let's quickly check hi everyone, great to be here. I'm Mettoli and today we'll talk about a real time interoperable use case in the Defi realm. So before we start with the needy and greedy, a really short introduction. About me I'm doing product development at Nolus, so as a product developer I'm working closely with our talented dev team, helping out with things like documentation, governance, or conceptualizing new ideas for extending the protocols offerings on the NOS Discord server. You can find me mostly lurking around the validator related discussions, so I've joined this team roughly two years ago, so been part of it nearly since the very beginning. These past two years have been filled with challenges, many of which we've overcome, while others with others we continue to tackle. And before we dive into what this year in particular had and will have in store for everyone around Nullus, from the team to the community, let's give a brief overview of what Nullus is and what it aims to solve in the web3 world so Nullus is an app chain, a cross chain protocol powered by IBC and interchange accounts built with the Cosmos SDK and the custom WaSM smart contract platform.
00:01:20.134 - 00:02:33.548, Speaker A: It utilizes established decentralized exchanges like the osmosis, Dex on osmosis and astroport on neutral, with many more to come. And Nolus offers a novel DeFi solution that provides greater asset exposure with a lower risk of liquidation and a focus on minimizing liquidity fragmentation. What does this all mean and how does it work? On Nolus you have lenders and borrowers. Originally, lenders could only provide stable coins and earn back in rewards in the form of real yield in those said stablecoins, and with additional NOS incentives on top with the recent updates, volatile currencies have also been included as lending options, but we'll cover that in more detail a bit later on in the presentation. The borrowing aspect is what's interesting and what sets knows apart from other lending solutions out there, like let's say, compound aave or their respective forks. Borrowers knows they provide a deposit and we call it a down payment. And the interesting part here is that they can borrow up to 150% of that deposit's value from the stablecoins lending pools that I mentioned.
00:02:33.548 - 00:03:41.930, Speaker A: And what the system does in the background is that it would instantiate a separate smart contract instance, transfer those assets over to a supported network via IBC, and using interchange accounts, it would swap them to a desired output asset. And this effectively creates a cross chain margin long position on that given asset with a fixed interest rate. So up until recently, borrowers could only long assets, but that's not the only use case anymore, and we'll cover that a bit, as mentioned a bit later on in the presentation. So this was the short info on NoLAs. So now let's get to the most the core topic of this presentation, and that's the roadmap for this year, 2024. I'll go over what we've achieved so far, then address the various technical challenges that we faced as one of the first protocols to do real time cross chain communication via IBC and interchange accounts, and then we'll finalize with the goals we have set for the remainder of this year. Needless to say, it's quite packed.
00:03:41.930 - 00:04:52.380, Speaker A: So in terms of integration, we open up this year with the successful launch of the second major liquidity hub, which is the astroport Dex on neutron. And with this, users on nodes were able to open these positions, which are the borrow positions, as mentioned on north, with assets from neutrons such as NTRN. We then focused on the reserve contracts, and the reserve is a special smart contract that has one instance per lending pool. And the goal here is for that reserve contract to act as a backstop for potential bad debt in the system due to, let's say, untimely liquidations because of extremely volatile market events. We then implemented in app swaps powered by skip go. And with this, users do not have to bridge between different cosmos or non cosmos chains swap on various dexs only to have to bring back those assets to nulls to use. But they can do everything at once in one go from the already familiar interface of the nullus DApP, thereby boosting the overall uX.
00:04:52.380 - 00:05:33.058, Speaker A: And in addition, all swap fees apply. Additional swap fees applied on top go to the reserve contracts I mentioned just now. The last key feature that we've introduced is shorting. So yeah, we've arrived at the point of the presentation where I do the grant unveiling. So you know that borrowers on NOS can effectively open cross chain margin long positions on supported assets. Our team realized at some point that this model could effectively be turned around, and this happens through the introduction of volatile based lending currencies. So lenders now are able to not only deposit stable coins, but volatile assets as well.
00:05:33.058 - 00:06:36.950, Speaker A: Single sidedly volatile assets like, let's say, atom, OsMo or NTRN. They would be able to earn rewards in real yield in the form of those said volatile assets, and with additional NOS incentives on top. Pretty familiar. So the borrowing side for the borrowers, they can now open cross chain margin short positions, which means that they again provide a deposit, take out a loan of up to 150% of that deposit's value from the new volatile base lending pools, and the system would simply transfer those over to a supported Dex via IBC, and again swap them via ICA, but only this time to USDC. So now, effectively, when the price of the loan asset drops, the borrowers need less USDC to pay back their debt, effectively banking in the rest as profit. So this feature is, in terms of smart contracts, is live on Mainnet. We still have work to do on the UI front, but it's coming up pretty soon.
00:06:36.950 - 00:07:57.460, Speaker A: And with this integration, borrowers now have a bidirectional market exposure on supported assets on knows, and this paves the way to introducing new complex defi strategies. And we're really looking forward to seeing what the community will come up with. So now let's go over the challenges that we had to face or solve or optimize during this year. And for that, let us familiarize ourselves a bit more with the structure of a DeFi lease. So whenever a borrower wants to open a position, they interact with the so called factory smart contract that is in turn responsible for instantiating a separate smart contract instance for that specific borrower position. And that smart contract instance does the heavy lifting for the user, meaning it gathers both the deposit by the borrower and the loan by the system, registers a separate interchange account on the corresponding cost or destination chain, transfers over the assets via IBC, and then does the swap via ICA on that chain. And now interchain accounts actions are performed via separate pair of IBC channels which are ordered by default.
00:07:57.460 - 00:09:35.200, Speaker A: Or that means that whenever there's a timeout along the way, there needs to be a recovery process, because the channel would get closed, and this recovery process simply opens a new pair of IBC channels. And in contrast, the regular IBC transfer channels, which you're all familiar with are unordered by default, meaning that whenever your transfer doesn't go through for some reason, and it times out, the channel doesn't get closed. At some point, activity on knowledge spiked significantly, which meant that as more and more lease positions or borrower positions got opened, more and more interchange accounts channels got respectfully also opened. And this managed to create relay burden. And relayers are third party services which act basically as postman between two different, two or more different cosmos chains transferring the packets. So this burden was situated mostly on the startup time of the relayer process, because they needed to scan through all of the existing channels, and this scanning process in turn is necessary such that new ICA channels could get opened and challenges like this allowed us as a team to significantly improve the infrastructure that Knowles is relying on and make it more scalable and resilient to potential future volatile events. As a permanent solution, there is a new IBC lineup, eight, that makes interchange accounts channels unordered.
00:09:35.200 - 00:11:06.050, Speaker A: This means that there will be no more of this recovery process that I mentioned, which in turn would significantly boost the opening and closing time of fleece positions. We have already seen significant progress on that front since the launch of Novos last year. Back when Nolus launched, it took around a minute and 30 seconds to open a lease position, for example, whereas now it takes around 50 seconds to a minute and we as a team have the intention of continuing to continue reducing this period such that it becomes near instant for the end user. We have also proposed and collaborated on the idea of IBC multiplexing with the IBC team, and this solution basically would mean that multiple interchange accounts would be able to use a single unordered channel, and this would effectively eliminate the relay burden I was referring to earlier while still keeping the independence of the borrowed positions as they are now, since they would have separate interchange accounts. So now that we went over the challenges, let us have a look at what awaits later on in the year. The next big feature that we are working on is called the noos watcher. So the goal of the nose watcher is to enhance the user experience with strategies and machine learning powered functionalities.
00:11:06.050 - 00:12:10.240, Speaker A: The goal is to offer maximum convenience by abstracting away complexity as much as possible from the end users. And think of this as a completely optional assistant. You can either rely on it or not. I mentioned strategies, so the first one that would be coming up would be direct debit for interest repayment. And the way that works is that users would be able to give allowances such as the system could use those for automatic interest repayments. Currently, interest on lease positions is due once every 18 days, and with this functionality users wouldn't need to manually repay their interest, and also they could take advantage of so called liquidation safeguards. This means that if the loan to value ratio goes up significantly for given position through these allowances, it could get reduced and brought back to a healthier level while the user is not looking at the charts, for example.
00:12:10.240 - 00:13:42.600, Speaker A: And our team of data scientists is also working on a statistical data companion to assist users in analyzing market trends, which would be especially useful before a given user opens long or short on a given asset. Last but not least, we are looking forward to bringing out Project X. And Project X is a scaling solution that aims to extend the current model of NOS to the EVM, Solana VM and other out VM environments, and the goal is to do so using trust minimized cross chain technologies without the need to rewrite the entire code base in another smart contract language, let's say solidity, and they have to deploy it on those set chains only to cause liquidity fragmentation, which we're already trying to minimize. And with this, users on noos would gain access to many assets tied to different ecosystems with deep liquidity pools, while taking advantage of the powerful features of noos, such as greater exposure with lower risk of liquidation. So there's been a lot to unpack in this presentation. To sum up, NOS is highly committed to advancing DeFi through interoperable and scalable technologies. We're looking forward to continue collaborating with the IBC team on extending the existing ICA functionality.
00:13:42.600 - 00:14:31.300, Speaker A: There is also constant ongoing development of user centric features and strategies. Note the noise launcher that I presented a bit earlier. Also, our dev team is actively researching new avenues for expanding the protocol, and on that note, there is a current ongoing idea tone with Dora hacks that aims to bring nodes beyond cosmos. It's running, I believe until the end of September, so it perfectly aligns with our research and development efforts. On that front, this was everything from my side. Thank you a lot for the attention and do not forget to follow us on our socials and joining the discussions yourself. We value user feedback a lot and we are constantly aiming to improve on that front.
