00:00:00.650 - 00:00:25.012, Speaker A: Nice to see everybody bright and early. Feel like folks have struggled in with some coffee. Let's take a good morning stretch. All right, cool. Glad we're settled in. My name is Zach Marks. I'm a co founder of GIa, which is a project working to unlock financial access in emerging markets.
00:00:25.012 - 00:01:04.856, Speaker A: And before I get into exactly what we're doing, I thought I'd share the story of our name. Jia has a sort of a global connection. In Chinese, Jia is home or family, which we think is the central financial unit we're expanding upon. In Hindi, Jia means heart, and we're working to provide banking with a heart. And in Swahili, Ngia means the road or path, and we're building the road or path to financial independence. And our first market is Kenya, so it's helpful to have a Swahili name. All right, so let's begin with a story of one of our first users and what we're working to build for him.
00:01:04.856 - 00:01:55.252, Speaker A: So meet Francis Njuguna. Francis sells spices and fruits and vegetables in a market in Nairobi. Just a picture I took of him last week. And just to make his challenge really clear, he sells spices and fruits and veggies to local customers and also to some local restaurants. And because he doesn't have access to financing, he has to top up his inventory basically every two days. And even when I was there visiting with him, a local restaurant came up to say, hey, can I buy my order of regular of sesame seeds? He needed two kgs, and Francis had just run out. So I asked, well, why do you buy it every two days? Why not buy in larger quantities, maybe every week? And then you'd have more in your stock and simply doesn't have access to financing.
00:01:55.252 - 00:02:47.640, Speaker A: So he has to buy five to ten kgs of sesame seeds at a time, and then he pays about twice the price per kg of sesame versus if he could just buy a larger shipment. Seems pretty basic, right? So that's the kind of problem we're trying to solve. And of course, why can't Francis just go to the bank? Why can't he just say, hey, I'm running this business, I'd like to take a line of credit so I can buy some more spices. And what banks typically say is, well, there's not enough data to underwrite a guy like Francis. I have no idea how many sesame seeds or spices or fruits he sells, and he's probably just too small to make it worth our while. Maybe he needs two or $300 of financing, but it'll cost us more than that. Just to go find Francis, collect some collateral, and process the loan.
00:02:47.640 - 00:03:38.756, Speaker A: Because of this basic challenge, there is an estimated $5 trillion credit gap around the world, probably a stat we're familiar with hearing at a bunch of talks like this. So that's the general challenge that my team at Gia and I have spent the last decade working on. And I think, we think of the attempts to solve this credit gap in maybe three waves. The first wave, microfinance 1.0, basically relied on community finance groups. So, traditionally, in emerging markets, when people don't have access to banks or formal financial services, they save and borrow in small community savings and borrowing groups. And what traditional microfinance institutions came in to do was basically work with these community groups and provide some additional capital.
00:03:38.756 - 00:04:10.628, Speaker A: Now, the great thing is that there's a lot of community trust. You have these small groups, everyone sort of knows each other. And so to solve that banking underwriting problem, even if there's no data on Francis, I put him in a group with ten of his friends. If Francis defaults, all of his friends cover for him. So the microfinance institution is all good. This model is great for getting started, but it doesn't really scale. For every new group you want to sign up or every new Francis spice seller, you need to hire a new loan officer or a sales agent to go sign people up.
00:04:10.628 - 00:04:49.072, Speaker A: And once the groups get to a certain size, you start to lose that trust, because people say, I'm not going to put my collateral up for this guy. I don't even know him. Or people just can leave the money because they don't have that trust factor pulling them in. So we have the challenge of not being able to scale. Also the model of basic microfinance, not very flexible or personalized. So the second wave of microfinance, which is where the GIA team actually all met, was working in fintech lending, where we'd have apps which would use mobile phone data to underwrite. In the absence of credit scores, of course, these can scale across the globe pretty fast, but you totally lose that community ownership piece.
00:04:49.072 - 00:05:51.252, Speaker A: And when we were working at our last company, what we heard from borrowers in Kenya sometimes is they'd say, hey, in my saco, which is a local savings and credit cooperative, after I repay my loan, I put my money in and I get shares. So, can I have shares of your company? I've been taking your loans for a while now. And the first time we heard that our company was valued at something like $50 million, and now it's valued at a billion dollars. And it's a lot of value creation, but it's really all gone mostly to the Silicon Valley investors of that company, not to the borrowers who've done the hard work of actually justifying that value creation. And even if that company had wanted to distribute ownership around the globe to borrowers, it'd be very logistically and operationally complex to do. Enter the really wonderful world of web three, where we can represent ownership with a token on chain and distribute ownership quite efficiently. And so basically, what we're working on at GIA is to provide our borrowers ownership the greatest bit of microfinance 1.0.
00:05:51.252 - 00:06:16.152, Speaker A: With the scale of fintech lending, microfinance 2.0. So if you think about a traditional bank or fintech model, it's a pretty transactional relationship. The borrower is really a customer. They take a loan, they repay it. The bank often makes a lot of the profit that the borrower has generated, and they move on. It's not like the borrower has a stake in the entity. With GIA, though, we're building a real relationship with these borrowers.
00:06:16.152 - 00:07:03.036, Speaker A: So borrowers receive financing, they repay this fair, affordable amount, then they earn GiA token rewards as they repay, and that lets them actually build wealth and prosperity in the long run. So just to make this real for how Francis interacts with Gia, we really meet him where he is. We don't come in and say, hey, you need some crypto product or this special blockchain. We just come in and provide some financing. He borrows that financing to finance his inventory, and he receives tokens. And because tokens is sort of an abstract concept, to make it very real for him, Gia tokens unlock better interest rates, they unlock higher loan amounts and more flexible repayment terms. And as he's borrowing and repaying, he's actually building an on chain history.
00:07:03.036 - 00:07:58.108, Speaker A: So today, that might not mean much, but in the long run, as more and more money and capital flows happen on chain, and as more and more on chain credit scoring protocols get developed, Francis will actually be able to access more global capital, not just from Gia, but from other protocols as well. One of the basic fundamentals of how we build products is we try to take what's already working offline and just bring it online. And so what already happens in these community finance circles is that borrowers invite their friends, and they often put up collateral for them to borrow. Now, when they do that today, it's not like they're rewarded with much. When someone repays, they just get their collateral unlocked. But with Gia, we let borrowers invite people in their community and stake their tokens on the success of that borrower. And when that referred borrower repays, then they earn some returns as well.
00:07:58.108 - 00:08:38.076, Speaker A: All of this is doing is basically just a more equitable distribution of value instead of it all going back to the lender. The GIA token is not just a security token, also has some utility. And we've heard from businesses all the time that people don't just need capital, they actually need services to help them grow their businesses. And so that's what Gia is building as well as a global service provider community. And if you look at this, in the end, basically Francis has gone from today with his fintech lender. He's just a borrower at the end of a one way transaction to with Gia. He's actually an owner and a builder of this community.
00:08:38.076 - 00:09:41.600, Speaker A: And that's pretty powerful. So how does this really work in practice? Basically, liquidity providers from around the world can deposit their stablecoins in liquidity pools. We have a wonderful partner here in Huma protocol where we're launching a liquidity pool with very soon, Gia then takes those stablecoins and works with local trusted partners. So it's very difficult to gain trust of small businesses if you're just sort of a foreign entity saying, hey, you want a loan. So we work with partners, usually wholesalers or inventory management providers, who aggregate local small businesses. We use those partners data to underwrite and then we deliver either working capital in the form of fiat currency or often inventory that's purchased on credit. As the borrowers repay, they earn tokens, as I mentioned, and they're also providing yields for these lps, actually connecting blockchain capital with these real world use cases.
00:09:41.600 - 00:10:17.960, Speaker A: I'll just talk about one of these partners since it's a very real example that we're doing now. So Ilara Health is a network of about 2000 medical clinics in Kenya. Most of these clinics ask for financing. They buy their medicines on a Monday, but their patients might not come in until Friday and pay them even later on. But Alara doesn't want to take on this financing risk. They just want to be in the business of providing medical devices and medicines. So we step in, we partner with Elara, we use their data to underwrite and then provide financing for the medicines.
00:10:17.960 - 00:10:56.024, Speaker A: What's kind of cool about the geotoken is it doesn't just unlock better credit rewards. Ilara, the partner network, can actually use it to deliver customized loyalty rewards as well. For example, repainting and beautifying the local clinic or running local medical trainings and community showcases. Another exciting thing which we're really excited to be working with Huma on is tokenizing real world assets to unlock liquidity. So we think of Francis. As I mentioned in the beginning, he has this restaurant that comes in and buys sesame seeds from him every week. He often issues an invoice to this restaurant because maybe the restaurant doesn't pay for 30 days or 60 days.
00:10:56.024 - 00:11:42.340, Speaker A: This is a common challenge in just working capital. So we can actually tokenize that invoice, bring it on chain, and use that to unlock liquidity for Francis and finance his broader business growth. So, in short, our roadmap right now we're launching inventory and invoice financing. Today we're live in Kenya and in the Philippines, two markets that our team has worked quite a bit in over the past several years. From there, we'll actually be growing into asset financing and in the long run, providing savings, investments and other financial products for businesses. So that is what GIA is doing to unlock financial access in emerging markets. And I'm happy to take any questions that anyone has.
00:11:42.340 - 00:12:41.730, Speaker A: Really appreciate you all showing up nice and early for any questions. Yes, in the back. Yeah, I think the question without microphone was, how is our project viewed by the government? And I'm really glad you asked that. So we work with the regulators in Kenya and the Philippines, with the central banks, to be a regulated entity, which you have to do in order to provide loans in these countries. We actually have a pretty close relationship in Kenya with the central bank and with the Capital Markets Authority. Actually, my budy Jakob here, who runs a Dao of african founders, helped organize a meeting with these kenyan regulators. And Vitalik, when he was just in Kenya to talk about how we can use blockchain to unlock more foreign direct investment into Kenya.
00:12:41.730 - 00:12:44.660, Speaker A: Yes.
00:12:47.270 - 00:12:54.350, Speaker B: What does your on the ground team have to look like in order to actually verify all these borrowers and decide whether to give them a loan?
00:12:54.430 - 00:13:17.500, Speaker A: Great question. So, unfortunately, this isn't as seamless as a pure tech play where anyone with an app can just sign up and it's all seamless. Does require a lot of manual work. We need local business development folks to work with these partners. We need a local credit team to underwrite that the invoices are accurate. And then we have our local engineering team, led by Ivan here, which is actually leading the build of all of this.
00:13:24.910 - 00:13:33.546, Speaker C: How are you working to partner with current microbanks or the larger stuff like project opportunity or different things like that? Are you.
00:13:33.648 - 00:13:35.420, Speaker A: Sorry, I actually didn't hear it.
00:13:36.590 - 00:13:45.866, Speaker C: Are you working to partner with current microbanks or people working on this project, like project opportunity or different folks that already work in Kenya in different places?
00:13:46.058 - 00:14:48.420, Speaker A: For now, we're mostly partnering with networks that have aggregated small businesses and have a need for financing, as opposed to working directly with other financing institutions. But a really exciting thing about this is once we've developed this capacity of aggregating capital on chain and deploying it for any real world emerging markets use case, we certainly could partner with other microfinance institutions which might have access to borrowers that we wouldn't get through these networks. So that's actually a pretty exciting thing that came out of that meeting that I was mentioning with the central bank in Kenya is the first lady of Kenya actually has a microfinance institution and she's worked with about 15,000 women led savings groups called chamas. And we're actually talking with them about how we can provide liquidity for what they're doing. I think it's very important that we don't come in and say, hey, we know exactly how to finance and we know the partners we want to partner with. There's lots of great organizations that have already done work on the ground, identified the right community leaders to work with, and so we're definitely working with them. Yes.
00:14:48.420 - 00:15:33.378, Speaker A: Biggest challenge to widespread adoption. So certainly there is a challenge of communicating what a token is and what crypto is. And so for now, we've kind of abstracted that away. We provide Gia points. We don't talk about a token and people want loans and shillings not in stablecoins. I think what's really important though, is over the years, as we're building trust, by providing affordable and accessible financing as they're repaying, we'll be able to gradually educate customers about different blockchain use cases. I mean, an obvious use case we talk about all the time is in Kenya, there's massive inflation and devaluation of the kenyan shilling.
00:15:33.378 - 00:16:04.514, Speaker A: A lot of borrowers talk about, hey, can we keep our money in a us dollar denominated account? By building the crypto backend that houses a geotoken, we can also let them, for example, save in a us dollar stablecoin. Cool. I think this might be the last one because I see the clock ticking down. Awesome. So how did you select Kenya and Philippines? Why did we select Kenya in the Philippines? Great questions. These happen to be. Well, so the very practical question, it happens to be two markets where my co founders and team and I have worked.
00:16:04.514 - 00:16:30.970, Speaker A: So we know the markets extensively. We know the regulators, which is really important before just showing up. We have existing partner, you know, team aside, just from a macroeconomic perspective, these are great markets to be in. There's a huge unmet need for credit in both of them. I think in Kenya alone, the unmet need for working capital is valued at something like $300 billion. They're relatively large markets for their regions. There's also a lot of crypto adoption and interest.
00:16:30.970 - 00:17:01.160, Speaker A: Kenya has always sort of been a leader in financial innovation. They have way broader mobile financial service adoption than any country in the world. And the Philippines, I think in part because of play to earn, has just seen soaring crypto adoption. So in a lot of ways, they're sort of right markets for us to enter. And I know I got to go, so I want to say thank you so much for joining. Please follow us on Twitter at underscore defi so you can read about the launch of our liquidity school very soon. Thank you.
00:17:01.160 - 00:17:02.290, Speaker A: Bye.
