00:00:00.090 - 00:00:08.800, Speaker A: Keeping it at this age. Okay, we're good.
00:00:10.850 - 00:00:39.020, Speaker B: Hello and welcome everybody, to the Ave Intro workshop titled Ave 101 for Developers. Joining us today is David Trung, a developer at Ave who will be taking us through this session. One quick reminder to everybody, stake their spots for ETH Online. If you're having any issues, don't hesitate to reach out to me or anyone else on the ETH Global team. And yeah, with that, I'll pass it on over to David who can introduce himself and get the session started.
00:00:40.190 - 00:01:21.462, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you, Emily. Hi everyone. As Emily mentioned, I'm David, I'm a software engineer or developer at Aave. So today we'll go over a basic intro about Aave, mainly for devs. I like to generally keep things interactive, so if you want, you can post your questions probably in the chat and I'll try and read through them as we go along. I'll also have A-Q-A time towards the end anyway, but yeah.
00:01:21.462 - 00:02:15.394, Speaker A: All right, so let's get started. So Avi is essentially for those that don't know, it's a money market lending protocol. So what that means is on one side you have depositors and depositors, they deposit some sort of asset crypto assets into the protocol and then immediately they earn interest. And the interest is earned based on various parameters like utilization rate, the type of asset, how much in demand it is and things like that. And then on the other side, we have borrowers. And so the borrowers, they can instantly borrow a certain amount of funds, either at a stable or variable interest rate, and they receive those loans or those borrowed funds immediately when they request them, and if they satisfy certain parameters as well, like a collateralization ratio and things like that. So that's the basics of Ave protocol.
00:02:15.394 - 00:03:26.718, Speaker A: Both depositors and borrowers, they interact with the smart contracts in the so what I've mentioned so far is what we classify as the main Ave market. And that's the one with quite a lot of funds locked into protocol, which I'll go through a bit later as well. We also have other markets, we call it the multi market strategy, so that's we have a uniswap market. So the uniswap market is similar to the main market, but instead of just using standard crypto assets as collateral, you can use your uniswap LP tokens as collateral. And we're also planning to have other markets later on for other types of tokenized positions, which I'll mention a bit later on as well. Then of course, we have flash loans and the flash loans, I'll go through some detailed examples of that, but that's a very special part of the protocol as well. So, as I mentioned, the main protocol features is you have earning, depositing, borrowing, and then credit.
00:03:26.718 - 00:04:29.220, Speaker A: Delegation is related to both of earning and borrowing, and then also flash loans, like I mentioned. And I go through each part individually, and as we go through them, as I said, pop your questions in the chat or wait until the end. And besides that, currently we have quite a lot of assets in the protocol supported assets, more than 20 assets. Then of course, we have the multi markets as well, like uniswap. So we have quite a few assets that you can both earn and borrow from. So if we go through the dive deeper into the earning aspect of it so earning is essentially depositing, right? And if I was explaining it to a five year old and I'll go through different ways of explaining it to different age groups, so we get a good overview of what it exactly is. We let others borrow your money when you're not using it, so your money or your deposits can be utilized much more.
00:04:29.220 - 00:05:41.354, Speaker A: And if I was explaining to a 15 year old, I'd say that we allow you to deposit your money and you earn immediate interest on that amount and you can withdraw it anytime. So it's quite different from a traditional bank. There's no sort of locked in time frame that you have to have it in by your interest, accrues by the second and explaining in a more DeFi sense, I'd say that we tokenize your deposit into what we call a tokens. So they're one to one pegged to the underlying that you've deposited and the account holding those a tokens, you accrue interest straight away per second based on various protocol parameters and demand, like things I mentioned previously. So from a code perspective, this is what you do. A lot of the code that you see for the next few features, let's say basically all the top lines exactly the same and it's mainly just the last two lines that are posted. A question about the so I'm screen sharing right now, I'm pretty sure.
00:05:41.354 - 00:06:29.350, Speaker A: So you should be able to see the screen share, right? Emily yep. You can see, yeah. So maybe it's something to do with your configuration. But anyway, so the code that you should see on your screen, on the screen share is the main important line is at the bottom. So from a dev perspective, it's quite easy to deposit funds. You just call lending pool and you say deposit blank screen. You should be seeing earn deposit ETH or yeah, I see 20 tokens to receive eight tokens.
00:06:29.350 - 00:06:30.780, Speaker A: Is that what you see?
00:06:31.950 - 00:06:39.930, Speaker B: We're seeing Clear dot bank developer initiator payment chaps validation.
00:06:41.230 - 00:06:52.698, Speaker A: Interesting. What was that? All right, this one?
00:06:52.884 - 00:06:56.766, Speaker B: Yeah. Earn deposit ERC, 20 tokens.
00:06:56.958 - 00:07:28.678, Speaker A: Okay, my bad. Damn it. Okay, sorry about that, guys. So that was the wrong screen. I'll just quickly go back to these. So when I was explaining to the money market, hopefully you understood it. So on one side we had depositors of sidewalk borrowers, then we had the multi market, like having the main market and also uniswap, and then also these protocol features which I'll go through, and I explained how you'd earn.
00:07:28.678 - 00:08:23.662, Speaker A: It how I'd explain earning to different age groups. And then so here's the code that I was trying to refer to. Is that the last line where it says Lendingpool Deposit? That's the main line that you should really care about. Yes, I'll go through the tokens again soon but so let's say you have any type of ERC, 20 token that's supported in the Ave protocol, you can deposit that and you deposit it using that function call at the bottom. So Lending Pool deposit, you give it the address of that ERC 20 token that's supported on Ave. You say the amount and then you include a referral code as well. And if you guys end up pushing out to Mainnet and turning your hack into like an actual project or company, you reach out to us and we can give you a referral code as well.
00:08:23.662 - 00:09:01.450, Speaker A: And you can make some money off the borrowers and deposits that come through your interface. And once you deposit those funds, basically those funds get sent to our lending pool. Then our Lending pool mints these tokens to you and those tokens are a tokens. So if you deposit 100 die you will receive 100 a die in return. And that represents the deposit that you've made. And those tokens, it's tokenized deposit, they're transferable as well. So that's a tokens and the interest accrues per second.
00:09:01.450 - 00:09:55.340, Speaker A: So as soon as you deposit it you get those A tokens. You'll see that the balance of those A tokens will increase immediately. And then to explain the referral code, we have some docs on the referral code but basically let's say you create a website where people go to your website and using your website they end up depositing into Aave so that's where you'd use a referral code. So then at least you can get some sort of kickback essentially from sending users our way. And we also have the referral code for the borrowing calls as well, which I'll go through in a second. Now I mentioned that the interest is earned per second. As soon as you get those A tokens, that accrues to the holder, the current holder of the A token so that could be yourself or you send those A tokens to someone else and that someone else starts accruing that interest.
00:09:55.340 - 00:10:45.478, Speaker A: There's also a function where you can redirect that interest stream so maybe for whatever reason you don't want to earn that interest on your account, you can redirect that interest to someone else. So we've had some interesting hacks around that, whether it's redirecting to a charity or an inheritance contract for your children or something like that. So that increases the design space quite a bit. So the next feature as I mentioned is borrowing. So if I was explaining that to a five year old so that you can borrow money whenever you need it like standard borrowing for a 15 year old. You're borrowing money and depending on how much you've deposited already in the system, you can borrow up to a certain amount. So it's an over collateralized borrow that you're making and you can pay it back anytime.
00:10:45.478 - 00:11:45.600, Speaker A: So unlike a bank, there's no set time that you can pay 100% after a day if you want to. And then in a DFI context, you're using your a tokens as collateral to borrow supported assets at either a stable or variable interest rate. And that's quite a powerful thing, especially in these days of yield farming, because people like to yield farm and having a stable interest rate actually really helps. I know a lot of these degen traders, they use that quite a bit these days. So from a program dev perspective, similar to the depositing, most of the code is pretty similar. You essentially just get the latest lending pool address. Then you say what asset you want to borrow and then you say okay, whether you want a variable rate or a stable rate.
00:11:45.600 - 00:12:36.670, Speaker A: And then you call lendingpool borrow. You pass in the address of the token that you want to borrow, the amount, the interest rate method that you want, variable rate or stable rate. And then of course the referral code once again. And then once you've done that, the lending pool contract will essentially just send you or do some sanity checks, making sure that you're collateralized enough, health factor, things like that is valid. And then it'll send you those funds and you can do whatever you want with those funds and the interest payable will start increasing. So switching between variable interest rate and stable interest rate, it's very easy as well from a dev perspective. Once again, you get the lending pool and you call swap borrow rate mode for a certain asset.
00:12:36.670 - 00:13:22.122, Speaker A: So it's pretty simple. And that can be advantageous depending on what your use case is. Sometimes the variable interest rate is generally pretty low and stable interest rate is always a little bit higher. But then in times of great utilization, like what happened recently with all the yield farming, sometimes the variable interest rate would go up to 50, 60, 70%, which is a lot, right? But it would go there for maybe a few days. But if you had a stable rate, your stable rate may have been locked in at 3% or 4%. So in certain use cases, that can be very useful. So I've talked about the depositing and then also the borrowing.
00:13:22.122 - 00:14:20.400, Speaker A: So depositing and borrowing, that can happen from the same person or the same account or contract where they deposit and then therefore they can borrow with credit delegation. It's a new feature we announced recently as well, where we separate those two aspects. So if I was explaining it to a five year old, I'd say that you let other people borrow money, and to a 15 year old I'd say that you can deposit your assets to earn. So you earn interest on RV and you can also earn extra interest by managing your own loans to other people. So you delegate a credit line to other people and in a DeFi sense you give others access to your credit line by depositing an Ave. Then we create another smart contract which is a delegation vault and you let other like you set how much another person can draw from that credit delegation vault. And then how you enforce repayment is really up to you.
00:14:20.400 - 00:15:13.602, Speaker A: From the perspective of the Ave protocol, it's still a standard over collateralized borrow. So liquidators can sort of liquidate it and things like that. There's still interest rates being charged and DA DA DA DA. However, since you're essentially allowing someone else to draw that credit line, it's up to you to decide, okay, they need to repay on these terms or I'm going to charge them extra interest off chain because I'm giving this facility. So in a way it allows for under collateralized or no collateral loans for other people if you're willing to manage that. So as an example of that diversify, which is a decentralized exchange, we're one of the first to make use of credit delegation. And essentially what they did, they did an on chain legal agreement using open law.
00:15:13.602 - 00:16:31.190, Speaker A: And once that legal agreement, you can see here, once the legal agreement was signed, then the credit delegation vault was automatically deployed and then a credit limit was set on that vault for diversify to automatically draw a certain amount. So in that sense, diversify never needed to deposit say, USD or any sort of collateral into Aave, but at any time they were able to just borrow like withdraw wrapped BTC. And that's quite useful because let's say they're a decentralized exchange, sometimes they want to provide their users with more funds, but not necessarily keep it in their wallets or keep it on their exchange. So that opens some interesting possibilities for, let's say, margin trading or things like that. And also it's another way for people who deposit a lot of funds on Ave to make extra interest off of their deposited funds. So the next big feature, as I mentioned, is flash loans. So for those that haven't heard it before or don't quite understand it, it may take a while, but try and bear with me, I'll go through a few examples.
00:16:31.190 - 00:17:21.580, Speaker A: So if I was explaining to it to a five year old, I'd say it's free money, you can have to pay back, but you have to pay it back nearly immediately. For a 15 year old, anyone can borrow as much as they want as long as they pay it back within a certain time frame. And we get a lot of questions from Wall Street banker types. In the language of Wall Street, it's an unsecured fixed term loan for about 15 seconds because that's the block time of ethereum with a very low fixed interest rate. So it's a standard 0.9% of the amount that is flash loaned, that the bank, in this case, the Ave protocol or Ethereum, the EVM, it can always collect that expiry. So there's essentially near no risk to the protocol in that sense.
00:17:21.580 - 00:18:16.842, Speaker A: And if I was explaining to a DeFi person, it's an uncollateralized loan supplied by a lending pool where the amount that you borrow plus a small fee needs to be repaid by the end of the transaction. And why you would want to do that is because you can execute any arbitrary action once you have those funds. And if the loan is not repaid by the end of the transaction, and then everything just reverts like the loan was never given to you. So that's quite powerful because essentially you get this free money, you do whatever you want with it, and as long as you pay it back by the end of the transaction, everything's good. If you don't pay it back, it's still okay. No one loses out. Maybe you lose gas fees or something, but it's a pretty cool, interesting concept once you start to understand it.
00:18:16.842 - 00:19:15.930, Speaker A: Here's an example sort of flow of what a flash loan could look like. If we start in the top left, essentially we have a borrower, which may be most likely a smart contract that's programmed to call the flash loan function from the RV protocol. Let's say it says flash loan, 10 million die. So that a protocol will give 10 million die to that smart contract. And within one transaction the borrower or the smart contract can do whatever it wants with those funds. And in this case, it decides to use that money to close down make a CDP vault, if you know what that is, and then it liquidates that collateral under that CDP. It uses that liquidated ETH to repurchase Dai off a decentralized exchange and then now it can repay back the flash loan.
00:19:15.930 - 00:20:04.780, Speaker A: So basically what it did is that it did three or four separate actions in one transaction without needing those funds to repay back the debt. So that's quite powerful and quite a new thing. So Derek asks, so it all reverts back? Correct. So it all reverts back if the loan is not repaid by the end of the transaction? Yeah, exactly. So you can do whatever you want in that transaction. The only thing I'll make these slides available, I'll share it with Emily and I'm sure we'll post on the discord and whatever else so you get them. This is also recorded as well by the East Global team, so I'm sure they'll make that available too.
00:20:04.780 - 00:20:54.270, Speaker A: So good questions, by the way. So go back to Derek's question. It's interesting because you can technically buy NFTs, do all this stuff, but the fact is that by the end of the transaction it will get reverted. If you can't repay it, you buy an Ft, and if you can sell it for a higher price. That's an arbitrage then, yeah, you've made free money, essentially. And I'll go through an example of an arbitrage and that's one of the use cases of flash loans as well. But the important part of this diagram that I want you guys to walk away with is that everything above the purple line is what's definitely seen on chain, so it costs you gas and everything below the purple line can be reverted if you don't repay back the flash loan.
00:20:54.270 - 00:21:52.446, Speaker A: If this last bit here, the Flashline debt isn't repaid and then everything below the purple line, it's like nothing ever happened. So from the dev perspective, doing flash lines is a bit more involved because specifically you need to deploy your own contract with Solidity or whatever else. And your contract would have something like this, a function which you call and your function would use our lending pool and call the flash loan function and it would say, okay, flash loan to this contract. It doesn't have to be this contract. You could flash loan it to another contract if you want, but generally it's easier just to flash loan it to the current contract. Flash loan a certain asset, so it might be die, flash loan a certain amount that might be 10 million die. And then you can pass through data as well.
00:21:52.446 - 00:22:37.226, Speaker A: So the data part is more for advanced uses. Actually, if you're playing with flash loans, you'd probably pass through data. It's encoded data that you need to pass different parameters throughout your contract. Because once you call the flash loan function on lending pool, our lending pool will do some sanity checks. Like there's enough liquidity, the amount you requested is there to be used, we support that asset, et cetera, et cetera, once that's done, and then our lending pool will call back to your contract and it'll call execute operation. So your smart contract has to have this exact function with this function signature. That's when our lending pool essentially passes back control to your contract.
00:22:37.226 - 00:23:38.050, Speaker A: So once you're at this stage, once your contract is at this stage, you can assume that it's received the money that you've requested to flash loan. So that could be 10 million die or whatever. And then where it says the comments here, your logic goes here, that's when you can do whatever you want with it. So whether it's doing an arbitrage transaction or closing down, make a Dow CDP vault, that's where you do it. And then at the end, that's when you need to return the flash loaned. So for Derek's question, that really depends on the use case, right? So the EVM, it's like state transitions are created and then when the reversion happens, basically that state just gets reverted, like the entire thing that happens. So if you don't repay back the flash loan and you did some NFT stuff, buying, selling, et cetera, and then the flash loan reverts, that means it just undoes everything.
00:23:38.050 - 00:24:07.654, Speaker A: So it's like you never bought that NFT to begin with. So that's that question from YouTube. Thanks Emily. What's the point of an over collateralized borrow? If I can fully collateralize it, then I can just use that money. Yeah, that's a good question. So the point of an over this is related to what we're talking about before, about borrowing. It's just different styles.
00:24:07.654 - 00:24:39.160, Speaker A: Let's say if you already have that money, maybe you don't want to spend it and then you can leverage that. So sometimes you might have ETH, but you believe ETH price will go up, so you don't necessarily want to spend it, but maybe you need spending money. So you might borrow Dai or USDC and then you can use that as spending or you just want to use that as collateral. So then you can do other things. And as a developer generally, there's a lot of different things you could do. It's like really open to your imagination or whatever you do. So that's one of the reasons why you do it.
00:24:39.160 - 00:25:21.140, Speaker A: Question two from YouTube if I've just deposited and not using it as collateral, will you make profit and withdraw? Yeah, so exactly. So when you've deposited, you don't have to borrow anything. Once you deposit, you start earning interest immediately. There's no obligation to borrow anything and that's what actually a lot of our users do. So I think only about 20% of the funds are used as borrowers anytime. And that's why we created credit delegation to sort of increase that borrowing rate just because it's quite inefficient. You just have a lot of money just sitting there, not doing much, when a lot of people could do a lot of interesting things with that money.
00:25:21.140 - 00:26:13.186, Speaker A: And question three from YouTube how does Aave enforce that? The loan is repaid by the end of the splash. Loans are really for developers. It's not really anything that of course the lending pool code enforces it and then you have to understand how solidity works and how the EVM works to really understand how it's enforced. But the revert mechanism, it's not as complex as maybe it sounds. You just have to imagine that there's some rules and those rules just can't be broken and that's why flash loans work. So this is an example of what the flash loan, what I mentioned before in that diagram of closing, paying back a MakerDAO, CDP vault, taking that collateral, selling it on a decentralized exchange and doing some other stuff with it. This is an example of what it looks like.
00:26:13.186 - 00:27:08.120, Speaker A: So you can see you're doing like many multiple transactions in one go and that's partly the Power flash loans. You'd save quite a lot on gas costs, but then also it's just a lot easier from a user experience perspective. And then another example of using flash loans, this is an Arbitrage, it's a very small arbitrage, they only flash loaned about 33 day, but you can see that they made $0.03 here. But there's other examples of people flash loaning, I think it was $15 million to do some Arbitrage on Curve Finance or one of those DEXes and then they made $15,000. So that's the Arbitrage world, highly competitive but that's probably something outside of sort of these hackathon type projects. But just so you know that the design space for Flash lanes is quite large for you to experiment with.
00:27:08.120 - 00:27:56.502, Speaker A: So the next part I'll talk about is what we call the Avengerfam. So this is more to give you some inspiration of the types of projects that have been built already or that we like to see and that we support as well. Just so you know that there's many different ways you could use Aave in your project. So DeFi Saver is one of the big ones. They're really cool in that one of their features is that you can swap your lending positions between these different lending protocols like Compound dYdX or Makerdial which is a DSR. And this is powerful because from a user perspective, sometimes the interest rate is better on Aave, sometimes it's not better than on Aave. But when those times come, we want users to get the best position possible.
00:27:56.502 - 00:28:45.326, Speaker A: So DeFi Saver do that very easily by using Flash loans underneath where essentially one click and you can transfer your whole lending position to a different protocol. And we love that because it's a great user experience and it's something that's needed and it keeps the industry competitive. Another RVM is furocombo. So I mentioned that Flash loans are quite difficult to use and they're only for developers. So Furocombo is one of the first sort of GUI interfaces where essentially it's like Lego bricks, where you can just connect these bricks together and you can say, okay, I want to flash loan this amount. And then once I have that, swap it on uniswap and then take out a position here. And you do that without any code.
00:28:45.326 - 00:29:52.650, Speaker A: So that's really cool. And we've had a few hackathon projects that try to build Gui's like Photocombo, but this is really cool consumer tooling as well. And people have actually made profitable Arbitrages using Photocombo as and another one is Yearn Finance. So yern Finance for those that don't know, is a yield aggregator. What they do is they aggregate sort of yield farming from many different lending protocols whether it's Aave or Compound or Curve Finance or whatever else. And it's really cool because Aave is only a small part of their ecosystem and when their users deposit funds in certain UN finance vaults, some of those funds actually ends up on Aave earning interest and then they pass on that interest to their users. And I think that's really cool in that it just helps users earn more interest and get better use experiences, better products out of the ecosystem.
00:29:52.650 - 00:31:16.058, Speaker A: And that's really powerful to do with composability and bridging across many different protocols and then finally Ave Gotchi which is something sort of quite new and quite different in that they're creating provably rare interest bearing NFTs. So if you think of Tamagotchi or CryptoKitties, it's like you have an NFT like that, but underlying that NFT is a bunch of a Tokens. So the longer you have your Avagotchi and you're playing and going on quests, earning experience points and things like that, you're also accruing interest in this Avagotchi so that NFT has some inherent value, which I think is really cool and really fascinating concept of just combining the DeFi space with gaming and NFT space. So your project doesn't have to necessarily be about financial tooling, it can be something really cool and fun like Avogatchi, that's just general consumer gaming. And then I got a few more slides and then we can open it up to general questions. So coming soon, just so you guys know, we're planning to, as I mentioned, have more markets. So to have a set market and have other markets similar to the uniswap market where essentially any position that can be Tokenized could potentially be used as collateral as long as there's a reliable price feed.
00:31:16.058 - 00:32:09.986, Speaker A: We announced that in V Two we'll have a private market for Realty, which is Tokenized real estate. So that's something coming up as well, which is quite exciting. Ave Nomics we announced a while ago that's our path towards decentralization actually our first vote is probably passing later tonight, I think, and that's our governance vote to convert lend to Ave and also activate the staking and safety. And you can find out more information at the link. Thanks for voting by the way. It was a great vote for everyone. That's interesting for specifically this because that means that by the time you start hacking, let's say on this weekend, you should have access to the Ave Token.
00:32:09.986 - 00:32:49.218, Speaker A: And Ave Token is brand new because we're just starting to migrate. So there's migration contacts that you can play with. Hopefully everyone migrates rather quickly. But I mentioned on Discord as well. One special feature of the Ave Token is we have a permit function and I'd love to see some applications around the permit function that allows essentially people to make gasless transactions, or to delegate, or to make a sign a transaction off chain and then give to someone else and someone else sends that transaction on chain. So that's quite fascinating. Die also has permit and a lot of new ERC 20 Tokens have this permit function.
00:32:49.218 - 00:33:23.820, Speaker A: So maybe you can combine it to create something really cool to have a look into that. So we do have Docs on the RV token. If you go to Docs Ave.com developers, I think in the top bar there's like an Ave Token section, just click on there. There's some information about the migration script, but also it's information and examples or actual code of the RB Token that you can look at. Right now. So for V Two, that should also be coming pretty soon.
00:33:23.820 - 00:34:25.162, Speaker A: I'm not sure if we'll be during this hackathon time, but maybe if you're lucky, you might have some new cool things to play with. But there's a bunch of features. The main goal around V Two is creating seamless finance, so there'll be a lot of interesting like debt tokenization repaying with collateral and native credit delegation, some L2 integrations for a tokens margin, trading a lot of extra trading features, and also liquidity farming and decentralized governance will play a much larger role. So there's some really cool stuff there, but yeah, you'll definitely hear about it once it's ready to be played around with. And those docs should be probably in the next few weeks, I'd imagine. And then here's some resources. So once again, I'll share this presentation on the discord so you can have a look.
00:34:25.162 - 00:34:51.340, Speaker A: The important one, maybe the one I'd recommend to go to, is Docs Ave.com Hack. There's some ideas and sort of what we'd like to see. We've been involved with quite a few hackathons, so yeah, go there and have a look and then there's links to everything else as well. So that is all and we can open it to more questions. Emily, if there are any more.
00:34:52.270 - 00:35:22.210, Speaker B: Yeah, great. If anybody feels like unmuting themselves and asking any questions they may have for David, you're more than welcome to. Or if you have any comments on the presentation as a whole. How can front running affect users Flash loans?
00:35:24.970 - 00:36:13.860, Speaker A: So front load running is, I guess, an EVM or general issue in industry. How could it affect it? Let's say if you have an arbitrage opportunity that you're trying to take with Flash loans, the worst that would happen is that your arbitrage ends up not being profitable, so therefore you can't pay back the Flash loan, so therefore it would just revert. So you just lose out on gas fees. Now that happens quite a lot because it's quite competitive with arbitrage things. So you see quite a lot of failed transactions sometimes and that's basically arbitrages arbitraris just fighting to get their transaction in. There's another question around other L ones and L two S. We haven't announced anything.
00:36:13.860 - 00:36:48.140, Speaker A: The only thing we announced so far is that we're actively looking, researching in the research stages of other, whether it's L ones or L two S, but nothing necessarily to announce right now at this moment. Any other questions? Or even if you have some ideas that you want to reveal to the world or get some feedback on, feel free to NFDS are the hottest thing now.
00:36:49.410 - 00:36:53.630, Speaker B: Maybe just read the question out for the people viewing on YouTube.
00:36:54.230 - 00:37:42.750, Speaker A: Yeah, sure, that's a good idea. So Carol asks, are there any NFTs for education? Eg concepts like avagatchi? You need to have attention paid to them to live long term. Not that I'm aware of. That sounds like a pretty cool idea. The only education related hack or project I've come across is these guys that have like sort of a university education style platform where you pay your fees, but those fees essentially go into the lending pool and then the interest earn goes out to people that complete the course or achieve certain milestones in the course. But that's not NFT related, that's just around interest earning. Interest related.
00:37:42.750 - 00:38:18.438, Speaker A: Another question from Damien Santiago. Is it possible to create an app as pulled together and integrate with Aave? I mean, deposit the pool asset one month and return the money to the users? Yeah, so that's definitely possible. So that's in the bucket of lossless things. So lossless lottery or lossless games and things like that. So yeah, we've seen quite a few hack projects around that. So you can create your own pull together type thing. We'd love to see other innovative ideas besides just copying.
00:38:18.438 - 00:39:04.630, Speaker A: Exactly pull together's model. I think there's a lot of different models you could adopt or improve on, but that's definitely possible to do that. Anav asks, what do you think about NFTs and DeFi? Like using any NFT, say an art piece as collateral? I'm not really into the NFT space. I don't know much about it and haven't been following it that much. The only thing that I question about NFTs is around pricing. For something like Aave and lending borrowing, the price feeds are quite important because if the price tanks for whatever reason, then the system might be in danger. So those positions need to be liquidated.
00:39:04.630 - 00:39:45.462, Speaker A: So you need to have reliable price feeds. The thing with NFTs, inherently they're non fungible. So someone buys it for one dollars, then next person buys it with $10,000. What's the actual price? It doesn't mean it's actually $10,000 because maybe you don't have anyone that's going to buy it for that amount. So that becomes a bit hard in the NFT space, but hopefully maybe someone from this hackathon will solve that problem. A, so that's interesting problem a big problem for NFTs just around pricing. Good questions.
00:39:45.462 - 00:39:47.640, Speaker A: Keep them coming if you have any more.
00:39:52.250 - 00:40:19.466, Speaker B: And feel free to unmute yourself with your questions as yeah, I mean, otherwise if there's no other questions at the moment, you're more than welcome to reach out to David on the Ave Sponsor channel as well. I'm sure you can share these slides in that channel. David.
00:40:19.658 - 00:40:21.422, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely, I'll do that.
00:40:21.556 - 00:40:36.230, Speaker B: Cool. Thanks so much David, that was great. And thanks everybody for joining. Yeah, pop into the Ave Discord channel with your questions and looking forward to kicking Ethanline off on Friday.
00:40:36.890 - 00:40:38.440, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks everyone.
00:40:39.050 - 00:40:39.462, Speaker B: Great.
00:40:39.516 - 00:40:42.690, Speaker A: See you in the hat. Bye.
