00:00:00.330 - 00:00:49.980, Speaker A: Our goal when we launched in August was to start building tools for developers to essentially be able to build on real businesses on chain. So we launched sequence of fee sharing, which enables developer to plug an application and earn a percentage of transaction fees from their users. We also started building dashboards for developers. Understand more about their user base as yeah, after speaking to a load of developers, the biggest problem for them right now, developing apps is not so much can I build this thing? It's very much like how do I scale it? How do I secure it? How do I ensure that users come back after trying it for the first time?
00:00:52.450 - 00:01:49.470, Speaker B: Welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm DFi dad here with nomadic from four RC. Today's show spotlights the newly launched Ethereum L two Mode mode main net just went live, along with details for their future mode airdrop. In this episode, we'll talk with the founder of Mode, James Ross, about how mode differentiates as an L two with features such as sequencer fee sharing, how mode will host a new class of its own, native d five protocols, and how we as users can earn a share of the future mode airdrop. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the edge podcast possible. Introducing rsuith by Swell Network, a native liquid restaking token that gives you access to the Eigen layer ecosystem, earn pearls points, and future restaking rewards without locking your liquidity, and enjoy countless defi integrations for earning easy passive yield. Learn more at swellnetwork IO.
00:01:50.690 - 00:02:22.426, Speaker C: Introducing the mantle liquid staking protocol mantle LSP, a permissionless noncustodial ETH liquid staking protocol deployed on Ethereum l one and governed by mantle. With mantle LSP, users can stake ETH to instantly receive me, earn yield, and accumulate rewards. The longer you stake me is the value accumulating receipt token that will give you access to expanded yield opportunities. Stake and watch your yield grow with.
00:02:22.448 - 00:03:02.450, Speaker B: Mantle LSP for most of us, our crypto journey started with Metamask, and now with Metamask portfolio, we can do so much more. Metamask portfolio puts you in control. Use the dashboard to see all your assets and balances across your wallets in one place. The buy feature allows us to buy crypto assets effortlessly with fiat options such as PayPal or credit card. The swap feature allows us to swap any tokens anytime by finding a selection of available rates. The bridge feature allows us to bridge between networks, including Ethereum L Ones and L two s, based on the best price and fastest delivery time. And with the stake feature, anyone in a few clicks can stake ETH and earn rewards.
00:03:02.450 - 00:03:15.850, Speaker B: Do more in web three your way with a safe, simple, and convenient tool that's all in one place. Track and manage your web three everything at Metamask IO portfolio it all started.
00:03:15.920 - 00:03:56.550, Speaker D: So simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multi chain ux. Redesigned from the ground up. The first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas one gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC and native access to Instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:03:57.050 - 00:04:02.714, Speaker B: All right, let's introduce James Ross, the founder of Mode. James, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:04:02.832 - 00:04:08.582, Speaker A: I'm great. Thank you so much for having me on today. I'm super excited to chat.
00:04:08.646 - 00:04:59.434, Speaker B: So we're recording this in advance, and if folks are watching this, they're probably aware then that mode L two has gone live, which also means that the Mode airdrop campaign has kicked off. And so our goal here today is to introduce folks to all things mode to understand how does mode differentiate as an L two? And I think as an airdrop farmer, as a long term DFI investor, as a DFI investor that wants to see l two s, like mode that are super focused on building the next generation of DFI protocols, I want to understand how to get involved. So, James, why don't we just start with a little bit more about your background? You've been in the crypto space for quite a long time. What can you share about some of the work that you've done?
00:04:59.552 - 00:05:20.578, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I've been in the space since 2017 2018 as an angel investor and helping teams with their go to market with their growth strategies. I used to have a podcast. I still have a podcast. It's not very active. I ran a blog called growing Web three where I was lucky enough to actually interview yourself hard to do a.
00:05:20.584 - 00:06:09.918, Speaker B: Podcast and build an Altua. Once you do the hard work, we'll keep recording podcasts. But, yeah, you're a master marketer of web three. I think one of the few people I've known over the years to have been totally focused on the storytelling around crypto, which is part of the reason I'm really excited to hear more here today about mode. I'm just really confident that you're going to be able to do the harder stuff of marketing that I think other teams struggle with and get folks in that door and excited to try mode. But anyways, I cut you off there. Tell us a little bit more about some of the work you did marketing for teams in crypto.
00:06:10.014 - 00:06:43.470, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So I was working very early on with DFI teams and that was since 20, 18, 19. DFI wasn't even really a term at that point in time, but we caught it like financial applications being built with blockchain. It was a really exciting time. There were some great teams. I was lucky enough to spend some time in New York with one of the first DeFi wallets called balance. It was a non custodial wallet from the founder, Rick.
00:06:43.470 - 00:07:24.470, Speaker A: The team ended up splitting up some of that team went on to build Rainbow Wallet. I spent some time with them. I spent time in San Francisco as well with a lot of DeFi teams. So I really got an insight into how this incredible approach to rebuilding financial services on top of Ethereum would be. And yeah, I kind of continued working with teams mainly on the growth go to market strategies, worked with an exchange called hashflow. I then had a small consultancy. We were helping teams with TVL.
00:07:24.470 - 00:08:21.422, Speaker A: We were also running liquid strategies ourselves. So we were LPs across projects like Compound Ave. We did a lot of derivatives trading on DYDX as well. And yeah, that was a really fun time. Around that time, I met the founder of agency called Hype and he had a community tool company that he'd built, a developer tooling company that he'd built through the last bear market, 2019, 2020, and in early 2021 that got acquired. So, yeah, he bought out my company and I took over hype for a period when he was working at his staff. That was acquired during the time of Hype, helped grow the team from around 40, 50 people to over 150.
00:08:21.422 - 00:09:15.280, Speaker A: We worked with a lot of the biggest ecosystems, helping them on things like ecosystem growth, go to market, develop, acquisition, and kind of everything that was nontechnical. We also built a product team, we also started running validators. So it became like a network of companies, essentially. And I left that around seven months ago to start building mode. And yeah, it's been quite the journey. I've always been very close to the ethereum ecosystem, and as we've seen blockchains develop, we've seen the structure of L ones and l two s develop. It's been really exciting for me to see how quickly l two s have been adopted and the awesome traction they're getting.
00:09:15.280 - 00:11:09.730, Speaker A: I've always kind of followed Vitalik's in the Ethereum roadmap that l two s are going to be the future of scaling. And at the beginning of last year, I was speaking to some optimism teams, friends who are working there. I was speaking to people I know working on different solutions. And it became clear that, yeah, there's going to be lots of groups of chains. The tech that we use is going to become fairly commoditized and the real advantage and the real battle between different chains is going to be on the application layer. Right? So the problem for building a new ecosystem is not so much on can I build something more decentralized, can I build something more scalable? Right now that's all happening, right? And there's lots of amazing teams working on that and we've had lots of awesome innovation and the roadmap is there. The real challenge now is around how can we build ecosystems, how can we grow the space as a whole? How can we think of new applications, how can we bring more developers to our applications to grow Ethereum and grow the space in general? So yeah, I started working with a friend called Dimmy on some ideas, essentially building a blockchain that would share revenues and give sustainable business models to developers, application developers, and create like a system where as a dev, you can deploy, deploy an app and you have a very clear journey from deploying your application to then scaling it across multiple chains.
00:11:09.730 - 00:12:00.420, Speaker A: So yeah, that was a foundational thinking behind mode. Our goal when we launched in August was to launch a test in August was to start building tools for developers to essentially be able to build on real businesses on chain. So we launched sequence of fee sharing, which enables developer to deploy an application and earn a percentage of transaction fees from their users. We also started building dashboards for developers to understand more about their user base. And we've refined that. We've built many different tools over the past six months and now we have the main net live. We've worked closely with a lot of applications to kind of incubate them, help them with their go to market.
00:12:00.420 - 00:13:08.710, Speaker A: So yeah, they can start their growth journey and they have different revenue streams to essentially keep building and keep growing. After speaking to a load of developers, the biggest problem for them right now, developing apps is not so much can I build this thing? It's very much like how do I scale it, how do I secure it, how do I ensure that users come back after trying it for the first time? How do I ensure that they know when there's updates? And these are all different challenges than the kind of challenges we had a few years ago, which were almost all technical right. Every dev you spoke to would be like, it's really hard to build smart contracts. It's really difficult to build scalable applications now. The challenges are very much like, it's very hard to get users, it's very hard to get more devs on our protocol. It's very hard to secure things. So it's different challenges.
00:13:08.710 - 00:13:12.486, Speaker A: So yeah, we're building mode to support devs with those challenges.
00:13:12.598 - 00:13:47.058, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you make a good point about the future is that I think the tech you mentioned will be commoditized. So if you want to start a new l two or in the future l three s or whatever l's we get to. It's not the tech. I think that, yeah, we'll differentiate. It's very similar to if you start an ecommerce business today. Most of those are running on similar tech stacks. It's more about how do they attract, in this case customers.
00:13:47.058 - 00:14:30.238, Speaker B: And with l two s, I think it's more about how do you attract those users and attract the right protocols that are going to onboard those users. I don't want to play down the importance of this tech. Like, it's still really early. Like, you know, for folks like us, it feels like we've already come so far and there's been so much development in terms of building secure, scalable blockchains. But yeah, we've still got quite a bit to go. And I love the way you describe where the puck is going here. It's going to be a fight to build the best communities.
00:14:30.238 - 00:14:53.658, Speaker B: And I think there's some first mover advantage with folks like optimism and arbitrum already and some others. So this might lead us then into, I guess, why did you choose to build on the op stack? Are you trying to hook on to the network effects of what's been built already through optimism? Just kind of curious why you chose it.
00:14:53.744 - 00:15:38.102, Speaker A: Yeah. So when anyone, any founder is looking to build an L two, right. In 2024, there's different routes you can take, on 2023, there's different routes you can take. And you're seeing most teams now choosing either like an op stack, optimistic roll up, or you're seeing teams choosing ZK rollups, right. Going for something like Polygon, Zkevm, and that's, for example, what Manta's built on. A few others, I think, Kanto. So you have to think strategically about which direction you're going to go in.
00:15:38.102 - 00:16:39.610, Speaker A: There's benefits to ZKDMs, there's benefits to optimistic roll ups. I really like how optimism's general approach to being really focused on growing Ethereum, and that very much aligns with mine. The team's like, our community values and our mission. Our goal is to build kind of new approach to DeFi, new approach to fundraising mechanisms, a new approach to scaling DeFi applications by building out essentially new economic mechanisms for growth. Right. So whether that's sequence of fee sharing, experimenting with that, whether that's building new types of treasuries, our goal is to build our systems so we don't have to rely so much on governance, which we feel is very clunky and very slow. We want to build our automated rules, systems that reward people, that grow the network.
00:16:39.610 - 00:17:31.230, Speaker A: And yeah, we spoke with the optimism team about this a lot. And optimism as a chain is very much focused on public goods funding, which is amazing. They're very much focused on good governance. So we felt that us taking an almost opposite approach to building within that ecosystem is beneficial because there's lots that we can learn from them, and hopefully we can build some things where they can learn from us. So, yeah, also, when we talk about op stack, there is a distinction. You have chains like blast, which use op stack, but they're not part of optimism super chain. Right? Optimism super chain is base Zora mode, op mainnet.
00:17:31.230 - 00:18:02.610, Speaker A: And to be part of this super chain, you have to share specific standards. You also have to contribute back to collective. So mode contributes sequence of fees back to the super chain. Collective back to optimism. We have an agreement there. So we also have an agreement that we'll use the tech stack. Like that is the op mainnet configuration.
00:18:02.610 - 00:18:38.670, Speaker A: We won't, for example, swap in a different DA layer when we feel like it. We have shared security standards, and eventually there'll be interoperability across different chains that are in this super chain. And it's optimism's way of scaling. It's their new approach to scaling. So, yeah, we've had a lot of support from them. We recently received a 2 million op grant. I'm not sure what the current price of that is right now, but it's pretty significant.
00:18:38.670 - 00:19:12.194, Speaker A: And that's for us to focus on doing more research into these different economic mechanisms. We'd looked a lot into, like competitive game theory on chain. How can you have two pseudonymous addresses that compete? What conditions do you have to create for them to build something bigger? We've looked at different ways of revenue sharing on blockchains. So, yeah, I don't know if that answers why we chose optimism, but we see a huge amount of opportunity within this super chain of contributing.
00:19:12.342 - 00:20:19.698, Speaker B: So one of the features that you referenced, sequencer, fee sharing, can you dumb that down just a bit? Maybe go as far as, like, what do you mean when you reference sequencer? Where do the fees come from? And then what's the net resolve of this? Because I want to say that part of the design choice here reminds me of how Kanto works. Kanto has this. Is it called contract sharing revenue CSR. Anyways, what Kanto did is they've made it possible so that if you're a developer and you created the code that powered the sushi swap farms originally, which got copied and pasted over and over and over again into all these different DeFi applications, there is some bit of revenue there that's earned for that developer. So I think this is a really clever way to incentivize developers to work on your L two. But anyways, yeah, if you can break that down for us.
00:20:19.784 - 00:21:03.278, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So sequencers essentially sequence transactions and they pass them through to their L one. So every l two has a sequencer. And when you pay fees on optimism, base or mode, that fee goes to the sequencer. And part of that fee is the cost to post that transaction to the L one, to Ethereum. Right. And there's a load of those transactions rolled up, and that's why they're cheap, because instead of posting, instead of directly posting every transaction on the L one, you're rolling them up on the l two, posting them as a batch.
00:21:03.278 - 00:21:42.506, Speaker A: And yeah, that is usually quite a significant profit between the transaction fee and after it's been posted. There's small profit margin. And lots of different teams have looked into how they use those sequence of fees. Most teams, most l two s take those sequence of fees and maybe keep them for themselves. Like use them to reinvest via different means. It could be through Dow, could be through governance. We're looking to essentially give those fees back to the developers directly.
00:21:42.506 - 00:22:20.982, Speaker A: So a developer might have an application like a Dex. There's contracts on that decks they've deployed, and users make lots of transactions, say 100 transactions. And let's say, to make it easy, every transaction has a fee of one. Dollars should be much less than l two. Let's say it's a dollar. And, yeah, 50% of that can go to developers, or 20% of that could go to developers, or it'd be profit. So mode is looking at different ways we can distribute fees.
00:22:20.982 - 00:23:07.894, Speaker A: And, yeah, we actually use some of Kanto's open source contracts. They were the first to really do this with their model, their contract secured revenue is slightly different in the way it works. The way that sequence of fee sharing works is that we essentially track everything and then after the transaction has been sequenced, we know how profitable is and then we return the funds to developers. So slightly different the way that things are calculated. But yeah, that's how sequence of fee sharing works. And yeah, fast. This is something which is going to become very common.
00:23:07.894 - 00:23:09.606, Speaker A: We expect every l two to do.
00:23:09.628 - 00:23:47.330, Speaker B: This in one way or another, I think so. I think there's no doubt this is going to get copied by other teams. So it's really just proof of the fact that it's a really good idea. It's an incentive that makes a lot of sense to expand on that, though. There's this thing, I thought it was called mode referral revenue. So there's some sort of a referral on chain and you get a portion of sequencer fees for life. Can you explain more of that and how that's going to create yet another incentive to participate in mode?
00:23:47.410 - 00:24:55.030, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So we also built out an on chain referral mechanic. So if you refer someone to mode, then you get a small part of their sequence of fees as well of their transaction fees. So it gives that incentive for people who aren't necessarily token holders to recommend their friends to use mode. Right now the airdrop campaign that's running is definitely much more lucrative when it comes to referring people to mode, as you also get airdrop points and you will get sequence of fees as well. Our goal is to really think about how can we build distribution mechanics into the product, how can we build growth mechanics into the product, into the chain itself. So yeah, the on chain referral engine is also going to be interesting to see how that evolves.
00:24:55.190 - 00:26:02.240, Speaker E: Maverick protocol provides innovative liquidity solutions for token projects to customize, automate, and incentivize their liquidity with the highest efficiency in DeFi, all powered by Maverick Amm. Why has Maverick become the first choice for all kinds of token projects, from stablecoins to LRTs as the first dynamic distribution? Amm Maverick Amm provides automated liquidity movement modes which move your liquidity to follow price, keeping it where it does the most good. This enables Maverick powered pools to process higher volume with lower TVL requirements, and means that Maverick supports the highest capital efficiency for LRTs. Like we ETH, Maverick Amm also supports non uniform liquidity distributions, making it easy to concentrate liquidity in shapes that fit each project's individual needs. Finally, Maverick boosted positions maximize incentive efficiency for protocols looking to bootstrap their token liquidity to precise strategic areas of a liquidity pool. Token communities like Lido, Aave, Swell, Etherfi and Kelpdao have been bootstrapping TvL and maintaining peg using maverick tools ready to build liquidity with maximal efficiency. Go to app mav xyz slash theedgepodcast today.
00:26:05.030 - 00:26:22.758, Speaker B: Can you talk more about what's the design or thinking behind this, like smart treasury? This is another feature I was reading about for mode. It's like smart treasury with rewards funded by autonomous buybacks. So what does that mean and how does it work?
00:26:22.844 - 00:27:32.734, Speaker A: This is something we're working on right now. When the mode token is launched, we will have a smart treasury, and smart treasuries are essentially fully on chain treasuries that will act autonomously, and the purpose of them is to buy back and reissue tokens. So there's a pretty interesting article from Joel when I grow from placeholder. He published this a few years ago, and it was a response to a lot of chains not really understanding what to do with revenue, that they gain their own token. So there were some chains that started earning revenue in their own token, especially l ones, and their response was to burn them. And yeah, people should read the article, it's really good. It's called don't burn tokens, buy back and make, or something like that.
00:27:32.734 - 00:29:08.394, Speaker A: And essentially he was saying, yeah, it doesn't make sense to take tokens out of circulation and burn them because you increase the amount of static tokens or you increase the power of static tokens. For example, people that might just be hoarding tokens or holding tokens, I don't know, 40s holding tokens, not doing anything with them, they're essentially getting more powerful, right? And more power. And especially if they're governance tokens, these people are increasing their power over and over again. And his proposition was that instead you should reissue those tokens, right? So you should think about how smart treasury can essentially hold your native token can hold ETH, and it could also hold stable coins. When those tokens come back. When you have revenue, you buy back your token, the smart treasury automatically buybacks your token, and then it can reissue those tokens to, for example, developers or applications. And if there's positive growth from that, you'll end up having this flywheel effect and this really nice growth loop where this revenue ends up funding essentially your growth engine.
00:29:08.394 - 00:30:19.230, Speaker A: So yeah, it's a bit hard to explain without the diagram in front of me. That's essentially the thinking behind it. And our focus with mode is to build out as many autonomous systems as possible. So firstly, how do we quantify what growth is on chain and what on chain contribution is, right. Then how do we reward and incentivize that with tokens and create, how do we create ongoing sustainable incentives for our users and developers, and how does that grow the network as a whole? So yeah, we've spent a lot of time focusing on building out a research arm which really digs into these economic questions around growth. So yeah, we're really excited to share that. And the partners we've worked with, they're all PhDs in game theory and computer science, and they will build out incredible stuff, incredible models.
00:30:19.230 - 00:30:24.500, Speaker A: So yeah, we'll have a lot more on this very soon.
00:30:24.970 - 00:31:07.726, Speaker B: Before we talk about the partners or protocols that should be live with mode main net live. Basically, how can we get started starting to, where can we get started in terms of DfI on mode? I'm curious, have you been able to reflect then at all on what are some of the mistakes that other l two s have made? You don't have to call anybody out by name at all, but just kind of thinking about the stumbling blocks that you've observed and how you're iterating on that. So that mode can attract that many more users, that many more developers, that many more protocols.
00:31:07.838 - 00:32:34.540, Speaker A: So I think the biggest mistake l two s make, I don't really want to share this, but I'm going to share it because we love sharing information, is focusing on the big protocols first. It's not a good strategy for a few reasons. If I'm building a new L two and my first applications are uniswap Ave, yeah, let's use those two and maybe a couple of other well known D five protocols like say sushi swap as well. I mean that's awesome, right? We must have the world's best BD team and we must have a really compelling chain, but it doesn't really give a chance to grow your own native DFI ecosystem. And most success comes from on an L two. When you have a really strong native group of builders who are building on your chain, who are committed to your chain, who are going to eventually launch tokens, govern their projects via your chain and grow that way, it's much more organic and there's much more incentive as well. I think Arbitram is the best example of this.
00:32:34.540 - 00:34:09.514, Speaker A: They launched GMX, launched on Arbitram. It got a lot of support from the community and it grew into this incredible protocol and I think there was a lot of great catalysts that happened when GMX launched, for example, ETH price was going up. That was great as people were net long on the platform, but it created this awesome community of people and builders who went on to build many other things within the ecosystem. And yeah, if they had just died with, say, trying to bring on a big perps protocol, it wouldn't have been the same because they had this new protocol, it had a new design, it had a very successful token. It meant that as it grew, all the natives on that chain grew with it and saw this incredible return continue to build out awesome new things. So not focusing in on your native DFI ecosystem or native ecosystem, not supporting those builders enough is definitely a big mistake. And I think a lot of l two s that have had 2030, 40, $50 million of funding, their first thought is, well, we can just pay a big protocol to come on tour, to come on terms and that will solve our problems.
00:34:09.514 - 00:34:55.750, Speaker A: But it actually doesn't. If you look at a lot of l two s, some of their top protocols are native to them. And yeah, that's definitely like a journey that you have to go through. And yeah, when you're launching an L two, your goal is to launch the best platform or the best environment for developers to build cool stuff and build real businesses that will scale. So yeah, you kind of end up becoming like an ecosystem incubator, accelerator and support system. And yeah, that's definitely what we're aiming to do at mode. And we've been lucky enough to work with some great builders.
00:34:55.750 - 00:36:06.106, Speaker A: We have a lending protocol called ionic, which for an extremely smart team. We have a new style of exchange for Kim and we have quite a few exchanges. We have a launch pad coming very soon called S One, which is going to help power the launches of various super chain teams. And for all these protocols, their goal is to think about how they can start building on mode now, what their differentiator is, and how they can become a team that grows across the superchain, how they can start building interoperable solutions. So maybe in the future, this lending protocol will enable you to have your Ethan mode and borrow USDC on know, be able to have Ethan mode and quickly have some USDT or USDC or Ethan Zora to quickly buy an NFT. So we're starting to try and think about those challenges now and build for them.
00:36:06.228 - 00:36:46.734, Speaker B: That is a really well articulated point about having to create your own. I call them like a homegrown hero on an L two. So radiant capital for me was a homegrown hero of arbitrum, GMX was without question the flagship hero of that L two. I think velodrum has held somewhat of that role in optimism. And yeah, to the point you're making though, with these bigger guys, it's just the reality. Ave uniswap. Actually, I'll say curve is one of the few.
00:36:46.734 - 00:37:29.990, Speaker B: That curve is huge. And those guys move still like it's day one. They are just like one of the fastest to deploy and to want to participate in new L two s. But aside from curve, it's just hard to get governance on board to get these protocols aligned. And yeah, there's something about what you described there. I love that there's a magic to having your own homegrown hero that is a Dex or a lending platform. I feel like Starknet has been doing somewhat of a good job of this.
00:37:29.990 - 00:38:10.950, Speaker B: I think it's because the tech forces that issue, it's not easy to move from any of the other l two s or L ones right over to Starknet. I want to say mantle too has been an L two. That when I think of mode and what I've known about mode through your eyes, I think of mantle as well. They're like very product centric. But yeah, I love what you just said. That's such a great point. You named a number of the newer protocols that would be launching on mode.
00:38:10.950 - 00:38:48.754, Speaker B: Any other names that we might already know from other l two s or Ethereum main net that we can expect to show up? I want to say Athena was one that is not fully launched. They're still like in beta on Ethereum main net. For folks that don't know Athena, you should go back. We did an interview with Guy, the founder of Athena. I think at the start of January 2024, they have this protocol where you deposit staked ETH. For now, it's just Lido staff. And then what they do is they create like a basis trade.
00:38:48.754 - 00:39:22.270, Speaker B: So as long as there are funding rates that will pay us to short ETH, they're able to open up this delta neutral position. And the net result of that is pretty insane. It's been anywhere between 10% to 30% on average. Anyways, Athena is like a pretty highly anticipated protocol that's coming. Anyways, anything you can say about Athena. Is Athena definitely going to be on mode or any other protocols we might recognize?
00:39:22.630 - 00:40:12.240, Speaker A: Yeah, we have an integration that's being worked on with Athena right now. We can't really say too much more, but yeah, that will be coming probably like March, April time. We've integrated like 50, 60 different application IPs of infrastructure, different applications we expect to launch. We have things like safe deployment, which has been done by the awesome team at protofib. Yeah, it's the gnosis safe that we all know and love. So yeah, when you're building out an ecosystem and a chain, you really have to get a lot of key infrastructure in place. Right.
00:40:12.240 - 00:41:21.602, Speaker A: You have to have a load of integrations across all different wallets. But the kind of key thing is you have to have a place for people to trade, swap, you have to have place people to borrow and lend and you have to have a place for people to leverage their positions. Right. We've also started working on different liquid staking, well, work on integrations with different liquid staking platforms. We've been working closely with the redacted team on a solution there. So yeah, we have a lot coming, but to start with we're really focused on our native defi ecosystem and building out and get this interoperable vision. And our core goal with these protocols is we're encouraging them to launch tokens, become decentralized, have a governance structure, become decentralized as quickly as possible and really involve the community in that, and have very active participation from the community in every step of this journey.
00:41:21.602 - 00:42:19.386, Speaker A: And also experiment with different fundraising models. We don't really want them to all just get VC funding. Right. We want there to be a much more kind of fair launch style approach to them launching on mode like we want them to experiment. Would it make sense for a new Dex on mode to do a liquidity bootstrapping pool and LBP? Would it make sense to do like a liquidity mining program for a significant amount of the tokens? A huge amount. Would it be interesting to do an auction? Could we use NFTs to think about different ways to launch? So we're really excited to work with these teams to experiment with different ways they can launch. And so, yeah, that's going to be fun.
00:42:19.488 - 00:43:03.622, Speaker B: James, you mentioned LSts. Is there any native yield for an ETH lst on mode? Or is there, when I say a native yield, probably the one place I think of right now is mantle has this thing called meth, mantle ETH, that's like this baseline yield that folks are earning there. They also have a stable coin called MUSD and it's backed by Ondo which is using treasury bill yield. So it's earning about like 5%. Is there a concept of native yield on mode that we can look forward to? Is there anything that should already be live or coming soon.
00:43:03.756 - 00:44:16.000, Speaker A: Yeah, so we are working on that right now. And this will be like very much a stage two to this main net launch. The key thing for us is we need to keep interoperability across the super chain. So if we have our own LST, for example, if it was mode ETH, right, that would be great for mode, but it wouldn't necessarily be great for these other teams, right. If at one point we'd become interoperable, then it doesn't really make sense to have this token flying around base and other chains and open main net. So we're trying to think about this from an approach like how do we scale this? If we were to have native build, how would it scale? What would it look like on chain? What would it look like across different applications? Would these be rebasing tokens? Would they be wrapped versions? So yeah, we're doing a lot of research into that. We'll be releasing some of that research in the coming weeks.
00:44:16.000 - 00:44:24.042, Speaker A: But yeah, there will be native yields. The exact implementation we'll share very soon.
00:44:24.116 - 00:45:04.074, Speaker B: So before we talk about how we can participate in a future airdrop, or what are the details of this Airdrop campaign? But by the way, again, I'm recording all this with James in advance, so I truly have no idea. I haven't been able to read any. So, like if you're watching this, you should probably go to mode network and check out their blog or look at their Twitter for more details. But can you talk to us a little bit about the mode token? Like what utility will it serve? How does it work? Is there staking involved with it? How does it function in the mode network?
00:45:04.202 - 00:46:05.570, Speaker A: Yeah, so we're doing a fairly significant airdrop, I would say, and we've worked on modeling this campaign with a couple of different groups who focused on incentive modeling for really like the top teams. I actually know them from when I was working on a project with the eigenve team. And yeah, we ended up collaborating with a team working on this again. So yeah, we've really taken, like, I'd say a much more quantitative approach. Like if people contribute to the chain, they'll get significantly higher reward than those that don't contribute. But if you do bridge over, you do get a reward. If you bridge over and you're active in protocols, you get a much higher reward.
00:46:05.570 - 00:46:49.882, Speaker A: We have a formula for that, so we're trying to be fairly transparent as well. We've seen that a lot of teams that, for example, lock people's tokens into a bridge or lock tokens in general. Yeah, I think it's one of these things where short term, I think, yeah, potentially it's good for the chain. Right. TVL goes up, everyone high fives. But it's not very sustainable and so we don't want to do that. We think that people should make their own decisions essentially on where they move their assets.
00:46:49.882 - 00:47:39.120, Speaker A: That's kind of the whole point of commissionless systems. Right? Like, you don't have to lock stuff up for many months, but yeah, and fast is all about like ongoing contribution and for example, depositing and becoming a liquidity provider means you are, you're contributing daily, like hourly, every minute, every time there's a trade. But yeah, just having assets in a bridge and they're not doing anything for us. That's not really. Yeah, it doesn't really make sense in building a long term community. And yeah, the Mo token. So we're expecting the token to launch in beginning of Q two.
00:47:39.120 - 00:48:02.760, Speaker A: And yeah, we can't say too much about the utility of it right now. We're also modeling that out. We've been speaking to a lot of different researchers next, both in the space on this. So, yeah, we should have a very interesting model. We're also integrating with smart treasury. So, yeah, that's going to be exciting too.
00:48:03.210 - 00:48:44.334, Speaker B: James, I think this is a great place for us to start to wrap up. So I want to remind our listeners that they should first learn more about mode by going to mode network. They can follow the mode mothership account on Twitter. It's mode network. We'll also flash James's Twitter account here on screen and you can find that in our show notes. And then, James, could you just close us out then with whatever detail you can share about the airdrop campaign? Again, this will all be public by now, but would love if you can just kind of summarize, how can you participate? What are some of the key ways to earn mode token?
00:48:44.462 - 00:49:37.090, Speaker A: Absolutely. So the key ways to earn are by taking part in the campaign, which involves bridging to mode and inviting friends to mode and using the applications on mode. So very simple. And the more you use, the more you contribute to the network, the more you'll be rewarded. We have a pretty transparent formula for this and yeah, we're super excited to welcome new people who are interested in building out a future of interoperable defi to mode. If you have any ideas, if you're a builder you're looking for support, please get in touch. You can dm me on Twitter or you can chat to the guys in discord yeah, it's going to be an amazing year.
00:49:37.090 - 00:49:45.846, Speaker A: We're super excited to build the future of ethereum optimism, the super chain together. So thank you so much for having me on.
00:49:45.948 - 00:49:58.950, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge underscore pod.
