00:00:00.440 - 00:00:32.394, Speaker A: Hello, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Sara, and God, it's full in here, and I'm getting a little bit nervous to make sure that I moderate all of this. Well, because the panel that is just coming up is going to be amazing. It's going to be about the social evolution and how that's kind of enhanced or perhaps hindered or augmented by all the technological systems that we see around us. I'm actually an archaeologist, originally by trade, so I'm going to be asking a lot of deep questions about history. Don't worry, we'll get to Ethereum as well. But the most important people here during the panel are our esteemed.
00:00:32.394 - 00:00:47.874, Speaker A: So let me please first welcome Vitalik Buterin as the co founder of Ethereum. Please. Next up is Brewster Kael. Please come and join us.
00:00:49.734 - 00:00:50.554, Speaker B: Yay.
00:00:53.294 - 00:01:16.704, Speaker A: I love the enthusiasm. It's like an MMA match. Although we're going to be talking about social evolution. This is great. Keep it going, because the last but not least ready to rumble, ladies and gentlemen, is Paul Graham. Raven, please come and join us on the stage. Also, please think of questions, because we have a mere 50 minutes.
00:01:16.704 - 00:02:15.324, Speaker A: If you're on the live stream, you can ask questions there, and then while you're sitting in the audience, you can think of something really clever to say to impress the rest of your peers and to gain social capital for the party afterwards. So, gentlemen, my first question. We kind of discussed this a little bit in the background in backstage, which is about social evolution and the access to information, because historically, it's been the access to information that has kind of really determined who holds the power and who doesn't hold the power. And if we consider the first ciphers come from 1900 bc, ancient Egypt, you have the Caesar cipher as well, where the act of ciphering and kind of siloing information away from people was always a very key strategic element of pretty much every civilization. We've now got technology that kind of really enables, that democratizes that. How do you feel that is going to change social structure in, say, 1020 years time with more people having access to information that they otherwise wouldn't have? Vitalik, sorry, I just am pushed you there.
00:02:16.784 - 00:02:20.824, Speaker B: Sorry. Can you just like what the question is? That's a good point.
00:02:20.864 - 00:02:34.564, Speaker A: Yeah, I get carried away. I get carried away with archaeology, and then we end up like this. So how do you think more people having access to information they otherwise wouldn't have access to, how do you think is going to change social structures?
00:02:34.904 - 00:03:26.248, Speaker B: I mean, I think it's changed social structures in a lot of ways already. Like, one of them is just, like, empowering people who are kind of far from the centers of the world, whether that's physical centers or centers of the social graph, and giving people opportunities to kind of go and independently build and create things and even kind of work their way into society instead of sort of permanently being stuck on the outside. Like, I think this is. I mean, even in. I think this is true in the history of a lot of people in the crypto space. Right. I think one of the things that is unique in crypto, even compared to a lot of other tech industries, is, like, just how geographically distributed it is.
00:03:26.248 - 00:04:30.014, Speaker B: Right. And how people were basically located in all parts the world, were able to get in, find it on the Internet, find the community on the Internet, get in, start building things, and just become full contributors and very active participants in the ecosystem and in the community. That's something that I think has been and very positive, and that's definitely something that's far from being true of every technology. There's definitely technologies that just end up being much more siloed, and even technologies that don't start that way sometimes can become more that way over time. But I think from what we've seen in, first the bitcoin space, but in the crypto space in particular, seen a lot of that happen, and I think it really has given a lot of opportunity to people in all kinds of places.
00:04:30.554 - 00:05:07.986, Speaker A: Brilliant. Thank you. And I've got another question that I'm going to ambush you with later about the determinism of social hierarchy, but just let that stew for a little bit. I'm going to turn my sights, the eye of Sauron, onto Brewster. Now, we had a fantastic discussion on Wednesday already about transhumanism, and we had this amazing symposium that Josef put together because he's brilliant. And one of the things that kind of came up was the principle of the Internet and the democracy, democratization of information through the Internet. And I'm just curious about how you feel giving people access to that information really changes the way that people perceive the status quo around them.
00:05:07.986 - 00:05:20.734, Speaker A: Whether you see, for example, people rebelling more, whether people want to access information in a whole new, different way. Like, why do you feel that your job and what you're doing with the Internet archives is so important for civilization?
00:05:21.734 - 00:06:19.594, Speaker C: Well, obviously, it's so important for civilization, but basically, it's just a riff on the promises that we've been making over many years. The article, as we may think, by Vannevar Bush, completely holds up from 1945, where you take the dream of Ted Nelson and Xanadu, Tim Berners Lee's World Wide Web. And it wasn't just going and making universal access to all knowledge, it was making it so that we had network publishing such that people could have a voice. Because, I don't know, growing up in the seventies and eighties, it felt like life was happening to us. We were told what history was. We were given this stuff, and not only did we not see ourselves in that, it didn't turn out to be accurate. So can we not only make it so we can get access to lots more different sources, but then put ourselves out there? And now we kind of have it and it's havoc, right? And we now have an ability to go and everybody has an opinion, everybody votes with a like button or whatever.
00:06:19.594 - 00:06:58.968, Speaker C: Suddenly our democracies start to look like they're wobbling somewhat because of this. So I think we've got a bit of abundance going, but a very selective abundance. We're missing a lot of the basic information out there. Just take the books. The 20th century is almost completely denied to this generation, and it's based on just crappy copyright laws. And now we have incredibly large companies going and squelching it. So we have this technology, technology towards access to information, and it's sort of being selectively distorted in weird ways.
00:06:58.968 - 00:07:10.244, Speaker C: That's a good thing for a technologist, because it's like, hey, we got some problems to solve, let's go and keep building on this thing. Let's not go back. But we've got some problems to solve.
00:07:10.904 - 00:08:00.424, Speaker A: Thank you very much. You mentioned two very important keywords, history and democracy, which we'll be kind of oscillating around today as well. And I want to turn my sights onto Paul because you mentioned, amongst other things, that you're, apart from the fact that you live with a cat, some guitar, and sufficient books to constitute an insurance invalidating fire hazard, which I'm a very big fan of. You mentioned that you're a critic of science fiction, and it feels to me that humanity, ever since Lovecraft and even before, has kind of like, has their sights on the parallel world. Like, what if we had a different social structure? What if we lived differently? What if different groups of people had power apart from other groups of people? Do you feel that maybe democracy is a like, tenable social system? Do you think that we're heading towards a utopia dystopia? How do you feel science fiction actually playing out in our daily lives?
00:08:00.544 - 00:08:45.594, Speaker D: I mean, yeah, it's kind of a commonplace of science fiction scholarship to, you know, one of the many truisms of science fiction scholarship is. And it has a variable value of truth. But we often say that science fiction isn't about the future. It's about the time in which it's written, because we have no access to the future, but we can speculate and extrapolate on the basis of what we know. And I think what's interesting to me in your original question about the access to information. And so this is interesting as well, because I'm admittedly a very minor one, but I'm a writer of science fiction as well. And so I came up in the web two era, and I was reading Wired magazine in 94 or whatever.
00:08:45.594 - 00:09:44.884, Speaker D: So that real sort of early utopian promise of the web was very much the thing I grew up with. But as a writer, I'm torn because I know other writing professionals, and it's like, yeah, and this is not to blame any one particular person, but this is a systemic issue there, right? Yes. Access to the great works of the 20th century should be open, but at the same time, you need to be able to pay the people who write them and the question of how much and for how long. You know, we're into the realm of political questions already. But looping back to that question of access to information and the extent to which it may change or shape things over the next ten or 20 years, I mean, I'm tempted to say something like, yes, just, you know, like, you know, like it has been, but more, because, you know, ten things tend to. Yeah, things carry on as they are until they can't, and then they don't. But the.
00:09:44.884 - 00:10:42.264, Speaker D: Yeah, it's one thing to talk about access to information, and Brewster made this point. Right? We have access to so much information now, like an insane. An insane more information than we could consume in a lifetime if we never slept, and we literally poured it straight into our eyeballs. But information is not knowledge, and knowledge is not wisdom. And the question is, yes, we have access to all this information, but what is, I think, lacking in that is a way to assess the value and veracity of. I have two possible bits of information here. How do I know which is the useful one? On what criteria of usefulness am I judging that? Is that my personal utility in how it makes me feel, or is a more functional utility in what it allows me to do in the world? Is it information that gives me power over someone else? Is it information that gives me the power to resist someone else? Information is.
00:10:42.264 - 00:11:26.640, Speaker D: Is just, you know, and it's just information, right? As I understand it, Claude Shannon's entire point with information theory is it doesn't matter what the information is, it always functions in the same way. It's about, it's a theory about form, not content. But the issue of the content of information, I think, is we're really seeing the problem with that abundance of information now because, yes, it is, you know, and again, I came up as a writer in the Web 2.0 era and we were like, this is amazing. It's the promise of the nineties expressed. That's where I learned to write in public. I thought, well, great, now I can be a writer and I'll get discovered like many, many other people like me at the same time.
00:11:26.640 - 00:11:58.094, Speaker D: And so we all went off and we all wrote away on the Internet where anyone could read it. And we rapidly found that once we had enough of a reputation to be able to sort of get in touch with people who might publish our work somewhere other than our own blogs. People be like, yeah, but we'd love to pay you. We can only really pay you an exposure. It's like, I can't pay you $100 because there's a guy here who'll do it for 50. Once it's gone down to 50, it's like, ah, but you know, I can get someone to do it for 25. So that's so, yes.
00:11:58.094 - 00:12:18.434, Speaker D: And another way to put that is that we were like, in the nineties, like, yeah, the Internet, everyone will have a voice. And now in 2023, I think on one level or another, all of us are kind of looking around saying, oh, fuck, everyone's got a voice, right? It's, you know, the quote, you know, it's like a voice is a great thing that. What the hell are you saying?
00:12:20.134 - 00:12:20.918, Speaker B: Can I hit that?
00:12:20.966 - 00:12:22.318, Speaker C: The compensation issue?
00:12:22.486 - 00:12:23.326, Speaker A: Absolutely.
00:12:23.430 - 00:12:32.654, Speaker C: Okay, sorry. You were underpaid as a writer. Okay. But I would say that there's, I'm not blaming you. There's plenty of money. It's just not well distributed.
00:12:32.734 - 00:12:33.198, Speaker D: Absolutely.
00:12:33.246 - 00:13:06.534, Speaker C: So you take the library system, which is kind of this magic weird thing. It's publicly funded and it buys about 20% of all books. And you'd hope that that would actually go to authors. It doesn't, and it's not the library's fault. So in terms of what you actually get out of a book deal is, and out of the ebook section of it often is nothing. So I'd say there's, we have a technology problem for going and distributing money. Well, and this is the perfect group to, to try to start to address the.
00:13:06.534 - 00:13:47.856, Speaker C: How can you actually go and make money by publishing on the net? And right now, let's go through itunes or whatever it is, or Amazon, or Simon and Schuster or Penguin random house, and you'll get. It doesn't make any sense. And so if we can go and make some better systems for moving this around, or take the university's, the university's top line revenue of a university, about a percent and a half to 3% of it goes to the library, and that is supposed to go and buy all this stuff for the students. You know how there's the whole problem of academic publishing where it's, you know, all the writing is done for free, but the publishers end up with both control and the money is like, we.
00:13:47.880 - 00:13:49.496, Speaker D: Have to pay them to publishers.
00:13:49.560 - 00:13:50.840, Speaker C: Yeah, gee whiz, you have to pay.
00:13:50.872 - 00:13:51.696, Speaker B: Them so you can read.
00:13:51.720 - 00:14:36.598, Speaker C: I think we have some breakdowns here. I think we've got the right light, but we're missing some of the technologies. We need better sets of information available that we can build around, have it be more open and more reusable within the Internet, structures having compensation, but not overwrites, so that everything is tied up in some obligations on some chain, some place that may not exist anymore. We libraries look in the long term. So how do we go and make all of this vision come true? There's still some real things missing, but we have people's attention. And I'd say, actually, one of the difficulties is we've kind of conned everybody into saying, hey, you don't need to go to the library. Just look at your screen.
00:14:36.598 - 00:14:53.074, Speaker C: You'll get all the answers you need. It's like, well, there's some problems to that vision in its current implementation. So let's see if we can fight through some of these hopefully localized troughs towards making it work a bit better for more people.
00:14:54.454 - 00:15:19.414, Speaker A: We need probably like 3 hours for this panel. There's a lot of things that you guys opened up. The first one is the idea of a sophocracy, which is basically, you have knowledge, then you have the wisdom, so you have the interpretation that is seen as being the one that is the correct interpretation of the information, which for historians always. That's always very, very dangerous, because history is one huge pr campaign. Also, I'm also sorry that you're underpaid as a writer, coming from a scientist.
00:15:20.274 - 00:15:21.894, Speaker D: Mostly not paid at all.
00:15:22.634 - 00:15:23.330, Speaker A: I feel you.
00:15:23.362 - 00:15:29.414, Speaker D: As I was saying, that wasn't meant to be a tiny violin thing. I was illustrating the problem with the case. I knew best.
00:15:30.794 - 00:16:21.544, Speaker A: But one of the things that we're dealing with right now, for example, as a research group, is that it's very difficult to get something patented, especially if you're in the humanities. That's extremely difficult. And actually holding onto knowledge, or having the hierarchy of saying this knowledge is the correct one to then disseminate to the masses, as it were, is a very, very kind of tenuous thing to do. Which is why decentralization, decentralized science is one of the things that is really exciting me lately. And I want to ask you, Vitalik, we discussed also on Wednesday how the decentralization and the decentralized access to information, but also the decentralized ability to build communities, is a whole new force in the world when the world has really been formed by, as I mentioned, history being one huge pr campaign. So the kind of ethos of Ethereum and the way that you approach the whole kind of grid and the whole kind of setup, how do you feel that it ties into these concepts?
00:16:23.844 - 00:16:25.292, Speaker B: It's a very broad question I'm just.
00:16:25.308 - 00:16:25.944, Speaker A: Trying to.
00:16:29.614 - 00:18:13.174, Speaker B: Get into. And I think one just really important thing is that just having the power to do pretty much anything goes up a lot when you're doing things as a community. Even in Ethereum, there's a lot of examples of things like cooperation between different L2 platforms, cooperation between different wallets, constantly making sure that developers and users in different parts of the ecosystem are talking to each other. These are all things where if they did not happen, then the ecosystem, a lot of actors would really be fighting, or at least going in incompatible directions a lot more. I mentioned yesterday that people should be not building empires, but building tools. But if you're going to be building a tool, then you have to have some trust that the parts of the ecosystem that your tool is going to plug into are going to actually exist, and that there is some benefit in trying and making sacrifices to be compatible with that, instead of basically trying to go at it all alone and thinking that you can create this clean and really sleek ecosystem where everything is picture perfect and amazing because you control every piece from top to bottom. And that's like, that's something that I think has, like it's benefited Ethereum a lot when it's happened, and it's definitely hurt Ethereum in those times when it hasn't happened.
00:18:13.174 - 00:19:03.344, Speaker B: And it's something that's, I think, going to be relevant to a lot of other communities and just groups of people who care about things too, right? Like, so there's no concerns that we're creating a yet like a technological future where things are very proprietary. Right. And one of the reasons why this happens is that if you as a developer go and join a proprietary thing, you immediately have a support structure. You immediately have someone paying your salaries, you immediately have someone bring you in and putting you in touch with all of the other people developing stuff because they're in the same company. You get the support structure. But then if you are part of trying to build something different, then you're basically kind of all alone. Right.
00:19:03.344 - 00:19:48.244, Speaker B: I think one of the things that it's important to do a good job of really getting past a lot of the time when the open thing fails, the open thing fails just because the open thing is not doing a good enough job of coordinating. And coordinating means a lot of things. It can mean standardization. It can also mean just making sure that things are funded. There was that really terrible story from five years ago when there was that bug, and I think it was a really important SSL library that half the Internet relied on. It turned out that it was dependent on two volunteers with $4,000 of funding or something. And we can't actually be doing that.
00:19:48.244 - 00:20:36.104, Speaker B: People actually have to be going and actually thinking about these things as opposed to thinking there's magical actors that are somewhere that make the good things happen. And, yeah, like, just, you know, having forces that like, actually push in those directions that are actually strong is often just like all by itself one of the really important ingredients. Right. Because if you don't have that, then, like, it basically is a matter of, like, users are going to flock around, you know, what is the strongest network effects that's being run by, you know, some powerful company, and that just, you know, turns into a, this kind of, you know, conflict of empires that we've known for thousands of years, just on a more digital level.
00:20:36.644 - 00:21:02.900, Speaker A: I've got a follow up question on that. I'm going to try to keep it as succinct as possible. I just get too excited and then I ask like ten questions within one. So I'm sorry about that. But how do you prevent Ethereum from becoming an empire? Because like, on one hand you're building the tools. On the other hand, humans are humans. And despite the fact that we spent 99% of our time as hunter gatherers on this earth, ever since we started building tools and scaling as civilizations, we have tend to tended to go towards centralization and hierarchy.
00:21:02.900 - 00:21:09.904, Speaker A: So are there any systems in place to make sure that Ethereum doesn't become a centralized behemoth?
00:21:10.484 - 00:22:30.716, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good question. I think the, I mean, one of the really nice things that the foundation has going forward is that I think a lot of the core people involved really don't want to become the centralized king. Nobody really has like a dream of being the next Mark Zuckerberg. There's more people that just wants to retire in five years, but wants to know that the thing that they're going to leave behind will actually be sustainable and stable. There's a lot of people who are actively averse to having power. And our executive director, Ayemi Aguchi talks a lot about the philosophy of subtraction, which is basically that instead of the Ethereum foundation trying to act like a permanent manager of the ecosystem, like the foundation has this explicit goal of like, you know, we are going to, like, our job is to empower outside actors to, you know, grow and become stronger and become more independent over time. And, you know, the goal is to that at some point they actually stop becoming more as dependent on the, or dependent on the foundation at all.
00:22:30.716 - 00:23:32.702, Speaker B: And the ecosystem causes coarser and coercion to this point where like if the foundation blows up completely, then it's, it gets easier, it becomes more and more obvious that the ecosystem actually can kind of keep going and survive on its own. And there's like actual technical decisions that back this up, right? So like one of the things that distinguishes Ethereum from most other blockchains, for example, is this like multi client roadmap, right? Look, there's an explicit separation between the spec and implementations of the spec. So there's about like five different clients that are called consensus clients that handle the proof of stake part of Ethereum. There's five clients that are execution clients that handle the EVM and blocks and accounts and transactions side of Ethereum. And these are independent companies. Some of them actually already have independent business models. So they're not dependent on any Ethereum foundation grant dollars.
00:23:32.702 - 00:24:46.028, Speaker B: Some of them, it's not even just five. That number continues growing over time. And then if we look at Zke vms at zero knowledge proofs that ecosystem is even more distributed, trying to make those technical decisions that kind of irreversibly push power away from the center. And that's a really difficult balance to get right. And I mean, in the early years of doing such a strategy, I think trust in the center to actually do this sort of thing right is unavoidable. But like, as things go further and further, there actually is real power that's not in the hands of the center anymore. So trying to, like, create this environment where it's expected that most work, or a large share of the work, happens outside the center in these kind of edge environments where anyone can participate and be part of it, and that share grows more and more over time is one of the things that I think we're trying hard to do.
00:24:46.028 - 00:25:23.954, Speaker B: And, I mean, obviously, how successful this is going to be in ten or 20 years, it remains to be seen, right? Like, it might fail, and it might be the case that, like, one of these, you know, Silicon Valley people figures out that they can make an alt layer one, and they can, like, bribe them all huge amounts, and they'll get, like, picked off and, you know, walk over despite. Despite everyone's original intentions. But, like, there's. There's lots of ways in which this sort of stuff can socially fail. But, like, I feel like so far, it's actually been surprisingly successful and more successful than I expected. Nice.
00:25:25.254 - 00:26:03.652, Speaker A: Thank you. I've got so many more questions, but we only have about 25 more minutes, by the way. I'll ask a couple more, and you get your questions prepped, because I want to make this. We want to democratize this panel, so we want to give you guys an opportunity to ask questions as well. Brewster, one of the things that we already discussed this week as well, which is super interesting to me, is that you kind of play a dual role. One of them is making the information available to everyone and digitalizing a huge, huge portion of humanity's knowledge. The other one is curating it somehow, because as humans, we have evolutionary limits, not only in terms of the physical information that we can absorb, but even in terms of social size.
00:26:03.652 - 00:26:31.110, Speaker A: So the optimal social size is about 150. So already in a zombie apocalypse, we would create about four pretty meaty tribes in here that would probably all want to kill each other and compete for resources anyway. So just think about that when you're having your beer together and chilling out in the garden. But what is the role of curatorship? And where does the line of I'm going to tell people what the optimal categories of knowledge are, for example, versus. I'm just going to let people go crazy. In terms of the databases that you're.
00:26:31.142 - 00:27:34.596, Speaker C: Creating, we're more in the let everybody go crazy. So just try to build a tool, a piece of the puzzle, not the whole thing. Otherwise, you're going to innately lose. So how do you go and expose what it is you've done as an organization, as a person, whatever, in such a way that people can build, build on it, interoperable I mean, I love that I hear some of these words, especially in ETH Prague, but more generally within the Ethernet community, you use the words open source a lot, sharing, interoperable ecosystem. And these are very important values to just keep alive because not only will it make it so that our things live, but it'll make us more useful and I think more successful by working together and not necessarily all having to be in the same darn corporation. Because the inefficiencies of all of us that have worked in those large corporations are enormous. You have these promising projects just sort of wiped out because, I don't know, some management change.
00:27:34.596 - 00:28:10.356, Speaker C: It's just the waste of effort was so huge. So can we go and make an ecosystem that works better? And I think it starts by going and keeping the dream alive because yes, there's technology components, but at the end of the day it's communities, it's people that work together. Well, when I was trying to figure out. So this is the late eighties where we should put the Internet, it's like. So I asked some people, Mitch Kapoor from Lotus, and he said, please stay in Boston. Danny Hill has said, go for Tokyo. My friend Bill Dunn, who came up with the term metadata, turns out there was somebody that did that.
00:28:10.356 - 00:28:52.550, Speaker C: His name is Bill Dunn. He said, go someplace people don't think you're crazy. And that way you're not sort of always facing a headwind. And I'd say ETH Prague is one of those places. Places, right? And the communities that make it so that you can go forward with your ideas and people aren't going to just shout you down or steal your idea or whatever. They're sort of like, okay, let's try that thing. And I think the openness that actually Vitalik, you have brought to the whole ether community is an important distinction from other tech movements that invite people in, whatever.
00:28:52.550 - 00:28:59.234, Speaker C: Are they thinkers? Are they coders? That's how this thing is going to work. Well, for a lot of people.
00:28:59.534 - 00:29:02.214, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Did you want to say something, Rhea?
00:29:02.254 - 00:29:02.646, Speaker B: No.
00:29:02.750 - 00:29:39.044, Speaker A: Okay, fair enough. This is actually super interesting to be weird. It sounds like one of those motivational speeches you don't really want to hear. But actually there's a lot of evolutionary research that has been done that various, even like mental, not deviations, but there's a lot like, for example, schizophrenia. Simon Baron Cohen, who. Yes, is Sacha Baron Cohen's cousin, has done amazing research in terms of schizophrenia actually evolutionarily being selected for as a part of shamanistic ritual in order to bring community together. So these are really interesting things where actually being a bit nuts is great, but the system can't, unfortunately, deal with that always.
00:29:39.044 - 00:30:34.904, Speaker A: I actually want to go, Paul, to something that we also discussed and backstage, which is the concept of utopias and dystopias. You're someone who's fascinated about storytelling, and one of the constant stories that run throughout human civilization is thinking, what would it be like if we changed this particular thing and society looked like this? By the way, this is one of the things what I love about parallel polis, what I had the honor of spending a couple of years, is that you don't have to pick one. There's parallel entities that kind of exist, and that's the only evolutionary chaos that's actually going to optimize society. But how do you feel that? Which direction are we heading in? Because we had the sun state, we had Dante Alighieri, we had 1984. We have all these aspects of utopias and dystopias popping up in science fiction, fiction, and nonfiction. How do you feel that access to information and kind of letting the people go crazy in quote unquote, commas, how do you think that's going to go? What do you think that that brings to our evolution as society?
00:30:36.724 - 00:31:11.504, Speaker D: You know, I mean, the real cop, how answer would be, I don't know. So many great claims are often made. It's thankfully faded away now. But there's a big thing at the end of the noughties where people. This really sort of just so story where it's like, oh, well, of course the thing that made the iPhone possible was the tricorder in Star Trek. Right? The kind of the existence of a kind of fictionalized prototype made this thing possible. And it's, you know, and I mean, cause and effect kind of doesn't work that way.
00:31:11.504 - 00:31:30.932, Speaker D: But that's. But we like the neatness of that. Yeah. Because our lives are linear. We live in a linear timeline, whether we like it or not. And so that sense that one thing comes after another is really kind of, you know, evolutionary, you know, baked into our thinking. But, you know, causality is not simple in a vastly complex world.
00:31:30.932 - 00:32:03.260, Speaker D: Right? It's like, okay, maybe that thing led to that thing, but there was a whole bunch of other things that affected that thing, a whole bunch of other things that affected each of those other things. Causality is a mess. History is a form of making sense of that mess, whether pr campaign or critique campaign, whichever it may be. My co speaker, Reese, who spoke before me today, made this point very well. Storytelling is a meaning making system. Going back to the point about information, information doesn't mean. It doesn't mean until we shape it into stories.
00:32:03.260 - 00:32:23.764, Speaker D: And there are lots of different ways of shaping any given piece of information. But to get back to your actual question. Sorry for rambling on the. I mean, and I'm actually going to loop back to. I was saying to brewster earlier, so I. A long time ago, I used to work in libraries. I was never a qualified librarian, just a library assistant.
00:32:23.764 - 00:33:04.616, Speaker D: But the. And so a library is a storehouse of knowledge, but it is also. You can also see it as a kind of information retrieval machine. It's a system for finding things out. It's a system for getting information, but with a directed sense. It's like, what do you want the information for? What are you trying to do? And even as a lowly library assistant, the first thing, literally first day, first hour on the job, the thing you are taught to do is how to find out which book people really want. Because what you'll get is if you work on the front desk of a library, someone will come to you and say, do you have this book? And they'll have it written down.
00:33:04.616 - 00:33:25.220, Speaker D: And sometimes they come to you and say, have you got that one with the blue cover? That was really good. And that's really hard to deal with. But, you know, recently. Good. Anyway, by the by, someone says to me, right, I want this particular book. And, you know, I mean, and you can just, you know, and some people will be very, very, you know, I know what I want. Just that book.
00:33:25.220 - 00:34:09.644, Speaker D: But what you're trained to do is to say to them, okay, you know, and particularly because you might get someone coming to you and asking for a book that was published 40 years ago, and if that's a novel, fine, they just want to read a 40 year old novel. But if they're looking for a text on archaeology or neuroscience or whatever it may be, you might say to them, it's, you know, what's your. As politely as possible, what's your interest in this particular book? What are you hoping to find in there? And more often than not, they may have found. So someone who isn't used to reading academic texts may have encountered a reference to something somewhere else and said, oh, there's a really interesting thing that's in this book, and you should read that. And, you know, that's great, but it's, you know, science and the social sciences and the humanities as well. Things move quickly. Right.
00:34:09.644 - 00:34:39.624, Speaker D: You know, the. I forget what the exact figure is, but there's that. That theory that after a certain amount of time, facts go out of date. Right. So, you know, so giving someone a 40 year old archaeological text, if they want to know what we believe to be true, now, that's the wrong book for them. And if they want to. So if you ask them, if you want to know what we think about that now, I can give you a better book.
00:34:39.624 - 00:35:15.948, Speaker D: There's a more recent book that actually takes those ideas and qualifies them and brings them into the modern world. Maybe it's a scholar who's like, no, I need to go back to that old anthropology. And it's important that we have those old texts as well as David Graeber's last book illustrates really importantly, he goes back to 1950s anthropology, which we've largely swept under the rug because it did have its problematic aspects. But it's like, there's really important stuff in there. We throw a baby out with that bath water. So finding out why someone wants something and getting them to the right thing. So, yeah, getting all the stuff there accessible.
00:35:15.948 - 00:35:59.298, Speaker D: But having systems built around that, which, you know, as the kind of resident anti. I wouldn't say I'm anti technologist, but as the resident tech critic today, it's, you know, those systems of evaluation and interpretation, I think, need to be human because there's nuance there. You can't. It's inherently qualitative to ask someone why they want to know something. And that's, I think, where we need human beings as part of those systems. I mean, all systems are socio technical anyway, right? The separation between social things and technological things is completely arbitrary. There's a whole discipline, social science, technology studies, that studies this stuff, and it's a useful analytic distinction sometimes.
00:35:59.298 - 00:36:37.714, Speaker D: But when we get too fixated on it and we sort of say, well, yeah, the technical is over here and the social is over here. It's like you can extricate them in analysis, but in our day to day doing of everything, we don't even think about it. It's all one thing. So understanding that any system of information, retrieval of information, access of governance, or whatever it may be, I used to say when I was doing my PhD, right? Infrastructure is people. Infrastructure is people. It's stuff as well, but none of that stuff works without the people in it.
00:36:39.534 - 00:37:22.784, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely. I think what you mentioned as well, that's very exciting to me, is both having the information digitalized, but then recording the mistakes that we've made because we don't like to admit that we've made mistakes throughout history. But having that proof of thought and proof of mistake, which is something, you know, I'm not a particularly, like, I don't understand ethereum much, so I'm sorry, everyone, but I love it. It's an anthropologist almost like wet dream to actually see this happen, because suddenly you can record everything that happened and you cannot go back and change it. And that is wonderful for history because you actually record humans the way that they were. So you can understand both societies and individuals better. And I've got one last question for you, and then I'll throw it into the lion's den, into the coliseum, and you guys can play with the questions for our esteemed panel.
00:37:22.784 - 00:37:32.944, Speaker A: Metallic. What do you think is the relationship between individual and society? How does ethereum kind of enable. Yes, I'm just prepared, just softball.
00:37:32.984 - 00:37:33.964, Speaker D: And at the end.
00:37:35.864 - 00:38:27.424, Speaker B: I don't know. Individuals have lots of relationships with other individuals and with society. I think it depends on the direction you want to take the question. Right. Like, it's sometimes even easier to ask, like, how does the relationship between individuals and society get changed by, you know, different events happening or different technologies or, you know, different changes to social structure, for example. Right? And, like, the kinds of. The kinds of questions that you can ask is, like, there's, I mean, the question of distribution of power, right? Which is, you know, like, what kinds of things do you, you know, people have the ability to do independently and, you know, what kinds of things actually end up being bottom up as opposed to, you know, ending up being top down.
00:38:27.424 - 00:39:44.178, Speaker B: Right. So, like, one of the analogies from deep history. And, like, I hear sometimes as kind of the difference between bows and guns, right, as, you know, military hardware. And, like, the big deal, like, the early guns were actually less effective than bows at the time, but there was a difference, which is that using a bow, well, required you to be a specialist and have years of training, whereas if he had a gun, then they're less effective, but any random farmer could go and shoot one. That's something that actually changed the balance of power, disempowered aristocracies, or at least contributed to that process and all kinds of things. Similar kinds of analyses about individual technology is like, if you look at AI, one of the worries that I have about AI is that it is, in a lot of ways a centralizing force. When people talk about society, sometimes there's this image of this kind of warm and fluffy thing where ideally people would actually talk to each other and resolve disagreements by, you know, have having conversations and these kinds of things.
00:39:44.178 - 00:40:41.808, Speaker B: But like, the reality of like, global interconnectedness today is basically like, if you use chat GPT right now, you're not using something that is on your device. You're using something where all the stuff is being done on servers somewhere in America, inside of a structure that's actually controlled by basically one company, right? And that's in some ways, that's a worse dystopia than what the free software people were afraid of, because the free software people, they were just afraid of proprietary software running on your machine. Proprietary software running on your machine can be managed because you can run it in a vm. At least if you do that, then you're not going to break privacy necessarily. Here we're talking about proprietary software run on someone else's machine. You basically have these global panopticons, like also global. Once you have these kinds of services, people can be deplatformed very easily, for example.
00:40:41.808 - 00:42:20.110, Speaker B: So you lose privacy, you lose a lot of other things. And that's one type of AI risk, the risk of both local and international power relations. AI as how it will be applied in military contexts is another one of these examples. Because then, like, the fear that I have is basically that the same kinds of both purely technical technologies and managerial technologies that made it possible for 45 employee companies like WordPress and now a much bigger list of startups to create products that are used and loved by hundreds of millions, will also enable an elite of 45 people to actually maintain effective control over an unwilling country of hundreds of, of millions. And, like, that's potentially scary in its own way. And like, even just like there was this article, like, actually it's sort of this semi obscure thing, piece out of China a couple of years ago, that basically made the case that, like, AI is this, you know, pro centralization technology, and crypto is an anti centralization technology. And, like, one of the arguments for worrying about AI is basically that, like, if you think about starting a war, then if you want, even if you're a dictator, if you want to start the war, you need to have a population that is actually either kind of up in a rage against whatever your target is already, or that is actually pacified in some way and is not going to resist.
00:42:20.110 - 00:43:23.608, Speaker B: You need to have an elite that's actually willing to go along with you. Even if the elite's willing to go with you, if the on the ground soldiers are not, then their morale is going to be low and you're going to be less effective in a fight and all these things. There's some preparation, you have to go through. It takes time. There's friction. But if it's all done by killer drones, then you, as the dictator, you know, you press the red, the red button, you know, the drones start flying and, you know, so they have speeds of hundreds of kilometers an hour and like, you know, within a day, the, you know, the whole thing. And the answer, you know, the killing and conquering has already started, right? So like those kind, like the relationship between kind of the big and the small, by which we both mean the kind of, you know, the individual and collective and various collectives, but we also mean between collectives and bigger collectives like that gets radically transformed by different technologies.
00:43:23.608 - 00:44:13.594, Speaker B: And both what we would call things on the purely technical side of technologies and also things that are social technologies and things that are social technologies that are only possible because of particular arrangements and in circuitry, like social media, for example, those things end up leading to these big changes. And there's some, there's a lot of technologies that makes changes that I really like and that I'm happy about, but there's other things that go in very different directions and some of those things are unpredictable and it's like, importance to keep an eye out for those things. And if something's happening in a direction that we don't like, figure out some counter strategies.
00:44:14.694 - 00:44:30.928, Speaker A: Fantastic. Thank you. That was a beautiful end to the initial round of questions. We've got five minutes, but it's fine. We'll manage somehow. I think we can go until two. I'll be a bit naughty and I'll take the hierarchy of the moderator here to carry it on for five minutes.
00:44:30.928 - 00:44:43.424, Speaker A: Right, ladies and gentlemen, questions. There's already someone very enthusiastic there. While we get you the microphone. On the theme that was discussed, Jared diamond guns, germs and steel. Fantastic book. I suggest reading. Yes, sir.
00:44:43.804 - 00:45:02.044, Speaker D: We've heard this a few times now, talking about incentivizing tool making, but what incentive do toolmakers have not to build their own kingdom? And so in a plutocracy, how do we support this long term societal evolution, particularly now that we've moved to, like, ultrasound money?
00:45:03.264 - 00:45:45.224, Speaker B: It's a good question. I think this is one of the reasons why in the ethereum ecosystem, we care a lot about public goods funding. There's gitcoin and gitcoin grants. There is the optimism of retrofunding grants. There's a lot of brilliant work that the filecoin people and protocol labs are doing, a lot of really, really fascinating stuff happening. And I think, I think that problem has a lot of very deep facets to it. But I think one of the just really important things that we have to keep zeroing in on is that working for the public needs to actually be economically viable.
00:45:45.224 - 00:47:40.392, Speaker B: That's sometimes an easier problem than we think because a lot of the most talented developers, they actually are willing to make deep economic sacrifices to do things that they believe in, right? Like lots of people in the crypto ecosystems, including people that have been responsible for like some of the most brilliant and deep and important work that people that everyone depends on today realistically skipped out on ten x paid pay raises that would have been by not just working somewhere in the bowels of a centralized exchange, right? And like those kinds of developers, they can handle a ten x pay cut but they cannot handle 1000 x pay cut. And if you don't have public goods funding then like 1000 x pay cut is the reality, right? And there are just so many instances of teams that basically could have done a good job but that ended up just not being able to find a sustainable business model doing the thing that they wanted to do, following principles that they value and they ended up having to make some compromises or they may ended up having to find some funding partners that later on forced them to make compromises. There's a difficult bar to cross and the difficult bar to cross is you should get the economists ideal of the value that you get should be proportional to the value that you provide this kind society of. And like that's you know, really theoretically ideal, but like that's insanely hard, right? And, but there is a more realistic ideal of like you know, you, if you are working on, you know, these things and working on them in formats that are compatible with the values that we care about, then like you should at least have some kind of support.
00:47:40.448 - 00:47:42.862, Speaker C: Structure and be able to pay rent.
00:47:43.048 - 00:48:46.264, Speaker B: Exactly. You should be able to pay rent. You should have even get things that you would not be able to get otherwise. Like communities that kind of support you and our initial user base and help the project along in various non financial ways, but at the same time actually be able to pay rent, actually be able to pay for infrastructure and basically be not have to be this very small scale thing that lives out of garages and can never really scale beyond eight people that end up giving up after three years. So I'm very glad that stuff like optimism retrogrades and gitcoin quadratic funding and all of these things are happening. But there's challenges in those ecosystems like attribution, like figuring out even what thing deserves, how much funding is a simple one. I'd love to keep seeing more emphasis on that.
00:48:47.204 - 00:49:16.614, Speaker A: And if I can suggest another book on that front, Pierre Bourdieu from the seventies on social capital. Because imagine if you could pay with educational and social capital and not cash, and just the fact that you're educated and a good person would be enough and you wouldn't have to have anything in your account. Everyone's pointing in various directions, but there seems to be someone with a microphone already with the conch. Yes, Barbara, it's yours. Okay. First things first. I would like to greet Mister Raven as one writer to another.
00:49:16.614 - 00:49:27.814, Speaker A: And I would like to ask, do you think that writing and publishing has any future, and how do you envision such a future? Thank you.
00:49:30.844 - 00:50:00.094, Speaker D: I hope so. I mean, people. People are going to write stuff. I mean, you know, the instinct to tell stories and share them is as old as, you know, I dare say possibly boldly in this room, maybe even older than cryptography, people are going to do that because, like I say, it's a meaning making technology. It's the. I often say that language is the operating system of human culture. It's like, yeah, you guys code in code, but it's like, I code at the OS level, bro.
00:50:00.094 - 00:50:45.458, Speaker D: We're always going to tell stories, the media in which we tell them, because people write for books, but people write for tv, people write for radio, people write for podcasts. And whether you actually write or whether you type or whether you dictate the medium and the tools change, but storytelling persists. That will not go away. Will it be viable? I mean, I suppose you mean financially, not hugely hopeful in the short term, but I think we will find a way. Because if you can't. If you can't let, you know, it's, you know, storytelling is kind of infrastructure as well. Right? In the same way that you need those people doing those important things.
00:50:45.458 - 00:51:07.054, Speaker D: In the same way that, you know, it's. Yeah. And there's the. The infrastructure of firms doing this important work. I think those same things about what these people should be able to pay themselves properly and make rent and stuff. That applies to the people who clean our sewers, who are not often paid, as well as software engineers. It should apply to people who look after our children when we are doing our important jobs.
00:51:07.054 - 00:51:51.634, Speaker D: People should be paid well to do important stuff. How important is storytelling? I think it's very important, but I'm not sure how we decide, going from deciding that something is important to deciding how much that should be compensated, whether individually or societally. Again, that's a question probably as old as writing itself. I don't have an answer to that. I think there will always be storytelling. I really, really hope that we find a way to. To give storytellers the space to do their storytelling thing in the same way that I broadly, we should give everyone space to do the thing they're good at.
00:51:51.634 - 00:52:04.954, Speaker D: How that is to be achieved, I don't know. I'm sure someone would love to tell me that Ethereum could help buttonhole me afterwards, maybe, but I don't know. I hope so. I am not optimistic, but I am hopeful.
00:52:05.454 - 00:52:06.634, Speaker A: Thank you very much.
00:52:07.334 - 00:52:59.924, Speaker C: Let me jump in on this, because I had a really positive conversation this, this meeting. I cried on somebody's shoulder very much as Justin Holmes at Imbogata. And I said, it's just impossible to go and have decentralized commerce on decentralized web of. You go and sort of, you have your record album and you want to basically make some money off of it. Can people go and contribute a coin and then get a decryption key? Something like that. Can we get that to work? So I walked into the mama shelter and he was sitting there and said, brewster, every day since Bogota, I've been working and trying to figure out how to make that work, and here's how far I've gotten. And he had this whole system about going and making it so that you can basically a Kickstarter using the blockchain and you can put it up, and then there's a paymaster that watches the blockchain when there's enough money, blomp, your thing goes creative commons.
00:52:59.924 - 00:53:30.964, Speaker C: And it was like, cool. So I think there are solutions if we kind of come up with precise enough points of the problem that we can go and make it so that there's a game with many winners, that you can actually have it so that people can go and do their record albums. Their record album may suck and nobody goes and buys it. True. But if there is a. Do we have to go through third party middlemen all the time that end up just sucking all the value out of the system? I don't think so. And I think this is the kind of community that can make that go.
00:53:31.544 - 00:53:38.624, Speaker A: Thank you very much. One last question, but it's got to be blitzkrieg. It's got to be really quick. Vitalik. Yes.
00:53:39.244 - 00:54:42.764, Speaker B: So, Vitalik, you talked about Ethereum being this global, borderless community of builders and also voiced some of your concerns about AI centralization. So I also worry about this a lot. So my question would be, what do you think the key pieces of the puzzle are there to move AI away from the centralized power core of Silicon Valley and to something closer that we in this community kind of believe in. I feel like there's like somewhat, to some extent, there's two questions in there which. Where one of, well, I mean, every question, only two, like ten questions in there. But you know, sometimes you have to be nuanced about nuance and like pick the level, but to keep things tractable. But the, like, one of the questions is like, how do we make AI into a thing that fits our values better? And the other question is a more specific one about interactions between AI and the crypto and ethereum ecosystem.
00:54:42.764 - 00:55:33.458, Speaker B: So I think I like to start off with the first one of the challenges. I personally have tried installing these AI models that you can run locally and do things locally with. I walked through five or ten different tutorials and they all failed. There were just all kinds of issues. It turns out that these things have 74 dependencies. One of the dependencies has a less than sign on a version, and that makes it totally incompatible with another thing which is a higher level of the version that you've already installed. There's things like, oh, the tutorial just says, oh, this is where you plug in the model.
00:55:33.458 - 00:57:12.658, Speaker B: And I barely have an idea of what a model is. I understand in a technical sense, but I don't understand it in a software file sense of what's the specific thing that we're plugging in all of these different things where it's just obvious that these things are written for people that are deep in the ecosystem, and there's work that needs to be done in translating existing stuff in a way that's just more accessible for people to work with. So I think that's one of the issues. I think another one of the issues, like going at a different kind of side of the AI problem, is that I feel like some of the AI that we've seen, it's been kind of needlessly built and narrativized in a way that's kind of much more like a competitor to humanity than it needs to be. And one of the ways that this is true is like, if you look at Dolly and stable diffusion in the way that they got released, the way they got released is as things where you plug in a description and the AI does a realistically crappy job, it's good enough to dazzle you, but it's actually too crappy for any actual use. Case of just going from your one or two sentence description into doing the thing that you want to do. And one of the challenges is that the one or two sentence description, that's just not nearly enough input.
00:57:12.658 - 00:58:03.710, Speaker B: And it's not the wrong structure of input for you to actually be able to produce the thing that you want. What we actually want is basically a version of Photoshop that has a much deeper mixture of human intent and the AI filling different pieces is in, right. And you know, there's like a lot of interaction and feedback and there's like some kind of human intent being felt in, like the, the feedback between, like what the, you know, the screen shows you and, you know, human being able to like, actually provide more input into, like, no, no, no, no. Like, this is the thing that I actually want. So, like, it needs to happen on the order of like once a second, right? Because that's how, you know, what happened. Like that. That's how like, computer aided creative processes happen today.
00:58:03.710 - 00:59:14.604, Speaker B: And the thing that's being built is like, no, you give your description and then the AI does everything, and then you don't really have good ways of adding finishing touches. And it's both a worse product and it's also, it contributes to this narrative where instead of the AI is like killing 40% of jobs, instead of the AI killing 40% of your job, which is like actually what you want. Right. Because what we don't want is one vision is like, oh, you know, with this stuff, people are not going to be authors anymore because we'll have robots write novels. But another vision is like, oh, with this stuff, we can disrupt the heck out of Hollywood and we can give normal people the opportunity to not just write a book, but actually make their own movies, right? And like, that's the sort of stuff that, like, I want to see more of. And you know, because, like, right now, like, creation of art is, and like, especially in like, video format is like very centralized in a bunch of ways. And like, we've seen how that often goes wrong.
00:59:14.604 - 01:00:30.586, Speaker B: And like, we have these kind of, you know, sort of weaponized interdependence issues where you have like five or six big actors in the world that like, because they have huge amounts of money, no one's willing to make movies that offends them anymore. And, you know, it's like a lot of like, unhealthy stuff that can actually be broken with a more kind of decentralized and open approach to some things. But then in terms of like, how the crypto community can participate, I think lots of people ask the question of like, what is the crypto AI intersection? And there are some answers that you can say, oh, you can do ZKML and you can use a maybe do AI to formally verify and prove that some ZK vms are equivalent to each other. And like that would, or like that some wallet is secure. And that would be amazing to have actually happened. But like, the realistic intersection area is like fairly wonky and fairly small. The more realistic thing to do is to look for intersections between crypto as a community and ways that it can help the AI transition happen better and contribute to problems like AI alignment and maybe even contribute to public goods finding around AI alignment and all of these problems.
01:00:30.586 - 01:01:25.776, Speaker B: And that requires the crypto community to kind of reconstruct itself more as being not just, we are a community around doing things with blockchains and coins, but like we are a community around doing things in ways that are more collaborative and free and open. And like, that includes blockchains and coins. And like, I think blockchains and coins are like critical and like creating alternatives to like centralized and, you know, totally, you know, privacy breaking cbdcs, for example. Right. But like it also includes a lots of things that don't have to do with coins. And like, this is something that I think the spirit of 2013 did a better job of doing than the Defi bubble spirit of the last five years. And I would love for us to try to return to a smart version of the old thing, more a smart version.
01:01:25.776 - 01:01:42.434, Speaker B: I think parts of the Defi bubble ecosystem might even be important in making public goods funding happen, for example. But we need that other spirit in there too, like really be a strong part of the ecosystem and, you know, how we think about what we're trying to accomplish.
01:01:42.894 - 01:01:47.974, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, the impact of technology on social evolution. Thank you very much.
