00:00:04.960 - 00:00:06.526, Speaker A: Lance, welcome to validated.
00:00:06.670 - 00:00:08.514, Speaker B: Oh, thanks. Nice to be here.
00:00:08.894 - 00:00:34.390, Speaker A: There's a lot of conversations that we do on the show that I'm excited to have because they dive into, you know, futures of blockchain decentralization, and lots of sort of theories of what this whole new space of technology could look like. But I am particularly excited to talk to you today because I think the way you think about things is probably fairly similar to the way I think about things. And I feel like we're going to have a lot to talk about today.
00:00:34.582 - 00:00:35.838, Speaker B: I'm very excited.
00:00:36.006 - 00:00:56.354, Speaker A: Yeah. So I kind of want to start with something that isn't particularly blockchain related at all, which is this sort of intersection of storytelling, new media, and new sort of technologies and mediums that all sort of arise up. Could you just give us a little bit of overview of what you've kind of been doing for the last 20 years?
00:00:56.774 - 00:01:25.758, Speaker B: Sure. I'll try to consolidate that for you. I'm a storyteller by trade. I've been working in film and television games. I do a lot of large scale installations. And I had started as kind of a journeyman. I worked my way through commercial production, documentaries, feature films, and then at a certain point, became like a camera operator, a director, a producer.
00:01:25.758 - 00:02:13.450, Speaker B: And back in Web 1.0, it was at Penn Station after shooting a music video all night, and I was flipping through a magazine, and I saw an ad for a card, a piece of hardware that you could put into a computer that would allow you to edit. And I thought it blew my mind. I was like, man, I have to get this. I have to figure out how to edit. Because at that time, the only place you could edit was paying for an expensive post production facility. So I went off, read everything that I could, along with my colleague Stefan Avalos, and we ended up building our own computers and ended up making the first all digital release of a motion picture made a desktop feature film.
00:02:13.450 - 00:03:05.840, Speaker B: So in many ways, it was a precursor to the moment that we find ourselves in with Web three and this idea of democratizing the making and distribution of the work. And so we actually ended up making this little movie called the last broadcast for, like, $900 when we totaled all the receipts, and then, through self distribution efforts, went on to gross over like $5.4 million with it and innovated the protocol for digital cinema in the process. So we did that all. There was a beautiful thing where we were so naive, we didn't know what we couldn't do. So there's a lot that's very analogous to the moment that we find ourselves in now to what we were doing way back then. And then that kind of just sent me on a path where I became more and more interested in kind of storytelling, but storytelling across the whole spectrum.
00:03:05.840 - 00:03:22.634, Speaker B: It wasn't just storytelling in terms of what I was writing on the page or what was on the screen. It was the narrative that surrounded the whole making of what the work was and finding a way for the work to make it to an audience and trying to reduce some of the gatekeepers that existed at that time.
00:03:23.494 - 00:04:31.860, Speaker A: Yeah, it's funny, you talk about that intersection of what technology enables you to do and what the gatekeepers are acting to prevent people from doing. It's funny because there was this period of time in the eighties where something happened and film production got astronomically cheaper, and you saw all these weird, strange movies that are now that cult classic of Groundhog Day and Ferris Bueller's day off probably never should have been greenlit, but someone did, because the cost of production was cheap enough. And then you saw a very similar thing, kind of what you're talking about the advent of digital, where even everything from Blair witch project to other types of films, it just wouldn't have been made if it weren't for this technology. Platform change kind of occurred. It's interesting to think about that in a relationship where now we're in this era of digital, where it feels like the gatekeepers are reasserting themselves as almost the production quality technology gets higher and higher again. It's kind of this funny, like, you push the boulder up the hill and then you have to push it. It gets rolled back down.
00:04:31.860 - 00:04:35.104, Speaker A: You have to push it back up again. Every time there's this new platform change.
00:04:35.724 - 00:05:39.096, Speaker B: Yeah, well, at the same time, you have this real amazing kind of friction that you haven't had previously, which is due to generative technologies like artificial intelligence. This idea that you can go text to image or text to video or video to video is radically disrupting the industry. And it's at the center right now of two strikes, the SAG and WGA strike Writers Guild strike. And it's interesting to kind of think about, in some ways, I think about generative AI, and I think about some of the challenges that they're facing in the way that rightfully so want to figure out how to give attribution. If you look at where music has gone in terms of music usually leads film, the file sizes are smaller. So if you look at the trajectory there in terms of how it currently sits with services like something like Spotify, for instance. It doesn't pay any residuals out to the creators, barely any.
00:05:39.096 - 00:06:42.374, Speaker B: The way that they're making money tends to be through live. So it's interesting to think about the way the blockchain could come in and be a really interesting way to provide attribution to creators, to transfer and get away from a lot of the pain points that currently exist. The accounting practices of the entertainment industry are horrible in comparison to many other industries. So having transparency like you get on chain would be a huge step up. So this idea that in one part production costs have dropped. There's another wave of things that are coming that are challenging the notion of who gets to make movies, how they're made, and then the last leg is still the most important and very difficult, which is like the discovery of that work in a sea of noise, and then also making sure that you can be sustainable in terms of the work that you're making. So I think that there's some really interesting opportunities there.
00:06:42.374 - 00:07:34.114, Speaker B: You know, I, for over a decade I teach at Columbia University, where I'm a professor of practice, kind of jointly appointed in film and theater. And about a decade ago I started, founded, I'm a founding member of the digital storytelling lab there where we explore new forms and functions of storytelling. And one of the things that we really are very interested in is this idea of how storytelling can kind of evolve. And I think we started about a year and a half ago, a web3 working group where we bring in all kinds of different people because we're interested to see how can decentralized technology, we look at it through a critical lens. We're skeptical of it at certain times. We interrogate it. We bring people from different industries together because we're looking and saying, maybe there's something here that we can take into higher education.
00:07:34.114 - 00:07:52.574, Speaker B: And if we're able to kind of do that in an innovative way, in a way that AIDS students and aids the mission of the school, that's exciting. So if it can potentially aid higher ed, what could it do for the entertainment industry, too? So it's interesting to see this disruption.
00:07:52.734 - 00:08:56.934, Speaker A: Well, it's kind of interesting because I remember back like sophomore year in college, however many years ago, that was like reading Love Manovich's theories of new media and that laid out social media before social media. And this sort of entire meme culture of, you have something that you can represent numerically, you can break it into segments, you can run automation over it, you can have this variability of transcoding and that is TikTok. The purest expression of that is TikTok, where you can have the audio represents something, the visual represents something, the format represents something. All these components integrate very nicely into that. I'm a pretty strong believer that all sorts of physical or ideological constraints shape what we build and create. And that's everything from different types of cities. The way they're architected will direct people's brains to think in slightly different ways, to what is possible to build on.
00:08:56.934 - 00:09:23.634, Speaker A: Technology influences how people think of and use that technology more than the ideas that they necessarily bring to that technology. So I'm kind of curious, first off, if you agree at all with that, the second version would be, what have you found over the last year of running this web3 storytelling lab that is different about the medium of web3 versus any of these previous digital mediums?
00:09:24.054 - 00:09:55.566, Speaker B: Sure. Well, I agree on. I'm fascinated by, and I think what you're talking about in terms of the rise of social media and the opportunity that sits there is really kind of this idea that anybody can be a storyteller. You're kind of blowing that wide open. Classically, what's existed is a hierarchy. Certain people were masterful storytellers. There's this embrace of the Artur theory, and that was very prescient for quite some time.
00:09:55.566 - 00:10:52.518, Speaker B: And I think, on one hand, you have the opening of something, like where you were talking about the design or the urban planning of a city, shaping the way that people might think or approach something. There's also these really wonderful design fails. Sometimes you can find them online where you see that somebody had the best laid plans, and they're like, here's how you should use this path to walk through this park. And then you'll see that everybody just cuts through somewhere else because they don't want to take the longer way to get there, right? So there's this pushback, in a sense, where people are. It's kind of almost like pandora's out of the box. The moment they start to embrace kind of maker culture, the moment they start to embrace social media, we move from a paradigm of a one to many to a many to many kind of realm. So this potential of what web3 offers, I think what's interesting, and you often hear it talked about in terms of the evolution of the web.
00:10:52.518 - 00:11:32.254, Speaker B: Web 1.0 was read, and web 2.0 read, write, and then web 3.0 or web3 promises this idea of owning. What does it mean to really own the pipes? What does it mean to own the data? What does it mean to have a real, true one to one relationship with somebody who's interested in the work that you're making, or they are actually even co creators of what that work is, which is a radical departure from how intellectual property currently works, radical departure from how the entertainment industry currently works. But you see experimentation with that. If you look at the rise of.
00:11:32.254 - 00:12:42.290, Speaker B: I can take you back when you had the rise of peer to peer services and Bittorrent. I remember it gave rise to a project that was called wreck a movie, where you would come in and you'd be part of the process of actually making the film from start all the way to finish. And it was a group of people that were kind of crowdfunding in and around. This is pre Kickstarter, pre Indiegogo, pre all those things. There was another one that was called Lost Zombies, which was a crazy crowdsource zombie movie where people would go and they throw flash mobs and invade some Starbucks somewhere and they'd shoot on their cameras and then they give it back and it was like there was outbreaks everywhere. Right? So that's a while ago, and that's right at the dawn or the start of those crowdfunding platform. So I think to your point, there's certain times you kind of look and there's this idea of affordances and constraints of this technology, but then there's also an opening where sometimes the technology starts to become even more accessible to develop.
00:12:42.290 - 00:13:24.274, Speaker B: So it's not necessarily requiring so much in terms of the engineering side or the knowledge of the coding aspects of it. And it starts to open up these edge cases that you never expected because different people are coming in. And so at the school, we really kind of believe that this next wave of innovation is going to come from the arts. I mean, if you go back and look historically, the arts have driven different types of innovation throughout history. So we're very excited about where this sits. And having this opportunity to. To leverage decentralized technology is very exciting at the moment.
00:13:24.894 - 00:14:03.664, Speaker A: Yeah. So I want to talk about nfts in a minute. But you said something there, which I've heard a lot of people say, and I've probably also said myself at some point, which is sort of the web3 paradigm, is ownership. And I think when we're talking about infrastructure level work, I own a layer one token. I'm an owner of the network, a protocol, a software protocol. I think that that thesis is pretty strong and makes a lot of sense. I want to kind of tease it out a little bit more around the art side of things, because most mass media art nowadays is not ownership.
00:14:03.664 - 00:15:05.884, Speaker A: It's a licensing agreement. And most traditional sort of small volume, call it like your paintings and photography, that is more of a direct ownership model. But even in the modern art world, we've seen ownership rights and display rights get separated in the painting world. And I'm kind of curious what the model is of web3 ownership. That doesn't end up being something where artists can't get paid anymore, because if I buy a piece of digital art and I suddenly have, I'm an owner of that art, what I can do with it is almost unlimited from the perspective of an IP standpoint. And sort of how does that mesh with the way that the web two art world has been built up, where royalties and residuals and all these ongoing payments to artists are really only made possible because the person buying the material is actually licensing it?
00:15:06.254 - 00:16:15.544, Speaker B: Well, it's interesting because in some ways, I think that there's an element there that is, how would I put it? Is a fallacy. And I think that the fallacy is that in theory, everything that you're saying is absolutely correct if the accounting practices and the parties pay out as contractually obligated. So some of the cases of what you're talking about is very true in terms of ad revenue that you see across some of the larger technology platforms. But things that involve licensing classically will have moments where you're always chasing the people that you've licensed the work to in order to get the reports, in order to get the funding, whatever residuals are meant to come back to you at certain levels, the larger you are, you have more people. You know, it's something, meaning you have teams around you and you have legal representation, and you don't have a problem. Like, famously, William Shatner would always audit paramount every certain number of years because he knew there would be some discrepancy there. Right.
00:16:15.544 - 00:17:26.322, Speaker B: So I think that there's, on one side, yes. It's all dependent upon the contractual agreements that you have, and if people live up to them, I think in terms of the friction point that you're talking about, that I think is really fascinating is this notion of what is ownership? I'll give you an example. Some of the work that we do at the lab, and I do in my own practice, is greatly informed by the Fluxus art movement, which was a really wild art movement that arguably, some people call an art network. But I bring that up because it's influenced a lot of things that I do in my own practice, and it's influenced what we do at the lab. So I wanted to mention, sometimes what we experiment with the lab is we decouple ourselves from intellectual property by doing experiments with public domain work. So we did this crazy thing that was like Sherlock Holmes and the Internet of Things, kind of combined it together and brought together over 2600 collaborators from 60 different countries, and they self organized 180 events around the world. And they all made.
00:17:26.322 - 00:18:20.672, Speaker B: It was kind of like we created a creative system that allowed them to go off and do all kinds of amazing things. Right. You know, and they created stories, and they built street games, and they made, you know, like, augmented reality apps and VR experiences and escape rooms, and. And it was amazing, right? And it was all kind of this idea of like, okay, how do we unleash this? So it was like an open kind of sandbox of experimentation in terms of the way that you could start to play with narrative and the way that you could engage with people. And so I think in some ways, intellectual property has to evolve. The way that we keep, like, kicking it further down the road, 75 years, blah, blah, holds so tightly. Culture is shaped by what it builds upon, and the ability to kind of open up some of that.
00:18:20.672 - 00:18:43.824, Speaker B: And the commons, and the idea of the commons is really important. So I kind of look at it, I guess, and I think, what are some open systems that we could potentially do? Like, what might that look like? It's not to say that people can have intellectual property. I'm not stepping all over that. I'm just offering an alternate viewpoint.
00:18:44.644 - 00:19:38.114, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's really interesting that you're so in another life, in another world. I worked on immersive theater productions in New York City back in 2010 and eleven. One of those was sleep no more, sort of the installation and creation process for that. But one of the things we were really trying to do at the time was figure out how you could do a decentralized show that would take place in multiple countries, that then would have some common layer of the Internet, and the technology just wasn't there at the time. But it's very cool to see that something that you guys have now been able to take and build, and actually, the technology exists that you can do that. Now. As we go through this process, I'm really curious to hear a little bit about where there's smoke and the impetus of that project and how that ties into some of this work you've been doing.
00:19:38.664 - 00:20:00.944, Speaker B: Sure. Well, wear the smoke is a really. It's probably the most personal, vulnerable work I've ever made. It took, I'd say it was in process for, like, 17 years. And that was basically because of the. It was so personal, right? Like, so I grew up in a firefighting household. My dad was a volunteer firefighter, amateur fire scene photographer.
00:20:00.944 - 00:20:42.528, Speaker B: That that's where I learned photography. You know, at a young age, I was kind of racing off with my dad to photograph fires. I had my first camera, interchangeable lenses when I was in third grade. And when we would listen to fire scanners and go off and chase blazes so my dad could photograph them, I'd be, like, loading the camera and changing the lenses as he was racing around, driving with a magnetic light on top, blaring classical music, you know. And so we would end up at all these blazes. And my dad shot photographs of them. Well, when I was a kid, we had two devastating fires that intersected with our lives.
00:20:42.528 - 00:21:20.496, Speaker B: One where we were on vacation and our van erupted in flames with us in it. And we got out, and everything was safe. You know, we were all fine. And then the second was, eleven months later, our house burned to the ground. And I don't know if it was because I was raised, you know, my dad turned me on to, like, film noir and mysteries and all these different things that for some reason, I always wondered, did my dad have anything to do with these fires? Which is really like a crazy leap. But there were all kinds of reasons that I thought that. And where there's smoke, starts to examine some of that in the makeup, but the piece really kind of takes hold.
00:21:20.496 - 00:22:15.300, Speaker B: And what made it actually happen was that when my dad was diagnosed with stage four colon cancer, he invited me to come interview him and said that I could ask him anything that I wanted. So up for the last year of his life, I would sit down with him, and we would have. I interviewed him for about 15 hours over a period of time, and I could ask him anything. And all these skeletons started to emerge from the closet, and the piece really kind of started to evolve. And at that time, early on, where you were just mentioning immersive work, I'm very interested in immersive as a form for storytelling. You know, the transformative potential of it, the power that it has and the way in which IRL can mix with, like, virtual is really exciting. So what I ended up doing was working with my dad.
00:22:15.300 - 00:22:47.648, Speaker B: I started showing him diagrams. I could have made it as a television limited series. I could have done it as a feature film. I've done all that work before, but I decided I wanted to do this in a different way. I wanted to challenge the notion of how you could experience this world. And so with that, I started thinking, well, what form can this take? And a lot of my work is always like this. It's like I have to describe the things that it isn't in order for you to understand what it is.
00:22:47.648 - 00:23:25.294, Speaker B: So it's kind of like it's a documentary, but it's not linear. It's an immersive theater piece, but there's no actors. It's an escape room, but there's no escape, right? This latest incarnation, which is at art Yard, which is in Frenchtown, New Jersey, about an hour or so outside New York. It's only a few miles from where my dad was a firefighter. And I went to them and I said, hey, I wanna incubate this. You're an analog organization. I have the work that I do embraces decentralized technology, embraces emerging technology.
00:23:25.294 - 00:24:07.250, Speaker B: Let's incubate this here and see what it's like. And so they got excited and they commissioned the work. And then I found support from the Solana foundation for some of it. And then I sold some NFTs to offset the cost of doing it and ended up creating this immersive experience where you go and you are given a flashlight. You pick up the flashlight, you start moving with it and you wear headphones. And we subverted and use some really cool tech that's normally used in tracking products and factories. And it's called Elicos, the company.
00:24:07.250 - 00:24:43.342, Speaker B: And what we did is we built a geofence in and around this 3000 square foot installation that allows us to know where you are at any point as you move. And using microcontrollers, we do real time mixing on that flashlight. So the whole piece is generative. Your score, the stories, everything that you're engaging with is generative. And we're collecting data as you move throughout the whole experience. And so you're guided in with this set of instructions from this head, this flashlight. It's kind of magical.
00:24:43.342 - 00:25:07.554, Speaker B: It's enchanted. It's playing kind of music. It's guiding you. And then you find yourself in this darkened kind of black box, almost like theater kind of space, but there are all these tables and there's all these things on it. And so all of a sudden, you start excavating. And based upon what you're doing in the space, there's conditionals that determine what happens to the story. And so the story is different for everyone.
00:25:07.554 - 00:25:42.264, Speaker B: People contribute things within it. There's various prompts back to some of that fluxus element that I mentioned, and people add to it. So it's kind of a living, breathing, kind of documentary, immersive piece that grows every time. And so when I go up there, I can see, like, it's constantly changing, constantly evolving. And then the last part I'll mention is that we have a. An axi draw that sits at the front, that draws like a one size paper, like movie poster size. It's a large one.
00:25:42.264 - 00:26:21.874, Speaker B: We take different data that's being captured, mainly pathway data at this point. But when you come out, you can see all the lines and they represent the path that somebody took, the density of where they were. And then we're doing some really cool generative work with that. We'll be doing a drop with code canvas around that later this year. And that, to me, is like the idea that I go into an exhibition and it's growing, it's generative, it's different for everybody that goes through it, and it's making more art as it continues. That's super exciting to me.
00:26:22.494 - 00:26:40.646, Speaker A: So what's the sort of the blockchain and NFT tie in for you for this? Because there's parts of this project that feel like it's very, very new, very forward, very AI generative experience. But what, in your mind, was critical about there being the web3 component there?
00:26:40.830 - 00:27:31.630, Speaker B: Sure. Well, I'd say right now it's been blockchain adjacent. And something that I'm working with the Solana foundation around is making it blockchain integrated. So it has nfts in and around it, involved in it, kind of. I initially started and I was doing a campaign with form function, but unfortunately, form function folded. And so I had done a lot of work around that, and we had a kind of a false start with that because they shuttered. But I was doing these kind of, I'll say in quotes, traditional nfts that were one of ones of like, my dad's photographs, because after he died, I found thousands and thousands of these amazing 35 millimeter slides of things in various states of burning.
00:27:31.630 - 00:28:13.444, Speaker B: So I was taking some of those, blowing them up, and doing one of ones with those. And then I'm a glitch artist. I go by culture hacker in the ecosystem, and I would take them and I would make glitch pieces. I would destroy them and burn them with pixels in a really cool way. I did those as one of ones and limited editions. And then I have been working on doing a drop that takes 35 millimeter slides and uses a burn mechanic. So when you burn it, you get the slide of a fire, and if you collect a certain number, then your name and that certain number of those slides will be put into a permanent collection.
00:28:13.444 - 00:29:28.530, Speaker B: So kind of playing with that idea of the ledger as a way to archive something, but then tying it to an IRL component of archiving the actual work. And then the last part is what we've been developing around code canvas, which is taking the data from the piece. Now, moving forward, what we're talking about is a fully integrated path where the ticketing, embracing this idea of poap, this idea that I could come in, I could ticket, I could get some type of an NFT that would evolve over time. Maybe it disappears or fades like the way a memory does. It would kind of leverage an aesthetic that was related to the piece. But as I kind of made my way in playing with, I've been talking to some of the folks from the boots protocol raindrops, talking about proximity mints and talking about the idea of traits, because there's a really cool moment in the piece where people go through a visualization exercise and they draw something that they would save from a fire. So the installation literally has now probably close to 2000 drawings of different items that people chose to save.
00:29:28.530 - 00:30:24.250, Speaker B: So the idea of being able to be there with a flashlight, put something down. We do a lot of hardware development, so we could have something that you push the card into and it scans the front and the back of it. And then you could do something with the flashlight where you determine, like, oh, I want to, I want to commit this to the memory ledger or whatever it is, and you could do a proximity mint. Then the idea that we'll take some of the generative work that we're doing now out to code canvas and some of those scans, and we'll bring them back into the installation through screens. Now, all of a sudden, I'm seeing more of the generative element coming back into the actual installation. And then I'm doing, I'll do, I'm prototyping it in a couple weeks at Lincoln center, and then I'll do it again. We're doing these live performances around the piece where we're doing live mints with audiences.
00:30:24.250 - 00:31:08.334, Speaker B: So I'm kind of working my development path. I'm not a developer within the blockchain. We do a lot with hardware, a lot with Iot, a lot with AI. And so it's been really cool to kind of connect with the Solana foundation and the awesome development community that exists within the ecosystem. And to be able to kind of bring these weird edge cases into what is going on in the ecosystem and say, hey, how can we do this? I think that there could be some use cases here that could be beneficial not only to this project, but to a whole bunch of other folks who are doing stuff in the arts or in other, other industries, too.
00:31:09.114 - 00:32:06.234, Speaker A: Yeah, I think a lot of times people sort of look at something new and they expect a straight arrow projection to say, oh, well, there's this immersive show, and it's got nfts and it's got some blockchain integration, and it's very easy to look at that and just sort of be like, well, why does this need blockchain? And the answer is, it doesn't yet, but it also doesn't need that plot art you were describing, and it doesn't need the positioning system, and it doesn't need, like, the core idea is not one that is grounded in technology. It's grounded in the art you're trying to create. And the uses of any form of technology is always additive to that experience. It's not like the core of that experience. I think that's something that a lot of folks who come at it from the technology standpoint sort of often get wrong. Is that, like, at the end of the day, you're creating art and you're using these technologies because they help you do that. You're not creating the art for the technology.
00:32:07.494 - 00:32:40.428, Speaker B: Yeah, I love that. I mean, that's a big thing that I do in my practice. There's a theory called MDA that you use to analyze games and design games. And m stands for mechanics, d stands for dynamics, and a stands for aesthetics. And when you're kind of making a game, you go a different way than when you're playing the game and through it. Right? But the idea is mechanics is kind of the rules for what. What are needed to play the game, the dynamics or the behavior or the play itself.
00:32:40.428 - 00:34:05.234, Speaker B: And the aesthetics is what you feel. So I'll often think about, what's somebody thinking, feeling and doing as they're going through these immersive installations. And I'll think about an aesthetic, you know, where their smoke has an aesthetic. It's kind of like it's this idea of being clouded by grief in a certain respect, right? Like it's this idea of moving through a space where my dad and I story is a springboard for people to think about their own life, their own loss, their own memory, right? So now it makes sense, like, in terms of like, oh, well, how could I use decentralized technologies to build upon what this immersive experience is if I already have a geofence? And if I'm allowing people to move through, if memory is malleable? There's something really interesting that I can do there that relates very much to what you could do with an NFT or a digital asset. And so how can, in this case, a lot of people will come out of it? And the responses are phenomenal because people will spend upwards of 30 minutes or more inside this exhibition. And I see a demographic that goes from 1415 year olds all the way up to senior citizens and everything in between. And I'm seeing a repeat people coming back again because they realize when they leave and they talk to their friends, kind of that sleep no more.
00:34:05.234 - 00:34:33.100, Speaker B: The magic of sleep no more, which is like, oh, I might get a one on one with somebody, or I get separated from my friends and I end up kind of going all over. And the best part of that show is when you're at a diner afterwards or grabbing drinks and you're talking about what happened to you. It's like being in an amazing, like, music festival or something. You all got separated. You were at different stages or whatever. You know, there's this element in where there's smoke where people come out and they start talking about the stories, and somebody's like, I didn't hear that. And they're like, I heard this other one.
00:34:33.100 - 00:34:49.270, Speaker B: And they're like, what? What's that story? I didn't know that. What? And they start talking to each other. Right. And it's about this connection. It's kind of creating, ironically, something that's disappeared or disappeared for a period of time with, like, binge watching around television. Right. Yeah.
00:34:49.270 - 00:35:14.574, Speaker B: Now it's starting to come back, and there a number of those streamers are actually going back to, you know, like, if you wanted to see succession, you had to wait until it aired. Right. Like, you couldn't binge the whole thing because it removed the social dynamic of what it was, you know? And so there's something really interesting because decentralized technologies are also really, there's a real strong social component to them.
00:35:15.034 - 00:36:17.080, Speaker A: Yeah, it's funny to hear you kind of talk about it in this way because it seems like a lot of mass market storytelling is getting much flatter than it used to be. Not just the rehashing of let's take a movie from 20 years ago and let's remake it, or this sort of never ending drip of comic book movies that are coming out, that are all basically formulaically the same, or even some of the work around what sort of net new stories and films are getting created, whether it's turning Barbie into a film or whether it's turning let's make another movie about someone doing good things in World War Two. The basis of stories feels like it's flattening. And there's an interesting parallel in the NFT space because hello Kitty as a brand is an $80 billion brand, and there's no plot there. There's no bored ape yacht club plot. There's no DJ and Ape Academy. There's a small one, but there really isn't a plot.
00:36:17.080 - 00:37:08.820, Speaker A: These are almost more symbolic affiliation stories than they are traditional stories or if they're stories. The world of NFTs right now is very thin on storytelling. And I'm kind of curious, as you sort of describe, the stuff you're talking about is very interesting to me. An experience and a story where not everyone gets to experience it and you have this social consensus that comes together on the end and figure out what actually happened. That feels like a kind of story that we're not telling as a society anymore. And I'm kind of curious to hear you think about what the future of web3 storytelling and web3 basically creative pursuits can be from a technology perspective. We know these things can be really integrated.
00:37:08.820 - 00:37:41.226, Speaker A: We know that we can have 10,000 PFP drops, and each one of those has its own story. And there's this magic meta story that ends up getting built together. But we sort of see culture, at least in the United States, building away from that. How do you think those two things intersect? Do they just grow in parallel? Does this mean that. That the type of work you're talking about with generative materials will sort of never be quite as mainstream as your sort of staple Marvel DC comic movie or what does that future look like for you?
00:37:41.290 - 00:37:59.814, Speaker B: Well, I think it's interesting because some of what I'm talking about is kind of this level of personalization within storytelling, which is kind of interesting in the way in which with where there's smoke, for instance, I experienced one thing and somebody experiences something totally different. Right.
00:37:59.974 - 00:38:04.550, Speaker A: But do you think people want that? I think like some people do, yeah.
00:38:04.582 - 00:38:36.466, Speaker B: I think some people do in certain respects. I don't know if you've seen the new unity replica demo where literally you're in a city and you can walk up to any NPC and you can talk to them, right? Like, you can. You can literally have a conversation, right? It's all AI enabled. And so I can walk up and I've seen a variety of demos where somebody's like, I don't, what's up with your hair? And then they, they start having a conversation with the NPC, and he's like, I just got my hair cut, you know, and then going back and forth.
00:38:36.530 - 00:38:36.802, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:38:36.858 - 00:40:17.140, Speaker B: You know, like, there's this, there's this whole maker culture, you know, like, if I look at, let's play videos, if I look at the rise of social media, if I look at the way that a lot of people think that they feel that they're storytellers, they're telling stories on a regular basis. We're all storytellers. It's in us. It's just a matter of some people have been elevated or are masterful storytellers, while others maybe don't identify as being a storyteller or don't know or haven't evolved necessarily as a storyteller or don't consider themselves to be it. So I think on one hand, I could see the rise of personalization within storytelling, and I could see that driving a variety of different ways that people are interacting with stories or the potential for how they could participate in what those stories were and then sharing. I think you'll start to see a crazy kind of remix culture that'll come around with generative AI. And this is something they're trying to figure out is like, well, what does it mean when we start to use deepfakes and we take licensed different celebrities? And then what if I put myself in there into a die hard, and I'm one of the characters and I decide I want to be, you know, the arch villain in that thing, or I put my friend in there, and then we sample ourselves, and all of a sudden you're going to have, like, these, you know, supercuts of, like, different scenes, and it'll become totally schizophrenic, but it points to, you know, using, it's like, meme culture, right? Like what I just described there.
00:40:17.140 - 00:41:04.498, Speaker B: But on the other side of that is the potential of a whole new wave of storytellers and different voices kind of emerging and being able to tell whether it's traditional stories that are kind of like, okay, I crafted this, and you can explore, be part of certain elements of what it is up on the other end of the spectrum. Like, you're actively co creating this thing or for others, and then they're following you through it. Like that idea of, here's a remix of die hard that I did all of that is unknown. It's unknown in terms of the ip around it. It's unknown in terms of who's making it. It's unknown in terms of what technologies are going to power it. It's unknown what studios will still exist.
00:41:04.498 - 00:41:51.784, Speaker B: It's unknown in terms of, like, what new technology opportunities there will be in terms of, like, some of the stuff that's going on with decentralization. I'm so into the decentralization thing because I think years and years ago, I was in Wired magazine, and they did a piece, and I was talking about the distribution of the last broadcast, and I was talking about the democratization of that distribution. And it took 20 some odd years for the protocol that we were developing at that time and what we were experimenting with to be the way that films are delivered now. Right? So that was a long progression, but with some of these generative tools, it's accelerating, right? It's not a 20 year window. It's like six months, nine months. We've seen it a lot within web3.
00:41:52.884 - 00:43:24.242, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess it's just like, as I look at what are forms of decentralized, community owned storytelling today, and I think the biggest and most successful one by far is probably QAnon, which is like a very new media, decentralized storytelling where anyone can contribute their own narrative. And if the group of people that are deep in that conspiracy theory think that your story is great, it's added to the canon, for lack of a better term. But like, that also obviously creates some very serious problems. I mean, QAnon is not something to joke about from that perspective. And so it's very, to me, this is really interesting where we look at these intersections of the acknowledgement that there is no such thing as universal truth, and that we finally come to accept that as society, that you can't ever know something truly as what actually happened. But then that storytelling component goes right into, okay, well, we're going to reconceive of the world in this era where now there's conspiracy theories everywhere, there's a global cabal, all the QAnon stuff that we all know, and let's call it love. I guess that's kind of one of the questions I have on the future of art and the future of these components.
00:43:24.242 - 00:44:21.082, Speaker A: There's a level in which AI is letting go of the creation process, and it's saying, I have a bunch of parameters I want to put in, and something else creates a lot of that work. And decentralized storytelling, it feels reminiscently similar where an author of a novel is largely in control of the material that they're producing. Now, people may not like the book, they may not read the book, but it is that author's work. And when we get into this sort of decentralized storytelling component, the who and what is the author becomes a much more murkier subject. Now, you can argue that artists never actually have control of their work. It's all socially constructed ideas, and no humans ever actually come up with an original piece of art or original idea ever. But that feels a little too extreme for me to be a useful level of analysis here.
00:44:21.082 - 00:44:49.914, Speaker A: How do you think about that work where artists truly have to let go of material when it becomes something that's community owned as opposed to something that they've put out in the world as almost like a one time transaction, you have lost control, to some extent, intentionally, of where there's smoke, by having it be generative, even though you've created all of the. The rules for the environment. Who knows how that's going to grow into the future?
00:44:50.494 - 00:45:18.774, Speaker B: Yeah, well, I think a couple different things. I mean, I think I came out of making alternate reality games. Alternate reality games were a big. You could say that QAnon is a huge alternate reality game, right? Like, it's. Like, it's crazy in terms of what it is. And we had done a project that was all about misinformation and deception at the lab that was called Project immerse. And you found yourself in this environment, and the narrative conceit was that somebody's dumping all this data to you.
00:45:18.774 - 00:46:35.302, Speaker B: You're not sure who it is or what it means, but you work with other people to make sense of it. It was all about apathenia, right? Like, how we look for patterns in things in order to make meaning and in order to shape the stories that we use and the narrative that we use to explain our lives and how we fit into the world, right? So I think that those narratives are incredibly powerful. I think misinformation and deception is really a major, major issue that is very complex. It's going to take all kinds of policy issues, regulatory issues, and it's something that's very challenging. When I think about storytelling, I think about this idea of, if we're all storytellers, there's an element of. I think with where there's smoke, I'm looking at the new forms and functions of storytelling, and I want to kind of dig into that because I think it gets towards what you're talking about, right? So at the lab. We think about forms as emergent technology, could be AI, could be the Internet of things, could be augmented reality, so forth and so on.
00:46:35.302 - 00:47:36.204, Speaker B: Decentralized technology. And then the functions are story for learning, story for healing, story for mobilization and policy change, story for entertainment, right? And a lot of when I talk to somebody, as I mentioned earlier, trying to define where their smoke is, we have a relationship with entertainment that is ingrained in us. I sit down in my living room, I turn on the tv, I know what to expect. I go to a movie theater, I know what to expect, right? That's had over a century in terms of film time to be incubated, to be figured out. Like, when they first went into theaters, when they saw the train coming at the camera, they got up and they ran out of the room, right? Like they ran out of the theater itself, because they thought the train was literally coming in. How crazy is that? And then there was no, you know, they had to develop the language of cross cutting and masters and wide shots and close ups and over the shoulder. All that.
00:47:36.204 - 00:48:22.398, Speaker B: That all came right, like that grammar emerged. Where we sit now is there are. It's kind of. That's why it's so important to kind of borrow from things from the past, in my sense, right? Like, art movements represent human condition. The movement might change, you know, from the futurists and the teens to Bauhaus to, you know, happenings, fluxes, pop art, and so forth and so on. There are all these different interpretations of the human condition, whether they're absurd, whether they're surreal, whether they're really rooted in activism, politics. But there's human condition there, right? And I think right now, I often talk about Marshall McLuhan in the classes that I teach.
00:48:22.398 - 00:49:25.170, Speaker B: In particular, I love this one quote of we kind of march into the future, and we shape our business models through the rear view mirror, right? Like this idea that in order, sometimes grasping something in the future is really difficult unless we're comparing it to something that's come before it. So in that sense, we constantly have this friction between, like, who owns this? Who gets to tell this? What is a story? Does a story have to be like 3 hours, like Oppenheimer? Or is a story something that unfolds in, like, 60 seconds on TikTok? Like what? Where, you know, the definition of it is all murky and blurry and. And who gets to be the author is murky and blurry, and who gets, you know, like, all of that is a challenge. But if we look, I would say, and I'm not saying this about where there's smoke necessarily. I'm just saying new forms will emerge, and some of the great works of the 21st century will come from these new forms. Right. We just don't know what they are yet.
00:49:25.170 - 00:49:37.050, Speaker B: Right. So it's kind of. It's kind of. It offers up all these new ways to kind of think about human connection. Because at the core of it, storytelling is around connection.
00:49:37.242 - 00:49:38.014, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:49:39.274 - 00:50:51.864, Speaker B: I think what's fascinating is if you look at some of the stuff, like when I came into nfts a number of years ago, it came through. Came through, like clubhouse. Even though I had seen cryptokitties, I had written about it, you know, like, it was really that moment where it was like there was something that was percolating, but it was through human connection, people craving to talk to others, that gave rise to this use case that probably a lot of people in the decentralized space maybe took them a bit by surprise. Was that going to be the first thing that really popped out of defi, like, out of the ecosystem, nfts for art? I don't know. I guess. I think it's awesome. I guess what I'm getting at is there's a lot to the question that you asked in terms of the points and pokes at what is the future of these forms? What could they be and who gets to be the author of them and what are they meant to do? I think ultimately, if we just lean into the human experience, we look at the history of what has happened before, we kind of look at where we are in the present and then kind of extrapolate and embrace speculative design and things that you can gain from futures thinking.
00:50:51.864 - 00:51:23.446, Speaker B: You can start to see some of the breadcrumbs of where we might be headed. And then it's kind of extrapolating a kind of Frankenstein. It's like a Frankenstein's monster, man. It's going to be messy at first, right? It's going to have, like, too many limbs, you know, it's not going to be able to speak. It's going to be grunting all the time, you know, but it's going to be craving human connection, right. Because what is that novel telling us? It's over 200 years old. It's like sometimes something that we create can get outside of our control.
00:51:23.446 - 00:51:32.474, Speaker B: Also, the core of that novel is really about isolation and connection. It's about what it means to be truly human. And that's what makes art so powerful.
00:51:33.794 - 00:52:54.226, Speaker A: You know, it's interesting, the Frankenstein's monster analogy. I think is kind of spot on. And I actually feel that way about a lot of modern culture, that it is everything from the fact that you can go anywhere in the world and you can find the coffee shops that look exactly identical, there is this sort of Frankenstein's monster of global culture that's been built. And it's funny because I worry about that a little bit in the future of AI powered art. Not that AI is not going to be a strong tool, or they sort of blockchain tools as a way of collaboration aren't going to be really strong and powerful tools, but that it's going to have, I think it's hard to do good, original work without isolation. And the more that we have integrated technologies, integrated storytelling, integrated communities, you either get these sort of very much qanon down the rabbit hole, we're all in this cult together, or you get this softening of everything where a flattening of the idea space that's possible. And I hope I'm wrong on that.
00:52:54.226 - 00:53:12.244, Speaker A: I hope we get the opposite and we actually get this 10 million Frankenstein monsters that all look different and all have these sort of different components in them, and we sort of see this, like, great expanse of what's possible. I don't know. Part of me is worried.
00:53:12.404 - 00:54:14.076, Speaker B: Maybe I'm optimistic, right? There's a part of me that feels like we have certain sparks in our flame burns. Like when we're a child, we're like, super playful, and then society beats it out of us, right? Like, it dims it down. But I think that there's something inherently about being able to embrace the arts and realize that you can make a creative expression. Like, a lot of my work, for instance, spans years to make, like, the large scale stuff that I do, the installations that I do, even when I'm doing a film or a television series or whatever, it takes a long time. One of the things that I did, and I was kind of inspired because I filed beeples every day for a while and would pop up in my Instagram feed, I thought, oh, you know what? I'm going to try to do that because I'm going to see if I can make a piece every day, because I do these long form works. I want to see if I can do some stuff with code. I want to see if I can make some glitch art.
00:54:14.076 - 00:54:22.768, Speaker B: I want to see if I can make something every day. And so I started. I tried in 2019, failed after a couple days. Just like miserable failure.
00:54:22.816 - 00:54:23.328, Speaker A: It's hard.
00:54:23.416 - 00:55:05.504, Speaker B: And then I did it in 2020. I got all the way up to the pandemic, and then you would have thought I had plenty of time. But then I had other things on my mind, and I wasn't able to do it. But in 2021, like on January 1, I don't know why I always reset it back to, I thought I had to start it January 1. I could have started any day I wanted. But anyway, in January 21, 2021, I start making a piece, and I'm closing in on 1000 days now, right? And I was initially just putting them up on Instagram, very web 2.0. And I started to become really interested in what was going on with NFTs, and I ended up stumbling upon hick at Nunc.
00:55:05.504 - 00:55:35.756, Speaker B: And I was very early into that community. And what I loved about HcNung was it reminded me of Web 1.0. The interface was really confusing. There was no algorithm. There was no curation. There was crazy. Did I do that right? Where did it go? What's happening? Did it connect to the wallet? There was all kinds of chaos around it that just made it so amazing because it created social chatter in and around what was happening.
00:55:35.756 - 00:56:19.240, Speaker B: It was like the development of, it was so raw, it was so alpha. It was so out there in a really cool way. And people started recognizing it, saying, wow, this is different than the other things that I'm seeing in the space. And artists just started pouring in from all over the world. And that I often tell. I tell my students this, I tell other people that if you want to understand or study decentralization, Hickat Nook is an amazing use case story for it, because Rafael, single developer out of Brazil, funded by the Tezos organization, uh, or granted, initially brings a southern economy model up right with him. Right? And, you know, a different type of a creative economy model, it starts to become really successful.
00:56:19.240 - 00:56:47.080, Speaker B: You know, I think it did over 50 million in sales in, like, nine months. It was insane. It burned so bright before it imploded. But it struggles community wise with, like, as it starts to create resources for people. The demands that are there in terms of what people want start to start to strain things, right? Everybody has different demands because people are leaving their jobs. They're going into, they're making art full time now. And now they want this feature, they want this.
00:56:47.080 - 00:57:17.012, Speaker B: This da da da. There were these amazing community hackathons, all these wonderful events that people were doing, you know, like, swapping art, all kinds of really cool fundraisers. And then it just, like, implodes in, like, spectacular fashion, you know, like. And because it's open source. The moment it goes dead, within hours, it's all, you know, I can mint one place and it's like a hydra. It's like, it's mirrored everywhere. And you're like, wow, that's.
00:57:17.012 - 00:57:47.156, Speaker B: Wow, that's decentralization. You're like, holy shit, that's crazy. And so there was a lot there because decentralization is hard historically. It's very difficult, you know, and so, but it was really wild in terms of that art project. It is an art project. When I look at it, it just, you know, it's an amazing performance piece that involves, you know, I don't know, you know, over 40 some thousand artists around the world. And, you know, it radically shifted people's lives.
00:57:47.156 - 00:58:21.978, Speaker B: And it was very interesting. And then later, soon around that summer, before it imploded, I started getting into the Solana ecosystem, which I was super excited about because I saw some of the community aspects that I had identified with hickat nunc that I was so drawn to. And in fact, I started a really cool zine. It's called dam. It's a decentralized art magazine. And we get together the beginning of every month and have a prompt, and people make work. And then we use a hashtag and we find their work.
00:58:21.978 - 00:59:01.140, Speaker B: And then we create a PDF of the zine that's a directory to all the artists. But it's cross chain, so people are minting on any chain. And we've done 14 issues of it, worked with over 1000 artists who have made like 1300 pieces, and we've collected like 600 or so pieces for the damn vault. But I do that with lowbrow native who's in the ecosystem within Solana. We co founded it together, but like that idea of community. And that's what I got excited about. Within the Solana ecosystem in particular, I got excited because I identified something that I had felt and gone through previously, that I was like, that's where it was the most electric.
00:59:01.140 - 00:59:57.356, Speaker B: That was where it was totally exciting. So I think this goes back to a question previously. I think it's all about use cases. I think if people can see different wild outliers and experiments and things that are breaking from the norm, it's weird to say there's a norm around this category, but there are certain norms that have developed, right, and certain ways that people do things and the methods, because there's a lot of people kind of just chasing what somebody else has done. I say, you know, like, full on embrace the, the R and D opportunities of the moment that we find ourselves in full on embrace the potential to make that human connection, to experiment. Because I've been kicking around for a while since Web 1.0, and I've never been more excited than the moment that we find ourselves in now, because I can see that Frankenstein monster.
00:59:57.356 - 01:00:30.826, Speaker B: I can see all those pieces. I'm like, Victor, man, I'm in the lab. I'm trying to assemble it all. You know, it's like, there's a little bit of this and a little bit of that and a little bit of this and that. You know, I tell my students when they come into class, because a lot of times the narrative around the category is very negative, you know? So a lot of my students are like, no, I don't want to know anything about this. This is what it is. But I tell the story of my personal journey through it, and I tell the story of what's really interesting about it, and I talk about, philosophically, the potential of it.
01:00:30.826 - 01:01:43.094, Speaker B: I talk about what it means in relation to previous art movements. I talk about what it could mean for them in terms of their own sustainability and kind of come at it from a different perspective. Because at surface level, if you just read the media around it, or if you just look at some of the trending things in marketplaces, a lot of my students will be like, well, that's cool, but it's not for me. You know what I mean? And I think what this space needs is things that are onboards to help more people understand the creative potential of what it is. So where there's smoke, to me, it's not an add on that it becomes blockchain integrated. It's the next logical evolution of this iterative project. And I think it's something that's critically needed in the ecosystem to welcome more people in through something that they had a personal connection to, something that allowed them to experiment with the technology in a way that was emotionally resonant, that it was a story that allowed them to transport themselves somewhere else.
01:01:43.094 - 01:02:11.234, Speaker B: But then also ultimately, there's constantly people in the lobby talking to each other, you know what I mean? Like, it's the connection part. And then people online going back and forth, and, you know, so I think it's experimentation, you know, is what I'm hopeful for. So I'm not back to what you said, you know, where it might go. I'm optimistic. I think if more people experiment, we'll see those potential possibilities and use cases.
01:02:11.974 - 01:02:17.474, Speaker A: Well, I think that's a great place to leave this for today. Lance, thank you so much for joining us today.
01:02:18.014 - 01:02:22.814, Speaker B: Oh, thank you. Thank you so much for having me. I enjoyed the conversation. Appreciate it.
