00:00:00.170 - 00:01:04.594, Speaker A: Randomness is essential to many blockchain applications because it creates unpredictability, which enables exciting gameplay, truly rare NFTs, and unbiased outcomes. However, obtaining a source of unpredictable, auditable, and tamper proof randomness on the blockchain is difficult. Onchain randomness solutions like block hashes are subject to block withholding attacks by miners and validators and therefore cannot be trusted. On the other hand, off chain randomness solutions are opaque, requiring a high degree of trust that the centralized data provider won't manipulate the results to their benefit. Fortunately, Chainlink verifiable random function, or VRF, was created to provide smart contract developers with a source of cryptographically secure randomness invulnerable against manipulation. With every new request, Chainlink VRF generates a random number and cryptographic proof of how that number was determined using a combination of unpredictable block data and an oracle's private key. The cryptographic proof is published and verified on chain before the randomness is delivered to the application.
00:01:04.594 - 00:02:00.860, Speaker A: This process ensures that the results are provably fair, verifiable, and tamperproof. Chainlink VRF unlocks a whole new set of blockchain and off chain use cases across gaming, where verifiably random character distribution and player matchmaking makes gameplay more unpredictable and exciting. Or NFTs, where tamper proof seeding of specific collectible traits can be used to mint truly rare NFTs, and even fair selection and ordering, where the provably fair distribution of high demand items like token airdrops or the verifiably random selection of lucky draw winners can ensure unbiased outcomes. And now Chainlink VRF V two puts even more control in your hands by giving developers a more scalable, configurable, and gas efficient onchain randomness. For NFT and gaming dapps get a provably fair, verifiable, and tamper proof source of randomness for any application. Start using chainlink VRF v two. Today.
