00:00:58.170 - 00:01:41.478, Speaker A: Well, hi, everyone. I'm Pablo from Diva. And today we're going to talk a little bit about how distributed validation can be a decentralizing force, removing elements of trust and of centralization in the staking ecosystem. So it finally happened. The merge went through smoothly, and now we have an equivalent of Ethereum staking, representing 30 billion in assets, which are yielding a real yield of 5% a year. And because the ETH is deflationary, this is the first time that we have a massive real yield in crypto. But with this switch from proof of work to proof of stake, now, security is determined by capital, and that's, unfortunately, centralizing.
00:01:41.478 - 00:02:37.034, Speaker A: So to look at what's driving that trend, I want to ask, what are we asking from our validators? So, today we're saying anyone can run a validator as long as you have 32 e, which are about 40, will need also a reliable server and skills, something that you can keep online, that can run a full node. But we're also asking you to be willing to accept the liquidity and potentially lower returns from solo staking. So this is not a great deal. We're asking. One question is, who's left when ETH reaches $10,000? Well, we know the answer, right? The ecosystem has been changing, and a lot of people have been. Instead of solar staking, which would be ideal, joining centralized exchanges, because they give you a deal where you have no minimal ETH, you have sometimes liquidity. But the best solution to date has been liquid staking.
00:02:37.034 - 00:03:11.914, Speaker A: Because you have no minimal ETH. You can use an on chain protocol, get your liquid stake ETH, which you can compose in Defi, and it's definitely a winning option, but it's not something that you can do on your own. So because of that, today's ecosystem looks like this. We have one major player, Lido, controlling about 30% of their stake liquidity. We have the next three or four entities controlling more than 50%, and then Rocket pool, who's doing a great job decentralizing somehow a bankrupt entity. And, yeah, it's not looking great. I think we can agree.
00:03:11.914 - 00:03:56.454, Speaker A: So what I want to talk about is, how did we get here, and how can we change it? So, when we look at traditional staking, the word that comes to mind is trustful. You either need to trust yourself that you're going to do a good job, or you need to trust somebody to do that for you. And some of the risks are, if you lose your keys or you go offline, you could potentially look at a loss of 16 e. Plus a ten year lockup. By the time you get that ETH, what is that worth at that point? You also have slashing risks, which are deterring people from casually setting up validators. But the most important is it's very hard to delegate a validator because you need to trust the person that's running it for you. If the person running your validator wants to blackmail you or do an economic attack, they could do that.
00:03:56.454 - 00:04:30.446, Speaker A: They could say, hey, I have your key. Unless you pay me something, I'm going to go offline. That person could get hacked. So it's not the person you're trusting that could do it, but somebody else could do it, or they could make unilateral censorship decisions. So clearly we can do better. One thing we could do is we could say, well, let's not trust one party, let's appoint a number of operators, and let's get the most professional people we can find. But the issue is, even if we have a larger number of operators, what we're doing is we're making collusion harder and we're making attacks a little bit harder.
00:04:30.446 - 00:05:09.582, Speaker A: But if we're not asking for collateral, we still have a zero eth cost of attack. Collision is still possible, even in small groups, since the entities are known. And today, for example, with lido, the risk is real, right? Each operator is holding 1% of staked ETH. That's at the lido level. But if we look at a network level, they're also quickly approaching the 33% critical threshold. Once you have one player coordinating a third of ETH, a number of cartelization issues start to become more obvious. And, well, one way would be to have platforms limit, but clearly that's not the case.
00:05:09.582 - 00:05:38.498, Speaker A: So we urgently need different solutions to balance the ecosystem. So another thing you could do is what rocket pool proposes, saying, look, we'll ask everybody for a collateral. We'll ask for a bond of eight to 16 eth per validator. And that means that if somebody misbehaves, we'll just take it from their collateral. So what we're doing here, we're saying there's people who are kind of senior and protected. The staker is more protected. There's people who are doing work, they're getting paid for that work, but they're putting some guarantees.
00:05:38.498 - 00:06:26.198, Speaker A: So that model works, but there's still margin for improvement. In this model. What we're seeing is each operator is custodying one private key. So you're not fund custodial, but you're still duty custodial, because somebody has that key. Second issue is that bonds can be prohibitive and the current state of rocket pool is the deposit pool is full, and that is because there's more demand than supply. So we need better mechanisms to balance this. So one thing you could say is, well, why don't we do a distributed validation? And I would tell you that is great, because you remove the custodial element from the private key, but you're also changing the model, right? Because now collusion could paradoxically become easier since you only need two thirds of the network to do it.
00:06:26.198 - 00:07:23.226, Speaker A: And the other thing is distributed validation on its own is not the answer. You need an economic model to make sure that it's not economically rational to attack the network, because even if you're distributing, you could still have a similar risk of collusion. So questions like how do we reward good operators? That's not built into the model? How do we ensure good faith, how do we attribute losses and how do we eject bad actors? All these are questions that today are not solved. So we need more resilience in the devs. I like to say the future of Ethereum is at stake. So we went back to first principles, we went back to the whiteboard and thought, what if we could rewrite the rules for validation? What if we could design validators that are fully replaceable? What if somebody goes offline? Somebody else could take completely that responsibility without any loss of funds whatsoever. What if we could reduce missed attestations because we could distribute the ability to be online? And just like if an employee doesn't come up to the office, the office keeps working.
00:07:23.226 - 00:08:17.690, Speaker A: What we found that we could reduce missed attestations by 500 x, and I'll show you that. What if we could have smoother incentives that are socialist rewards? What if we could eject actors quickly and decisively to make sure that that doesn't take ten years to get kicked out? So what we said is, well, we want native on chain machines that can't be evil. So that's a bit what we've been designing, and I'm going to walk you through some of the decisions we took. So the way to understand Eva is you have three design spaces. You have the liquid staking space, where you have lido fracs stakewise, you have the economically trusted space. Whereas what solutions are there out there where it's not economically rational to attack them? So the only solution that comes to mind is rocket pool here, and then you have DVT. But as I said, DVT still has these unanswered questions.
00:08:17.690 - 00:08:59.830, Speaker A: How do you pay people? How do you reward people? How do you take fines from them? Obel and SSV are doing a great job at coordinating DBT, but it needs to be connected to liquid staking and it needs to be connected to economic security. So what diva is creating is we create a chooseside staking pool. If you're a staker, you're the passive part. You're simply staking that you could do on Lido, and you get a liquid stake token. There's no minimum eth, so you get the full advantages of a liquid staking solution. Now, if you're an operator, we want all of you to be operators, by the way. What we're doing is we're boosting the rewards by allowing you to get up to a two x boost if you're running a node.
00:08:59.830 - 00:09:30.722, Speaker A: And as we said, it's not just the capital that it takes to run a node, it's also the difficulty. So we try to make that experience as simple as possible. So how does diva work? The infrastructure looks like this. If you're a staker, you can send your eth, get your div eth back. That goes to a smart contract. And what the smart contract does is every time it can, it creates a validator. And the difference is, we're not innovating at the liquid staking level, we're innovating at the distributed validation level.
00:09:30.722 - 00:10:07.866, Speaker A: So what we're doing is everyone in this room could have a node, and if you're running a node, you're playing a lottery every time that there's a new validator, and you might get a chance to join it. Now, to join that validator, you need to post a little bit of collateral. But it's not 32, it's not 16 or eight, it's one eth. So if you have one eth, you can be an operator on Ethereum mainet, thanks to Diva. The way I think about it is if you have a MacBook, you can probably afford a validator. So how does a validator work? It's basically an execution client plus a consensus client. We support any diversity of clients.
00:10:07.866 - 00:10:27.350, Speaker A: And what we did is we built a very lightweight client. The Diva client is just a few megabytes. That sits on top of that. It consumes minimal resources. It's just a very light peer to peer network, by the way. We're not a blockchain, we're just a peer to peer network. So it's much lighter, it's much easier to coordinate, it has much more capacity.
00:10:27.350 - 00:11:32.726, Speaker A: Last point is, unfortunately, the way Ethereum is built today, you need an oracle to read rewards. But we've been trying to minimize trust there as well, and we are prototyping already zero knowledge oracles that allow you to verify the balances trustlessly, even without the EIP that we're still missing for Ethereum. So how does it compare you have from more decentralized to more centralized? Honestly, it doesn't get better than solo staking for decentralization, but it's a trade off, right? So what we're doing is we're saying we'll give you all the good things that you have with liquid staking, no minimum, a liquid staking token. The composability, the smart contract will give you variable rewards that are competitive with everyone else. But where we're innovating is we're the first solution to have node redundancy. Well, to bring it to production. That means that because every node, every validator is handled by 16 different nodes, up to five nodes can go offline without any impact to the network, and that has a huge impact on performance.
00:11:32.726 - 00:12:20.930, Speaker A: The other thing is, because we're splitting the bond between different nodes, we can reduce that to one eth bond. So we're trying to build the most decentralized and the most trust minimized network for staking. The design principles we have is for a solution to be a market leader, you need to have max economic utility, so you cannot compromise an APR. You need to give the best results. We need to be integrated with the major platforms, ave, euler, maker, liquidity, you name it, because useful everywhere where you can use ETH, you could use a staked ETH, and that would be better for you because it's yielding. So we need to work on all these integrations to make sure that this is the most useful. The other same principle, as we said, is decentralized and inclusive.
00:12:20.930 - 00:12:53.970, Speaker A: Running by only one ETH means a lot more people are able to do it. But we also made the simplest node operator out there. With Diva, you don't need to take care of private keys. It works very similar to Bittorrent. When you're running diva, nodes discover each other, negotiate keys with each other, and is completely transparent to the user, just like when you're streaming files to your friends. Difference is here you're streaming economic attestation duties. Lastly, we have a design principle of resiliency to make it collision resistant and have the best risk management out there.
00:12:53.970 - 00:13:35.950, Speaker A: So I'm going to showcase a few decisions we made. For example, the distributed validation key we're using DKG threshold signatures, which means that the key never comes together. Nobody ever has that key, which means that it can only be reconstructed with the consensus of the network. We have another feature which is a self healing network. So many networks, when you start losing nodes, liveliness degrades. So we have incentive models to self heal that network and recover 100% liveliness. One way to look at this is what happens if you have a very bad validator set, people who are 5% of the time offline.
00:13:35.950 - 00:14:06.026, Speaker A: Well, if you only have one, then you have 95% uptime. But as you keep adding sets on a two out of three consensus, the downtime risk goes down dramatically. So we're improving it by more than two orders of magnitude with a set size of 16 that we've chosen. One way to visualize that is we have this really terrible set of nodes which are constantly offline. One out of ten blocks are messed by them. Like one out of 20 attestations. Sorry.
00:14:06.026 - 00:14:51.574, Speaker A: But what you can see is even if this set of participants is honestly terrible, it never reaches the threshold where the network is offline. So in this example, even with that spotty availability, we still have near 100% uptime. This is something that directly translates into better APR and better resilience in the network. Next thing is we like to say we're the most decentralized network. But if you look at the beacon chain, there's only 5000 nodes out there and 40% of them are in the US. And we feel like the main reason for that is because it's prohibitive economically, it correlates very strongly to GDP. So with Diva, we have a mandate of enabling diversity.
00:14:51.574 - 00:15:30.182, Speaker A: We made it super easy. You can bring your DAP node or your own machine, you can install a docker package with zero config. And in a few minutes, just like you would install an Apple TV or something, you can be up and running and you can be validating on Ethereum. And again, we incentivize that very strongly by giving you a boost in rewards. For anybody running a node operator. That means that we have created a crypto economic comparative where the incentives are making sure that there's always enough demand from stakers and enough demand for operators. One way to think about this is if you're Uber, you need to fix that cold start problem.
00:15:30.182 - 00:15:54.570, Speaker A: You need to bring drivers in the street, you need to generate demand. Sometimes there's search pricing to make sure more people come online. So we have something really similar where it tends towards a network equilibrium where everything just works. So we started with this. I feel like we have good answers for the economic part. We have good answers to make it easier. We have definitely answers for giving better liquidity.
00:15:54.570 - 00:16:49.258, Speaker A: But that's not all. Even if we solve these three problems, there are still trust elements that we're trying to remove. So one element that we are working on is removing trusted oracles using zero knowledge proofs. This means that thanks to zero knowledge technology, we will have one of the first use cases, which is using Zksnarks to look at the state of the consensus layer, report that to the execution layer, and be able to calculate rewards in a completely trustless manner. This solution is trust minimized, and it means if you have at least one honest participant, which you can run if you want to make sure, then you'll be fine. This is some technology that succinct has been developing called telepathy, and we're looking to bring this to production. So what's exciting about all this? For me personally, I feel like we're working on many of the major challenges for Ethereum.
00:16:49.258 - 00:17:37.934, Speaker A: This is the roadmap that Vitalik posted a few months ago. Many of the unsolved challenges are how do we get to distribute the validation, how do we adapt to a post withdrawal world, how do we deal with MeV and the threat of MEV becoming a centralizing force proposal builder, separation, all these issues, what they have in common is that validators are a base layer where value is created and where security is built. So building the right solutions and backing that by the right crypto economic incentives is fundamental. So that's my talk. If you'd like to learn more, we are about to release public testnet in March. We are looking for people to play with it. So if you're interested in playing with it, please scan that you can find a node operator form.
00:17:37.934 - 00:18:23.120, Speaker A: We're like opening gradually this until it becomes public. We're also looking for developers who are interested in the project. So if you like to work in Golang, client smart contract development, cryptography, crypto economic security, this is your project. Also looking for TBO partners who want to join the network early in exchange for being kind of founding members, co founding members of this project, and of course node operators. So thank you so much. I think we're going to turn down to questions. So do we have any questions there?
00:18:26.920 - 00:18:32.470, Speaker B: Hello? Can you hear me? Okay, right here.
00:18:33.320 - 00:18:33.876, Speaker A: Where are you?
00:18:33.898 - 00:19:01.100, Speaker B: In front of you. I'm just wondering. So obviously you guys have a one eth bond to start a validator. What is the difference between, like, let's say that you have eight e. Would you be holding a key shard for eight different validators? Would that be the best in terms of economics, or would you just have one key for eight e of a validator? What is the kind of trade off between lowering the bond for yourself if you have more eth?
00:19:01.440 - 00:19:03.072, Speaker A: Sorry, can you repeat the question?
00:19:03.206 - 00:19:13.104, Speaker B: Yeah, so let's say that I have, like, eight e, but you guys obviously only have a one eth minimum bond requirement. Would I be participating in eight different validators with those eight?
00:19:13.222 - 00:19:57.310, Speaker A: Okay, so what happens is when you have eight e, you're eligible to join up to eight validators. And then there's this lottery where if you're eligible, then you can receive one of these validators. And in principle, there's no limit to how many validators you can run. But, of course, we want to make sure that we have a very diverse set to make sure that it's very well balanced geographically, across availability zones and so on. But economically, it's pretty much equivalent whether you run them or somebody else. Any other questions? Have one question there. Hey.
00:19:57.310 - 00:20:27.826, Speaker A: Yeah. This has been a great talk. Thank you. Is there a roadmap to zero e requirement or, like, very minimal a roadmap to getting to even lower than one e bond requirement? It's technically possible. We feel like the benefit goes down very quickly under one ETH. We look at the distribution of how many people have one ETH versus two, four, eight, and we found that one is a pretty good amount. Once you go more, then what you start to have is a lot of network gossip and chatter.
00:20:27.826 - 00:20:50.890, Speaker A: So I feel like we could lower it, but there's not much of a point. What we're optimizing for is making sure we have enough capacity, and it feels like one ETH is the perfect point. I think I'm out of time, but my whole team is here. So happy to talk to you. Thank you so much for coming. I don't.
