00:00:00.480 - 00:00:20.285, Speaker A: And so in large part that is what Ethereum is kind of making a bet with kind of all these L2s, at least from an economic perspective, implicitly is that it's worth this trade off. Like we are giving up some amount of cash flows that's going to go to these L2s, but we're going to end up with a million chains that are all ETH denominated. And ETH looks like this more store value commodity like currency, like asset that's kind of used everywhere.
00:00:24.065 - 00:00:51.285, Speaker B: Hi everyone. Welcome to Unchained, your no hype resource for all things crypto. I'm your host Laura Shin, author of the Cryptopians. I started covering crypto crypto nine years ago and as the senior editor, Forbes was the first mainstream media porter to stick over cryptocurrency full time. This is the October 11, 2024 episode of Unchained. Polkadot is the original and leading layer 0 blockchain with over 2000 plus developers and the Polkadot 2.0 upgrade will be a massive accelerator for the ecosystem.
00:00:51.285 - 00:01:14.537, Speaker B: Join the community@p Polkadot.net FBTC is the fastest growing Omnichain BTC asset this summer join FBTC Points inspired campaign where you can hold FBTC to earn sparks, lucrative yields and token drops all on your bitcoin. Today's guest is John Charbonneau, co founder of dba. Welcome John.
00:01:14.721 - 00:01:16.569, Speaker A: Hey, how's it going? Thanks for having me on.
00:01:16.697 - 00:01:25.285, Speaker B: You just came out with a paper about how to value tokens for both layer ones and L2s. Why did you feel compelled to write this paper?
00:01:25.585 - 00:02:37.303, Speaker A: Yeah, so it was somewhat of a successor to a post that I'd written probably about a year and a half ago at this point on just kind of talking through basic L1 economics. And I would say kind of the impetus for this post was I would have hoped at some point over the past couple years or in the years before that we would have started to get more as an industry, just kind of a better idea and common understanding of just terms that we use when we're talking about these networks. Because it's been very clear when people are trying to think about the value that's moving through the network and what kind of value the tokens can capture. People try to use a lot of tradfi terms and then people use them in six different ways and then we end up talking about the same thing using different terms of some people will call issuance a cost and others won't. And people what's the profit for this network and the terminology just starts making no sense, and then we just end up all talking past each other. So most of it was honestly just in that simple spirit of, okay, how do we get this terminology right, such that we can actually just talk about these things kind of in a reasonable manner, back and forth, and we all know what we're talking about. And so a lot of it was just out of, okay, what are some good statistics and terminology that we could use? And then I would say, towards the end of it, I also started to talk more about, okay, how do we fit this into our broader idea of.
00:02:37.303 - 00:02:52.641, Speaker A: Based on that, how might you go about valuing one of these things? And then how do you do that based on cash flows? Or you could think about, is there also some other utility value for these currencies, and how do you try to bring those together when we're thinking about valuing these and kind of assessing the health of these networks?
00:02:52.833 - 00:03:41.889, Speaker B: Yeah, and it sort of feels like the conversation is coming up in different ways because of, you know, things that are going on with Ethereum and Layer Twos, but also, you know, now. Now, like, people are calling into question the FAT protocols thesis and all kinds of things that were sort of like standard conventional wisdom for a long time. And in a way, it's like covering crypto over this long period of time. I almost feel like everybody in the industry are like little sculptors chipping away at this block. And, like, a sculpture is emerging, but we're still, like, in the early phases. And so sometimes, yeah, this question of, like, how to value these things is like, oh, now that we've chipped away at more of this sculpture, like, here's what the new understanding is. But so go ahead and give us kind of like the broad strokes of your analysis, and then we can kind of go point by point.
00:03:42.067 - 00:04:34.723, Speaker A: Yeah, sure, happy to. So the main things I was trying to do to start were, as I was saying, just set some, you know, what are some basic terminology that we can kind of use across different networks? The really basic ones I ended up using were just tev, total economic value, which is just very simply, what are all of the network fees, MEV tips for people who are capturing arbitrage and sending along that value to stakers. And then issuance. So token issuance, whether in proof of work or proof of stake, what is just all of that total amount of value? And so that's what I just defined as. And that's basically the pie that we're going to be divvying up over Some period of time, there's X amount of issuance fees, all these things, who's going to get those things? And then REV is very simply just real economic value. So taking out inflation, we're just talking about network fees and MEV there. And then that ends up effectively referring to what is the actual amount of money that users are willing to pay to use this network.
00:04:34.723 - 00:05:19.803, Speaker A: So those are just kind of the basic terminology there. And then what I was doing also at the beginning was trying to set the stage of just getting the right, even a step back from that, just the right simple framing for people. Because a lot of, where I think a lot of analysis ends up going wrong is people try to look at these exactly like they do at companies and that ends up falling apart on some spectrum. Because you can certainly imagine a company that puts everything on chain and then, I mean their financials still look like a company. They have a Treasury, they take money in, they take money out, they pay corporate taxes, they do all those things. And some of it gets lost in translation when people try to apply that to networks where those things kind of fall apart. Ethereum being like a simple example of you don't actually have one sort of naturally unified income statement for this company that everyone is working together.
00:05:19.803 - 00:06:03.025, Speaker A: There's no notion of corporate taxes coming out of this thing. When you are trying to assess what are the expenses of this thing, what are the taxes that people are paying. What you end up really having to do is try to look at subsets of different actors in the system. So you can look at all token stakers or all token holders that aren't staking, or the unison of all token holders in the entire ecosystem. And then what you're basically doing is trying to stitch together things like an income statement across all of those actors. So what is the total amount of money that all token holders made and what is the total amount of money that they all spent on operations? So paying either proof of work, miners, validators, stuff like that. And that's why it gets a little bit messier, is because you don't have this naturally kind of unified idea.
00:06:03.025 - 00:06:28.747, Speaker A: We're a company where it's just very simple. We're a centralized entity. Here are our financials. So you kind of need to stitch things together in that way and then going down another step. I would say the main distinction that you end up seeing in these networks is very simply proof of work versus proof of stake. I would say is the general clean distinction where in general, what you see in the vast majority of networks is proof of stake. You can assume that generally the token has some rights to receive all of the economic value that's going through the system.
00:06:28.747 - 00:06:53.093, Speaker A: You could stake your tokens and you could receive some version of all the issuance, all the fees that are being paid, or fees could be burned and then it goes to all token holders either way. And generally in proof of work, what you see is you have absolutely no rights to receive any value from the networks. Look at bitcoin. Very simply, Bitcoin holders don't gain anything if people start to use a lot of fees. All of that goes to miners. Token holders are just purely losing money. They're just being inflated and they're paying it to miners.
00:06:53.093 - 00:07:38.779, Speaker A: Minor caveat of like, you can technically burn fees and proof of work, but we just don't generally see that in practice. So we just kind of put that aside. And then from there, the basic thing that you want to start to think about, if you're looking at what is kind of, if you're trying to look at earnings and profitability metrics, how do you think about these things? What it always ends up being, as we try to stitch those different actors together, is when you're looking at the cash flows and the earnings through the system is very simply of what do users pay to use this entire network as a whole? So that's the revolution. So all the user network fees, all the MEV tips that are paid, and then literally what does it cost to run the network? So in proof of stake is pretty cheap. It's usually you're paying on the order of like 5% commissions to stakers. So there's some cost. Of all the different validators, they need to literally run the boxes.
00:07:38.779 - 00:08:14.237, Speaker A: I need to have an employee that's managing this validator doing all of that improver work. It's obviously much more expensive because you're burning a ton of energy. So everything ends up going to that. But for both of them, what you end up with at that bottom line is what is this idea of a net income? If you look at all token holders as a whole, is that simple idea of what are the amount of fees, the ROV that people are paying to use this network and then what does it cost to run the boxes? In proof of work, you always end up with effectively a net loss of proof of work. Token holders, they're just losing inflation every single year. As a bitcoin holder, that's all you get. Every year you lose 1% inflation versus proof of stake.
00:08:14.237 - 00:08:30.425, Speaker A: That generally that kind of profit margin that's left after paying to run the boxes that can in some form go to all the different token holders. And so that's kind of the bottom line metric that we end up looking at. And then we try to figure out that. And then you can go even further. Does it go to stakers, does it go to non stakers? And then get into a whole different conversation there?
00:08:30.585 - 00:08:52.301, Speaker B: Yeah, well, one of the things that interested me was when you started your analysis, you made this point about staking tax laws or in just taxes in general. So I just was wondering like, why is it that you started with that? Because it seems like that's sort of like a big baseline assumption or premise that you think needs to be factored into all these value, you know, ways of valuing networks.
00:08:52.453 - 00:09:33.985, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, that's a good topic we could tackle on its own. So the taxes were a good thing to start with. I particularly put it up front because I think it was one of the. It's a very concrete thing and it's also one of the better examples that demonstrates some of the differences when we look at these things as companies versus networks. So where a lot of people end up getting confused with issuance and thinking about taxes in these networks or like, is issuance a cost to these networks? Like, are taxes a cost to these networks? In traditional equity analysis, it's very simple to look at as like you have a company, it is in some jurisdiction, the U.S. whatever, there's a corporate tax rate that they're paying. So let's say it's 30%, that is money that is coming out of their bottom line.
00:09:33.985 - 00:10:22.665, Speaker A: And then whatever those earnings are left over at the end of the day, those are the earnings that the company has and that is potentially distributable to shareholders. You could do a dividend, you could do a buyback, whatever. And then from there if you do a dividend payment, then it depends on where are the equity holders if they pay additional taxes on top of that dividend. And so where some of the comparison gets, I think, confusing with people is in like these decentralized networks, there is no notion of corporate tax. There isn't that like, you know, calculating this post tax bottom line, like there isn't this clean number that makes sense to take out. Because any tax rate that has ever applied to any of these staking rewards is just fundamentally, it's not actually inherent to the value of the asset. Because the weird thing that ends up happening is it's very tricky to figure out because it depends on what jurisdiction you're even in.
00:10:22.665 - 00:10:54.271, Speaker A: And all of these crypto tax laws are super unclear. But at least a lot of the major jurisdictions, the general conservative tax treatment seems to be we treat all staking rewards. So any issuance that you receive, any priority fees and stuff you receive as effectively income, and that probably gets taxed as income, that ends up not making sense for a lot of reasons, because issuance isn't actually real economic value and profit that you're turning. It actually looks more like a stock split. So it doesn't actually make sense to tax it. But let's just take the assumption that it is taxed in these places. What that ends up looking like is effectively a dividend tax.
00:10:54.271 - 00:11:25.965, Speaker A: That is the comparison for it. There is actually no notion of corporate tax that's coming out of the bottom line. So when people are trying to assess the profitability of these networks, there's a rush to say, oh, issuance is a cost because it makes you pay taxes. Or people get a little closer to the truth where you say, oh, we should take the taxes out. But fundamentally, in any of these networks, those taxes aren't actually fundamental to the network. I could just buy all the tokens and then move to the Caymans, and then now there's no taxes on the staking rewards. So it ends up being very tricky in this idea of we're trying to stitch together the income statements of all the different holders.
00:11:25.965 - 00:12:15.393, Speaker A: So what I think in practice you end up having to do is there's no idea that's comparable to a corporate tax rate that you can just take out of the bottom line. But what we can do is say, okay, we have that net income number that I said before of like all the RV minus what does it cost to like literally run the network? What you can do is after that we can try to estimate, like, what are the taxes that all of these different stakers are paying. And I think it is at least very important to keep that in mind, even if it's not inherent to the asset. Because I think in practice, what a lot of these networks end up with today is they end up with this super tax inefficient structure where they're like issuing a bunch more rewards than they need to. And in practice, a lot of people live in jurisdictions today where that is probably treated as income. So they're like returning a bunch of quote unquote value back to shareholders, but it's not actually real value. And so they're being taxed on this not real value that you end up creating.
00:12:15.393 - 00:13:00.145, Speaker A: So you could very easily end up with a situation where all of these holders end up with a higher tax bill than you actually return to them and real fees that the users paid to end up paying to use the network. So it's always this weird mix of if you're a network and you're designing economics for the network, do you take into account the tax laws of the US versus Europe or as salty as different countries? It's hard for me to say yes, but at the same time, in practice, there are going to be different investors in different jurisdictions. They're going to have to look at this. If there's a high issuance rate and I live in a country where that's going to be taxes income, I'm going to have to pay attention to that if I'm considering buying the thing. You end up with all these weird differences versus companies is where it ends up. The tax thing helps highlight nicely, I would say, where these are different from companies and where they are similar.
00:13:01.005 - 00:13:43.019, Speaker B: All right, so in a moment we're going to talk about how to apply these different ways of valuing networks to some of the various networks that are out there. But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible. FBTC is an Omnichain BTC asset contributed by Mantle Network and Ant Alpha Global. Launched in early July, FBTC's TVL has already passed $125 million, making the fastest growing BTC asset. This summer, FBTC's points inspired campaign sparkle has officially started with lucrative and sustainable yields plus points and token airdrop from Babylon, Mantle's new token cook and more. FBTC is the BTC solution you've been waiting for. Visit fbtc.com
00:13:43.019 - 00:14:17.845, Speaker B: ongoing campaign today. So you kind of, you know, ran through like a bunch of the different metrics, but why don't we just talk about like bitcoin? It's the obvious one to start with because you do make a distinction between, you know, how this applies to proof of work versus proof of stake, which, you know, you already alluded to. But just like talk a little bit about like let's say that, let's say that I'm like one of these people who has just heard about the Bitcoin ETF and I'm wondering like, you know, is this something that's worth buying? Like, how should they think about it, you know, using your analysis.
00:14:18.015 - 00:14:51.697, Speaker A: Okay, sure. So yeah, the proof of work versus proof of stake is nice because I think it highlights where although I start with an equity like and cash Flow analysis. This is an inherently incomplete model when you were looking at a lot of these things, particularly something like Bitcoin. Because if you just try to look at the simple income statement of something like Bitcoin, you will always end up with a negative valuation. Your entire income statement will always be like, all right, I'm losing money every year, this is a terrible business. Why would I be Bitcoin? Bitcoin, I mean the simple response to that is obviously intuitive. When we put it in the really simple case when we think about Bitcoin is like, oh, it's like gold.
00:14:51.697 - 00:15:33.063, Speaker A: The purpose of gold isn't that I think it's this super income generating asset, it's this more commodity like thing that's a store of value. And so it just has a completely different kind of analysis to it. And even in that, it is at least important to understand those kind of economic flows that I'm talking about. Because you do still need to understand what is the amount that people are paying to use this network. Because you want to make sure that there's enough of this rev available such that you're paying miners in a sustainable way long term, that there's going to be a good security budget and that I'm not getting inflated away too much. I do care what my real expense is inflation, you care about all those metrics, but you don't end up with this clean. I have an earnings number at the bottom and then I can put a multiple on this.
00:15:33.063 - 00:16:38.725, Speaker A: Bitcoin is this more gold like thing, which is difficult. And then there is this spectrum. And then I would say on the far end, where you end up having a lot of these things, particularly in the long term, is they do look a lot more equity like is, you know, you have some very simple, you know, network protocol, whatever that's running. And you know, there are some costs to run this thing. You got to run the boxes and there's a token that gets the profits at the end of the day that ends up looking like a lot like a company in a lot of different ways. Where you can start to much more concretely reason about like, okay, what do I think is going to be the net profit due to the token holders at the end of the year? You know, if users are going to pay a billion dollars to this network and it costs, let's say $100 million to run all the boxes, pay all the validators, blah blah, blah, there's $900 million that's left over at the end of the year, that's going all the token holders that looks like a normal net income bottom line type number that I could put a 20x multiple on that thing and you can come up with a reasonable number. So that's on the far end of you have these things that look just completely equity like to the point where some of them can literally just, they can literally be companies on chain as from the example before.
00:16:38.725 - 00:17:17.044, Speaker A: You know, you can literally just run a completely centralized company. You put it on chain like all the equity like analysis starts to still completely works. The part where it gets trickier then I would say is like that sort of like middle ground area where okay we have this and this is, and this is the more like Ethereum, like I would say is the probably the perfect example there of it's got a weird mix of these two different things of we very concretely do have an asset that gains profits from people who use the network to varying degrees. So if people are paying $10 billion a year for rev into this network that's great for eth holders because that goes to them in some shape or form whether that's burned and it goes to all token holders which just looks like a share buyback.
00:17:17.424 - 00:17:22.684, Speaker B: Right. And just as a reminder. Yeah, that's like network fees, MEV tips Exactly.
00:17:23.184 - 00:18:29.405, Speaker A: Those end up looking very equity like of we have this value going in and then we have some capital distribution mechanism back to shareholders. So we could burn it which looks like a share buyback or we could throw it back to stakers as a payment which ends up looking like a dividend payment. So that is what is generally kind of like I would say the baseline intrinsic value for most of these networks like Ethereum. What you see in practice though is if you look at something like Ethereum or Solana, that number right now give or take is roughly a billion dollars annualized versus if you look at the valuation of those networks as very ballpark call it 70, 80 billion for Solana and 300 billion ballpark for Ethereum. Those 70 and 300x on earnings would be very aggressive multiples in traditional valuation. And so you end up with this kind of question for these is okay one are they just overvalued? Should the value go down? Reasonable possibility. The other one is are you expecting maybe you just hit the market has very extreme expectations of growth of it's 1 billion today but two years ago Ethereum was doing 10 billion annualized in this kind of rev coming in.
00:18:29.405 - 00:19:09.209, Speaker A: So we just think it's going to go up way higher and then it's at a reasonable Multiple again, now it's at a 20x on the forward kind of earnings multiple. That's a reasonable possibility. And then the third possibility, which is in practice probably what it looks like for these bigger networks is you probably have this thing that is a weird mix of it has this baseline like equity, like cash flows that are due to all the token holders. But they do also have a lot of those commodity like properties of something like Bitcoin. And they do have a very tangible utility value to people who are using these things. There's a reason why a lot of eth holders don't even stake their tokens. They are foregoing actual reward because they clearly derive some utility from the network.
00:19:09.209 - 00:19:40.815, Speaker A: And the same reason that anyone holds Bitcoin, they're just losing money. Why would you hold it? They hold it because they derive some utility of it, some future expectation of this thing being successful. No, it's the whole decentralized store value, all of that. And so these bigger proof of statement experts I would say are probably the trickiest ones because you do get a weird mix of all the different things. And so you start trying to figure out like, okay, if I value it strictly as an equity, it looks like this. And then how do I try to layer on top of that, oh, maybe only half the people are staking, a lot of people are using it as a currency. And then you try to build up from there.
00:19:40.815 - 00:19:45.775, Speaker A: Ends up being very difficult. But that is the way that you end up thinking about it, of trying to build up evaluation to these things.
00:19:46.705 - 00:20:10.881, Speaker B: So when you kind of apply this model that you came up with to this current debate about whether or not L2s are parasitic to Ethereum L1 because, because you know, we should also say we haven't touched on this is the fact that you also talk in there about how to value L2s versus L1. So you know, if you want, you can go into that. But also I was just curious for how it touches on that debate that's been ongoing.
00:20:11.073 - 00:20:43.757, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's two interesting things with the L2. So. So one is the interesting conversation of people when people are trying to think about them. Even if you just try to think about an equity like analysis of them. I think that most people think about these things incorrectly because most people treat issuance, I would say incorrectly as just this straight up 100% expense, which in proof of stake networks doesn't actually make sense because to that point of what did we say before for that net income calculation is your cost is what you're actually paying to the operators. And in proof of stake, that's only 5% of issuance.
00:20:43.757 - 00:21:04.551, Speaker A: Something like that. And in proof of work it's reasonable to call issuance 100% cost to token holders. Because I mean, yeah, what is, what do bitcoin holders lose every year? They lose 100% of their issuance. In the proof of stake world, really only the portion that you're paying out to operators is strictly the loss there. Most of it actually goes back to the token holders. So it's not actually value creation. You're just incentivizing people to stake rather than to keep the token unstaked.
00:21:04.551 - 00:21:36.193, Speaker A: Like it's just trying to incentivize a certain behavior in the network. It's actually, it's not actually a loss of value to the token holders because they get it back themselves. But the upshot of that is a lot of people who I would say kind of incorrectly just treat this as oh, issuance is like 100% of cost, it's bad for the token. That would lead you to believe, if you look at that very naively, that oh, L2s are like super profitable because all these L1s have these high inflation rates. The L2s don't have these inflation rates, so they're way better. You can see from what I described of like no, that's overly simplistic. You need to just count for what are you actually paying out the proof of stake issuance isn't as bad as it looks.
00:21:36.193 - 00:22:03.613, Speaker A: So L2s end up looking similar. The main differences being they have sort of, I would say a more like ongoing variable cost structure as opposed to fixed costs. Because they don't have mostly their own operators, they're mostly like paying out to you know, a layer one like Ethereum, kind of just ongoing operator costs to them. They don't have their own inflation rate. Usually they can do that, but most of them don't. The other big expense that a lot of them have is they tend to in practice print a lot of money from the Treasuries and like hand it out to a lot of application teams. Like that is a real non cash expense.
00:22:03.613 - 00:22:33.831, Speaker A: Like that looks like. And kind of in the tradfi world the analogy is like stock based compensation. That's exactly what that looks like effectively. And so getting back to the parasitic part of it is where do these L2 tokens get that equity like value from? Is all the users on the L2 now instead of the L1, so they're paying all the fees all this rev, all of this is going now to presumably either the L2, I mean the centralized L2 then going to their sequencer. But if it's a decentralized one with the token, it's going to the token, it's going to their dao. That's more like arbitrary optimism. That's kind of their general model is the fees.
00:22:33.831 - 00:23:06.255, Speaker A: Now I'll go to them. So the very fair argument is is this parasitic to the L1. All the fees are going to the L2 now. And so there's a mix of different arguments there that I would say. One is there is a very reasonable argument on the part of kind of the L1 of not all of this is activity obviously that you are just like this should have happened on the L1 and we're just putting it on the L2. Most of it is fundamentally stuff that we couldn't do this on the L1 before because the L1 is too fast, the L1 is too slow, it's too constrained. All these different things.
00:23:06.255 - 00:23:40.905, Speaker A: The Solana argument to that is make the L1 faster and bigger and then you can do it all on the L1, which is a totally fair argument and that's probably directly correct. But let's say that it's symbiotic. A lot of its net new activity. What is it doing? It is concretely though still some portion of it is it's fees that should have gone to the L1, it's going to the L2. So if you think that these L1 assets are worth very strictly, I am looking at the bottom line profitability of this thing. And then I'm just going to put some 20x30x whatever multiple on that thing. Yes, this is reducing the earnings of that thing very clearly.
00:23:40.905 - 00:24:05.363, Speaker A: They are now going to the L2 instead. What you end up with though is this weird mix though of okay, but we said that they're not entirely equity like, they're probably also somewhat commodity like. And what in practice a lot of these L2s do the big ones like optimism, arbitrum base. All these, their native gas token is eth. Usually most of the defi. And these ecosystems are all denominated in ethereum. That is by far the largest token generally in a lot of their defi protocols.
00:24:05.363 - 00:24:47.979, Speaker A: So you're really spreading the usage of this thing. And so you end up with this weird trade off of L2s. What you're implicitly doing is you're making this trade off of yes, we are sacrificing to some extent on Some of the equity like properties of the L1 of a lot of that cash flow is now going to the L2s, but you are directionally increasing the commodity like attributes of it, which may also give it value. And so in large part that is what Ethereum is kind of making a bet with. Kind of all these L2s, at least from an economic perspective, implicitly is that it's worth this trade off. Like we are giving up some amount of cash flows that's going to go to these L2s, but we're going to end up with a million chains that are all ETH denominated and ETH looks like this more store value commodity like currency, like asset that's kind of used everywhere. So that's kind of the bet that you're taking.
00:24:47.979 - 00:25:47.277, Speaker A: And then I would say the last small point I would argue is most of the arguments that OL2s are parasitic come from people who are trying to argue that oh, all that cash flows are going to go to a chain like Solana. The other very fair counterargument that I would say gets left out a lot is even if all the apps stay on the L1, all the apps are still trying to figure out even if I am on a shared chain, how do I keep all the RF for myself. They're all increasingly doing this of okay, even if I'm on Solana, even if I'm on Ethereum, how do I run some sort of off chain auction or enforce some different ordering rule where I make sure that none of this rev is leaking to the L1 anymore because I'm bringing all the users, I should get all of it as the application. And so that means applications on a shared L1 are parasitic in the exact same way as L2s are an L1. Everyone is incentivized to keep that kind of value for themselves. And who has the strongest position with the users and the pricing power at the end of the day is going to be the applications who are bringing all of those users. And that is what we're seeing directionally as an industry over time is very clearly if at the start we have these inefficient protocols and it really makes a big difference what chain you're on.
00:25:47.277 - 00:26:18.085, Speaker A: Most of the value has been leaking to the base layer with, I mean Uniswap is the perfect example. They just announced today of historically so much of this value from being on Ethereum layer 1. All this value is leaking to Ethereum. And what are they announced today? We're going to make uni chain. And a big part of that is we're going to capture this for ourselves. And they're also implementing different ordering rules on it so that chains other applications to deploy on Unichain, they don't have this problem of, okay, we're trying to return all the value back to you. So as an industry, you're very clearly seeing this trend over time and will continue to.
00:26:18.705 - 00:26:56.125, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, this is what I was alluding to earlier when I was saying like it feels like the fat protocols thesis is thing turned on its head. And you know, that is a line in your piece you wrote, quote, it's obvious that. Sorry, it seems obvious that applications, not general purpose networks, will capture the majority of cash flows generated in these systems over the long run. And one of the points that you and some other people have been making is when you control the user interface, it gives you more power in terms of that. All right, well, this has been a great conversation. Is there any other point about your piece that you didn't get to mention that you'd like to bring up?
00:26:56.985 - 00:27:51.315, Speaker A: I think those are all the big ones for me. I guess the last other simple thing that we didn't talk about as much was just kind of relates to summing all of it up together. Is this idea of people talk about are these networks because sustainable or not? Generally the two things that they're caring about concretely in these different scenarios when they talk about like is Salon sustainable? Sustainable because it has a high inflation rate? Is bitcoin sustainable because it doesn't have enough fees? Is generally two properties you care about is is this thing going to be secure enough long term? So, you know, is there enough money here that's going to pay all the miners or that's going to pay all the proof of stake operators and make us take a lot and then is there a bunch of profit left at the end of the day of, you know, these token holders? You know, we paid for all our security and then we get a bunch of money left at the end of the day. And that latter part is much more. What this kind of piece was focused on is what is the sustainability of the profits for these tokens over the long term. Not trying to address the questions of what level of economic security is the right number because most of those conversations are overblown. That's really trying to look at these things long term.
00:27:51.315 - 00:27:55.655, Speaker A: What's the profitability of these and how do we address the sustainability and measure those things long term?
00:27:56.595 - 00:28:29.735, Speaker B: Yeah, and I actually feel that part about. I think it was the real economic value. That was the one where it was to me it was like, oh, this is how you kind of suss out those zombie chains where like they have a big market cap but they have no real activity and which, you know, still to this day I feel like everyday people that don't know anything about crypto will be to me like I own and they'll name a shitcoin and I'm like, I wouldn't own that one if I were you. But you know, like, it's like hard to explain, but that concept, I feel gets it across. Anyway, thank you so much for sharing your thoughts on Unchained.
00:28:30.045 - 00:28:32.781, Speaker A: Yeah, likewise. This was a ton of fun. Thanks for having me on.
00:28:32.973 - 00:29:16.245, Speaker B: Don't forget, next up is the weekly news recap today presented by wnercraft AI Stick around for this week in crypto after this short break. Polkadot is the original and largest layer 0 blockchain with over 2000 developers. The anticipated Polkadot 2.0 upgrade will be a massive accelerator for the ecosystem, upgrading the infrastructure with eight times higher transaction throughput and twice as fast block times, tailored core time for the needs of every protocol, trustless bridges to multiple chains and revised tokenomics with a token burn to reduce inflation. Perfect for gamefi and Defi to build, grow and scale. Get your web 3 ideas to market fast. Think big, Build Bigger with Polkadot Join the community@ Polkadot.net.
00:29:19.785 - 00:30:16.205, Speaker C: Welcome to this week's crypto roundup. In today's recap, we'll dive into the surprising rise of the Goat Meme Coin fueled by an AI agent, explore the underwhelming start of Donald Trump backed World Liberty Financials token sale and cover Radiant Capital's $50 million exploit that halted lending markets. We'll also discuss an FBI arrest, Grayscale's push to convert its multi crypto fund into an etf, Kamala Harris proposal to protect black men investing in crypto and the major changes Vitalik Buterin has planned for Ethereum. Plus we'll touch on Tether's potential move into commodity lending and Praxis's massive $525 million raised to build a crypto forward City. Thanks for tuning in to the weekly news recap. Let's begin. Goatmeme Coin Rises Sparked by AI agent the Goat Meme Coin, created just days ago via the Solana based platform Pump Fun, surged to a market cap of over $350 million on Wednesday.
00:30:16.205 - 00:31:13.179, Speaker C: What's interesting is that the sudden rise was fueled by an AI agent named Terminal of Truth, whose online interactions sparked the creation of the coin. Goat, which started as a joke referencing an old Internet meme, gained traction after the AI agent posted about a fictional goatsy religion on October 10th. Shortly after a wallet created the Goat token on Pump Fun, Terminal of Truth fully endorsed the meme coin, encouraging followers to build a GOATSY metaverse. The AI's wallet has since received over 1.9 million goat tokens valued at approximately $500,000. Goat's liquidity pools on Solana's radium have drawn significant interest, and the meme coin now has around 20,000 holders. Trump backed DeFi project raises 12 million in first 24 hours World Liberty Financial, the decentralized finance project endorsed by GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump, raised only approximately $12 million in the first 24 hours of its initial token sale.
00:31:13.179 - 00:32:13.429, Speaker C: The sale, which began on October 15, has significantly underperformed compared to the $300 million the project aims to raise. Despite the shortfall, the sale attracted over 10,000 unique wallets, though technical issues, including frequent website crashes, plagued the launch. The WLFI Token, priced at $0.015, is non transferable for a year and serves as a governance token, allowing holders to participate in protocol decisions. Trump and his sons are heavily involved, with Trump himself holding the title of chief crypto advocate. FBI arrests Alabama man for SEC Act's hack that spiked Bitcoin price FBI agents have arrested Eric Counsel Jr. A 25 year old Alabama man, in connection with the January 9th hack of the securities and Exchange Commission's X account, which caused a temporary spike of more than $1,000 in the price of bitcoin, According to the Department of Justice, Counsel allegedly carried out a sim swap attack to gain control of the SEC's social media account.
00:32:13.429 - 00:33:16.071, Speaker C: He and his co conspirators then posted a fake tweet claiming the SEC had approved spot Bitcoin ETFs for listing on all US securities exchanges. The false announcement led to an immediate surge in Bitcoin's price, which then quickly dropped by over $2,000 once the SEC regained control of the account and confirmed the tweet was a hoax. Council faces charges of conspiracy to commit aggravated identity theft and access device fraud and is expected to appear in U.S. district Court in Alabama. Radiant Capital halts lending after $50 million exploit Radiant Capital, a Defi protocol, paused its lending markets on Wednesday following a major exploit that resulted in the loss of over $50 million. The attack targeted Radiance operations on both Binance Smart Chain and Arbitrum, with the attacker gaining control of the protocol's multi signature wallet, allowing them to drain funds. The exploit, which involved the compromise of 3 out of 11 private keys required to manage Radiant's contracts, resulted in the loss of assets such as USDC, WBNB and ETH.
00:33:16.071 - 00:34:07.643, Speaker C: Radiant Capital is collaborating with security firms to investigate the breach. This marks the second major exploit for the protocol this year, following a $4.5 million loss in January. Radiant's native token RDNT dropped 9% following the attack. Grayscale seeks SEC approval to convert fund into ETF Grayscale Investments has filed with the US SEC to convert its $524 million digital large cap Fund into a spot crypto exchange traded fund. The filing, submitted on October 14 by the New York Stock Exchange on Grayscale's behalf, marks an effort to offer investors access to a basket of top cryptocurrencies in a single, more liquid investment vehicle. The fund is primarily weighted towards Bitcoin, which makes up 75% of its assets, followed by ether at 19%, with smaller holdings in Sol, XRP and Avax.
00:34:07.643 - 00:35:14.301, Speaker C: If approved, this would be Grayscale's first multi crypto ETF expanding beyond its existing single asset offerings. The SEC's stance on cryptocurrencies such as XRP, SOL and Avax remains uncertain due to ongoing legal battles. ETF industry expert Nate Jurassi commented that the filing could be preparing for a potential shift in regulatory policy, especially if the US sees a change in administration after the 2024 election. Kamala Harris proposes crypto framework to support Black Men Vice President Kamala Harris, who has largely avoided taking a strong stance on cryptocurrency, is now advocating for a regulatory framework focused on protecting black men who invest in digital assets. The proposal is part of her opportunity Agenda for Black Men, released less than a month before the presidential election. Harris's plan emphasizes the role of new technologies in expanding financial access, particularly for black men who have been early adopters of crypto, with over 20% having invested in it. While Harris has previously supported innovation in areas like AI and digital assets, her focus on crypto has remained limited.
00:35:14.301 - 00:36:17.747, Speaker C: By contrast, her Republican opponent Donald Trump, has openly backed the crypto industry and criticized regulatory crackdowns. Harris's proposal is aimed at addressing wealth inequality, framing crypto as a tool for financial inclusion specifically for Black men. Vitalik Buterin Proposes major Changes to Ethereum's Network Ethereum co founder Vitalik Buterin has outlined significant updates for Ethereum in two new blog posts. His first proposal would lower the financial barrier for solo validators from the current 32 eth to 1 eth, making staking more accessible. Buterin also aims to accelerate transaction finalization times, reducing them from the current 15 minutes to just 12 seconds by implementing single slot finality. These changes, he believes, would help improve Ethereum's speed and inclusivity without compromising decentralization. Meanwhile, according to research by the Defi report, Ethereum's validators could face new challenges with the upcoming launch of Uniswap's Layer 2 network.
00:36:17.747 - 00:37:27.175, Speaker C: Unicane Research indicates that Uniswap labs and Uni token holders could capture millions in fees currently paid to Ethereum validators, significantly impacting Ethereum's validator income. As Unichain is set to handle its own validation and fee structures, many are concerned about the shifting dynamics in the Ethereum ecosystem, though some critics argue that liquidity migration is not guaranteed. Tether explores lending opportunities Tether, the issuer of the world's largest stablecoin, usdt, is reportedly exploring new moves into traditional finance, including lending money to commodity traders. According to a Bloomberg report, the company has been in early discussions with several commodity trading firms about potential US Dollar lending opportunities. This move would leverage Tether's substantial cash reserves, allowing traders to use USDT for transactions involving commodities, particularly in regions facing US Sanctions. Tether CEO Paolo Arduino confirmed that these talks are in the early stages and emphasized that any investments in commodity trading would be separate from the company's stablecoin reserves. Tether, which reported $5.2
00:37:27.175 - 00:38:21.183, Speaker C: billion in profit for the first half of 2024, continues to diversify its investments, including holdings in U.S. treasuries, precious metals and corporate bonds. Praxis secures 525 million Praxis, the self proclaimed world's first network state, has raised $525 million to build a futuristic city specifically designed to foster advancements in crypto, artificial intelligence, energy and biotech. The project, led by 28 year old co founder Dryden Brown, has attracted investments from major firms such as Arch Lending, Gem Digital and angel investors such as Farcaster CEO Dan Romero. The city's location is yet to be determined, but Praxis aims to create a hub for entrepreneurs and innovation, promoting the values of Western civilization. Time for fun bits, crypto debates, receipts and salty rejections. Crypto Twitter never disappoints when it comes to drama, and this week was no exception.
00:38:21.183 - 00:38:52.011, Speaker C: Stephen Goldfetter of Arbitrum and Kyle Simone of Multicoin Capital got into a spicy exchange over, well, tokens. Simone threw some shade, claiming arbitrum issued a 100% superfluous token. Goldfedr didn't miss a beat and fired back with a cheeky sorry we didn't let you into the series a bro. To prove his point, he even shared a screenshot of an old conversation in which Simone appeared very interested. Simone's response I guess you got me. But he shrugged it off, insisting it was still for the best. And that's all.
00:38:52.011 - 00:39:20.035, Speaker C: Thanks so much for joining us today. If you enjoyed this recap, go to unchained crypto.substack.com that is unchained crypto.substack.Com and sign up for our free newsletter so that you can stay up to date with the latest in crypto. Unchained is produced by Laura Shin, with help from Matt Pilchard, Juan Aronovich, Megan Gaviss, Pam Majumdar, and Margaret Correa. The weekly recap was written by Juan Aranovich and edited by Nelson Wang. Thanks for listening.
00:39:24.535 - 00:39:37.815, Speaker B: Unchained is now a part of the CoinDesk Podcast Network for the latest in digital assets. Check out markets daily five days a week with host Noel Acheson. Follow the CoinDesk Podcast Network for some of the best shows in crypto.
