00:00:01.800 - 00:00:17.382, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Come on, it's Friday of ECC week. What do we got here? Okay, 18 minutes to get through a lot. So, I'm Baz. My pleasure to be here. I am the co founder of a company called Tonk. We describe Tonk as a trust infrastructure startup.
00:00:17.382 - 00:01:26.710, Speaker A: So we build software that makes it possible for you to build trust with anyone about anything on the web by replacing what we call the legacy web of platforms with a web of proofs. And one of the reasons I'm so excited to be here, here in Brussels, is because in the last few weeks we've been developing this tool called Speakeasy in pursuit of that goal. Speakeasy is really simple. It is a social auth tool to help communities grow. And it does this by filtering members into very specific private wikis based not on knowing the right person, but based on any arbitrary action you've done on the web anywhere, using red hot cryptography, so that you don't have to rely on external platforms to make claims about your digital footprint. Potential speakeasies like, for example, gaming guilds, or worker cooperatives, or Charlie XCX Hyper fans, as special groups that really, we think are the first social space of their kind on the web, insofar as you're able to bring together complete strangers who would never have a chance of meeting either online or offline. But it still feels cozy and intimate because they have a huge amount of common context.
00:01:26.710 - 00:02:22.034, Speaker A: And the only reason they're able to do this is because users can attest to the full richness of their digital footprint without relying on integrations with existing platforms. And so to ground this in something which was a little bit more concrete, before I get into the rest of my presentation, this is basically what it looks like. This is the prototype that we've made. So what I'm going to talk about today is a general framing of what really scares me about the web and why I think there's such a unique opportunity, and I guess a spoiler for this audience, or maybe a slight content warning, is that there is going to be a lot of talk about cryptography, but not necessarily crypto in the traditional. And that's one of the things I think so exciting about this industry at this particular moment in time, I'm going to introduce a contrarian opinionated metric by which we can measure progress and proof infrastructure that I call expressive bandwidth. And I'm going to talk a little bit about trust infrastructure and speakeasy as well. Cool.
00:02:22.034 - 00:03:14.070, Speaker A: So I was out running the other day in the morning where I live in east London, in Hackney, and I had this moment of real clarity of like, oh, this is the thing that we're really trying to solve here. This is what I'm freaking out about. And this is why I'm so attracted to all of these advanced decentralized technologies. So really the two challenges I see, if the Internet keeps growing, and this is inevitable, the first challenge is that the GDP of the web is going to grow and grow and grow. And we need really robust, stable foundations to support an economy of that size. And so asking what kind of reliable infrastructure do we need to make that happen? The second challenge, as I see it, is that as the Internet grows and grows, we're going to need infrastructure that guarantees, through pure incentives, that people living on the web continue to be treated humanely. And the reason I'm so concerned about this is because the dominant socioeconomic model which has defined the growth of the web in the last 20 years has been proven to give very so so answers at this.
00:03:14.070 - 00:04:13.722, Speaker A: So as we all know, privatized network effects are the basic thing that's powered the growth of the web for the last 20 years. They're the thing that's enabled all these sorts of different platforms to arise and give us all these amazing things that we're used to with the Internet. And the way they work, is that the growth of these networks is powered by the fact that every new person that joins a network increases the value for the next person. And so you get all these two sided marketplaces and these social networks, and it's really great. And we all are familiar with the cycle of how this happens because we've had the chance now to live through the kind of adolescence of our Internet experience, because it always starts the same way, which is that it starts really cool and really innovative, and these platforms start being cheap and user friendly. And then once the network effect accumulates into an unassailable moat by which it's impossible to compete with these platforms, because the cold problem becomes just so, so tough to solve for new competitors, there is no longer an incentive for the dominant platform to innovate. And so they switch tax from value creation to value extraction.
00:04:13.722 - 00:05:01.940, Speaker A: And they can do things like impose exorbitant creator rents, or impose moderation algorithms or recommendation algorithms that are spammy, or show teenagers loads of content that doesn't help with their mental health. And the Internet degrades into a slow decay. And what's worth noting here is the difference between old web infrastructure and new web infrastructure. So if you look at these old networks. They didn't suffer from the same privatized network effect. And some of the reasons the hypertext transfer protocol is so popular is because there is no HTTP ren tier feudal corporation that can start extracting value as the network becomes more valuable. But in 2024, we have new infrastructure, we have new things that we all rely on all the time, like social graphs and game worlds and AI agents and moderation algorithms.
00:05:01.940 - 00:06:03.666, Speaker A: And we suffer from the, I think the technical academic term, if you excuse my language, is the initification of these platforms. One of the reasons I think it's so exciting to be here is because we have this whole new bucket of fun that means we can solve a lot of these problems and disintermediate them by making things cheaper and more user friendly at the incentive level. And I'll just draw your attention to certain things here which you may not be familiar with. So skipping blockchains and zero knowledge proof oblivious compute the ability for a computer to execute some program verifiably on some data without seeing the data itself, or very, very powerful progress going on at the moment in the local first software ecosystem such as CRDTs. All these things have the potential to disintermediate a lot of the platforms that I mentioned previously. And the hope is that this will bring us away from the legacy web of platforms towards the web of proofs that is cheaper and more user friendly and more reliable. One of the most popular ways of describing growth in the proof in proof infrastructure is to describe what Weidi calls Kappa, which is a way to think about ZK scaling.
00:06:03.666 - 00:06:44.020, Speaker A: And Kappa is just a way to compare the overhead of verifying a piece of computation relative to the cost of the original computation. And watching how that grows over time is very exciting. But what I'd like to propose is this alternative metric that I call expressive bandwidth to try and describe why there's so much growth going on in proof infrastructure. I didn't have a nice graph for this, so I had to draw this out on Goodnotes on my iPad. And this is an attempt for me to graphically visualize my digital footprint on the web. So you can imagine this as a big map of everything I do on the web or have done on the web. And what we notice is there's this thing called expressive bandwidth, which I can define as the number of attestations that we're able to make about this digital footprint.
00:06:44.020 - 00:07:45.734, Speaker A: Or perhaps you could think about it as the percentage of your entire digital footprint that you are able to make attestations about. And so what we notice with open queryable stuff like Ethereum is you can make attestations about Ethereum to anyone without relying on cooperation from the platform, because there is no platform. And that's enabled this whole industry that we're in. But what we see now that we're in 2024 is new innovation with things like the ZK email team. That means you can make proofs about the arbitrary contents and provenance of any email you receive. And it takes an amazing, innovative team like the ZKP two P team to realize that if you can prove that you have sent or received an email from Venmo saying you've done some off chain monetary transaction to a given address, wrap that in a proof and submit that on chain to unlock some funds in escrow, to receive some crypto, you have just disintermediated the entire on ramping, off ramping industry. And so the hope is that this pattern of increased power of disintermediation by wrapping your web two data in the structure of a proof, means you can start to infect this whole digital footprint with green.
00:07:45.734 - 00:08:46.494, Speaker A: And the most compelling articulation of why this is such a powerful idea. I actually heard this week from a founder called Mike, who was the founder of an amazing company called Nosh, which we should all know much more about, who described this as the end of network effects, as a way, as the dominant economic model for how to achieve growth and defensibility in the technology industry. And that's going to change everything, because essentially, by importing off of existing social graphs in an attested way, you fix the cold start problem. And it means that network effects are no longer defensible and these unassailable modes are no longer strong. And what I really want to do is give you some confidence that this is going to be inevitable. So, you know, you can say a lot of nice things and nasty things about Amazon, but one of the things that Jeff Bezos really, really got right in the early nineties is that he talked about the reason he quit his hedge fund to start this company on this new thing called the Internet. And the reason he gives is that he was reading a magazine which described the number of new Internet addresses that were coming online every single month and how that was growing.
00:08:46.494 - 00:09:27.524, Speaker A: And what he could see in the early 1990s was that as the number of Internet addresses grew and more people came online, there would be more demand for more applications, like really early stuff like blogging, and really early social networking, and really early e commerce. But as there were more applications, this would fuel more innovation into getting more people online. And we see a very, very similar flywheel today. And no one's been able to convince me of the opposite. Like if someone can, please do, because it'll save me a lot of time. But this, I feel, is an inevitable force that will result in the cannibalization of the entire Internet by attestations that make the entire web verifiable and peer to peer. And to give you a flavor of what this looks like, we're in like phase four of this cycle.
00:09:27.524 - 00:10:16.490, Speaker A: So, you know, it started out that a few years ago you were able to start verifying things in Cairo, which led to this idea called a ZK roll up. And now we have more innovation. That means we can verify anything inside a RiSC VM. And now we have the idea of ZK rollups as a service in general. I mentioned the email approach with ZKP Two p, but we have even more powerful things like TL's notary from the Ethereum Foundation's PSE group, which essentially skipping over some of the details, allows you to make arbitrary web proofs about any arbitrary web data. And this has led to some of the most fascinating conversations I've had with builders this week. With people who are building new ways to build cooperatives, bootstrapping shipping networks to disrupt the global letters of credit system, new ways of building activist groups, and again, shout outs to the Raremo team for that, and also the notch team and cursive and a few others.
00:10:16.490 - 00:11:17.624, Speaker A: At this point, I'm going to segue and start talking about something which you'll recognize as being more tonk focused, which is autonomous world. So if you're not already familiar with the idea of an autonomous world, it's this very, very niche, very, very intellectually honest, really cool petri dish of a subculture within crypto people making fully on chain games, where you store the whole state and whole logic of a game on chain. And the basic idea is that you want to create worlds that have autonomy insofar as they are owned and controlled by the people who live in them, rather than by someone else. And so here we see an example of that with primodium, which is a game world. This exists fully on chain, not just like nfTs, but like the whole game. One of the nice things you notice about autonomous worlds is that they open the gates to potentially the most scalable gaming guilds in existence. So something from history is that gaming guilds are this thing that's really, really hard to scale, because you cannot trust necessarily that the platform or the world that you're building on is going to continue to enjoy what you and your guild is doing in that game and doing to that world.
00:11:17.624 - 00:12:04.560, Speaker A: And so you have this very unstable, unreliable foundation. And to give you a flavor of what this could feel like to have very reliable web infrastructure, blockchain gaming guilds are very, very scalable because there is no person that can rug you and lose your ability for your guild to stop coordinating in the world. And there are other nice things like the blockchain is a credible commitment machine. Means that you don't need to go through the expensive process of legally incorporating some kind of entity so that people in the guild can coordinate properly. And so there's this amazing gaming guild by this chap who left bankless called WASD, called Ben. And Ben's intention for WASD is to create a gaming guild, and he's already well underway, that really approximates something more like a network state or a nation state of people doing coordinated, productive work inside of game universes. And this brings me to May 2024.
00:12:04.560 - 00:13:00.768, Speaker A: This is the on chain gaming hackathon in Lisbon, where myself and my co founder Goblin Oates, were helping game developers bake hidden information into their worlds. So we have this thing at Tonk that we developed called the Greby SDK. And the basic point of the Grebey SDK is to make it possible to import complex cryptographic behaviors into your games where you as a game dev, don't need to train up as a cryptographer. And what that means is you can import hidden information into your world, all this private state. And as we all know from game development, hidden information is like the cornerstone of what makes games interesting and fun and scalable. So it's a really interesting use case for privacy on chain. And what really took us by surprise, as we were working to help all these game developers integrate greby into their games in Lisbon, was that we met this guy Ben from Wazd, who taught us that there wasn't just a demand for hidden information inside the game, but also on the social layer above the game, because he's got this problem.
00:13:00.768 - 00:13:36.424, Speaker A: And that is that WASD has this enemy guild called Auden GG, which is this one here on the right. And Orden GG is basically like six friends. I don't know too much about them, but they're basically friends and they're really tight knit, very elite, very small gaming squad, and they basically fight for control of these game universes against WASD. And WASD is different, was open anyone can join. They want to scale to be, like, tens of thousands of people, big. But the problem with organizing on discord is that Auden GG members can just go and spy on the channels. And so wherever Waz goes to invade a planet, Auden GG is just there waiting.
00:13:36.424 - 00:14:19.340, Speaker A: And so Ben came to us with this problem, which was that he needs a private space on the web where he can coordinate with Waz that's safe from these Auden GG Guild members. But at the same time, he doesn't just want that to be limited to his friends. He doesn't just want that to be limited to just the people that he knows. Because as we know, there's like a scalability limit where you can't just, like, hang out with your buddies, because what, that makes the group, like 150 people big, Dunbar's number. And we want to grow to be over the size of, like, tens of thousands of people. And those of you who are really thinking about this will notice that this is the exact same problem that Constitutiondao faced when they were trying to buy the constitution. So this is why we made speakeasy, which is, as I mentioned at the start, it's a social auth tool to help communities scale.
00:14:19.340 - 00:15:04.370, Speaker A: And the idea is that you can enter these private wikis based not on who you know, which has the scalability limit, but rather what you've done to try and prove that you really do belong in the space and that you're not serving the interests of Auden GG. And the basic idea here is that, we feel, is a radically new social space on the web, insofar as it has the coziness that your family WhatsApp group chat has. But it has this thing which the Internet was originally built for, which was openness. And so you have the vibe, but the vibe can also grow because of all this common context. And this avoids one of the problems we see with the growth of online communities like subreddits and whatever, which is that as the group becomes more and more successful and grows and grows and grows, more mops come in, dilute the space, and the common context goes down. And so everything kind of buckles under its own weight. And this, we feel, is a way of escaping that problem.
00:15:04.370 - 00:15:48.870, Speaker A: So this is what it looks like. You log in, we scan for on chain activity to see if you do qualify to join the guild. Anyone can go through this flow if you like. You'll see if you're qualified or not. It kind of feels a bit like an airdrop for full transparency at the moment we are just checking to see some very, very simple on chain data. But that's why my co founder is back in London building. Because at the moment we're integrating to make it possible to just scan for things like have you invaded a certain asteroid, have you attacked the guild? Are you associated with any dangerous addresses that gets you into the guild, where you can see this private wiki, where you can see things like how to coordinate on missions, discord passwords and things like this? And again, strangers can join this, but they all trust each other because they have all this common context.
00:15:48.870 - 00:17:02.732, Speaker A: We have a bunch of features for admins, but the real point I want to drive home here is that there is this crossover between a space that is both open and scalable, but also cozy and intimate. And this got us really excited because the more we spoke to our friends outside of crypto, which I think is so, so, so important for the growth of this industry as a whole, the more we spoke to them, the more we realized that this was a pattern we saw recreated at large. So two examples. Lots of indie music producers and artists want to bootstrap a community of their most loyal fans, and they need to. And they've built this whole industry of platforms of services that are really hacky, that are designed to just try and scrape some information from Spotify to try and bootstrap some small networks. And essentially what speakeasy would let you do in theory is that using a tool like TL's notary, you would be able to attest that you have listened to a given amount of Charlie XCX within the last seven days, and you would therefore be qualified to join this group of like the elite Charlie XCX fans. Similarly, you can imagine some version of Uber premium where you've got the Uber taxi app and let's say you're a driver and you don't like the take rates that Uber is enforcing on you.
00:17:02.732 - 00:18:00.544, Speaker A: So what you do is you find all the Uber drivers in your city that have a rating of 4.9 stars, you all get together inside another network and you launch a premium version of Uber. There's more like a worker cooperative. And the reason you're able to do that is because it's not just limited to the people that you know in your network of friends, but anyone who can prove that they have a given rating in the Uber app. There's a bunch of stuff we need to figure out to make this programmatic and scalable and functional and grow at large. But hopefully you can begin to see what kind of ramifications this has for this idea of increasing the expressive bandwidth of proof infrastructure, for accelerating this flywheel of attestations that we think will cannibalize the entire web and move us from a legacy web of platforms which can be expensive and use a hostile to a web of proof that's much more reliable, much cheaper, much friendlier, much more private, and where the incentives are baked in to be nice to users from the ground up. Because, again, it's not like big tech companies are evil or the people that work at them are bad.
00:18:00.544 - 00:18:12.520, Speaker A: It's just we're talking about the incentive structures, and there's a bunch of information where you can learn out more. And yeah, I'd really love to get any feedback on any disagreement or any misunderstandings. So, yeah, please do get in touch. Thank you very much.
