00:00:00.800 - 00:00:35.418, Speaker A: What's up, guys? Taki here. And today I wanted to follow up on my call that I made a few months ago when I declared the end of the Defi bear market. And new DeFi bull market is emerging before our very eyes. So when I made this video back in July, right, and the Defi bear market is here, I mentioned that the next resurgence in DeFi is not going to be led by just pure ponzonomic things that we all grew and love and now hate, but it's going to be via tokenized treasuries, right? Yield bearing dollars or real world assets. And the thesis is pretty simple. The Fed raised rates from zero to 5%. The risk free rate is 5%.
00:00:35.418 - 00:01:26.208, Speaker A: So why would you risk your capital, right, your stable coins on chain, when you can bridge it to fiat and, you know, put it into fidelity or something, to earn, you know, like 5.3% in short term t bills? And I personally believe that, you know, DeFi just can't be this phenomenon that works only in low rate environments. If DeFi can't function in a high rate environment, then the system itself is fragile. And for DeFi to become anti fragile, we need to be hedged in low rate environments and also high rate environments. In low rate environments, yeah, like bull markets can happen, but in a high rate environment, if capital just leaves the system, then we're basically at the mercy of whatever Jerome Powell does. But by tokenizing these treasuries on chain, we can actually create better products than our tradfi counterparts and actually create sticky liquidity. So capital doesn't actually leave the system.
00:01:26.208 - 00:01:56.152, Speaker A: I mean, Maker was one of my calls, right. I think Maker is going to continue doing well. And their TVL for their rDBA strategy is up only even staked USDT, right? This is on TROn has $2.3 billion tvl. And, you know, it's also up only. And I know people think Tron is a joke chain, but if you actually look at the price the past year, it's literally up only, right? It's outperformed either, you know, so has maker and actually looked into this? Because I was curious. And we, you know, we at HFA research, we published this report.
00:01:56.152 - 00:02:15.484, Speaker A: I'll put this in the description if you're interested. It's in our newsletter. But look, I'm not really suggesting people buy TRX. I do not own any TRX. But if you actually look at the fundamentals, right, like over half the tether supply is on TrON. And whenever people move tether around on Tron, right. Because there's like no other use case for TRon other than moving stable coins around.
00:02:15.484 - 00:02:39.502, Speaker A: It actually burns some of the supply. And you can kind of see that, you know, in the past year, tether, sorry, TRX has been deflationary just because people are moving stable coins around. So the use case for just being like the stablecoin chain, right. Or like the RWA project or RWA chain has a lot of potential, right. The total addressable market is huge because the amount of stable coins that could potentially be minted. Right. And enter the circulating supply on chain is also huge.
00:02:39.502 - 00:03:15.866, Speaker A: And in an era where either, I mean, sure, like, you know, recently prices have pumped and we're all fork, but I still think that, you know, we can't just expect price to pump and then have everything just like go up, only we do have to fix the core problems within DeFi if you actually want to see a sustainable defi bull market. So I prepared the slide for you. So let's talk into this, or let's look into this. And as always known as financial advice. I'm like some dude on the Internet, no idea what I'm talking about. So I think the first thing you need to, like, just go back to our roots, right? I'm kind of like a history teacher here, right? Let's understand the history behind Defi bull markets and defi bear markets. I've experienced both.
00:03:15.866 - 00:03:42.378, Speaker A: Bull markets are euphoric, and then bear markets get really sad. And I'm sure everyone can empathize with that. And the 2020 DeFi bull market, it was catalyzed essentially, you know, post Covid, and the Fed set rates to zero. And, you know, like, there's nothing to do. Like, if you want stablecoin yield, you go to fidelity. Like, it doesn't pay anything. So people just naturally went further and further out the risk curve, and eventually capital found its way on chain.
00:03:42.378 - 00:04:56.358, Speaker A: So, you know, this is 2020, right? TVL was basically zero, right? You can't even see it here. And then it's like went up only into late 2021. And stablecoin liquidity is very, very important for crypto prices because for every dollar that enters the crypto ecosystem, some percent of it trickles into buying tokens. Yeah, like, I mean, you know, for example, if you like, the first $10,000 that you deposited into crypto, what did you do with it? Right? Maybe you just farmed with like $2,000 of the USDC, but with the other 8000, you like, just like degenerate away on chain right? So in order for, you know, crypto to do well, again, we have to, like, create stable coin demand, right? We have to get people to mint stable coins, right? We have to create demand for those inflows, and then we also have to stop them from flowing out, like, off the chain. And Defi really hasn't solved the issue in the past, let's say, year and a half or even like, the past two years. And, you know, it's kind of like this multiplier effect that we learn in economics where, you know, when it comes, like, reflexive systems, you know, whenever, you know, money comes into the chain, people buy stuff, price goes up, and then as price goes up, the fundamentals, right, the perception of crypto gets better, right? And then, you know, like, you know, it's like, oh, price goes up, TvL goes up, then the fundamentals must be good. And then, you know, that also creates, like, this reflex system.
00:04:56.358 - 00:05:14.890, Speaker A: Reflexive system where as soon as price goes up, it makes people think that things are, like, amazing. And then people buy because of the fundamentals. And then as price goes up, more people buy, and then price goes. I mean, yeah, it's kind of like this reflexes system. And on the way, it's amazing. But this also works on a way down, right? Price goes down, things look bad. Things look bad.
00:05:14.890 - 00:05:42.364, Speaker A: Fundamentals are bad. People sell because perception of defi sucks. Price goes down. Yeah, it's like the same loop over and over again. So, you know, I think the most important thing that, like, as a, like, as a Defi bowl is to think about, okay, how do we get more stable coins, right? Like this track save coin liquidity and think about the types of products that, you know, defi and crypto developers can create to create demand for stable liquidity. Because dollar slow inside. Price goes up.
00:05:42.364 - 00:06:05.396, Speaker A: Price goes up, yields go up, everyone's rich. More speculation. And obviously, right, like, we kind of want, like, sticky liquidity instead of, like, just like, crazy pump and dumps. And of course, the 2021 bull market was amazing. But, you know, in March, the Fed started raising rates, the fastest rate hike cycle in the history of the Fed. And, you know, this is March 16. TVO was like 160.
00:06:05.396 - 00:06:43.722, Speaker A: And then ever since then, it's been down only. And, you know, it's, it has stabilized, I think, thanks to real world assets. And, you know, in order for crypto to see, like, a real bull market, you know, this has to get back to all time highs, right? Let's say 200 billion. And, you know, I mentioned, yeah, in, like, the video, the end of the Defi bear market is here. I'll put this link in the description that until on chain yields that are perceived safe, right? Because, yeah, like, risk free rates 5%, you can earn 30% on, like, some random farm. But is that really safe? Does it scale? No. So unless on chain yields that can scale that are safe, that are perceived safe, can offer higher yields than whatever the risk free rate is, we can't really have a sustained defi bull market.
00:06:43.722 - 00:07:20.956, Speaker A: And that's kind of the thesis that I've been laying out. But if that's the core problem, we have to think about what's the problem within Defi and then think about the solution. And I think I found a solution, which I've been talking about on my channel for the past couple of months. And, yeah, like, on chain yield strategies can't compete with the risk of just a return, of buying short term treasuries. And that's why Defi isn't the winner. Right. You know, people think that the Fed's going to cut rates soon, but the market is pricing in that we're going to hold these rates at least until the latter half of next year, and then we're going to go back down to, let's say, four and a half percent by the end of 2024.
00:07:20.956 - 00:07:41.814, Speaker A: But I also argue that can defi even compete if the risk free rate is 4.5%? I'm not even quite sure. Right. Like, on chain crypto projects, like, products just aren't that good. Right. If you, like, just be real with ourselves and, you know, I mean, yeah, like, sure. Like, if rates go back down to 2%, then, yeah, like, maybe Defi can compete.
00:07:41.814 - 00:08:01.238, Speaker A: But, you know, if you can go to fidelity, click four and a half percent. Like, are you, are people really going to, like, deploy capital into defi en masse? Probably nothing. So I still think that we're going to be in this high for longer. Right. This. This type of macro environment. And I know people disagree, but I'm just, like, just saying, hey, this is, like, what the market is pricing in at.
00:08:01.238 - 00:09:01.016, Speaker A: So I think, you know, as defi bowls, as crypto bulls, we have to be hedged for this type of scenario. So that's the problem. But what's the solution? Let's build tokenized treasuries, right? Let's tokenize these tvls on chain and create yield bearing dollars. And this is like, a term that I've been trying to, like, I guess, percolate within crypto. I think whenever I say real world assets people get triggered because then they're like, oh, like, are you saying that bitcoin and ether is not real, right? Oh, like I'm real, right, like people get triggered, right? Because it doesn't really fit, you know, like how their perception of the world should be, right, when it comes to crypto. But I think that, you know, in order for crypto to get more mainstream adoption, we just have to create these super basic, like, you know, super simple products and then we can create products on top that can actually enhance the risk rate. And just like this general crypto in general, you know what I mean? Like I mentioned, maker Tvo up only and whenever.
00:09:01.016 - 00:09:45.620, Speaker A: So basically Dai is backed by USDC, right? And it's like some ether, but like mostly USDC. And if the Dai market goes up, then that means more USDC backing. And with the backing maker, they've been just redeeming USDC in the fiat and buying treasuries. And whenever these t bills mature, those flows go back directly on the chain. So if you stake that, you're in 5% and with the excess profits, Maker is buying back its own token, right? So this is like, you know, their yield burning dollar strategy. So if you think about it, right, this is creating positive sum games because let's say six months ago, you know, like, how do you make yield in defi, right? You either LP for like a farm, right? And you dump the token. You either LP for like a perpetual Dex, and you make money whenever people lose money.
00:09:45.620 - 00:10:21.254, Speaker A: So it's kind of like this closed loop system where. Yeah, like the only way that I can make money is if someone else gets liquidated, right? That's kind of like what's been happening here. But if the yield, if the source of the yield is coming directly from t bills, then that creates a positive sum game, right? Like no matter, you know, if, like, I don't know, like a thousand people buy SDAI right by dai and stake it, then the yield stays flat. The SDI yield is dynamic, so it could go down to like 4.8% ish in the future. But, you know, just trying to be general here. And I think the main benefit here is the composable.
00:10:21.254 - 00:11:15.172, Speaker A: We talk about DeFi Lego blocks, DeFi Legos, where if you create like this yield bearing asset, for example, SDAI, you can create like more products on top of it. For example, you can use SDAI as collateral, right? And then you can borrow Eid and then use that Eid for farming strategy. So you can have like this delta neutral position, you can borrow bitcoin, sell it long eth. So you can do like a long eat BTC trade, but you know, your collateral is earning yield and you're not being diluted. If you hold USDC, if you hold tether and you just like let it sit in your wallet, the government is diluting your yard because I personally own some t bills, right? And if you hold USDC not doing anything, then, like my share of the pie is growing and your share of the pie is shrinking. So, you know, I mean, I think if you've been indefied, that alone is pretty obvious to. And you know, there's like actual like value core here because, you know, with excess profits, you know, you can buy back or the protocol is buying back its own token.
00:11:15.172 - 00:11:44.948, Speaker A: Because if the protocol is earning 5.3% off chain and they're paying 5% on chain and there's like some, like I like Dai that's idle not doing anything, then that delta, right. With more TVL maker is able to make more money because they're clipping yield, right? They're charging a fee on top of the yield. And, you know, maker is a good business model for that reason. And, you know, that's why I've been saying, hey, like, maker, good asset, good token, I own a bunch. And, you know, you can look back on the maker video that I made in July 20. I'll also put this in the description below.
00:11:44.948 - 00:12:05.690, Speaker A: Okay. And, yeah, like, when it comes to, yeah, I mean, yeah, we've been posting a lot of research reports. If you prefer reading things, then, you know, I think this is going to be more in depth. And, you know, I mean, maker revenue, right? This is the annualized revenue for a maker. It's hitting all time highs. I'm not sure if you can see it, but it's up here, right? It's at 212 million. It's literally up only.
00:12:05.690 - 00:12:41.216, Speaker A: And I don't really see this changing anytime soon. And, you know, these business models, I think is pretty great because, you know, it's, it's, it's kind of anticyclical, right. Maker is going to be making like more, more and more money this, like, whether crypto is going up or down. And recently crypto prices are going up and we're all feeling euphoric. But what if crypto prices go down in the next three months, right. Then, yeah, like maybe the fundamentals look a little bit less better for other crypto assets, but for maker, right, I don't have to worry about it because there's like buying t bills every month. Those mature, those, like, dollars flow on chain.
00:12:41.216 - 00:13:29.186, Speaker A: Anyone that holds DAi makes more money. And if every SDAI holder is earning 5%, then at some point, you know, with, like, more and more capital, they can buy crypto tokens. And you kind of have like this, like, this trickle down economics, I suppose, where anyone that holds tokenized treasuries is like, becoming wealthier, right? At least in, like, fiat terms. And at some point, if they want to buy crypto coins, then they have more dollars to do so with. So positive some games yield is coming from government interest payments, not from people being liquidated, right? Not from token holders getting dumped on. And I think this is how Defi can slowly recover. And I think we're seeing it now, right? I mean, yeah, like, crypto prices are up and, you know, maker and, like, other assets I own, like, other RWA tokens have been doing well as well.
00:13:29.186 - 00:14:09.824, Speaker A: And I think what could be interesting here is basically, like, maker and other tokenized treasury projects, they're kind of doing like a slow vampire attack of USDC, right? Because to redeem tether, I think you have to be whitelisted and you have to be KYC'd. So there's like, friction there. But to redeem USDC, all you need is like a circle account, like a Coinbase account, and there's, like, no fee. So what we're trying, like, what we're seeing recently is the USDC market go down only just because, you know, like, people are, for example, like, maker is redeeming USDC to buy t bills and the USDC market cap. Like, until they fix something, right? Until they do something. I just, like, don't see USDC just, like, growing up only. And maybe at some point they end up charging a fee.
00:14:09.824 - 00:14:40.478, Speaker A: Or maybe at some point they allow people to stake USDC on chain to earn some yield. I know you can stake or hold USDC on Coinbase to earn yield, but that goes against, like, the KYC, you know, like, the permissionless nature of blockchains. I mean, I have a Coinbase account and, like, you know, like, I have nothing against it, but, you know, we're talking about DeFi here, right? Like, on chain, composable smart contracts, yield strategies that create wealth. That's more of, like, what I'm going for. And, like, tether, right? They do the same thing. They buy t bills with the backing. They keep all the profits.
00:14:40.478 - 00:14:58.480, Speaker A: If you hold tether, they don't pay you anything. They make $1.5 billion in profit in Q one. And they make a billion dollars every single quarter. It's a cash flow machine. And maker is the only permissionless way for the public markets to get exposure to the very, very profitable stable coin issuer market. And I mentioned before that I am not a maker, Maxi, I just own maker.
00:14:58.480 - 00:16:29.892, Speaker A: Because, you know, it's like the best asset to hold if you kind of look at like where the market is now, but sometime in the future, right? I mean, we're already seeing this now, right? Like more and more projects are issuing tokenized treasuries and you know, like the pie should only grow, right? That's the bet I'm making is like a great migration of capital from non yield bearing dollars like USDC tether, to yield bearing dollars like SDAi, Sfrax, Kanto, stablecoins, staked USDT on TroN. It might not, you might not be interested in the use cases because you might be an american, but you know, like, just because you as. I mean, for me, I guess I can only speak for myself, just because I'm like a privileged American that can deposit a bunch of money into fidelity, for example, doesn't mean that people that's not in the US don't want dollars, right? Because if you're somewhere like in Asia or some other country with a weaker currency, then yeah, there's definitely demand to convert your, let's say euro into dollars, put it on chain, put in the SDI, right? I mean, that's a legitimate use case. And I think that it's important to think about not just like us as an american, because like most of my viewers are american, but think about the rest of the world. And I have also heard arguments that like why would I want 5% yield on stable coins if crypto is going to go up only. And I mean, yeah, sure, from a DJ perspective that might be true, but there's always going to be demand for stablecoin yield, right? Because people want to take profits and people buy crypto, people sell into, let's say stable coin. That money is left on chain.
00:16:29.892 - 00:17:20.354, Speaker A: Are they going to bridge it back to fidelity to earn like 5.2%? Probably not, right? They want to keep that capital on chain and like the convenience factor is going to create more demand for things like tokenized treasury. So, you know, I'm kind of think more longer term about, okay, how does defi just like slowly recover from here? And I think this is like one of my highest conviction, like theses that I have right now is, yeah, like more demand for yield bearing dollars and, yeah, like I mentioned you know, I talk about this with Kanto, right? So it's not just maker, there's Kanto. I also hold some fxs, even though it's been underperforming. I'm sure in the coming months we'll see even more projects. Like, you know, try to, I guess, like eat into the pie, right? Or like, you know, take some market share and I'm all for it, right? Competition makes for greater products, and greater products is gonna just create more value for consumers. Right? Kind of like capitalism, but it's happening on blockchain rails.
00:17:20.354 - 00:17:51.486, Speaker A: So let's talk about how defi benefits from yield bearing dollars. And, yeah, I mean, I already mentioned this, so maybe I'm like, repeating things, but, you know, the yield is paid out in sweet Joe Biden dollars. And, you know, people like Joe Biden dollars, right? People like bear post the dollar and it's going to zero. And who knows, maybe in like 10, 20, 30 years that ends up happening. But the world runs on dollars. The crypto economy runs on dollars, and people want yield on dollars. Right? Like, would you rather hold a 0% yielding stable coin or a 5% yielding stable coin? Definitely 5%.
00:17:51.486 - 00:18:09.342, Speaker A: Right? Like, personally, in my opinion. And what's the source of the yield? Entertainments make sense. And Defi 1.0. Right? This was what kick started Defi summer in 2020. And I guess, like, defi 2.0 and like, you know, those variants. But fees come from other crypto people and fees come from inflationary tokens.
00:18:09.342 - 00:18:36.774, Speaker A: And yes, if money is flowing in, that works, but if money is flowing out, it doesn't work. And then, I mean, I tried to coin this term. I don't really think it's getting that much traction, which is, which is like, fine. It's more about the idea than, like, the terminology. But, you know, Defi 3.0 fees come from other crypto people, right? Like people being liquidated and external yield sources t bills, right? Like, for example, like, people are. When you provide liquidity, right? Like, you deposit, like Ethan USDC, right? And you earn some fees or whatever.
00:18:36.774 - 00:19:10.200, Speaker A: But in the future, like, why would you just deposit Ethan USDC when you can, let's say, LP for staked eat and staked Dai, right? So the assets underlying your LP is making money, and then you make, you know, swap fees on top, and then you make more money. I think these are, you know, I guess, like, market inefficiencies. It's gonna be fixed over time. And, yeah, that's kind of how I'm positioned. And, you know, yield bearing dollars slowly turn PvP markets into PvE markets. And this is like the base behind, like, you know, the end of the defi bear market, the beginning of the defi bull market. Hopefully you're starting to see it now.
00:19:10.200 - 00:19:36.394, Speaker A: It's not gonna be like, you know, overnight. People are, you know, prices are pumping. I mean, I guess it's pumping right now, but, you know, you kind of get the point, right? This is how Defi slowly recovers. And protocols that build on top can clip the yield, which is sweet dollar revenue. So that's also the thing. Imagine more and more devs build products on top of steak die, for example, for the services that they provide. They can charge fees, and token holders make money.
00:19:36.394 - 00:20:18.944, Speaker A: In theory, devs make money, users make money. And, yeah, I mean, as long as you're not being rugged or scammed, it should generally be better for the entire crypto, crypto economy. And despite prices, like, I guess, like, pumping, these are my YouTube metrics. It's pretty sad. And, you know, every, like, these play buttons indicate whenever I upload a video and I lose subscribers. And, I mean, I guess compared to earlier this year, you can kind of see that there's, like, been resistance levels around zero, right? You can kind of see, like, bunch of resistance here. And then recently we're kind of seeing like, oh, like, some days I make, like five subscribers, right? It's like, oh, okay, okay.
00:20:18.944 - 00:21:04.154, Speaker A: Like, we're doing it here. And, you know, like, if this is a state of defi and, like, the crypto markets, then, you know, we do need to create, like, better products. And I hope that the next cycle, right, the next bull cycle isn't gonna be led by, like, this pure ponzonomic stuff. I mean, it's impossible to avoid that stuff, right, because it's crypto. But, you know, maybe the Ponzi nomic stuff can do well alongside, like, actual things, right, that actually create value. And, you know, that, that way we have, like, a more healthier, like, crypto economy that's going to be more resistant to external shocks, whether it be the fed raising rates or, you know, like, whatever. And, you know, my prediction is that yield bearing dollars, it's going to be an up only in TVL sector in the coming months.
00:21:04.154 - 00:21:53.712, Speaker A: We're already seeing this playing out. Maker die goes up only stake TSDT up only fracs canto their TVL is going up. And this is not like next week, but it's going to be like a year long thing or like a multi year, multi decade long trend that I foresee happening, and I want more competition to happen because it's going to create better products for everyone. And I personally think that the yield bearing dollar sector. So, like, for me, I hold maker Kanto and fxs in that. Like, in that sizing, right? Like, I own a bunch of maker, I own a big chunk of Kanto and I own some fxs. And that was like a more strategic allocation, I guess, strategy from like my part, because, you know, like maker makes like $100 million a year, so it provides a good hedge in your portfolio because it's making money and those dollars are flowing on chain.
00:21:53.712 - 00:22:36.688, Speaker A: So if the markets are going sideways to downdeze, then maker should outperform. The one worry that I have is that if the markets are pumping like it is now, then maybe these, like these coins might potentially underperform just because maker is a really good asset, but it has a cap in terms of valuation. It's not going to be like a $100 billion asset anytime soon. So if we're in risk on conditions that maybe people will rotate away from maker into higher beta stuff. And I think Kanto is like a good hedge against that. Just because Kanto is more narrative driven, it's more momentum driven. So if I hold those two as core holdings in a portfolio, then whether the markets are going up or down, I should relatively outperform either.
00:22:36.688 - 00:23:01.618, Speaker A: It's kind of like my mindset. I could be wrong on that. I have to tweak this thinking every single time, whenever the markets move up or down in a significant manner. But that's kind of the way I've been positioned so far. It's going pretty well. But, you know, crypto moves so fast that maybe like next month, right? Like, people don't care about yield bearing dollars. I think that's very unlikely given, you know, given, like, the product has amazing product market fit.
00:23:01.618 - 00:23:44.666, Speaker A: But, you know, if you think about portfolio construction, if you think about positioning, if you think about, okay, like, risk adjusted return, it's really hard to do these calculations in crypto just because everything is so volatile. And I opt more for, like, sleep adjusted return than risk adjusted return because how do you even calculate that? Right? I want to hold a basket of coins where I go to sleep and I don't really have to stress about it. But anyways, I'm kind of rambling on here, like every 2 hours, $20,000 of maker is being brought back. All that money is going into protocol and liquidity. So maker is one of the most liquid coins on chain, and it's still a core holding in my portfolio, but got to be nimble here. And if you like this type of content. Oh, yeah, sorry.
00:23:44.666 - 00:24:07.422, Speaker A: Like, last thing, you know, I've talked about make read parity. It's been going up. But, you know, I would like. I personally think it's going to get to one and beyond, but, you know, if the bitcoin ETF gets approved, ETF gets approved. And maybe, like, you know, those coins can, like, just be off their races and I could be wrong on this. Yeah. And if you're interested in these types of content, please check out the HFA research premium content.
00:24:07.422 - 00:24:54.294, Speaker A: I post, you know, two weekly premium videos a week just sharing my thoughts on the markets, like I am doing now, daily updates, like what I'm seeing in the markets, weekly live streams where I answer many AMA questions. And we also have, like, the largest Freeman defi community in the world. If you have any questions, anyone's always there to answer your questions. But going back and summarizing the upcoming bull market, it's kind of funny, right? It's like Celsius and blockbuy blew up just because they were trying to bring on chain yields off chain. And then there was, like, some durability mismatch or, I don't know, like. Like Celsius people, like, boom, right? Like, what were they doing? Right? But, like, now we're, you know, given where we are in, like, the macroeconomic environment, we're trying to bridge off chain yields on chain. You know, time is a flat circle.
00:24:54.294 - 00:25:18.700, Speaker A: Hopefully nothing blows up this time. You know, there has to be risk parameters in place. Nothing is without risk. And people often give me flack whenever I say, you know, the risk free rate on chain, because is anything risk free in crypto? Probably not. But, you know, it's more like lingo, right? Like terminology. You know, you can kind of argue with me over that, but, you know, you. It's more the idea that matters over, like, whatever terminology that I use.
00:25:18.700 - 00:26:07.440, Speaker A: And, you know, the next wave of defi adoption is probably not gonna look like what we saw in 2020 and 2021. I get a lot of questions from people saying, hey, like, do you think we'll ever see, you know, like, goose finance forks or dinosaur? I mean, if you don't, even if you don't know what those things are, then don't worry, because it's probably not coming back. But it was like, one of those crazy things that happened in 2021 that I made videos on, like, in polygon days. And, I mean, it was absolutely, like insanity, right? Those things are probably not coming back. And I think the next wave of value crawl, like actual value creation in DeFi and crypto in general, it's going to come from different types of assets that create products that better fit for the world we live in. The world is different, the world is constantly changing. So as an industry, we also have to evolve and adapt as well.
00:26:07.440 - 00:27:12.950, Speaker A: And for DeFi to reach trillions of dollars in TVL, I think we need tranfi participation. Like cryptos just can't be this thing that retail participates in. And I think rwas are like yield bearing dollars are going to be the trojan horse that brings the great capital migration from tradfi to defi, right? Like Shatfi, you know, like they think everything is a ponzi, but you know, we as an industry can be like, hey, like, you know, like let's tokenize treasuries, right? You as a bank can issue these things, you can clip yield, you know, like it's gonna be more liquid, right? These things can trade twenty four seven. And then, you know, solely and solely, but surely, you know, more and more capital is gonna flow from chatfy to Defi. Even Larry Frank, right, Mister Blackrock here is like going on tv talking about how bullish as BTC even he said that tokenization is going to be the next generation of markets. So if you think about, okay, which sector are the institutions going to buy into next? Of course there's a bitcoin eTf, eth etf. That's pretty obvious, but what's going to be next? I think it's going to be more around real world assets because that's the market that they know and that they understand.
00:27:12.950 - 00:28:10.430, Speaker A: So why fight the trend? It's kind of like my thinking, you know, like I'm just gonna hold assets in the sector that I think is gonna perform really well and I'll like just hold and let it play out. I could be wrong, and if I'm wrong, I'll make a video and you know, I'll get trolled or whatever. But you know, I'm making these videos, I'm researching in public, researching real time, sharing my ideas. I get some feedback. One of the reasons I make these videos is I get like direct feedback because if I'm like in group chats or like telling people, hey, like, what do you think about this? Like, you know, like they don't really care, but whenever I make like these long ass videos, they're like, yeah, like tyche, you're dumb, techy, you're stupid, and then I get more data points, and then I'm better then, like, better equipped to, like, pivot or, you know, adjust the thesis. And I guess, like, the pushback that I've been getting around yield bearing dollars has been positive for me just because I think that people are fighting the trend, even though I think it's inevitable. Like, in my personal opinion, like I said, I could be wrong here.
00:28:10.430 - 00:29:06.550, Speaker A: And with the old bearing dollars, we no longer have to hope that price pumps and people come back. Because if you go online, I think, like, most people, right, they're kind of, like, in this 20 2021 mindset of, okay, like, for people to care about crypto, price has to pump, right? And then once price pumps, people will come back, right? I mean, that's kind of like the sentiment that I get. But let me offer a different point of view. I think for price to pump, we have to create fundamental value, right? I think value comes first and, like, users come first and then price goes up. And I don't think, like, price can, like, just pump out of nowhere and then get people to come back. You know, it's like something has to change, right? In 2020, it was like, fed rates to zero, and then that caused everything to go up. But, you know, this time around, you know, I don't really think that we can bet on, like, a 0% environment, and it's kind of like a hedge, right? Price up is great, but, you know, let's try to create actual products, and I think yield bearing dollars is, like, one of them.
00:29:06.550 - 00:29:48.950, Speaker A: Um, and I also made this video in August, defiant, this video of, like, defi anti fragility and the Verizon defi 3.0, um, where I think defi right now or in, like, the past year or so has been fragile because the fed rates. Rates and, like, we just, like, nuked to zero, right? Like, it goes down. Um, and crypto as a whole is resilient, right? It survived a bunch of shocks, um, before crypto. To become anti fragile, we have to be able to adapt to any type of macroeconomic environment, right? Like, if DeFi only works in a low rate environment, then, like, we failed. But if DeFi can work in a high rate environment, lower rate environment, then we've done its job. And I think it's normal, right, for some sectors to perform.
00:29:48.950 - 00:30:21.096, Speaker A: To perform well in a high rate environment and some sectors to perform well in a low rate environment. And identifying these, like, you know, different types of sectors can be pivotal. Like, when it comes to, like, managing your crypto portfolio and then navigating like, the defi markets. Yeah, no, like, we kind of have this wave of, like, defi boom boom market phenomena. But now we're going back to the roots and we're trying to create better products and. Yeah, no, we have to just create better products or crypto is cooked. Do people want 5% on dollars? Yes.
00:30:21.096 - 00:30:53.190, Speaker A: Will stablecoin issuers that buy t bills with USD backing via cash flow machine? Yes. That's my maker and candle thesis. And, you know, lots of talk has been. There's been lots of discussion on Twitter around rwas and tokenized treasuries. But, you know, I'm, like, just posting this screenshot just because, like, a lot of people respect cl his opinion on the markets. And, you know, generally, I think. I think, like, a good mindset to have is to, like, just like, this is like my thesis, right, that I've been laying out for the past few months.
00:30:53.190 - 00:31:36.572, Speaker A: As rates are. As long as rates are still higher, I want to be allocated to rwas, like, tokenized treasuries, yield bearing dollars, because I think they're going to, on average, outperform other crypto assets. And if something changes in the future where fed cuts rates 3%, then I think it's reasonable to shift my stance. So it's kind of. It's like the maker thesis is, like, pretty similar to, like, the bitcoin dominance thesis, right. It's like, different ways to, I guess, portray that view, but it's kind of like the same idea where, you know, in certain environments, some assets will perform. So if we're in that environment, then, like, let's hold these assets, and then if the meta changes, then let's rotate.
00:31:36.572 - 00:32:07.998, Speaker A: And, you know, for the. I mean, I still foresee RWA is doing well in the past, like, next couple of months, even Evan said, right? Like, the fed funds rate should be around four and a quarter to four and a half percent by end of year 24. Now, can defi really compete with this, right. If the risk rate is like this, right, maybe by end of year next year, stakedai will yield 4%. But that's still, like, a pretty good product, right? So, you know, that's kind of like the idea that I'm laying out here. So that's gonna be it for me. I don't know.
00:32:07.998 - 00:32:25.346, Speaker A: Okay. This video is 32 minutes anyways. Yeah, I mean, hopefully this video is somewhat useful. Um, you know, obviously, crypto prices are going up. Um, and, you know, I. I do see this, you know, this shift, right, where, um, I talked about this in my past video. But let me, let's just, like, talk about this.
00:32:25.346 - 00:32:59.266, Speaker A: It's pretty interesting. I mean, you know, I mean, first of all, right? I mean, maker is right today, but, like, look, it's. It's hitting new local highs, right? Uh, like, only bitcoin and maker are hitting new local highs, if you think about it, from, like, any asset over, like, a billion dollar market, I guess salon, too. But anyways, you go to the four hour and you kind of out, you know, outline the BTC price here. Let's do this. You kind of see that. I mean, obviously, you know, I guess since September, they performed at par, right? So that's kind of interesting.
00:32:59.266 - 00:33:34.998, Speaker A: But, you know, like, I saw this reaction where, you know, like, bitcoin goes sideways, maker goes up, right? It's kind of like a risk off asset. But when the bitcoin starts pumping, maker sometimes sells off, right? You know, bitcoin's pumping maker sometimes sells off. And this might just be noise, right? I'm literally looking at the four hour, right? I do not trade a four hour. I trade things on, like, the daily, weekly, monthly timeframes. And, you know, if you can put this off here. Okay, let's put this in the log. I mean, I don't know.
00:33:34.998 - 00:34:00.180, Speaker A: It still seems like a healthy uptrend. Not gonna fight the trend. But I mean, like I mentioned, like, bitcoin. I mean, this candle is insane, right? So I definitely feel underexposed to bitcoin. But, hey, you know, you place your bets, it's really, really impossible to predict the crypto markets. Bitcoin just, like, moves, like, in crazy numbers when you least expect it. That's kind of what we're seeing now.
00:34:00.180 - 00:34:32.714, Speaker A: But, you know, I think the world, the crypto world is healing. Okay? And bitcoin, as bitcoin climbs a wall of worry, as ether claims, a wall of worry, we're starting to see that the end of the defi bear market is upon us. It's already happened, right? It already happened a few months ago. But, you know, I mean, it's already happening, right? It's already happening. You have to just see it. I see it. It's not going to be overnight, but the healing process has already begun.
00:34:32.714 - 00:34:49.322, Speaker A: And now we, as crypto participants that are still left in these very depressing markets or formerly depressing markets, now we get to benefit the rewards. So thank you very much for watching. See you guys another time, and have fun farming out there. And let me know what you think about yield bearing dollars. Bye.
