00:00:00.090 - 00:00:19.786, Speaker A: Thanks. Yaz for the intro. I'm Matt from Caldera. I think we all agree with the thesis blockchains are going modular. And basically I think the best way to describe modularism is basically making it as easy as possible to build blockchains by extracting out different layers of the stack. Let's see, this is maybe a little bit of a self aggrandizing slide.
00:00:19.978 - 00:00:20.430, Speaker B: Basically.
00:00:20.500 - 00:00:57.370, Speaker A: I do think there is a bit of a through line through here. I was around in the bitcoin arrow. Most of you were talking about payments, then people talking about general purpose computation. Then there was freedom of choice to kind of like choose which L1 choose from a small set of L1s, which one makes the most sense for your application. And this modular blockchain, again a little self aggregators, have only us on there, want to include Celestia and the other DA layers which will not be named and eclipsed and skipped everyone else. But basically it's like the freedom to really change anything you want on any layer of the blockchain. And I think that's super powerful.
00:00:57.370 - 00:01:50.334, Speaker A: We'll skip this slide, basically app chains or things, whatever. Yeah, app chains equals freedom. You can do more whether that's throughput, whether that's improving UX via certain aspects of customization by changing the gas token of your project, moving gas costs entirely different levels of gas extraction, account abstraction. And as well, of course, as the skip folks talked about different ways of extracting revenue or giving revenue back to your community via mev or bridge fees or transaction fees or anything like that. Also I want to mention here permissioning access to the chain. I think it's like a little against a lot of the ethos of a lot of kind of hardcore crypto maxi folks. But I think the ability to construct, to kind of choose the layers, the of level decentralization will bring a lot more kind of more centralized Web 2.5
00:01:50.334 - 00:01:56.498, Speaker A: actors into space. On the whole, it's pragmatically pretty important even if we don't necessarily like a.
00:01:56.504 - 00:01:57.650, Speaker B: Lot of those conclusions.
00:01:58.710 - 00:02:52.754, Speaker A: But of course, app chains are just really hard to build. And that's not just on the protocol level side of hiring engineers, using the Cosmos SDK, figuring out how to incorporate tender bit or the various offshoots, your state transition function, figuring out who's going to validate the chains. It's also a lot of the kind of like standard web, two higher level infrastructure pieces, figuring out who's going to run your nodes, how you're going to run your nodes, how you're going to orchestrate them, those piece of infrastructure that developers tend to expect. Block explorers, indexers developer facing APIs, the graph, all those things. And the set of those services is only increasing. Like if you were to go back five years ago, a lot of people were just writing smart contracts and solidities deploying them. Now a lot of blockchain apps, they have dependencies on the graph or certain centralized indexing services or Open Zeppelin, Defender, all these types of things.
00:02:52.754 - 00:03:40.466, Speaker A: And so we want to be able to provide all of those services to help teams make viable blockchains that developers get started using really quickly. So, yeah, this is what we do. We help people launch Op staff optimism based chains that are fully customizable all across the know. They can pick their layer, whether that's posting data natively on Ethereum or Polygon or whatever EVM chain they choose to settle on, or using Celestia, we'll cover that up. They can pick their settlement layer. Right now, we support basically any EVM chain. We allow them to add the infrastructure that needs block Explorers, Bridge, SDKs, NFT Marketplaces, Bridge, UIs, a lot of those kind of table stake, higher level pieces of infrastructure that applications tend to need.
00:03:40.466 - 00:04:16.640, Speaker A: We also allow them to do kind of like node level customization, whether that's modifying the gas token, potentially adding custom EVM, pre compiled, that sort of thing. And the set of capabilities we have there is only expanding and then deploy. They can deploy the chain on any, as I said, any EVM compatible L One or L2. And we handle all the dirty work when it comes to DevOps and orchestrating optimism nodes, which is actually a fairly annoying problem for teams who are building that themselves. Yeah, again, this is kind of saily. I will skip most of it. Basically, we are based on the Op stack, the optimism code base.
00:04:16.640 - 00:04:53.574, Speaker A: Generally, I think people have different opinions on this, but for now, it's probably the most robust, open source, optimistic world code base in existence. And we are really encouraged and excited by all the development that's happening on the Op stack, including Face and Mantle and us and other folks who are going to all contribute upstream to that. We're also live in production now, so we can spin up a chain. If you're interested in spinning up a chain for your project, come find us after this talk. We'd be happy to do that for you. And of course, because we're EVM compatible, we're compatible with all existing developer tooling. And I think this is one of the things that sets the Op stack apart is that it's basically running geth under the hood.
00:04:53.574 - 00:05:39.800, Speaker A: And so that means basically anything that depends on geth and geth interfaces, you basically get compatibility there for free. Yeah, again, we are engineers. We're not graphic designers, so you can tell. But basically we want to be kind of like an all in one stop, especially for those higher level features APIs, JSON, RPC nodes, SDKs, Block Explorers, interfaces for common utilities. And as well, we want to support those chain level customizations as well. Yeah, I think this is the last slide. Yeah, we're working in production with a lot of teams, both on the gaming side, also on the DeFi side, and also kind of more experimental gaming infrastructure on chain CTS, that sort of thing.
00:05:39.800 - 00:06:31.290, Speaker A: So yeah, we don't have a slide for this, but plugs, come find us if you're interested in launching a rollup, if you're interested in playing around with the testnet Caldera roll up. And also we are hiring we recently just closed around hiring across systems, product engineering roles and also just general growth and bizarre stuff. Yeah, happy to answer any questions, questions from the balcony. Who are you partnering with for the on chain CTS? That is waterfall. Curta. Okay, cool. So yeah, they're building that and we've been helping them do a lot of stuff on chain, so they're currently using us and test that hoping to go to main network pretty soon anymore.
00:06:31.290 - 00:07:09.554, Speaker A: So very much of a business like question, but how do you guys make money? That's a great question. So actually, currently some of these folks are paying us with a SaaS model. Okay. And so I think there are some nice things about that. It allows us to kind of align incentives or it's kind of like you get what it says on the tin, right? Like they pay a fixed amount, you can have SLAs, especially with how roll ups are architected right now. That sort of stuff is really important. That being said, it's certainly not settled internally and we might be thinking about other models.
00:07:09.554 - 00:08:00.920, Speaker A: One of the things we're really trying to prioritize is making this accessible for hackathon teams and small developers to just launch their own thing. And so having an enterprise sales process is like the opposite of what you should do when you want to do that. So we're trying to find some model that makes most sense with regards to Tokens, I think is kind of the implicit question there. Yeah, it's like an interesting question. I think infrastructure tokens have had a mixed sort of success rate. And what we don't want to do is we don't want to, for example, bolt on a token onto that and run like a parachain auction type of deal, which removes a lot of the kind of benefits you would be out of running roll ups in the first place. So Token is not totally settled for us, but if it is, we'll do something that makes sense and stays true to the ethos of allowing smaller developers to use the tech.
00:08:00.920 - 00:08:57.430, Speaker A: Yeah. Nick, I have a lot of questions, but one of them is specifically it seems or I guess I didn't realize this, but I thought you guys were only settling on Ethereum, but you're also settling like polygon. Is there a reason why you're choosing settled roll ups versus yeah, that's a really good question. I think part of it is just it comes down to preference of builders and so we don't take a super strong chance on this either way. The one thing we found is that, number one, a lot of teams, they want that trust minimized bridge between the L two and some base chain. A lot of times the folks we're working with, they don't want to necessarily be positioning themselves as a completely separate new chain. They want to be able to position themselves as like we're still on this ecosystem that made our app or they're strongly tied with the community of but they still want to kind of get the benefits of running an app chain.
00:08:57.430 - 00:09:52.780, Speaker A: At the end of the day, I think we're talking to some other folks for whom it doesn't really matter that much. And so there I think a lot of it just came down to us liking the Op stack, wanting to build with that and sort of wanting to help other people stay on top of that as well. But we don't have a super strong philosophical opposition towards sovereign chains and I think it's mostly just kind of comes down to the user base we're targeting somebody else had a question, I'll ask another one. Sure. What features do you think the Op stack is most glaringly missing? What would you wish that they would build? Sequencing fraud proofs. Well, I mean, fraud proof that you have to answer, right? I mean, I'm confident they're going to get to it eventually or hopefully sooner rather than later. I think that's the thing.
00:09:52.780 - 00:10:28.500, Speaker A: And as well, we would much rather there be fraud proofs because then we're not relied upon for security, right? And so we'd rather be able to use that and that would be super helpful with Be. I think there are a lot of other kind of product, you can call it product level features that the Op stack could use. Things like account abstraction. It's in really high demand. We're probably just going to build that ourselves. Basic like gas abstraction, being able to use other tokens for gas. That's something that we needed to build and that we support that.
00:10:28.500 - 00:10:54.286, Speaker A: As far as I know currently the Op stack, at least when we built the feature, the Op stack doesn't support. So like a lot of things like that. Also, I think there are some things that are kind of against optimism's, ethos that pragmatically some projects might want. So like permissioning on the sequencer level, whitelisting on the bridge, those are features that we can support for certain use cases and I don't think the optimist team is going to really be super excited to build out those.
00:10:54.468 - 00:11:00.814, Speaker B: We have one more question. Do you guys run the sequencer for.
00:11:00.852 - 00:11:33.174, Speaker A: Those rollouts by default? Yes, we allow the projects to launch to run them themselves. We're happy to provide a docker container, TerraForm, configs, basically make it as low effort as possible. Some do, so, but we found for a lot of the teams that we talked to, I think a lot of teams in Web three, they know how to write smart contracts, they know how to write UI interfaces that interact with smart contracts. And there's, like, a big hole in their team when it comes to DevOps and infrastructure. And cloud, especially now around a lot of application level teams. And so a lot of them just prefer to let us run the sequencer.
00:11:33.222 - 00:11:38.170, Speaker B: And a follow up. Do you guys have any regulatory problems because of that?
00:11:38.320 - 00:12:13.320, Speaker A: Not currently. I think this is just I think we see optimism and arbitram and all the other general purpose roll ups that have a lot more volume, a lot more different kind of use cases than we do as kind of the canary in the coal mine. We think those will be the ones that will be regulated first. But obviously with the recent kind of enforcement action and everything that the SEC is doing, decentralized sequencing is one of those things that we're super interested in. It's one of those things that we'd rather not build ourselves. And so we're really happy there's like Astria and a lot of other teams working on this problem that we can hopefully plug into.
00:12:13.690 - 00:12:15.490, Speaker B: All right, cool. Thank you, Matt.
