00:00:00.090 - 00:00:22.318, Speaker A: Alright everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal.
00:00:22.404 - 00:00:24.270, Speaker B: Now let's jump into the episode.
00:00:26.650 - 00:00:54.670, Speaker A: Hey everyone, before we get into it today, just want to give a quick shout out to this season sponsor, Rook. Close to a billion dollars worth of mev has been taken out of users'pockets and that's just on Ethereum and that number is only getting larger. Unfortunately, Rook thinks that it's time for a change and they've built a solution which is going to automatically redirect that mev back to where it belongs into the user's pocket. So you're going to be hearing all about them later in the show. I'm a huge fan of this team and what they're building, so stay tuned to find out more.
00:00:54.740 - 00:01:10.606, Speaker C: All right, this is going to be a great episode. Hasu, welcome back, by the way, from your well deserved break. Looking a little tan there, looking nice. We've got today we're going to be joined by Quintess Kilborn and Barnabay Monot. I hope I got that pronunciation.
00:01:10.638 - 00:01:11.394, Speaker D: Got it right.
00:01:11.512 - 00:01:19.666, Speaker C: Yeah, nailed it. It's the last time I ever attempted a French accent. Could you give listeners a little bit of a taste of what they can expect on this episode?
00:01:19.778 - 00:01:42.534, Speaker D: Oh, yeah. So, first of all, thanks. It's good to be back. It's been three weeks in Italy. It's been great, feeling much more relaxed than before. So I'm very much looking forward to this episode, which will be the final one of the season, except for our kind of own recap episode that we will provide at the end. And today we have two amazing guests.
00:01:42.534 - 00:02:24.522, Speaker D: We have Barnabe who was working at Rick. So Rick is the robust incentives group at the Ethereum Foundation. And you can think of that as kind of the very kind of hands on research arm that's focused on economic problems, economic developments. So they are thinking a lot about PBS. They are thinking about kind of the effect of rollups mev supply chain in general in the future. Also order flow auction, so you can think of them almost as they are looking at all of the things that are happening and how they affect Ethereum, the economics of Ethereum, and how is that all Ethereum should react to these things. And so we are working a lot with BanaBay as part of flashboards and the rest of the Rig team.
00:02:24.522 - 00:03:15.450, Speaker D: And so I know for a fact he knows a ton about this and has very strong opinions backed by yeah, the other person is Quintess. So Quintess is one of our senior researchers at flashboards and so he's someone who's like one of the leading experts on Ofas. He wrote very seminal pieces on Ofas, on exclusive order flow, on information sharing and the role of privacy. And he's someone who I learn a lot from personally, just so when I have a question, I go to Quintess and just ask him to explain something to me. And so I also know these two get along great. And so I think it's going to be very cool to have them here in the same episode. And I think we will talk about kind of how the mev supply chain is going to evolve.
00:03:15.450 - 00:04:05.100, Speaker D: So this will be a much more Ethereum focused episode. So coming out of the cosmos, going back into the ether, we already touched on so many themes in this season. We touched on Ofas, we touched on privacy, division of labor. We touched on proposal bidder separation with Matt Kapla, and we touched on SWAF with Robert and John. And this will be the episode where we put it all back together. So basically, we have the floor in front of us and we take out the whole mev engine of Ethereum. We put it on the floor, we dissect every piece individually, and then we talk with these two, how they relate to each other, the interfaces between users and searchers search us and build us, build us and validate us.
00:04:05.100 - 00:04:10.134, Speaker D: And then ultimately, we hope we're going to put it back together and put it back where it belongs.
00:04:10.182 - 00:04:20.158, Speaker C: That's all the intro we need. Let's dive right in. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Today, Haas and I are joined by Barnaby Mano and Quintess Kilborn. Guys, welcome to the show.
00:04:20.244 - 00:04:21.466, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having us, mate.
00:04:21.498 - 00:04:57.434, Speaker C: This is going to be a really fun one because this is going to basically touch on a whole bunch of stuff that we have discussed so far this season. And sort of the North Star for this episode is going to be the changing of the mev supply chain. But each of you guys are focused on very cool components of that. And maybe, Quintus, we can start with you. I'd love to talk a little bit in depth about something that we've touched on this season, which is order flow auctions. And I know you are super, super steeped in that. And we haven't really taught we sort of touched on order flow auctions, this thing that's happening at the beginning of the mev supply chain, but we haven't gone in depth at all.
00:04:57.434 - 00:05:08.026, Speaker C: So maybe if we could just start from a level, you just give an overview of what these order flow options are and how they're kind of acting as this new center of gravity on that mem supply chain.
00:05:08.058 - 00:06:21.062, Speaker E: So I guess when people hear auctions at Mev, they sometimes think of the Bundle auction where we have searches or traders that get submitting bids effectively to the validator buyer Blockbuilders to have their trades included, their arbitrarily included, or whatever higher up in the block when it's in some preferential ordering. When people do what? Order? Flow auctions. It's a very different kind of auction. And really what defines an order flow auction is that usually it's a user trying to either get better execution or to get some sort of rebate for doing some transaction. And the way they get this is through leveraging competition. So a very basic example is someone's doing a trade and the trade on uniswap or something leaves an arbitrage on the table or maybe they're just trying to find a counterparty for their trade, take the other side and through some mechanism or other you use competition. And usually it's like trading buz or search engines, bidding, and then depending on how the auction is set up, the best that quote unquote ends up being the one that executes the order.
00:06:21.062 - 00:06:26.518, Speaker E: And I describe it kind of vaguely because there's many different ways of doing this. But yeah, that's a general idea.
00:06:26.684 - 00:06:31.414, Speaker D: Great. What problem would you say these of are trying to solve?
00:06:31.462 - 00:06:55.166, Speaker E: In general, a couple of ways of explaining it, but in general, I think blockchain and finance in general, in traditional finance as well, is very complicated and it's more complicated than the average user can deal with. In part this is because you have all of these DEXes, all these sources of liquidity, some of these sources of liquidity you don't even know about because they're active, right? It's someone with tokens in a wallet.
00:06:55.198 - 00:06:55.780, Speaker B: Maybe.
00:06:57.990 - 00:08:07.222, Speaker E: But there's also just some sort of very low latency information or very technical information that just isn't going to be accessible to 99.9% of people, like the state of the net price on binance a couple of milliseconds ago and these kinds of things. And so most users blockchains aren't really in a position to make the most effective trade or do the smartest thing on blockchain. But sometimes it's also the case that thinking very abstractly about what people do on blockchains, it might be the case that someone is just doing something that happens to be valuable to someone else. It's an Oracle update and it's changing the state of the blockchain that represents value to some liquidator or something like that. So the problem it's solving, I think, is it's in part making these trades more efficient, capturing the money left on the table if you made a bad trade, but maybe also capturing the surplus you create as the post in the Oracle update doesn't need to be an Oracle update. You can think of a spec, right?
00:08:07.276 - 00:08:38.510, Speaker D: So if we imagine a user trading on units of V two, then there's obviously things that search us can do in order to make that execution more competitive, for example, by competing on adding a background to that transaction. But do you think that there will also be kind of other approaches that we can go about this where the user maybe doesn't specify as much how their transaction should be executed. How do you think that's going to evolve?
00:08:38.590 - 00:09:50.250, Speaker E: Yeah. And that exists, right? If a user is trading against unisoft V two, they've sort of specified the full computational path. They said, okay, listen, this is my transaction, I want to trade against C's pools in this way and there's like some variance in the outcome based on slippage but there's not much black freedom of movement there. But we can have users signing like four, three, seven kind of intents or cal swaps, another example of this and then the auction kind of finds them the best source of liquidity, whatever that may be. In the cowswap example, users are being sort of matched against each other and then whatever other source of liquidity the solvers in the auction find. But you could also just have an RFQ system like Sirx or one Inch, in which case the user says, hey, I want to do this kind of trade. And then a bunch of different routes are offered to the user, different quotes and this will be like searches or trading firms or whatever, finding good routes against passive liquidity.
00:09:50.250 - 00:09:57.206, Speaker E: So it doesn't have to be background kind of thing, but different auctions have different trade offs.
00:09:57.318 - 00:10:08.222, Speaker D: So talking about different auctions with different trade offs, so what design families for Ofas exist in your mind and how do they trade off against each other?
00:10:08.356 - 00:11:30.378, Speaker E: I've been asked to give families of Ofas before and I find it very hard to do because I think very small differences have important consequences. But very generally I think you can one of the interesting ways of segmenting things is saying, okay, well, you have these kinds of auctions that allocate execution to an exclusive party. So for like, I think the sponsor of this podcast, Brooke, is like how it works, I'm probably oversimplifying, but you have one order and you have many orders, but then you have some servo. Whoever holds onto the order, at least that's how it's worked up until recently, maybe they've changed it. But you hold onto one order and for some time period you accept bids and then the highest bid is allocated the exclusive right to execute this order and that's one way of doing things. And what this requires. It requires whoever's bidding at the time of the auction to be able to value the execution of this order relatively well.
00:11:30.378 - 00:12:16.418, Speaker E: Because sometimes there's a delay between when they're bidding and when they're executing. And this might mean the price moves or that the cost of executing the block changes. And that might introduce some risk for the bidder who's bidding in this auction. Then you have this other family that exists right now. The two sort of canonical or the two examples I know of are like mev, Share, Flashbots and they work with block builders and they go through this process where they connect user transactions with backgrounds. They say this is like this user transactions opening up surplus somehow. Usually it's because they're leaving some arbitrage on the table.
00:12:16.418 - 00:12:51.010, Speaker E: Okay, we'll just connect a bunch of backgrounds and then when the block is being built, we'll agree with the block builder. We say, hey, if you're going to include a bundle from this user, in some sense, you have to be including the bundle that pays the user the most. And the benefit of this is that you are able to incorporate more information at blockbusting type, but it is also like a different kind of auction. In the Rook case, it's easier to match against active liquidity, whereas in nerve blocking of share case, you're ready at fully specified.
00:12:53.270 - 00:12:54.322, Speaker C: Computational part.
00:12:54.376 - 00:13:04.386, Speaker E: Like I was explaining with the V two example, and there's many other things you can do as well. But I think that's like one interesting division that's come around recently.
00:13:04.578 - 00:13:46.274, Speaker D: So to summarize, you're saying that basically the biggest differentiator between the auctions is whether you have a format where there's two auctions happening sequentially or one auction. And in the two auction case, first the auction of the right to execute the transaction to a single searcher or trading firm or whatever, but then they still have to see that the transaction is actually getting included in a block and they have to go through the block builder auction and so on. And in the second case, you have one block builder doing like the actual block builder doing the entire auction, and kind of the Ofa is folded into the block bidding process, right?
00:13:46.312 - 00:14:04.380, Speaker E: It's not exactly that clear cut. There's definitely things in the middle, like what if you have a block builder bidding in the sort of a two auctions case versus a searcher? But yes, that's a way I would separate them, for sure.
00:14:04.750 - 00:14:43.266, Speaker D: Interesting. Yeah. So you mentioned an interesting concept, the concept of block building time, and I think we want to kind of put a pin in that and we'll get to that a bit later when we talk about some of the other concepts in the Mev supply chain. So thanks for that overview. Do you think that there are any things beyond trading that you could apply an Ofa to? Any types of transactions that you could send to an Ofa that would also benefit from it? That kind of go beyond what people classically associate with Ofas, which is kind of just like uniswap trades?
00:14:43.378 - 00:15:03.046, Speaker E: Yeah, of course. Everything kind of looks like a trade at some point. Everything's at all. That's the meme. Right. But yeah, very basic example is an Oracle update, right. Or sometimes there will be like a I mean, this is a bit of a strange example, but I think it's still useful.
00:15:03.046 - 00:15:53.354, Speaker E: Like do an NFT listing, right? Sometimes you get the price wrong and if you did happen to submit via an Ofa, you'd be able to capture some of the value of your accidental bad listing. I don't think that's like the hopefully it's not the primary use case. I think we can maybe figure out the bad listings, some other help, but some other way. But yeah, I think there's anything that represents value to someone else. Right. And your blockchains turing complete or at least Ethereum and smart contract chains or effectively there's a whole lot of different things that can happen. Maybe right now, like Dextrade is the most popular thing, but who knows when this goes going forward? But, yeah, I guess everything looks like a trade if it represents that value to somebody else.
00:15:53.392 - 00:16:37.110, Speaker C: I have a question just about maybe barnaby, this is where I'm calling you a little bit here as well. I know you've talked about kind of determining where the line for the Ethereum protocol sort of exists. And one question that I have maybe connecting a couple of different interviews from this season, especially the last interview that we did with Cosmos is the Cosmos approach to mev is very much we have an application here. Maybe it's a decentralized exchange, like penumbra. There's mev that's being generated and that's sort of baked into the design of that Dex. So I would love when you're sort of hearing this mev is kind of simultaneously a problem and an opportunity. A problem in the sense that there can be negative outcomes for users, but an opportunity in that there is economic surplus that's often created.
00:16:37.110 - 00:16:56.514, Speaker C: I would love to get your perspective on who do you think the sort of problem and the economic value should accrue to kind of the app layer or Ethereum layer? And kind of speaking from, I guess, your perspective. But you do work at the Ethereum Foundation. How does Ethereum kind of think about getting involved here?
00:16:56.552 - 00:17:58.266, Speaker B: Yeah, so, as always, it's very difficult to make blanket statements for how Ethereum considers something, the idea of the bazaar versus the cathedral. But I can talk about what my thoughts are on the topic. And I did listen to the episode with Hari about Cosmos was saying that the transaction supply chain, that's the whole of Ethereum, ethereum doesn't stop at the protocol site. And what you're seeing with Cosmos, for instance, is you have much more activist protocols that are adding this layer of programmability of decision making with respect to how the mev is managed and how it's kind of captured and then redistributed. I would say in Ethereum, the trade offs are maybe a little different or at least the constraints are a little different. First, you don't necessarily have all trusted proposals. So you always want to create designs that are credible even in the presence of untrusted proposals.
00:17:58.266 - 00:18:49.730, Speaker B: And that adds a lot more constraint to what you can do with the protocol. And then, because you are not in this, let's say, app chain perspective, you also need to consider second order effects on what can happen when you build in something that's maybe more favorable to one category of applications and then might have ripple effects on other applications that could suffer from it. So I would say the perspective has been to be a bit more conservative in terms of the update and maybe a bit less opinionated about the way that the mev is managed at protocol level. But that doesn't mean that choices aren't being made because when you look at PBS, for instance, there is an opinionated choice that is made when we're talking about enshrine PBS for instance.
00:18:49.890 - 00:20:04.094, Speaker D: So, staying with this notion of kind of application layer versus protocol layer, I'd have a question kind of to both of you. I know Quintus, you've thought about this a lot more, but banabi, you have a very keen understanding of economics and markets so I'd be very curious to hear your thoughts as well. So TIO Limovitz from Unisop's former head of strategy went on a podcast recently and he said he thinks that generalized ofas will not take off in the marketplace because all the applications will kind of develop their own individual order flow options or their own individual ways of dealing with mev and they are not. So for one, they can kind of specialize more but also they are not interested in sharing any of the economics with an outside protocol. So how do you think about this trade off? What will happen basically? Will applications all succeed in developing their own mev solutions or will we see kind of a generalized a layer maybe on Ethereum take off and kind of what are the arguments for and against these things?
00:20:04.292 - 00:21:03.394, Speaker E: Yeah, I think so. There's a lot to say because it kind of depends what you mean by application as well. Like is Uniswap the application or trading the application? The first thing to think about here is that if it is the case that we separate things and you have a very specific auction for every specific use case, you do miss the capturing sort of the complementarity between different opportunities, liquidations and ODS and these kinds of things. Liquidations and trading ODS but backwards liquidations. You get what I mean? But I think also you have to think about this from a centralization decentralization perspective. I think it seems kind of undesirable to have the only effective way of using Uniswap being like going through some centralized server. That also kind of defeats the point.
00:21:03.394 - 00:22:16.898, Speaker E: I don't know if that's what he was suggesting. So it might be the case that multiple auctions that work for a specific application, why? General preference and many people with flashboards have spoken about this into an interesting idea I think is to have some sort of general layer that acts as like sort of like a programmable auction and that can facilitate many different kinds of auctions for different kinds of applications. And the benefit of this is that you're not stuck with the one auction. One front end is offering you an ATM way of accessing uniswap or whatever because you're trusting some server they set up. But rather to have a world where we have many different auctions and they're running in some way that you trust or that it is in some sense centralized, but also that allows people to pitch different kind of auction formats. If this one auction format is working some congress experiment. The problem with running trusted auctions is that it's very hard for someone else to launch other auction.
00:22:16.898 - 00:23:21.690, Speaker E: Right now the biggest auctions have spent a lot of time garnering trust for people trying to get order flow, adoption, flashbuster wall load. The people involved with red blocker wallow and calsop spent many years and it comes out of Gnosis. So there's a lot of reputation that goes into this and so it becomes very hard for someone else to go like hey, actually I have a great auction idea, let me set up an auction because it takes them a lot of time to gain trust from people and possible. So if you can provide this with a more general auction layer that can be programmed to facilitate more specific kinds of auctions, then I think you end up doing quite well in that you allow people to compete and propose different kinds of mechanisms and have these work up well, but still capture the sort of like specificity of different kinds of needs. Because yes, it is true that maybe the kind of auction which is best for Dex trades looks a bit different from the auction that works well for NFTs or something like that.
00:23:21.840 - 00:24:51.866, Speaker B: Adding to that, there are fairly strict results on even the computational complexity of running auctions. And so if you are trying to do this generalized matching engine, you know for sure that this is going to be basically impossible to solve. So the question can you put that ad protocol, can you make the Ethereum protocol basically organize this auction? Seems to me like it's a tall order that's going to be running against some fairly essential or fundamental limits. So then the question is if you don't do that, what do you do? And I think that was kind of the gist of haskell's question, which is that will we see piecewise auctions of just like separate flows for the user transaction to go through application per application? I think at the beginning we'll see that because it's just easier to do when applications have kind of a finger on the bottleneck for the user transaction flow. But as Quintus mentioned, there are complementarities between these applications and if there are complementarities there is value. And if there is value, there are people who are going to innovate on formats and figure out how to capture that value. But then I don't think we'll ever get to a point where this converges to a generalized auction that solves everything and matches everyone at the same time.
00:24:51.866 - 00:25:23.218, Speaker B: And so should the protocol then be involved? My perspective is that when it does, we are kind of locking in a certain type of allocation mechanism. And perhaps we don't want to do that. Perhaps we want to preserve the optionality of innovation in terms of the auctions or even the market structures might change over time. So we want to give ourselves as much room to be agile and to let the market kind of figure out the best mechanisms for that.
00:25:23.304 - 00:26:29.346, Speaker E: I would say that everything is already one auction in some sense, right? Everything needs to go into the same block. And so it's all economically interrelated already. And the question really is how many different is there a different route that everyone takes that everyone goes through some specific auction first and then it all aggregates together later? Or like, you know, I guess one sort of more dystopia utopia perspective on this is like, yes, you do have this potential world where you have many different auctions. You have one where there's like three or four, I don't know, some small number of servers running in US east, one AWS, executing everyone's trades. And then you have different worlds with different kinds of auction outcomes and so very up in the air and it's very much like I think there should be like a callable, like decentralization and pushing forward there that's also, I think, the more important one to make it's very helpful and they're like worse and better outcomes.
00:26:29.538 - 00:27:38.910, Speaker D: Fascinating guys. I want to kind of close the chap down of as for now and move to the next one. So one thing that we always discuss, and I think one of the original reasons why we're here is kind of the problem of vertical integration. Originally, I think the fear was that mining pools would integrate with searchers and then there would be one dominant mining pool that kind of can crowd out all of the other ones that would lead to centralization. This has been many years ago and now, of course, the AV supply chain is much more complex than just mining pools and searchers. But the problem of vertical integration remains and arguably it's bigger and kind of more elusive than ever before. So we are seeing vertical integration between wallets and searchers, between searchers and block builders, between block builders and relays and who knows what else is there that we're kind of not aware of because these things are very hard to prove.
00:27:38.910 - 00:27:56.740, Speaker D: So could you maybe reiterate why vertical integration is such a big problem for the Mev supply chain and how we can address this problem at a high level or kind of how you personally think about addressing this problem at a high level?
00:27:57.270 - 00:27:57.682, Speaker E: Sure.
00:27:57.736 - 00:29:24.682, Speaker B: So the first question is why is vertical integration such a problem? And I think it really comes to why we are building the systems that we are building, which is that we want systems that are efficient, but we don't want systems where the efficiency can be or the extra surplus that the system creates. Can be extracted by a single party. And so when you have vertical integration, you basically take two entities that would be in a relation of checks and balances or maybe in intention with one another, and now you're kind of merging them together. And so you might be expanding the action space for that bundled entity to extract more value through whatever is going through its pipeline. So why we care about that cultivation is really because we care about having systems that are loosely coupled and each part of the system or each component is unable to extract any kind of rent on what's going through its pipe. And if you have vertical integration, you also prevent to some extent competitivity because now if you have one searcher on one side and many builders on the other side, there's at least a bit of competition between the builders to offer something to the searcher. But if the searcher and builder are the same now they can do strategies that are different and they don't need to be quite as competitive.
00:29:24.682 - 00:29:35.330, Speaker B: And so, yeah, building systems that prevent any kind of rent to be extracted at any point, I think is what we're here for. And so vertical integration is a threat to that.
00:29:35.480 - 00:30:35.542, Speaker C: I have a follow up question for you there, Barnaby. I would love to understand how you think about builders and specifically builders getting larger and more sophisticated. I think one of the parts of the sort of like a design principle that's been extremely successful, at least in Ethereum so far, is kind of this idea of making basically leveling the playing field for Proposers and making sure that they're adequately compensated for securing the Ethereum network. I think one of the trade offs there, and I'm sure we'll get more into the weeds on Proposer builder separation is that you have kind of these larger and more sophisticated builders. And without going too far into this, we had a whole episode on the modular mev in the modular world, but it seems like that's only going to be kind of exacerbated as we move up the stack to roll ups. So I would love to get your thoughts on is builder centralization something that you spend a lot of time worrying about or what's your sort of thoughts there?
00:30:35.596 - 00:31:37.830, Speaker B: Yeah, we do worry about builder centralization insofar as we care about the signal that PBS is giving us. And the signal should be equally the same for all proposals. And so if you now have builders that are more powerful and that capture like private order flow in a sense that can add some noise to that signal or destroy some of the value that could be going forward. So if you don't have the same competitivity on the builder side, you don't let the value propagate towards the validators and eventually towards the protocol who's behind the validators. And so builder centralization is a bit worrying in the sense that now, again, you. Have this one actor in the supply chain that's able to extract undue rent and which maybe is not compatible with this idealized version of a builder, which is more of a simple pass through that forwards the value towards the proposals and the protocol eventually.
00:31:37.910 - 00:32:03.694, Speaker A: Quick break from the show here. I want you to imagine something for me. Imagine swapping two stablecoins on Chain paying $0 in gas and instead getting a rebate of $2,000. This is something that's actually happened on Chain. To understand how, I want to introduce and thank this season sponsor, Rook. Zooming out for a second. The current state of affairs at Mev is billions of dollars so far have been extracted from users'pockets using Mev.
00:32:03.694 - 00:32:35.434, Speaker A: Rook is coming in and saying enough is enough. Blockchain should drive value to their users and the applications they use. It is time to leave the hobbyist era behind us if we want to move forward and we want to get this right. That's why Rook has built a custom blockchain settlement network, and it's one that gives you full control over the entire transaction lifecycle. Today, you can connect to an open source Rook node. The Rook Protocol will automatically match, bundle, and auction your orders and transactions in seconds with zero gas overhead. Also, any Mev that's discoverable along the way will be returned to you, the user.
00:32:35.434 - 00:33:10.742, Speaker A: Created as a collaboration between the industry's top mechanism designers and Mev engineers, rook was built from the ground up to be scalable, safe, and programmable. You can get your own Mempool, choose Searchers and Builders, and link your Mempool with others to discover even more Mev. You can define how the Mev is shared and delivered as well, and what can basically process anything from transactions to metatransactions and more. This is the way that Blockchains basically should have been from day one. So if you're a user listening to this, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go to your wallets, go to your favorite app, your node provider, and say, hey, I want you to be working with these guys.
00:33:10.796 - 00:33:11.154, Speaker C: Rook.
00:33:11.202 - 00:33:28.798, Speaker A: I want the Mev that I create to be redistributed back to Me. If you're a developer and you want to stay ahead of the game, the best way to do that is to follow them on Twitter. They are at Rook. Or even better yet, slide into their DMs. They are lightning responsive. They'll get you set up today. And if you do slide into those DMs, as always, please tell them that.
00:33:28.804 - 00:33:39.090, Speaker C: I sent you Quintess. I'd love to get your kind of tag you in here and get your thoughts on just vertical integration in general and then any thoughts that you might have about builders getting larger and more sophisticated.
00:33:40.310 - 00:34:10.262, Speaker E: Yeah, I think Bonobe sort of caught the crux of it. I think vertical integration was in. Sometimes it makes sense. It's just like the consensus layer and execution layer, but it's integrated in some sense, but makes sense. Two things are brought together and client. But in the searcher builder case, maybe it's less desirable. Like the searcher validator case is less desirable because then you have centralization vectors.
00:34:10.262 - 00:35:42.780, Speaker E: And I think one of the interesting things I can say about vertical integration in blockbusting and searching today is that I think part of where it comes from is that there's all of these different searches and they aren't able to collaborate well in the sense that we might be both doing some strategy that touches the same. Like can you be three pool or something changing that price? But because we don't trust each other, there's no real mechanism for us to do it. I can't collaborate with some other soldier and say, let me know what state you're going to leave the pools in so I can better calculate my show you for that, or things along these lines. And so what builders do is they play this role network where they say, okay, we have to aggregate all this information, while all of these people didn't know how to form a block together and I'll be in this special position, I have all the information, I'll put it all together. And the way things are set up at the moment, that's necessary. But what that also means is that these builders have a lot of additional information which is super useful in searching, HFT and traditional finance as well. And that's why you see a lot of vertical integrations because have this sort of informational edge and really makes sense for them to take it doesn't make sense, but there's a lot of economic incentive for them to take advantage of it background bundles and so their trades, given all this kind of information.
00:35:42.780 - 00:35:48.970, Speaker E: Yeah, I think you can sort of see which thing you can address to help an evfr.
00:35:50.270 - 00:36:40.730, Speaker D: Yeah. So you said searchers can't collaborate well on the one hand and you also said builders have all of this extra information and so these might be the same thing. Right, but extra information and kind of also like a latency advantage so they can act later in the game. In finance terms, they have what we would call the last look. They can kind of react closer to the actual event that matters. How should we think about dealing with this in general, searchers and builders, they arguably have started to become kind of the same party because there is a big economic benefit for a searcher to be a block builder or for a block builder to start searching. Although arguably kind of all of the skill is in the searching and not in the block building.
00:36:40.730 - 00:37:07.970, Speaker D: And so it's kind of we are seeing kind of the integration that way, that all of those parties who were originally big searchers, they have now become big block builders. We haven't really seen it the other way around, that there's someone who's uniquely good at block building and they then branched out into searching. So we're not really seeing that. I think that's a nice indication of where the actual power resides in the supply chain. But how should we think about kind of breaking these two roles apart?
00:37:08.050 - 00:38:12.342, Speaker E: Yeah, I think you can think of it sort of like thinking of the fundamental requirement, all of these different strategies after all these different transactions or whatever end up in the final block. And then there's tension, which you find in these highly sensitive environments where your information is super valuable. And so if someone else knows that I'm biding for an opportunity or what arbitrage I'm doing or whatever it is, that means that they can act on that. It might not even be that they are explicitly copy trading me. There's much more subtle things they can do, just like sort of maybe derive what kind of prices I predict in the future based on my trades, or maybe just bid a little bit higher when they share bundles with other people or something like that. But the point is that if I'm a searcher and I'm sharing my information with other entities, I'm making myself vulnerable. And at the same time, we need to share information to some degree because somewhere this block needs to be created somehow.
00:38:12.342 - 00:39:59.590, Speaker E: And of course, we could do like this completely private building thing, but then we lose everyone just sends some encrypted blobs of transactions and then we all randomly order them. Maybe we spam to get better ordering, I don't know. And then whatever that random ordering is, or not random, but like Informationless ordering is, we go with that. And that's, I think, arguably also undesirable because you lose a lot of economic efficiency. And so now the question is, how does one facilitate collaboration between all the different the users and people, like, entities acting on behalf and people who just want direct access to box based, like, searches or whatever, who are just sophisticated users? How do you facilitate this kind of collaboration? And in my mind, I think heard Vashwell's people speak about this before is this notion of programmable privacy in the sense that you allow users to walk this line between sharing information that helps them achieve better ordering in the block, better outcomes, whatever, collaborate with other searches and at the same time preserve their privacy. Even from a user's perspective, if a user is submitting to some Kalaswa trader or I don't know, I'm submitting to, I'm currently trusting Flashbots is sort of doing the right thing with my information and only acting in a certain way. And the idea of programmable primacy is to say, listen, I'll only expose the information necessary to Flashbots to be able to facilitate this kind of auction.
00:39:59.750 - 00:40:13.282, Speaker D: Barnabe do you see any parallels between programmable privacy and kind of the protocols that you have been working on? Is there anything that kind of comes to mind that connects not immediately comes to mind.
00:40:13.336 - 00:41:03.726, Speaker B: But yeah, I would say it's definitely part of the stack. Because again, if you want the builder to reveal a good signal of what the value of their block contains, you essentially want the builder to be a bundle merger. So you want by the time that the information leaves the searcher and gets to the builder, that this information is not really actionable anymore, apart from just putting it in order in the blocks. And so you really need that programmable privacy part here to first ensure that the builder makes a commitment that they can touch whatever has been given to them, and before that, that the users have not been harmed during the process of extracting the bundle. But did you have something in mind when you were asking that question?
00:41:03.828 - 00:41:14.706, Speaker D: Well, maybe just the idea of kind of credible commitments and how they can facilitate collaboration, which I found to be kind of a connecting theme in a lot of your yes, yes.
00:41:14.728 - 00:42:07.350, Speaker B: So this is something that I've been thinking a bit more also in collaboration with Shin, who's at Flashbots first, the idea of commitment, which is who's making commitments and who's kind of recording them. So I've been writing a bit about this. The protocol making commitments is kind of the most powerful commitment that you can get around if you believe in the accountability of a validator set. So that's a strong commitment you can make. But you might also want to be able to have commitments at lower levels of the stack. And so you want builders to commit to not front running you or to commit to just doing honest bundle merging. You want order flow auctions to commit to rebating you, some of that value.
00:42:07.350 - 00:43:15.414, Speaker B: So this commitment part is useful beyond the protocol and it doesn't necessarily always have the same internal mechanics of how these commitments are recorded. And that's where I would say the credible part kind of comes in. So I've discussed a bit in a recent post how I think about credibility, and in particular the credibility of the ethereum protocol at making these commitments and at enforcing the mechanisms that are enshrined in the protocol. And the protocol makes it credible because essentially, we have the weight of the whole community, which is delegating the duty of enforcing these commitments or enforcing these mechanisms to a protocol that is executed by a set of validators that are bonded and that are staked and that have a lot of money on the line to kind of enforce these commitments. So that's one aspect of credibility. And then lower down the chain, you still have commitments, but the credibility here is a little different. So you might have commitments that are written on roll ups, for instance.
00:43:15.414 - 00:43:43.682, Speaker B: In that case, there's a trust model which maybe is a little different. You have commitments from the builder side, which Suave is trying to make. I think what this work has kind of told me is that I don't necessarily think of mechanism design or credibility as like zero to one thing. Like either the mechanism is there or it's not there. To me it's more complicated than that and it's more multidimensional and credibility is a big part of why this is the case.
00:43:43.736 - 00:44:17.422, Speaker C: By the way, maybe this is a good time to transition into talking about PBS and you've done a lot of thinking about this, I'm sure privately, but also publicly as well. So I would love to kind of get your thoughts on the current state of PBS which is sort of facilitated by the off chain boost solution and then I would love to kind of get your thoughts on and if you could even just sort of explain for decision. Why was this decision decided to be enshrined in ethereum and what does the roadmap look like towards that?
00:44:17.556 - 00:45:27.246, Speaker B: Yeah, so what's the latest on PBS is? So PBS has essentially been live in its current form since the merge. And the form I'm talking about is you have validators that are sourcing whole blocks from a network of builders. I think that's been fairly interesting for us at protocol designers because now you kind of see the shape of the market, like how the market has developed. So you have I don't know, it's been interesting, for instance, to observe that there's been more diversity in the relays now than there was at the beginning, more diversities in the builders, though it seems that there are also pressures towards more centralization still. So seeing that live kind of out of protocol gave us a lot of, I would say, useful data to think about the problem on my side, I've done a bit more work to think about it theoretically. So the question of enshrining PBS is essentially the question of enshrining an auction in protocol. And so when you enshrine the auction, there's a lot of parameters that you kind of need to decide.
00:45:27.246 - 00:47:00.242, Speaker B: One of them is do you auction of the right to make the whole block or do you auction of the right to make a partial block or even partial blocks? Plural? How do you think about the enforcement of the bids? How do you think about the credibility of the auction once the value is kind of elicited by the auction? How do you manage it? Like, what do you do with it? Do you give it back to the proposer? Do you give it back to the protocol? So there's a lot of questions that are interesting and before thinking about these questions, I had thought quite a bit about EIP 1559. There are very interesting parallels between the two mechanisms in terms of in both cases you're trying to elicit from the perspective of a protocol a signal of value that is credible and that actors essentially validators can't bias. And so yeah, these questions have been to me quite fertile. So I've been thinking about them quite a bit since the last year and I feel we've reached a much better understanding of what the auction could look like. We understand a bit more some of its trade offs. And so what it looks like in terms of getting it to Ethereum, I think, is there's some really nice work, for instance, by Mike Noider and Justin Drake on the optimistic relay. And that includes an actual roadmap of making the optimistic relay as close as possible to what would enshrine PBS look like.
00:47:00.242 - 00:47:28.780, Speaker B: So, yeah, I think this is probably how that will go. I had some doubts with respect to enshrining the auction because again, there are trade offs that you need to make and so always wondering, are these the right trade offs? And once it's in protocol, you might be stuck with it, but I feel a bit more confident now that we've seen more data, now that we have a real upgrade path to putting it there. So, yeah, that's kind of how I see the state of things.
00:47:29.550 - 00:47:33.578, Speaker D: What do you think are the current problems with metboost?
00:47:33.754 - 00:48:40.034, Speaker B: Well, there's one problem that has been revealed pretty dramatically by the attacks that happened at the beginning of April, which is that, well, mevboost didn't deal very well with equivocating proposals. And so even though the system is designed with the idea that untrusted proposers can access this market, and there's this fair exchange that happens between the builder and the proposer, in this specific case it failed. And it failed for a reason that I think was just not imagined back when the system was designed. And so, yeah, obviously it's a bad thing that it happened, but it also gave some useful data in terms of hardening both mev boost. There's a proposal by Mike and Francesco called Headlock, and in fact that proposal carries over to how we think about enshrine PBS. So PBS in protocol. So, yeah, that's I would say one problem.
00:48:40.034 - 00:49:35.282, Speaker B: The other problem for me has always been the whole block auction selling away the entire right to make the block. I think there are some examples that show you that this might be suboptimal in terms of the value capture, it might be more centralizing. In fact, Quintus was one of the first, I think, to discuss this in a mevboost issue, and showing that you have a centralized builder, they could do better. Even if a decentralized builder is able to, in theory, aggregate more value, in that case the centralized builder would still win. So, yeah, I still see some unknowns on that question, but again, with the perspective of polygated protocol and giving ourselves a path to experimenting a bit more with it before it reaches there and maybe even after it reaches the protocol, I think these are the two main problems. I see.
00:49:35.336 - 00:50:42.070, Speaker C: I've got a question for you, Barnaba. This harkens back to a debate that we had earlier this season between Hasu and Matt Cutler, and it was very centered around relays specifically, but maybe we could broaden it a little bit to just talk about off chain infrastructure in general. So something like relays. The plan to enshrine PBS is eventually we're not going to need relays, right? And they're kind of this centralization vector. But on the other hand, if Ethereum is going to be very careful about the line for what the protocol does, probably it's pretty reasonable to assume into the future we're going to continue to rely on off chain infrastructure for relatively key functions of Ethereum. So I would love to sort of get your thoughts and maybe we can start with relays, but kind of broaden it out a little bit to infrastructure that we might not even know we need. How do you kind of weigh the costs and the kind of risks and benefits of, hey, we don't want to rely too much on something like a relay, so it shouldn't necessarily be too profitable versus, hey, there are off chain actors that are providing critical infrastructure to Ethereum.
00:50:42.070 - 00:50:51.058, Speaker C: And if we want that to function smoothly, we want them to be economically incentivized to keep providing that infrastructure. So I'd love to get your thoughts.
00:50:51.094 - 00:50:52.814, Speaker E: On that cost benefit there first.
00:50:52.852 - 00:52:01.246, Speaker B: It's clear from even Vitalik's endgame post that we are planning to rely on off chain agents to perform what you could call core or critical functions of a protocol. And this is really coming from the asymmetry between the cost of constructing the block. So finding, for instance, a validity proof if we were to enshrine a Zkvm at protocol level, finding the most optimal blocks, which is what PBS does optimally in terms of the value that they return. So yeah, definitely. For sure there is kind of this emphasis on off chain infrastructure to perform these things. But then I would say, as you mentioned, there is a difference between relays and builders, which is that relays are kind of a crutch that we have at the moment because we need mafboost to function. And if we don't have a protocol to enforce the auction or to be the credible auctioneer, then we need someone else in the middle to basically broker the agreement between the builder and the proposer.
00:52:01.246 - 00:52:40.286, Speaker B: And that person is the relay. But they perform. I would say enough chain role. That is temporary in the perspective that enshrined PBS will happen. And so I would say for us have the same dynamics or the same economics as other entities that are there to stay in the long run, like builders, for instance. And so builders have kind of been this go to black box. So whenever there's something that requires a bit more computational power than we're willing to assume of the proposals, we say oh, Builder can do it.
00:52:40.286 - 00:53:30.590, Speaker B: And so we have proposals now for statelessness where you have to provide some kind of state to the block to execute it. And if the proposals are stateless, then the builders are going to be the ones who need to make that provision. As I said before, you might have validity proofs in the future. And so it does seem like we're relying more and more on these off chain actors. And again, there are opportunities to this because it's almost like adding extra computational power to the network as a whole, even though that computational power is bounded in time. So we want to think carefully about how do we enforce and create the relationships between this off chain infrastructure and the protocol itself. Yeah, that's my long winded answer, but I can be more precise if you like.
00:53:30.660 - 00:53:45.602, Speaker D: Anabe, are you worried? Is the ATM Foundation worried about creating too much pressure on builders to do additional tasks that could ultimately raise the barriers to entry?
00:53:45.666 - 00:55:06.254, Speaker B: I think it's a worry if the control and competitivity of builders, or rather the control of our builders and the competitivity of builders, doesn't scale as fast as the number of tasks that we give them. So if we find that there's a good enough market of builders doing the blocks, that might put us at ease to add more things to the builders. So when I said earlier this sensor, I said there's like all these roles that the builders will have to do, but obviously the pace of the grades is not super fast. So we will see over time, I would say, the cracks in the builder market as they appear. And we might take that into account when we start thinking of builders should do like a million different things, et cetera. And again, we speak of builders as like this abstraction, which is more like you have this nebulous entity that is performing things on your behalf. But it's very clear that builders will not be a central server that is just outputting everything that you need them and that builders themselves will, decentralize builders themselves will figure out that there are economics that work better in their favor when they are more so.
00:55:06.254 - 00:55:12.410, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we can also lean on that when we think about the role of builders.
00:55:12.490 - 00:55:52.954, Speaker D: PBS is basically like one component of it is validators making commitments to block builders to include a particular block. And that allows kind of this new layer of commerce to happen between builders and validators. You already now some time ago you made a proposal that seeks to generalize this idea of validators making commitments to parties in the supply chain. It's called PEPC proposal commitments. Yes. Could you briefly go over what's the kind of line of thinking behind this proposal and also what kind of new use cases would it enable in the mev supply chain?
00:55:53.002 - 00:57:24.510, Speaker B: Yeah, so this proposal came at a time where, again, I was feeling a little concerned about enshrining something too specific in the protocol and that might not give us good optionality if the market structure changes or if we figure out that that specific auction format is not actually suited for what we are trying to do. At the same time, I was quite interested in Eigen layer and this idea that you can have proposals basically signing up for making commitments and making these commitments credible by putting their stake that they currently have in the ethereum protocol at stake for other duties that they are then signing up to perform. So I was excited by this because it gave me a sense that there's this other layer of innovation you can do that is still close enough to the protocol but not the protocol itself. So it gives you the flexibility without giving you the committing to this specific mechanism. But at the same time I was seeing some risk with Eigen layer. So the first risk I was seeing is that the protocol might not know that the validators are committed to eigen layer and if they do bad things on Eigen layer and the eigen layer kind of writes down that a bad thing happened, the protocol might not know. And so what's at stake for the validator with respect to the ethereum protocol might not actually be the real stake because they got slashed off ben by eigen layer.
00:57:24.510 - 00:58:59.270, Speaker B: And so I was proposing first we need to at least ensure that this principal agent problem between the protocol and the validators is resolved by aligning everyone's view on what is happening and what proposers are doing outside of the pure view of the protocol. So that's the first step and then the second step to PEPC saying well, what if instead of them signing up to these additional flashing conditions with Eigen layer, we allowed them to programmatically create essentially validity conditions for their blocks. And so saying instead of waiting to see the validator did something and then they get slashed, which I called optimistic validity, we make them write down what their validity conditions are and we evaluate the block validity based on whether these conditions are satisfied or not. And this is, let's say, a pessimistic view of block validity and that it's still a theoretical proposal, but it's something that we've been spending a bit more cycles thinking through and trying to do a proof of concept of this system. But essentially what it does is it decouples PBS between two things. One, which is the market structure, which is that there's a legal system that ties proposals to off chain entities and the legal system requires that the exchange be made fairly between the two. And the second part is the allocation mechanism.
00:58:59.270 - 00:59:44.438, Speaker B: So what is the shape of a contract between the proposer and the builder? So when you do PBS, the way it's discussed today, you do both at the same time, you both enforce the market structure and you enforce a specific allocation mechanism which is the whole block auction. And so PEPC was the idea of what if we could only enforce the market structure but validators were completely free to enter into any commitment that they want to enter into. And there might be plenty of reasons why that's a bad idea because there are maybe commitments that we don't prefer Validators to enter into such as censorship or reorgang on demand. But there are maybe ways that this gives us a bit more freedom to explore what proposals can do.
00:59:44.524 - 01:00:38.230, Speaker D: Amazing. Okay, that wraps up our segment on PBS and I think we're entering kind of the last concluding mini chapter here because I do want to talk about putting it all back together now that we laid out this entire mev supply chain in front of us. We deconstructed it, we talked about the interface between users and searchers and block builders with Ofas. We talked about vertical integration between searchers and builders and why it happens and that we need division of labor and so on. But then we also talked about kind of the interface between block builders and validators. So Quintess kind of in your words like if you zoom out five years, how do you think the NAV supply chain is going to look? And also maybe as a side note, where do you think kind of swap will fit into that?
01:00:38.300 - 01:01:23.190, Speaker E: Yeah, I feel like it's a meme by now to say swap just solves it all. But yeah, I think if you want to be really realistic about it in a couple of ways that things could go from here. There's maybe like some worst case route where things centralize, but just enough so that there's no real reaction from the community. And so you still have a high degree of centralization, but it's minimally acceptable. And that's how we roll with things. And maybe that's like a couple of centralized ofas and a couple of centralized builders. That's that and that's really the world we're trying to avoid.
01:01:23.190 - 01:03:25.034, Speaker E: And so maybe to zoom out to a world that Swabs trying to create and that, I believe will be the world that exists in this time is this world where you still have an interface between the Protocol and this market and maybe something like PBS in the sense that there's a market for producing the next block and then where swap fits in is really everything before that. And I said that we want to facilitate collaboration between the different users who need to end up in a block. Part of that is users who want to participate in an Ofa, trying to order for auction, trying to capture, get better execution, these kind of things. You want to provide them the tools to share their trades, share their information without being front run or screwed over, but also give them the power to really express hey, give me the best possible trade at this point in the block or whatever. And at the same time for searches to swap ideally provides them with the ways to protect the information but also to give them enough information. At blockbuilding times or as the block reconstructed so that their strategies are sufficiently valuable. And maybe swap provides other kinds of information at blockbuilding time so that high frequency or low latency kind of races aren't important because there's a binance price oracle at block production time and so people aren't racing to get the most value, most up to date at binance prices in their bundles.
01:03:25.034 - 01:04:18.378, Speaker E: There's all a bunch of details, but zooming out. What does that ideally look like? It looks like this sort of set of primitives on the sort of middle layer that exists between all of the users of the protocol, be they like sophisticated searches or just being new. And through this layer we allow collaboration and hopefully production of the most block possible from like a welfare perspective, not just from the validators perspective, but still valuable enough to compete with centralized venues. And through this PBS like auction with a validator centric produced blocks and ethereum that's like a very high level beer with a couple of specific details.
01:04:18.474 - 01:04:23.140, Speaker D: Yeah. banabi, I wonder if you have anything to add to that.
01:04:25.110 - 01:06:02.414, Speaker B: I don't have too much to add to the view that Quintus kind of presented. I think that's also as I hope, the most decentralized possible transaction supply chain. But maybe I can add a bit more color on what my thoughts have been, which is I've been interested lately about the path dependency of how things sort of happen and in particular how protocol development is somewhat oriented by what's happening in its environment. And if I was to try and draw a very rough distinction between bitcoin and ethereum is that I see bitcoin people thinking about bitcoin as like this you're discovering the protocol like you're discovering it as a Platonic shape, the way you discover a new physical law or kind of mathematics. And I would say ethereum still has this pretension of finding natural laws of its protocol like where the mimi should go, how to do things, but is still much more responsive to what's happening on its layers. And so if, for instance, there was too much centralization or too much censorship to our taste, I think we would put more accent on things like inclusion list to defeat censorship or pre mem pool consensus to ensure that transactions have to be seen by a large set of actors before they are included and not necessarily transaction in the clear. But you could see commitment to transaction and then ensure that, okay, blocks have to be made with transaction that everybody has seen.
01:06:02.414 - 01:06:40.038, Speaker B: So there are ways to kind of step in and maybe backstop some excesses of the market. But these ways, they are not like Platonic shapes of protocol. They are more like real politic of okay, maybe actually we see the market, like heading off to the wrong direction or the market is not maturing fast enough to defeat the censorship or centralization pressures. And then you kind of have to maybe do something about it. And so, yeah, I'm very torn on what's the right approach to that, but it's something that I've been thinking about a bit more, and I think it's relevant here.
01:06:40.224 - 01:07:06.980, Speaker D: Fantastic. Thank you guys so much for coming on the show today. I think you both provided really great perspectives and gave our viewers a great overview over how DAV supply chain like, what are the individual components to look at and how those are going to evolve in the future, hopefully, but if not, also, what can be done to save the day. So thank you.
01:07:07.350 - 01:07:08.450, Speaker B: It was a pleasure.
01:07:08.530 - 01:07:23.930, Speaker C: All right, what a great final interview for the season. That was a ton of fun. And both Quintess and Barnabay, just such deep thinkers. I'd be curious, what kind of takeaways do you have from the episode?
01:07:24.350 - 01:07:59.826, Speaker D: Oh, well, first of all, I agree. I think it was a fantastic episode. I love hanging out with Quintess and Barnaby. Both of them, I think they have such know, calming attitude and they are so good at explaining things, right. They always can take a step back and put things exactly where they belong in context and find the right words, which I find really impressive. So very often when I have a question, I actually reach out to one of them. And so it was great to have them on together and talk about the mev supply chain.
01:07:59.826 - 01:08:08.150, Speaker D: So I thought that we covered pretty much everything that I wanted to cover, so I was very satisfied.
01:08:08.490 - 01:08:55.154, Speaker C: Yeah, me as well. I wanted to get a little bit deeper in the weeds with you on auctions because I thought that was a super interesting part of the conversation, but I wanted to sort of get your thoughts on that a little bit more and go in depth a little bit. And I know you mentioned to me early in the season, I think in our episode with Tarun, that you are a little bit of a nerd about auction theory and kind of like going down that specific rabbit hole. So I'd love you to kind of unpack you kind of listed your own sort of segmentation about different types of options that exist. Can you sort of just rehash that and then talk a little bit more about how you think about the different maybe just expand or clarify or just go a little bit deeper on the different design families that Quintess spoke a little bit about at the top of the episode?
01:08:55.202 - 01:10:02.214, Speaker D: Right? Yeah. So between the three of us, I think I'm like of the two guests and myself, I'm probably the least of an expert about auctions. And Quintus, I think this was one of the things that he studied and so, yeah, I think he's really smart about that. And most of what I know, I only know from talking to people like Shin and Quintus in Flashbots. Well, it's a good question. So I think Quintus, he gave a good overview when he said that there are kind of a few ways to slice the pie when it comes to different order flow auctions. What he drew out in particular was whether there's kind of one auction, whether it all happens kind of inside the block builder, and you rely on kind of the computational power of the block builder, but also on what? He called kind of block building time because the block builder builds the block at the last possible moment, and they have all of the information about all of the other bits, and so they can really optimize for the most optimal block.
01:10:02.214 - 01:10:56.810, Speaker D: Right? I think that's one of the main ideas behind so MapShare the ofa that we built but also behind mev blocker. So that's kind of another ofa that's out there right now. And that's in contrast to some other of, for example, are RFQ based or the one that Quintus mentioned, which is Brooke, the current sponsor of the show, which kind of have this two step process. First they auction off the right to fill a particular transaction and then that transaction still has to enter the builder auction in order to get included in a block. So I think that was very illuminating. And on the other hand, I think one big trade off is going to be so specialized versus generalized. I think we touched on that briefly when I kind of cited TIO Lewitz.
01:10:56.810 - 01:12:13.350, Speaker D: So that's going to be a big question like how specialized are the different order flow auctions going to be? So you can have an order for auction. It's very kind of specialized, for example on trading or on back running Oracle updates or any number of things. But then Quintus was hinting at something which is kind of complementing use cases that you can unlock from having kind of one generalized order flow auction, right? So there might be different submissions to different types of order flow auctions that don't really seem related, that from happening inside the same auction unlock some kind of combinatorial benefits, whether it's batching or whether it's kind of matching things against each other in the sense of cows or coincidence of. So one example actually. So I used to be kind of very engaged in the Maker community and so Maker's liquidations. So when Maker was liquidating a CDP, that trade was actually routed to one inch and could definitely match with people trading in the other direction. And so that's kind of a small detail that even something that seems kind of obscure.
01:12:13.350 - 01:12:57.030, Speaker D: There's a CDP getting liquidated. But as Quintus was saying, everything is a trade at the end of the day, right? And for every trade you can have a counterparty and the more information you aggregate in one auction, the higher the welfare that you can generate from the auction. That's really important. And then the third thing that I kind of would draw out is that of kind of the auction credibility. Yeah. So we already had Terunon, so I think he's kind of the foremost expert in crypto on kind of credible, really. I think he has already had two really great papers on this topic.
01:12:57.030 - 01:14:31.522, Speaker D: And so the idea of auction credibility means basically is the auctioneer going to be honest? Are they going to stick exactly to kind of the rules of the auction that are laid out both in terms of are they respecting kind of the privacy of bids? Are they inserting any of their own bids? Are they censoring any bids from any bidders? Are they leaking any information maybe outside the system? Really, there are all kinds of things that auctioneers can do that kind of undermine the integrity of the auction. We had already discussed on example with kind of Google inserting bids into their own ad auctions to drive up the price and now they're kind of facing a big antitrust lawsuit, well deserved for that. But all of this stuff happens on a much, much smaller scale. So for example, in the block building market, there's complaints from searchers that particular block builders are censoring their bundles or that they are looking at their bids and kind of just like one upping them or that they are stealing their mev. Right? So this is all kind of things that can happen and a lack of trust in the mev supply chain really leads to more vertical integration between it because it makes collaboration between different actors harder. Right. Because if I don't trust you, then I'm less likely to send you my order flow, for example.
01:14:31.522 - 01:15:17.380, Speaker D: I'm less likely to send you my trade. And so what this means in particular for Ofas, is I think that you can gain some more efficiency in some ways by running more centralized infrastructure, but you can get more social scalability and more credible neutrality by making a more credible auction, one that kind of has its rules enshrined on chain and that doesn't really have any trust assumptions in the auction here itself. And I think for me these are kind of the three criteria how you can kind of slice the Ofa pie and then you can fit almost any kind of order flock chain, any kind of trading scheme into that.
01:15:17.910 - 01:16:31.882, Speaker C: Yeah, there's so much to unpack there. And one of the things that I'm sort of kicking myself from the notes for the pre call that we didn't get to was this idea of exactly what you were describing on the credibility of the auctioneer, which was I think it was Quintess that called it auction extractable value. So sort of a fun play on an mev. But just obviously there's an enormous benefit if you're the auctioneer, right? In the case of Google inserting your own bids because you're incentivized for you want to make the ad market more. Right, exactly. But I would love to get your thoughts kind of could you give your own thoughts on TEO's argument for kind of where the app versus the protocol ends up sort of succeeding? Because I thought it was a really interesting observation from Quintus that there sort of already is one auction at the end of the day, right? It's one block. Right? So everything already is economically tied, even if you look at sort of the role of I think it's an executor on cowswap, but basically, these executors kind of have carte blodge to kind of go off and go off through the land of Ethereum and find the best execution and deliver a surplus to traders on cowswap in general.
01:16:31.882 - 01:16:50.638, Speaker C: So I would love you to kind of tease apart how you see the different incentives playing out because obviously these exchanges want to internalize some of the economics that they're creating. But then I also see the benefit to being a completely credible sort of auction system. So I would love to just see your thoughts on how you see that ultimately playing it.
01:16:50.804 - 01:17:59.250, Speaker D: Yeah. So first of all, I think the concept of auction mere extractable value is super interesting and once you start to look really it's everywhere, right? So look at the kind of CFTC lawsuit against binance. There's at least five examples where kind of binance was also extracting auctioneer extractable value on behalf of its users, whether it's from selling preferential access kind of to their servers or whether it's kind of trading on their own exchange and so on. This stuff exists actually everywhere. And I think that's one of the major bullcases for why more and more economic activity is actually going to happen on top of public blockchains because they are simply more trustworthy, you can design more credible mechanisms on top of them. And so at least kind of that's for one for us, like internally one of our North Stars is that all auctions should eventually run on Ethereum, that all auctions should eventually run on swap. And so we are really kind of focused on providing kind of a very credible auction that can compete with kind of these more centralized, these less credible systems.
01:17:59.250 - 01:19:01.130, Speaker D: So to your question about specialized versus generalized auctions, I think this is going to be a very interesting thing to observe. Obviously kind of we are betting that there is at least a strong need for a generalized option to exist. That doesn't mean that there will not also be specialized options because the user and kind of the application come before the block builder and so on. In the mev supply chain, they have of course the monopoly over their own transactions and they can send their order flow wherever they want. And I think we'll see at least a lot of experimentation. And just economically speaking, it's hard to deny that there is some benefit to specialization. But as Quintus was alluding to so you do have kind of a lot of benefit also from having complementing transactions inside the same auction and I think there are more transactions than people would generally believe that are in some way complementary.
01:19:01.130 - 01:21:08.370, Speaker D: Especially when we stop kind of hard coding the execution paths of transactions. So once we move to kind of a more intent based transaction format, all of a sudden kind of the space of possible coincidences of ones starts to go up by two, three, four orders of magnitude, in my opinion, just because when you just have intents, they are so much easier to match than if you have kind of hard coded execution paths. But I thought that his other argument was even more important, which is if you have one auction and ultimately it's all about kind of allocating this kind of preferential block space, then you can just create ultimately like a more valuable block and you can kind of fill users'preferences in a better way, right? And so I think any auction system that doesn't happen at the block building, like at what Gwyneth was calling block building time, I think it will have a very natural disadvantage over a system that so I think those are some of the main reasons why we are betting on kind of an auction that happens at block betting time. And that really is an argument in favor of having one generalized auction, so having all of the information in one place and then kind of auctioning it off or merging it into a block all at once. So I think that's one of the ideas behind also the unifying auction which is suave. I think that's kind of how we think about that credibility also of course would be very important. So I think it's much easier for someone to build a new blockchain that kind of only serves the purpose of running an order flow auction for another chain and make that decentralized than it is kind of for every exchange to develop their own order flow auctions.
01:21:08.370 - 01:21:20.790, Speaker D: I think the latter is much harder to decentralize and I think we'll see that in some of the designs that are coming out in kind of the next couple of months.
01:21:20.860 - 01:22:07.586, Speaker C: By the way. I realize we haven't really defined a coincidence of wants, but that's sort of like a classic example of this in the FX world is sort of like a ring trade where there are maybe you can imagine, three different participants with different currencies that are maybe it's like the yen, the reminv and the dollar, and they're all equal kind of once you adjust for conversion rates, like the same amount that you're trying to change. So you can imagine just like a circular sort of trade, right? So that's just the definition there. And I do think we talked about this a little bit with Penumbra, but the batch option is a super interesting maybe we didn't get into it, so maybe it's not worth it to delve in here. But I think that's a super interesting new format as well to explore talking about.
01:22:07.768 - 01:22:57.986, Speaker D: Kaosov is doing a bunch of these things as well. So they have the best auctions, but they kind of optimize for these coincidence of ones in the sense that they only so in unisop, the difference is every option trades against the market maker, even if there's bits coming in in the same block that actually trade in opposite directions. Someone wanting to buy Eve and someone wanting to sell Eve against USDC. So in theory, they could be matched against each other. It would be strictly better for the users, but that's not possible in unisoft. They all trade against the same liquidity pool, whereas Kaosob is this layer on top where the two parties are matched against each other. And only kind of whatever can be said through these coincidences of ones is then routed to an exchange like uniswap.
01:22:57.986 - 01:23:47.480, Speaker D: Right? And so I think batch auctions are very interesting because they eliminate some, not all, but most forms of front running. And also kind of there's this very interesting paper. I think we already shouted it out like once or twice from Eric Buddhish. His argument is that bad stockchins actually kind of reduce mev that's lost to latency raises between trading firms. And so that would be another argument like, of course, kind of in this exchange between users and market makers, the less mev is leaked kind of to third parties, the better. And so, yeah, any protocol that we think is kind of advantageous here, of course, deserves a very good look.
01:23:48.090 - 01:25:01.238, Speaker C: I want you to transition a little bit and just sort of if listeners are sort of sick of me hearing me say this, then I apologize. But it's just been super fascinating, I think, to do this more sort of ethereum perspective season right after Cosmos, because they're just such different perspectives where when you listen to Barnaby and obviously Barnaby doesn't speak for all of ethereum, but I think he's relatively representative of the philosophical bent of the platform, which is very much focused on credible neutrality and preserving optionality and not wanting to enshrine a decision. Whereas in Cosmos, maybe the reason they have a little bit less there's a little less value to secure. So they kind of have this nice trade off where they can actually be much more opinionated about the design of MEB and user experience. That's just it's super fascinating to kind of stack those two different perspectives one against the other. But it has just been a very cool instance to see where these two sort of design spaces and opinions are converging. Like that exact phrase that you just said hasu about not wanting to hard code users intents.
01:25:01.238 - 01:25:39.400, Speaker C: You can go to this episode, obviously we talked to Barry. Unfortunately, you weren't able to be there, but I talked to Barry this season. But there's a great episode on I Pledge Allegiance, which is a great podcast between him and Dave OHA, which is one of the founders of Osmosis where he talks about exactly that know, where you should be a little bit less prescriptive about hard coding intents in. And I would be curious just to get your particular I think you've probably sped between Maker and Lido and flash lots a little bit more time on the Ethereum side of things. But I would love to kind of get your perspective on sort of that philosophical division between Cosmos and you know.
01:25:40.670 - 01:27:20.234, Speaker D: I'm really bummed that I had to miss the Cosmos episode because you're totally right. I definitely have a bend towards Ethereum, but I'm very interested in what they're doing in Cosmos because they can move much faster and they can try stuff that we frankly cannot try in Ethereum, but they can nonetheless yield very interesting results and very interesting data points that we can ingest, right? And the reason that they can move so much faster, of course, on the one end is that they secure kind of much less money, but their chains are also kind of much more specific towards individual applications. So in Ethereum, everything that we change about the protocol layer affects millions of different users, many of which have kind of opposing interests. And the very kind of specific goal for Ethereum is to be this credibly neutral base layer on top of which many different things can be built and they can all coexist. And if you deploy something, then you have a very strong guarantee that your application is not going to be broken by the next update. And the Ethereum Foundation is trying really hard to honor that promise and kind of to enshrine that idea of credible neutrality. And Cosmos doesn't have that problem, right? In Cosmos, looking at Osmosis, for example, so, full disclosure, I'm investor at Osmosis, they have permissioned, smart contracts, for example.
01:27:20.234 - 01:28:49.110, Speaker D: So if you want to deploy a smart contract on Osmosis, you have to get it permissioned by governance. For example, if they have a rule that validators in Osmosis are not allowed to sandwich like a user, for example, even though they totally could, right? It's just like this understanding that so if a validator does that, then there's going to be a governance vote and they will get socially slashed and all of this stuff would completely be completely impossible to enforce in Ethereum, right? There's no governance layer, first of all, in Ethereum where people can vote with their coins that a particular validator should be slashed. So even the idea in Ethereum is so outlandish that it's not even possible to entertain. And so because you're so much smaller and so much more nimble and you can do all of these things that are completely impossible in Ethereum and vice versa. And so Ethereum just has to take a very different approach. It has to be much more slow moving and a lot more stuff has to be built in ways that do not break the existing guarantees of the system and that do not require kind of any kind of rapid or breaking changes to the protocol. And, yeah, I think this is the main reason why in Cosmos they can just move so much quicker and they can change the protocol in ways that in Ethereum we can't and why we have to look more into building stuff that's compatible with the status quo and kind of layer stuff on top of it.
01:28:49.180 - 01:30:03.542, Speaker C: Something that I hear out of the Osmosis community. And I do think it would have been great to get especially Dave is very outspoken about his views on mev, and it's been sort of antithetical to a lot of the stuff that we've talked about this season. But it's kind of this idea of what can your validators do for you? As opposed to it's like the opposite design principle in Ethereum. And having the explicit aim to commoditize validators, I think is part of what makes Ethereum's block space so valuable. But it is kind of an interesting thought experiment that's playing out in Cosmos about, like, if you have more sophisticated validators that understand the application code as well as the consensus layer, it's just pretty interesting overall. And maybe the segue that we can sort of close on here is privacy, because I know you've spoken to Henry, even though you weren't on the episode, and sort of looked into Penumbra a little bit, and it's fascinating what they're just interesting to hear. His story not starting in mev at all, right? He was starting from the perspective of privacy and protocol design, and then he sort of wound his way up at Penumbra.
01:30:03.542 - 01:30:24.354, Speaker C: And I would love to just sort of we didn't get to talk as much about privacy in this episode as I would have liked, but I know it's been a big focus for you, so I would love to get your sort of closing thoughts on kind of privacy. And we didn't talk really much that much about threshold encryption or anything like that. But, yeah, I would love to maybe close with your overarching thoughts on privacy here.
01:30:24.392 - 01:31:17.766, Speaker D: I also thought when you said that on the interview, so I was listening back to it the other day, I thought it was really interesting that he said that they hadn't actually started with any kind of application in mind that just been working on privacy. And I think this is a very common experience for a lot of people in crypto, actually. So if you look at Monero, if you look at Zcash, like these original kind of these privacy OGS, the argument for privacy was always more like ideological. It was like, oh yeah, people deserve privacy. Monero may be a bit less. So I think there was always more where we need privacy in order to kind of transact on darknet markets and so on. Monero was always built slightly more maybe with kind of a bit of the government as an adversary lecturer in mind, whereas Zcash was kind of built more with the idea that it's private but can comply if you want to.
01:31:17.766 - 01:32:30.358, Speaker D: We make that really easy for you. And I think what we're seeing now, now that we have DeFi and that we have much more kind of merging between TradFi and DeFi every year that goes on, and kind of more and more experts from mechanism, design and so on coming into crypto, I think we now all of a sudden see another branch of people who say, well, we need privacy, but not for any ideological kind of reasons. We need it because without privacy, you cannot build efficient markets. We actually need privacy for efficient markets, like the internet didn't take off before there was encryption. They don't have online communication without encryption. You don't have people paying online with their credit cards, but you also kind of have efficient auctions, efficient marketplaces. If someone could see that I want to buy a particular item on ebay or on Amazon, they can frontrun me, none of this stuff will work right? So now I think we have this much more real tangible need for privacy that we didn't have in the past, when kind of the lack of privacy was not exploited in the same way and also there wasn't as much economic activity.
01:32:30.358 - 01:33:42.740, Speaker D: And so I find that super interesting, this whole extreme of thought. And I think we will see privacy for me is going to be the big topic in the mev supply chain for the next couple of years just because we need privacy in order to have to kind of break this current trend of vertical integration. You need privacy to enable division of labor between different parties and you need it to build more efficient markets. And so I think kind of the next ten x, maybe 100 x improvement that we will see in ethereum will come from encrypting the AEV supply chain, kind of from the moment that a user extends their intent to the time when it's being confirmed on chain. I think when we can build that, I think just ethereum as a base layer will just be so much more useful as a platform kind of to deploy your mechanisms to build new markets on top of but also to reduce any of the systems that already exist. And so I would say yes, I'm super bullish on the concept of privacy, not for the ideological reasons, but just for kind of the very tangible reasons that I laid out.
01:33:43.590 - 01:34:27.662, Speaker C: I would also put myself in the camp of I would love ideologically to see more privacy in general. I will say privacy seems to be one of the rare sort of bipartisan issues in Washington. At least people don't seem to really value their privacy that much. And talking to some people in Encryptive who've worked on privacy solutions, I wonder if that's kind of this thing where we might need to. Wait for an overton window for people to care about it. But I would just sort of put myself in the camp of hoping just from an ideological perspective that privacy becomes something that we build into our systems and people start to value a little bit more. But I totally hear you on the more pragmatic aspect of yeah, for options to work there needs to be some measure of privacy.
01:34:27.726 - 01:35:11.760, Speaker D: It was this way with, I forgot what it's called, the main encryption protocol online. So I read about that some time ago. But there was a big debate about whether encryption should be allowed online and I think it was not any of the philosophers or anyone making kind of these ideological arguments that ultimately swayed kind of the United States government on that being okay. It was just the very pragmatic kind of industry coming together and saying it's not going to work. We need encryption to do commerce online. And so I think there will have to be a similar push eventually in crypto. It needs to be okay for things to be encrypted, otherwise commerce on the blockchain is not going to work.
01:35:11.760 - 01:35:19.486, Speaker D: If I had to guess, I think that time will come when, I'm not sure. But in the meantime we just keep biding.
01:35:19.598 - 01:35:31.542, Speaker C: Any sort of closing thoughts, hasu I mean, I know we've got our sort of individual wrap up, just the two of us, but I don't know anything you want to bookend or leave listeners with or anything like that.
01:35:31.596 - 01:36:41.942, Speaker D: I thought that the one thing that we didn't touch on here. Now in this post discussion, I thought it was very interesting just the position that Barnaby takes as part of the Thermal foundation and how he shows us how they think internally, which is that they are kind of very focused on not letting things get too far out of hand. So they look into different things, they look into like PBS and builder centralization. They're also going to start looking ofa and then they basically think about things that could be deployed but not with the intention of deploying it more. So as a kind of nuclear option, right? Kind of as a way of kind of disciplining the market. And I think you see a lot of parallels here with just like regulators in other markets and so far I think they've taken a very light touch approach which I think is exactly the right way of thinking about a system like Ethereum. And so yeah, I think that's really interesting, just kind of these paradox between the Ethereum foundation and a regulator.
01:36:42.006 - 01:37:18.070, Speaker C: I think in this season I think we've wanted to stay relatively in the weeds and a little bit technical but it's also been yeah, I've found myself sort of wondering what's the right mental model or framework to assess protocol design. And I think it much less looks like a business and much more looks like a government and regulators I think John Adler there's a great talk john Adler gaming and one of the defcons where he explicitly sort of went into more detail about the analogy of regulation on ethereum. All right. Great episode. HaasA I think we can leave it there.
01:37:18.220 - 01:37:19.250, Speaker D: Thank you so much, Mike.
