00:00:00.970 - 00:00:20.586, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. Bahamas Holds Key to Unraveling Charges Against SBF. The spotlight focused again this week on Sam Bankman Fried as U. S. Prosecutors seek to proceed with a range of charges against the former CEO of the bankrupt FTX exchange. They have turned to the Bahamian government for a specialty waiver.
00:00:20.586 - 00:01:05.278, Speaker A: In December, Bankman Fried was extradited from the Bahamas, but his legal team now contends that any new charges violate the extradition treaty between the two countries. The US. Justice Department, however, argues that the treaty does not limit the charges that can be brought post extradition. While they maintain the validity of the charges, they have recognized the Bahamian government's authority to halt certain aspects of the case. As the Justice Department notes, the Bahamas response will be, quote, dispositive in deciding how to proceed with the additional charges. The three counts involve allegations of conspiracy to commit bank fraud, operating an unlicensed money, transmitting business and violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A hearing on the motion to dismiss the charges is set for June 15.
00:01:05.278 - 00:02:02.242, Speaker A: In response to fraud charges, SBF's defense team is set to argue that he acted based on advice from law firm Fenwick and west. The team seeks documents relating to the firm's advice on crucial matters concerning FTX and Alameda Research, SBF's proprietary trading shop. The documents include advice on the creation of North Dimension, allegedly to circumvent silvergate bank's account conditions, and the recommendation to use transient messaging apps for business communication. Scrutiny Intensifies over FTX amid push for Independent Examiner The battle to appoint an independent examiner for FTX has escalated to the US. Third Circuit Court of Appeals thanks to a ruling by District Judge Colm Connolly. The request, championed by the US trustee, Andrew Vera, representing the Department of justice, had been rejected by a bankruptcy judge, citing significant costs estimated to be near or exceeding $100,000,000.04. US.
00:02:02.242 - 00:03:05.894, Speaker A: Senators, including Elizabeth Warren and Cynthia Lemons, voiced support for the independent examination. They argued that the law firm representing FTX had a conflict of interest given its past association with the exchange. The senators stated, quote the firm is simply not in a position to uncover the information needed to ensure confidence in any investigation or findings. Finance Reportedly Reduces 20% of Workforce Rumors of massive workforce cuts at Binance started with a tweet from journalist Colin Wu, who cited multiple sources claiming that Binance had commenced layoffs. Wu said the layoffs would represent approximately 20% of Binance's 8000 employees, or 1600 people. Finance was quick to respond, characterizing the move as a strategic initiative to optimize talent within the organization. The company stated, quote we periodically review how we can best allocate our talent to the right teams with the right resources, underlining that, this process may entail letting go of employees who may not be performing well or who might not be the right cultural fit.
00:03:05.894 - 00:04:10.790, Speaker A: CEO Chengpeng Zhao or CZ echoed these sentiments in his commentary on Binance's bottom out program, which regularly reassesses staff. Despite the layoffs, Binance is still looking to fill hundreds of roles. The changes come as the company grapples with a shrinking market share and enhanced regulatory scrutiny. Moreover, Binance is reportedly considering a plan to allow certain institutional traders to hold their collateral in a bank, potentially using bank Fric and FlowBank as alternatives to keeping it on its platform. In related news, Blockchain data analytics firm Nansen announced a 30% reduction in its workforce to curtail costs amid the ongoing market conditions. CEO of Bridging Protocol MultiChain goes absent following technical problems MultiChain, one of the most extensive Bridging protocols in the crypto ecosystem, reported that its CEO, Zhao Jun, was missing in action. Quote in the past two days, the multi chain protocol has experienced multiple issues, the team said on its official Twitter account, adding that they were unable to contact Zhaojun for essential server access for maintenance.
00:04:10.790 - 00:05:00.300, Speaker A: These access issues have also affected chains such as Keckchain, Public Mint, Dynochain, among others. Rumors have been circulating about the multi chain team's whereabouts, particularly in light of the recent alleged arrests in China. Gemini and Genesis seek dismissal of SEC lawsuit Gemini and Genesis Global Capital under bankruptcy protection, are asking A-U-S. Court to dismiss a lawsuit filed by the securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC accused the companies of selling unregistered securities through Gemini's earn program, which provided yield on crypto assets. The companies have countered, stating that the lawsuit lacks legal or factual basis. They argued that the earn program was not a case of selling unregistered securities, stating that, quote, the SEC seeks to turn the earn program into something it was not.
00:05:00.300 - 00:05:55.662, Speaker A: In the wake of the lawsuit, Genesis had to file for bankruptcy and has since been in mediated negotiations with its parent company, the Digital Currency Group, for a restructuring and settlement agreement. Crypto Mining Breathes the Sigh of Relief President Joe Biden's proposal of a 30% excise tax on crypto mining companies in his 2023 budget proposition was recently swept away in a debt ceiling deal. The excise tax, aimed at energy consumption for crypto mining, had been planned to be phased in over three years, with a 10% increase each year. However, in an effort to circumvent a US. Government debt default, this controversial tax has been dropped, as revealed by Ohio Representative Warren Davidson. According to Davidson, the draft bill will block the proposed tax on crypto miners'electricity usage. This draft legislation, which is currently awaiting congressional approval, would suspend the debt ceiling for two years, allowing the US.
00:05:55.662 - 00:07:10.022, Speaker A: Government to continue borrowing money and meeting its financial commitments, something that was seen as positive by many crypto traders. Meanwhile, Bitcoin miners witnessed a surge in transaction fee revenue this May, reaching a two year high, primarily due to the rise in Bitcoin NFTs as the mining difficulty surpassed the 50 trillion line, according to data from BTC.com. Additionally, stablecoin provider Tether is investing in a sustainable bitcoin mining and energy production facility in Uruguay, with operations projected to begin by the third quarter of this year. Dai Savings Rate to experience a surge MakerDAO, the decentralized platform behind the Dai stablecoin, took center stage as it considered a substantial increase in the Dai savings rate, or DSR. Earlier this week, Block Analytica, a DFI risk management firm, proposed an increase in the DSR from its current rate of 1% to 3.3%. This proposed change, deemed a potential, quote, huge tailwind for the entire DFI ecosystem by Primos Cordez, founder of Block Analytica, could potentially boost the circulation of Dai and the stability of its price. On Thursday, MakerDAO confirmed that the DSR will actually be raised to 3.49%
00:07:10.022 - 00:08:00.854, Speaker A: and that the proposal will be implemented through an upcoming executive vote within the maker governance system. This increase is poised to change the landscape of DFI, potentially drawing more yield farmers to the platform and spurring growth across the entire DFI ecosystem. However, some analysts noted that as more capital flows into the DSR, there might be fewer stablecoins available for borrowing, leading to an overall increase in stablecoin rates. Furthermore, MakerDAO made significant changes to its reserves. The community unanimously voted to remove $500 million worth of Paxos dollar, or USDP, from its holdings, which impacts approximately half of USDP's supply. This is a setback for Paxos already under pressure from regulatory challenges. Simultaneously, MakerDAO's community voted to invest an additional $1.28
00:08:00.854 - 00:08:58.150, Speaker A: billion in US. Treasury bonds via crypto asset manager BlockTower Capital. These moves are part of MakerDAO's strategy to diversify reserve assets. Power is restored in Tornado cash Dow The Tornado Cash Decentralized Autonomous Organization, or Dow, experienced a dramatic turnaround as the attackers who had gained control over the Dow in the previous week reversed their actions. The anonymous group put forth a proposal to restore the usual governance state, which passed with 517,000 torn votes, remarkably including votes from the attackers themselves. While the protocol is slated to return to the hands of the original governance token holders, the motive behind this apparent surrender of control is unclear. There is speculation that the attackers could either have lost interest after swapping 483,000 torn tokens for ethereum or ETH, or they could be attempting to increase torn's price before selling off the remaining tokens.
00:08:58.150 - 00:09:09.130, Speaker A: Time for fun bits. Everybody's been saying that the US government is trying to kill crypto. Listen to Jenny from Unchained, who has some thoughts on whether it's actually a secret.
00:09:09.550 - 00:09:42.546, Speaker B: Recently, I've seen what feels like hundreds of tweets and articles about the US government's secret war on crypto, which definitely makes me question the definition of the word secret. And it's Democrats'fault, apparently. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has warned that the Biden administration has it out for crypto, and he is going to get the troops to go fight it just as soon as he has conquered Mickey Mouse. At least that's what people say, he says. I couldn't hear. I only heard static. Elon Musk also thinks that crypto could crash if Democrats keep power, and I trust him because he is the world expert on platforms that crash.
00:09:42.546 - 00:10:06.190, Speaker B: They're not the only ones who think that crypto will die if Biden is reelected, which I think is kind of optimistic. You really think crypto is going to make it to 2025? I also think that people with this concern are maybe giving the government too much credit. You really think they know how to kill crypto? Just the other day, Diane Feinstein asked if bitcoin was a very small coin. Also, not to state the obvious, but if crypto is capable of getting killed by the government, then it totally failed at its purpose.
00:10:06.930 - 00:10:20.810, Speaker C: Unchained is produced by Laura Shin with help from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Me, Zach Seward, Juana Ronovich, Sam Sriram, Ginny Hogan, Jeff Benson, Leandro Camino, Pam Majundar Shashank and Margaret Correa. Thanks so much for listening.
