00:00:00.440 - 00:00:31.430, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 5 May 2021. Alright everyone, let's get right into it. So yesterday on CNBC, they did a crypto segment and they brought on Gary Tan here from initialized capital to talk more specifically about Ethereum. So what I really liked about this segment, as I watched it yesterday, I kind of, I watched it live. Gary mentioned a few things. So first he said that he believed Ethereum was going to ten k or ETH was going to ten k.
00:00:31.430 - 00:01:12.406, Speaker A: And he also mentioned ultrasound money on CNBC, on national us television here, which I thought was, was surreal, right? These are inner circle Ethereum memes. These are not things that you will typically ever see mentioned on mainstream media. They may talk about Ethereum sometimes, but they definitely don't give these kind of like massive price predictions or they don't talk about ultrasound money. And it's really cool because Gary actually has the ultrasound money emojis in his Twitter name here. And for those who don't know, initialized, initialized capital is quite a big investment firm here. They've backed companies like Coinbase and Instacart, and they're very involved within crypto. And one of the co founders is Alexis, one of the Reddit co founders as well.
00:01:12.406 - 00:01:57.304, Speaker A: So there's a lot of history there with initialized and crypto and kind of, I guess, like the Internet era there. But essentially, I thought this was just cool because Ethereum doesn't really get much good mainstream coverage. Right at the end of the day, like a few weeks ago, we saw when Visa announced that they were settling transactions on Ethereum a lot, a lot of the mainstream kind of coverage had bitcoin in the title and had nothing to do with bitcoin, but they were still saying bitcoin. And one of them even said, you know, a bitcoin partner basically did this thing where they were able to. Sorry, sorry, got my words mixed up there. But the bitcoin partner, they said that. And I was like, what bitcoin partner? Doesn't make any sense, right? Like, why would you say bitcoin partner when Ethereum is not a bitcoin partner? And it's got nothing to do with bitcoin.
00:01:57.304 - 00:02:42.880, Speaker A: And it's because they just don't have this understanding that, you know, they should really, I mean, it doesn't take much to, I mean, this is like surface level stuff, but they really don't have the understanding of the space to differentiate between bitcoin and ethereum and even like, stuff like doge. Right. And I think having people like Gary Tan go on and educate not only the, the news hosts and things like that, but also the wider audiences listening to these people, that audiences that I can't reach and that, you know, I guess, like a theory media can't reach because we're very inner circle Ethereum. And I guess, like, that's the whole point of the content that I do and the content the bankless does and, you know, the define and defy that and all that sort of stuff. Like, we're probably not going to reach those audiences. Like, we are not going to reach the quote unquote boomers, right? And. But CNBC will.
00:02:42.880 - 00:03:37.694, Speaker A: So if we want to educate as many people as possible and want to cast a wide net right around all these people, then we definitely need to get on CNBC. We need to get on the mainstream media and not only get on it, but we also need to make sure that they know what they're talking about because all well and good for us to go on there and, you know, talk about a theorem, whatever. But if they're like, hitting back with some really dumb talking points and not even just like, you know, I guess, like, learning about it and misinforming their, their viewers, maybe not maliciously or not on purpose, but if they're doing it in such a way where they don't actually know what they're talking about, then that's even worse than the theorem not being mentioned at all. So, yeah, kudos to Gary for getting on here. He's very well spoken as well, which I really liked because when you're on this kind of, I guess, mainstream segments, you definitely want to have someone well spoken and knows what they're kind of talking about and knows how to get the message out there to a different audience here. So, yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go watch the whole clip if you haven't yet.
00:03:37.694 - 00:04:10.800, Speaker A: So something that I forgot to cover in yesterday's refuel was me bits, which is a new NFT project from lava Labs here. Now, this caused a bit of a wave in both the Ethereum, NFT and crypto ecosystems, basically as a whole, where people were on the fence about this. Right. You know, lava Labs is known for crypto punks and autoglyphs, some of the earliest nfts in the Ethereum space. But people kind of viewed that, looked at the me bits thing, and they were like, okay, well, this is cool. I mean, they're like avatars, and you can kind of, like, get your own and use it within the metaverse and things like that. And there's different rarities as well.
00:04:10.800 - 00:04:37.503, Speaker A: You can see here, I think the. The bones on the, on the left here are one of the rarest, but most of these are pretty rare. Like, there's an elephant or a pig or anything like that. But, yeah, so it was very similar to crypto punks, I guess. There's 20,000 unique models here, obviously some rarer than others. But I think a lot of what a lot of people kind of, I guess, had an issue with was that they felt like this was a money grab. They felt like this was lava lads making up for not making much money from crypto punks.
00:04:37.503 - 00:05:18.210, Speaker A: And they made a lot of money here. I mean, I think if they sold out, I think they made, like, $70 million or something on this, which is, which is insane, right? And obviously, you know, they may have some plans to. To do more with me bits and stuff like that, but they're under no obligation to, like, they could just take the money and walk away. So I think people kind of, like, look at that and they're like, okay, well, was this really necessary that, do they really need to raise this much money? Like, why are people aping in so much money? And it's because the NFT mania, why? While it's. It's kind of died down a bit, it's still kind of up there, right? NFT. The NFT mania reminds me a lot of icos from 2017, because there's a lot of stuff that will not hold its value, like, ever. There's a lot of nfts that will go to not.
00:05:18.210 - 00:05:53.756, Speaker A: Not necessarily go to zero, but there just won't be people willing to buy the nfts off you, you know, and that respect, it's probably maybe even worse than icos, because at least with icos, you had some sort of exit, right? You could sell into, like, some sort of liquidity. But with nfts, if you own something and then no one wants to buy it off you, there's nothing you can sell it into. Like, you can't just sell it into some liquidity pool on uniswap unless it's part of, like, an index or something. And the indexes are only made for the projects like that actually have traction, like crypto punks and things like that. But I'm not gonna. I'm not saying that, like, me beats are gonna lose their value, whatever, and people aren't gonna value them. I do think that they're pretty cool.
00:05:53.756 - 00:06:34.016, Speaker A: And I do. I do think that it was cool how they did, like, a retroactive kind of airdrop to punk and autoglyph holders where you could basically claim a free me bit or multiple ones if you had multiple punks or whatever. But, yeah, I think for me, I'm just, like, on the fence because I want to see them do more with this. I want to see them kind of like, you know, do more with these characters, maybe create, like, a metaverse themselves and, like, add more value to it rather than just kind of like, issuing these things and running away with the money. Because that's exactly what happened with ICO, is that they promised the world, right? They promised that their project was going to do everything, but then in reality, they just ran away with the money and basically faded into. Into, you know, into the distance. Right? And if everyone forgot about them during the bear market.
00:06:34.016 - 00:07:14.816, Speaker A: So I hope that doesn't happen here, you know, lava labs, that, I don't think they're malicious or anything like that. They're a known team. It's not like they're anonymous or whatever. But, yeah. And on the more positive note here, at the end of the day, if people are enjoying this and they're having fun with it, then, you know, who am I to say, like, you shouldn't have put your money into this or whatever? And I'm not saying that at all, but just in general, with NFTs, I always kind of warn people that, you know, just because you buy something and you want to sell it later, don't expect there to be a buyer later, right? There could be no one that wants to buy this off you and no one that values it, or they'll. They're willing to buy it off you, but at a much cheaper price than you bought it for. So from that perspective, always good to tread carefully with NFTs.
00:07:14.816 - 00:08:06.960, Speaker A: But lava Labs has a reputation behind them. They've got, like, a few big people on board, I think, helping them out, too. So I'm curious to see where me bits goes here. So a guy named Mark on Twitter put out an interesting tweet thread today where he basically talked about how BTC has historically had a periodic four year bull and bear cycle due to its block reward halving schedule, which has dominated the wider cryptocurrency market. Right. And you can see this play out on the chart, if you look at it, the four year cycle, it's a well known thing in crypto. Now, what Mark says here, and this is an idea that I've kind of had as well, where with the rise of Ethereum and Defi and ETH is an economic asset with ERP 1559 and staking, could we see a, I guess, change in the market here? Could we see a kind of breaking away from this four year market cycle? And I think we can, I really do think we can.
00:08:06.960 - 00:08:51.120, Speaker A: Like I've said before, that I think that this cycle is going to be longer, but I also think that the concept of, you know, these massive bull and bear cycles is probably not going to play out like we're used to. I don't think there's going to be another two year bear market. Like, I just don't see that happening, especially. I mean, maybe there is for a lot of the useless crap that's out there pumping right now, but not for something like ethereum. I think that ethereum's utility and use cases now, you know, a lot of it's within Defi. A lot of it may look like speculation, but it's providing real financial services to real people, and that's not going to go away in a bear market. Yes, the yields will come down and, you know, the gains and stuff will come down, but if we go into another kind of, like, quiet market, I do think that those kind of apps are still going to be being used.
00:08:51.120 - 00:09:19.310, Speaker A: You know, maybe not as much, but still being used. And I do think people are still going to be staking their ETH. Right. The ETH is still going to be being burned with 1559. So I think the market structure definitely changes because of that. And I think that we're seeing this play out with ETH outperforming bitcoin lately where more and more people are waking up to this. You know, if, if, as Mark says here, if, if he's no longer susceptible to bitcoin's four year cycle, then the bear market will, will basically be shorter.
00:09:19.310 - 00:10:15.860, Speaker A: I, you know, and basically not take much longer because if we're going off historically, I guess, kind of like when you would expect a bear market after a bull market, you would expect, I guess, bitcoin to cool off in December of this year and ETH to cool off in January or around the same time, essentially, and then going to another two year bear market. I don't think that's going to happen. And I could be wrong here, and this obviously is an investment advice, but I just don't see it happening this time around because, I mean, it's not only Ethan Ethereum that has adoption, you know, bitcoin obviously has adoption from institutions and things like that. And obviously it's being integrated with a lot more places now. Traditional finance is getting on board in a big way. So if you go and kind of like, look at the way, I like to compare it, if you look at the tech bubble, the, the kind of like.com bubble in the early two thousands or late, late nineties, early two thousands after that, you know, it was a massive crash, just like there was after the 2017 bubble, and then there was like just a slow grind up from there basically over time.
00:10:15.860 - 00:11:15.874, Speaker A: And then the only crashes there were were because of economic crises like 2008 and things like that. So if you kind of look at what happened with crypto, like, you know, the jury's still out, but could 2017 be have been our.com bubble? Like, and now we're just going into the, you know, I'm not going to say up only, but basically over time, we just, because we're so ingrained with traditional finance and there's so many use cases now, and it's not, not as speculative, at least Ethereum as kind of, I guess, like things were in 2017 and there's a lot more fundamentals and stuff, do we just see that kind of like slow growth up over time with little, kind of like bull and bear cycles in between? Maybe, you know, the market goes quiet for six months. That's nowhere near two years, right. It's like a quarter of what we've seen in the past, but maybe that happens. So that's what I'm kind of betting on, you know, and I'm betting on the use cases and utilities just going to trump that, that kind of like four year bull and bear cycle. And I think that if a theorem can truly break away from bitcoin in terms of, I guess like price action with ETH, but also narrative, I think narrator is very important.
00:11:15.874 - 00:11:47.840, Speaker A: If the market can start looking at Ethereum and bitcoin as separate things or are totally separate things, then I think we're in a much better position than the market just looking at crypto as if it's like one whole thing. And don't get me wrong, if bitcoin was to crash right now, right. Ethereum would probably crash with it. But at the end of the day, that's short term stuff. I think looking at the correlation over the long term is the, is the good way to go about it. And right now, I mean, since the COVID crash, the correlation for, I guess, b two c and e, over the long run has been, like, very minimal. ETH has been outperforming bitcoin.
00:11:47.840 - 00:12:21.144, Speaker A: Whenever bitcoin kind of, like, he's quiet, ETH is going up, but even when bitcoins pumping, if he's going up against USD as well. So maybe we are seeing that kind of decoupling play out that we've all wanted to play out for a long time now, but we'll have to wait and see what pans out here. But, yeah, still very interesting to think about. So I put out some random thoughts on, on Dogecoin today in a Twitter thread. I'll link this and you can go read the full thread here. But I did want to tldr this because I know that a lot of us are watching Dogecoin pump right now and kind of puzzled by it. Right? Like, okay, why is this happening? And I think it really does break down to just memes at the end of the day.
00:12:21.144 - 00:12:52.986, Speaker A: Like, memes are the fastest way to disseminate information ever. Like, you could post a meme on the Internet, and it could be viewed by basically anyone in the world with an Internet connection within minutes of you posting it. There's, there's no kind of blockers there. They can share it, they can edit it, they can make, you know, different memes. They can basically add to it, whatever, right? And then also, you can't discount the Elon Musk factor here. I think Elon played the biggest role in kind of, like, getting doge into the mainstream and, and kind of, like, pumping it, but the memes carried it from there. And, you know, Elon, obviously, you know, he likes memes.
00:12:52.986 - 00:13:39.274, Speaker A: He posts memes on Twitter and stuff like that. He's pretty, like, I guess you could say down with it, like, as, as, I guess, like, um, you know, people would say when you're kind of, like, appealing to the younger audiences here, but, um, essentially, uh, I think Elon coupled with just doge being a meme to begin with is what kind of, like, made it explode. And I think. I think it's gonna blow off at some point. I don't think it's gonna be, like, um, where it can hold its value for very long, because a lot of people playing in doge know that it's very speculative, right? Like, even the newer people know it's pretty speculative, but, and not none of the bigger holders want to hold doge. They're just using it as a way to stack more, you know, BTC or ETH or even USD. So from that perspective, I do think that eventually doge will calm down, people will lose interest, right? Like, just like to do with everything.
00:13:39.274 - 00:14:22.526, Speaker A: I mean, if we look at even, and not to compare Chainlink to doge, but I see the same thing playing out in terms of hype, where chain link went up really, really fast, right, during a bear market, too. And that lasted for quite a while. It was known as, like, this coin that couldn't go down for quite a while against, like, USD, BTC and ETH. But then eventually it went up just so much, and then eventually it blew off on its top and it had its own kind of little bear market while the rest of the market raged up. Now, that can change again because chain link actually has fundamentals backing it. But at the end of the day, nothing goes up forever and things can go into their own bear markets without the wider market being in its own kind of bear market. So I think we might say that playing out with doge, but the reason it's pumping is literally just Elon and memes, like, there's no more to it.
00:14:22.526 - 00:14:44.958, Speaker A: I mean, if it's available on, on Robinhood too, which it's just a very easy access for people to buy it, it got added to etoro. It's on, you know, major exchanges and things like that. It got added to Gemini. And on top of that, it's just like the unit price is very low as well. So people kind of think that they're buying something really cheap because none of these new investors are looking at market caps. Right. But, yeah, it's very speculative, very dangerous.
00:14:44.958 - 00:15:17.340, Speaker A: But I don't think it's too hard to understand why it's pumping. The positive is that I think it's bringing in a lot of new people into crypto more than, you know, bitcoin and ethereum can. But on the flip side, a lot of these people are going to get burned because they're going to buy the top. Like that always happens, right? Always with these things. The majority of the people come in when it's super speculative. I've had people contact me about Doge and ask me if they should buy it, and I'm like, why are you asking me about Doge? Like, you know, I'm really into a theorem. You know, I was into Ethereum in when it was like a, why didn't you buy it back then? And, you know, I never tell people to buy something.
00:15:17.340 - 00:15:55.606, Speaker A: Whenever people come to me and just start talking like this, I'm just like, this is just. I mean, you know, those are, I mean, normally I wouldn't use social signals as top signals, but for something like doge, I kind of do like, because I think with Ethereum it's a bit different where people may hear about the use cases like Defi or NFTs or whatever, whereas with doge they just hear about the price going up. That's the only reason why they're interested in it, is because they've heard about this ridiculous price rise that they've had. And then, you know, the smarter ones say to me, well, this is like gone up so much. You know, I think buying in now is a mistake. And I think, you know, obviously, um, you know, I'm of that opinion too. But in general, like, things can keep pumping harder than you think they can at the end of the day.
00:15:55.606 - 00:16:18.214, Speaker A: Like, there's a lot of people who thought that those would stop at now it's at $0.70, so who knows, right? But I do think eventually it'll kind of phase out. People will lose interest. That always happens with every single coin, no matter how bullish it is. Um, but no one knows when that's going to happen. You know, it could go to a dollar like doge, could get memed to a dollar, which is a hundred billion dollar market cap for doge, which is absolutely ridiculous. But I think more than 100 billion.
00:16:18.214 - 00:16:37.594, Speaker A: Actually it's at like 85 billion now. But anyway, I'll leave it at that. You can go read my full thread here if you want. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So the Ethereum cat herders put out update number 43 today. And I mentioned on yesterday's refuel that I, that you can now subscribe to their newsletter as well. And I linked that yesterday too.
00:16:37.594 - 00:17:15.482, Speaker A: But basically what these cat herders updates are, especially ETH one and ETH two protocol updates, and they're pretty dense as well, and quite technical too. So if you're someone who kind of like, you know, likes to dive into this stuff, this is definitely the best resource for you. But essentially the TRDR is that they went through a bunch of updates. Got to do with rayonism, which is the ETH one to ETH two merge project going on right now, which is basically the, the Testnet project, the ETH two mainnet incident retrospective. So what happened with the prison client? The latest on the 8th one and 8th, two kind of core protocol upgrades here and, and much more. I mean, these updates are absolutely packed. Like, I can't believe this is free.
00:17:15.482 - 00:17:51.960, Speaker A: Like this is, this is awesome. It keeps me really up to date with what's going on with ETH one and ETH two? You know, I definitely try my hardest to keep up with everything, but I don't. I miss a lot too, because this, a lot of this stuff is technical. A lot of this stuff is buried in GitHub threads and, and research foreign posts and stuff like that. So if that is something you're interested in, definitely go check out these updates and if you want to stay notified, the newsletter signup form is down the bottom of this post so you can go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description description so loopering has been on fire lately. In the past 24 hours, they did $8 million of ETH volume, $6 million of LLC volume, and $1.1
00:17:51.960 - 00:18:38.980, Speaker A: million of uni volume on their L2 exchange here. And the average fee to swap $100 worth was twenty cents and no gas paid, which is really cool. I mean, I've spoken about loopering so many times before on the, on the refuel, right? But it's just really cool to see the continued growth here, I think. You know, Uniswap v three launches today. I doubt they're going to launch a L2 version today, but, but they said they will launch it soon after. And I yesterday I mentioned how Hayden was teasing something and some of you pointed out in the comments that there was like a, an art palette or a paint painting palette in emoji in his tweet, which probably references NFT. So probably there's something to do with NFTs coming out today, even though my guess yesterday is that they do a simultaneous l one and l two launch, but a man can dream at the end of the day.
00:18:38.980 - 00:19:18.936, Speaker A: But anyway, back to loop ring here. I think they've been grinding away, building their own ZK rollout protocol for quite a while now, and it's just good to see them getting more and more traction here. And actually, speaking of loopring as well, I've got another update here that their loop ring smart wallet is now available to download on iOS. So if you're an iPhone user or I guess like it might even work on iPads and things like that, you can download their smart wallet, which hooks directly into their L2 kind of exchange here. So yeah, definitely go check that out if you haven't yet. But kudos and congrats to loopring on the continued growth here. So staying on the L2 theme, Dy DX is also their perpetuals L2 exchange is also growing very rapidly.
00:19:18.936 - 00:19:46.724, Speaker A: They've done $700 million of total volume on, on l two with $57 million over the last 24 hours, which is an all time high. Now, this is with zero gas fees, of course, on L2, powered by starkware. And I've spoken about DYDX a lot in the past about kind of like their volumes and how they've been growing. I hadn't checked it in a little while. So $57 million is really cool. And as I said, I expect this to be billions of dollars sooner rather than later. May take a few months to get there, but it's getting there.
00:19:46.724 - 00:20:12.124, Speaker A: The growth is accelerating, and they're almost at a billion dollars of total volume as well. And they've only been out for, I think, two or three weeks at this stage. So, yeah, really, really cool to see the continued growth of Dy DX in addition to loopring on l two. Right. This is what we need. Even though gas prices are cheaper these days, like hovering between 30 and 40 guys, that's still not cheap enough for most people. It still costs like $15 for a uniswap kind of transaction on layer one.
00:20:12.124 - 00:20:39.640, Speaker A: So on day two, it's zero or near zero. So that's definitely better than $15. It's even better than a dollar, right? I mean, even if layer one fees were a dollar, I think it would still dissuade people from using it because, you know, nothing beats free or like cent or sub cent transaction fees. Yeah. So, yeah, definitely. Go, go check out L2 on DyDX and loop ring, if you haven't yet. So Mira posted this update today that they're introducing something called splits.
00:20:39.640 - 00:21:24.092, Speaker A: And what splits are is basically a way to route Ethereum, or ETH continuously to an unlimited number of Ethereum addresses according to a set of percentage allocations here. So basically, I guess how this works is that you'll be able to stream or route kind of like ETH to any amount of Ethereum addresses that you want. I'm not sure if this is on L2 or layer one because I know that these kind of like, I guess, streaming, I guess, protocols or streaming kind of things here have suffered being on layer one because the cost to claim is very high. But I'm not seeing anything about L2 here just yet. No, just, just kind of reading throughout here. Yeah, but this is still really cool. I think basically the way they're selling it is splitting is the new tagging, if you know, and they're describing it.
00:21:24.092 - 00:22:29.164, Speaker A: If web two was about social graphs, where a tagged photo connects each participant who attended last night's dinner party web3 is about economic graphs connecting entities whose influence is baked into a work. So essentially, yeah, but this, I mean, what mirror basically allows you to do is monetize your content and things like that through, through tokens and nfts and stuff like that. So essentially what, what this kind of like split allows you to do is basically stream ETH to, I guess, like a number of addresses with percentage allocations here, unlimited number of ethereum addresses with percentage allocations here. But this, this post will of course, be linked in the YouTube description. You can go read the full, full post here. But I think it's really cool that more of this web3 stuff is coming out because, you know, some people can argue that defies web3 and, you know, it kind of like crosses over. But I think the true web3 stuff like actually reinventing the way the web works, whether that be decentralizing it or creating new ways for people to, to fund themselves or creating new kind of like economic engines within the content, I think that sort of stuff is extremely valuable and something that has been under explored to this point.
00:22:29.164 - 00:22:58.150, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm very happy to see Mira kind of releasing more products around that here. And on that note, the last thing I'm going to talk about today is something got to do with that, which is the bankless Dao. So this was obviously released by bankless, which is an Ethereum media organization. You know, I'm sure all of you know bankless. I actually see in the YouTube analytics that pretty much like all the people who watch the Daily Gwei also watch bankless. So I don't think I have to explain what bankless is. But essentially the bankless Dao includes a token, of course, called bank.
00:22:58.150 - 00:23:38.354, Speaker A: And if you did any of these things down the bottom here, you were kind of gifted bank tokens in an airdrop. So if you held the bankless badge from 2020 or 2021, you funded them on Gitcoin, you owned a bap zero, which was their merch kind of token here. And if you're a premium member, you basically get bank tokens. So definitely go check out. I mean, all the links are in the YouTube description YouTube description where I'll link the post and all the links are in the, in the post and you can go check and claim your bank and everything like that. But what I really wanted to talk about was, I guess this notion of a media organization issuing their own token and becoming a DaO, because I don't think we've seen this before. Obviously, we haven't seen it from the Daily Gwei, right.
00:23:38.354 - 00:23:54.986, Speaker A: I don't plan to do this, just mind you. So sorry, guys. It's not going to be a token or any airdrop, and I'm pretty firm on that. But not because I think it's a bad thing, but just because I just don't see the point. But anyway, there hasn't been one for the defiant or defy dad or anything like that. And maybe there will be, I don't know, what. What their plans are for the future.
00:23:54.986 - 00:24:24.998, Speaker A: So I think bankless is the first kind of one to do it here in at least in a really big way. So essentially, I guess, like the bankless Dao is what a Dao is, right. Decentralized community. It wants to coordinate, you know, media and education and culture and things like that by using the bank token as a governance token. And, you know, there's. There's also kind of like this little chart here that shows like, how the bankless Dao works. So you have the bankless dao sitting in the middle, you have individuals all around it, and then you have different entities sitting on the side of it too.
00:24:24.998 - 00:24:55.292, Speaker A: And Bankless LLC, which is the corporation which obviously, you know, I guess controls the bankless, kind of like a company here. But on that note, the token distribution I thought was. Was pretty fair. There's 30% was through a retroactive airdrop, 40% was the vested treasury and 30% was the. To the Genesis treasury. But there was also a genesis vote to allocate 25% to the bankless LLC company here, which I think is in favor of. Yes, by a lot right now.
00:24:55.292 - 00:25:11.554, Speaker A: So essentially it would. It's like a team tokens, I guess you could say. And then essentially that would come out of the treasury here. So that's. That'll be vested over. Time unlocks over three years, I think, to the team here. Personally, I think this is okay, maybe a little bit too high.
00:25:11.554 - 00:25:50.582, Speaker A: I did kind of tell David Hoffman himself, I said, I don't know about this, it seems a little bit high, but, you know, it's up to the community. The bank token hold. At the end of the day, if I was doing that, I'd probably issue maybe 15, maybe 20% max to a kind of like centralized company. I guess they are the founders, right? Bankless LLC is the founders and kind of like a Genesis team here. And that's all fine and dandy, but token distributions are always going to be like this kind of thing where everyone has their own opinion on it and how it should have been done. So I won't kind of like go, go too deep into that. But I think I've spoken to a lot of teams about how to do token distributions and I've put a lot of thought into it myself, and there is no perfect solution.
00:25:50.582 - 00:26:32.270, Speaker A: At the end of the day, there's always going to be someone that's unhappy. There's always going to be someone who's telling you that you shouldn't have even done a token. There's always going to be someone who's like, oh, I didn't get enough tokens, like, you didn't airdrop enough or whatever. But at the end of the day, the people that we have in the ecosystem right now, there's not many of them, right, and there's not many of them that would have gotten this airdrop. So what we need to do is we need to prioritize getting tokens into the hands of the right people over long periods of time, rather than doing just a one time airdrop and hoping for the best. So that's why I think these treasuries come into it where you can actually do work for these protocols or for these kind of daos and get paid in the token. And then, you know, as the, as the Dow grows and as the products that the dow kind of manages grows, the value of the token also grows as well.
00:26:32.270 - 00:27:20.814, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think from that perspective it's fine, but, you know, it's pretty cool to see a media organization doing this, right? I think that this is like equity, and they're not going to call equity, of course, because it's, it's legal and regulatory issues, whatever, but I can say it, right. I view a lot of these tokens as just like equity in, and you would essentially you have equity in the bankless DaO. And if the, the bankless dao kind of does well, then, you know, if the logic flows that the bank token should do well as well. And that's not to say go buy bank or anything like that, but, you know, that's, that's kind of like how I think about it here. So. Yeah, and then they've described what they're going to be kind of like doing in terms of distribution here, where they're calling them bank seasons. So essentially bank will operate in one to three month distribution campaigns called seasons with the goal of driving participation and functionality to the bankless community.
00:27:20.814 - 00:27:59.812, Speaker A: So this is their way, I guess, of getting the bank tokens out there and distributing it to people who actually do work for the DAO, which I think is really cool. So bankless season one has already started and serves as a one month bootstrapping period here. And then obviously they've got bankless season one and beyond coming here. So they've got a few ideas around this as well. So if you are interested in joining the bankless Dao, you can of course, go follow all the links here in the, in the post, which will be linked in the YouTube description. And obviously, as I said, a lot of you already watch bankless and are aware of it and are aware of Ryan, David and the rest of the bankless team, I'm sure. So, yeah, and you're probably already very involved, right? I mean, the bankless community is really great.
00:27:59.812 - 00:28:27.874, Speaker A: I lurk the discord sometimes. I don't have time to kind of like, chat in there, but there's a lot of good stuff getting done. And obviously bankless produces an amazing amount of content, especially for beginners, which I think is critically important here. So, yeah, from that perspective, if you're interested in getting involved with an early stage Dao, can't think of it, you know, a better one than bankless right now. And it's also, bankless isn't like a DeFi project either. It's like a media project. And it's, you know, they can do a lot more funky stuff with their Dao structure too, I think, and a lot, a lot more experiments.
00:28:27.874 - 00:28:49.274, Speaker A: So, you know, it may even be more fun than joining a Defi Dao or something like that. But anyway, I will leave that choice up to you, whether you want to take the red or blue pill, as they say, and I'll leave it at that for today's episode. So thank you again, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
