00:00:00.090 - 00:00:18.720, Speaker A: All right, so I'm pushing back, pushing back on all comments here. Yes, you know, having localized fee markets on an L two is cool, but in my opinion, it's somewhat worthless because you can have application specific rollups. You're not really fighting congestion on your roll up anyways. If you launch something really cool on arbitrum, go spin it up into an L three.
00:00:21.570 - 00:01:03.262, Speaker B: What's up, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. Before we dive into today's episode, we want to give a quick word from our sponsor, Hexons, the most hardcore security team in web three. Pioneering in ZK and novel cryptography, Hexons is trusted by t one protocols like Polygon, including their work on their zkavm, Mantle, Risk, zero, Lido, one inch, newbank, and more. I hope some of you guys got to go stop by their booth at permissionless, really fun team and got to learn more about what they do. We will mention Hexans and what they're all about a little bit more later in the episode. Today is September 18, and we're changing it up a little bit today, actually, and doing an analyst only episode recap of permissionless two. It was a lot of fun getting to meet a lot of you guys down there.
00:01:03.262 - 00:01:26.630, Speaker B: It was honestly kind of surreal having people come up to us and saying, oh, I know you guys from Zero X research, so thanks for doing that. For sure. And actually, we're going to be changing up the format of the podcast a little bit and doing analyst episodes separate from the actual interview. So be sure to let us know what you think of that format in the comments. But anyways, Ren, maybe I can kick it over to you to kick us off on the permissionless recap.
00:01:26.970 - 00:01:59.790, Speaker C: Yeah, sure. So for me, it was my first time in Austin, Texas. Definitely not used to the heat, but overall, I think permissionless was a great conference. It's not the easiest environment to host a conference in. We're in the US, which doesn't have the most favorable regulatory environment. We're deep, deep in the middle of a bear market, and there's conferences all around the world, such as like ECC, Korea, Blockchain Week, token 2049 that crypto participants have to choose between. But all in all, I think permission institute was fantastic.
00:01:59.790 - 00:02:31.990, Speaker C: You had a good mix of sort of very in the weeds, researchers, protocol desks, institutional. We had a few senators or congresspeople. I don't know the differences. I'm not american. And it was just a very high quality and high signal conference compared to whatever you experience in the boom market, right? In the boom market, it feels like you go to a side event. The room is packed with, probably, realistically, 500 people. It feels like you're still trying to shoot it off and say hi to everyone every 5 seconds and say, hey, I work at blah, blah, blah.
00:02:31.990 - 00:03:07.958, Speaker C: What do you do? And if you want to move on, you got to move on, because there's so many people to talk to. But I felt like the conversations I had during permissionless were a lot more slower pace and in a better sense. Right. I really got to understand, people really got to understand why they're here, what they're working on, what they're interested in. And obviously, everyone that's still here at this stage of the market is deeply, deeply passionate about crypto, and that was the overall vibe I was getting. Everyone here is very passionate. They're very interested in whatever they're doing, even if that's running a fund, building a protocol, building a product, or a service.
00:03:07.958 - 00:03:37.074, Speaker C: Everyone is here for a reason, and they know why they're here. Right? And tying this to one of the opening speeches that they had at permission is by Eric Voorhees. I think he made it very clear why he's in this industry. There was a quote from his speech where he said, to such people, we owe nothing, but to humanity, we owe much. That is why we're here. And crypto is our rebellion. And I think, on one hand, I definitely agree with that.
00:03:37.074 - 00:04:13.386, Speaker C: Right. I feel like a lot of people are sick with the status quo. Whether you're living in a first world country such as America, or any emerging economy, such as, for example, Venezuela, a lot of people are sick of the status quo, the systems, the industries, the regulation that's been put in place. And I think people are fed know. Definitely people have gotten more fed up, probably due to just back breaking inflation over the past year. Like, eggs and milk are a lot more expensive than what they used to be, and that definitely makes me mad. But Eric Voorhees made the point that we basically live like farm animals.
00:04:13.386 - 00:04:51.322, Speaker C: Perhaps I wouldn't go so far to say that we all live in a complete gutter. We live like farm animals. We're completely at the whim of regulators and politicians, at least not within the US or other slightly more developed countries. But I think that opening keynote he gave got me sufficiently energized again, as to why I'm in crypto. Definitely for the past few months, I've been like, oh, my God, please just stop talking about shared sequencers, roll ups, like resaking. I don't really care anymore. But that Eric Voorhees speech really made me come back.
00:04:51.322 - 00:05:43.894, Speaker C: There's definitely been people on the other end of the spectrum that when I don't think crypto should be a complete rejection of democracy. Code isn't better than law. There should still be systems in place, and I completely agree with that. I think a lot of people in crypto sort of have these extreme views, and we always like to put ourselves on the extreme ends of the spectrum. Is that a full centralization or full decentralization? I don't want any of this CDFI stuff, but I think there's always a middle ground for everything, to be honest. And I think for crypto, it's the fact of the matter, that middle ground between whatever institutions or environment or society structure we have today and crypto, that middle ground is still better than whatever the status quo is. And, yeah, that's a brief takeaway of permissionless.
00:05:43.894 - 00:05:45.260, Speaker C: We're so back.
00:05:46.990 - 00:06:15.634, Speaker D: I love to hear that the keynote got you fired. That's. I hope that was part of the intent, and if not, that's certainly one of the goals that achieved. Without a doubt. Eric Voorhees is the man. I got into crypto, really got into the weeds of crypto through thorchain, and shapeshift has worked very closely with thorchain over the past, so it's cool to kind of, like, see that arc in me, knowing him as some dude who is involved in Thor chain to now be giving a keynote at permissionless. And of course, he's far more important than all of that.
00:06:15.634 - 00:06:53.066, Speaker D: But it was just. I really. I liked the sentiment he was driving home of just kind of trying to reinvigorate repassion or drive passion into people about why his space is important. But, yeah, no, I think I agree largely with a lot of your takeaways, too. Like, the average conversation I had, I walked away being like, damn, that was a great conversation. It was, like, a lot less people asking about, I'm not trying to throw any shade here, but there's way fewer. What do you think about Cardano's? Or what do you think about Stellar's? And a lot more like, all right, do you actually think a single shard blockchain is the future? Compared to maybe Ethereum's approach or the cosmos approach? It was, like, super in the weeds.
00:06:53.066 - 00:07:03.890, Speaker D: Questions about things we don't have answers to, and we're actively trying to figure out, not just asking questions about the protocols that have the best marketing campaign. So that was kind of like my Tldr.
00:07:04.870 - 00:07:56.420, Speaker A: Yeah, I got to say, I also had a lot of conversations about what's the best way to scale a blockchain. I talked to people who were, I think majority of the people I talked to are probably layer two maxis. Everyone's excited for what they think is this incoming layer two narrative. But I talked to many people who are like, what do you think about a monolithic chain with a localized fee market like Solana, and plenty that were talking about app specific chains such as cosmos, or plenty of other solutions as well. And it's really cool having those conversations because even within our own team, we have lots of different opinions on what's the correct solution. At the end of the day, they're all potentially viable ways to scale blockchains. And it's really cool seeing the space be in this such niche times where everyone's kind of very interesting and looking at the things that I think are the most important to how we proceed and grow the space so that we can support billions of users in the future.
00:07:57.770 - 00:08:47.234, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that really leans into the fact that that was kind of one of an overarching theme of just talking to people in the conference was maybe the Ethereum centric worldview, if you will, is just not as dominant anymore. And I feel like a lot of people came into crypto, got comfortable with Ethereum, and that's how they learned about account based blockchains or smart contracts as a whole. So it's kind of like your starting off point, and then we do tend to tribalize how we think about blockchains, and so you kind of become like an ETH maxi, and then it takes, like, a hurdle point to be like, okay, well, maybe this cosmos ecosystem is cool. Maybe this Solana ecosystem is cool. And now it's kind of ossifying into more of, like, ideological approaches. We talk a lot about on this podcast about how Ethereum's end goal is really not too dissimilar from the cosmos ecosystem's end goal. It's just a very different way of getting there.
00:08:47.234 - 00:09:31.140, Speaker D: And we're kind of starting to see mean, even Westy, who's been a long time, just like, ETH is the best solution. ETH is the best solution. Yes, there's other viable ways, but ETH is still the best solution. He even cracked and he was damn like, I think there's, like, three really good ways of scaling a blockchain and hitting critical mass, and I think they'll all probably work over the long term, but the question is, how do you differentiate at that point? Or does being first really matter here? Because I tend to think, yes, like, the first ecosystem to really bring on that game changing application or that game changing amount of users in any capacity will probably at least think they won, but it'll be tough to say if they actually won.
00:09:32.710 - 00:09:59.194, Speaker A: Man, I got to say, one of the craziest conversations for me was late in the night, me and you were chatting about bitcoin. I've always been a big fan of bitcoin. It's what got me into this space. And I think you've probably never been a fan of bitcoin. And I walked away from the conversation being a little more bearish, bitcoin. And I remember the next day, you were like, I actually see some of your points about why maybe bitcoin could be successful in the future. So it's pretty crazy that there's so many topical things to chat about.
00:09:59.194 - 00:10:01.594, Speaker A: And I got to say that one hit pretty hard.
00:10:01.792 - 00:10:30.466, Speaker D: Okay, hold on. I got to set the record straight here. I was at first a fan of bitcoin, but yes, I just see the fee model as an unsolved issue that an increasing number of people are like, okay, this is an issue we have to solve. Of course, there's always the hardcore camp in any protocol or really any ideology, period. That's like, no, we have to never change. That's our core ethos. But, yeah, I just think the fee model is broken and something needs to be done about it.
00:10:30.466 - 00:11:05.570, Speaker D: And that's not to say something won't be done about it, but I think one of the points you mentioned was like, yeah, well, Ethereum hasn't solved scalability, and that just like, maybe take a step back. And I was like, shit, yeah, we have an unsolved problem, too, over in smart contract land. And so that was like, okay, we're still actively solving things, but I will say there just doesn't seem to be a light at the end of the tunnel for the bitcoin fee model problem. I think this is the last bullish happening. I really do. And then it starts to become all eyes on how do we fix this problem? Which is probably a good thing, because we do need that problem solved.
00:11:07.270 - 00:11:43.946, Speaker A: It's interesting that there's this drive chain narrative forming. It's like super nascent and early stage, but it seems to actually be getting a lot of support from the bitcoin maxis. But I think more than bitcoin maxis, I would say from core contributors, like the ones who have the most influence on the protocol. Obviously, at the end of the day, no single entity has a ton of influence. But if you get the bitcoin core team and a lot of the loud voices in the ecosystem support something, it at least has a chance at maybe being a future. And it seems that this drive chain idea is something that's maybe gaining a little bit of traction. I'm honest, not an expert on it, but it seems like a potential solution where you could have all these layer twos.
00:11:43.946 - 00:12:13.190, Speaker A: Like, maybe one of them is even an EVM or a smart contract platform, and they drive a little bit of value back to the bitcoin fee network in the same way that I guess side chains and layer twos do. And I think it's interesting also, maybe in the future, people look at bitcoin as money instead of digital gold like they do today, and that could drive some value to it. But you made a lot of good points as to why would you ever bet on bitcoin? Like, people are going to use stablecoins for that narrative. And I definitely walked out of that conversation feeling a little more bearish than I did before. Not that I'm bearish. Bitcoin.
00:12:13.610 - 00:12:48.238, Speaker D: Yeah. It's just like pumping out $25 million of security incentives every single day to miners and not two token holders. So it's true. It's more than just dilution, it's a cost of the network. It's a tough hill to climb. And even if you look at ordinals, which still have a large number of transaction volume, but just the fees aren't there anymore, there's much less demand to get them included. In the next block, the peak of the ordinals hype generated in a single day generated about 17 or so million dollars of transaction fees.
00:12:48.238 - 00:13:11.674, Speaker D: And so, like, okay, even in the peak of this. Definitely this speculative bubble. Yeah, $17.79 million of transaction fees in that specific day, may eigth, there was about $24 million of bitcoin issuance. So it's still just like an enormous amount of money that is being pumped out of bitcoin. I want to give a quick shout out to Hexins as we explore today's blockchain landscape. Let's take a moment to recognize them.
00:13:11.674 - 00:13:43.170, Speaker D: As a premier cybersecurity provider in Web three, Hexins is trusted by tier one projects like Polygon, including a security review on their new Polygon, ZKE, EVM, Mantle Risk, Zero, Lido, one inch, Newbank, and more. Get a deep dive into your technology stack with the most comprehensive analysis and cybersecurity consulting. Hexons not only uses widely known methodologies and flows, but discovers and introduces new ones on a day to day basis. With over $55 billion secured, they cover everything from smart contracts to blockchain to web two pen tests.
00:13:43.830 - 00:14:07.578, Speaker B: Yeah, there's been nearly $7 billion of total value hacked in crypto's nascent history. So it's safe to say your team has a lot on the line. Don't skimp out. Take your security seriously and reach out to Hexans. Don't forget to mention Zero X research for a free web two pen test with your partnership, and reach out to Hexans at Hexins IO. Find them in the links in the show notes, or reach out to them at permissionless. They'll be at booth 832.
00:14:07.578 - 00:14:41.154, Speaker B: But without further ado, let's get back to today's episode roping this back into the conference. I mean, it was in Texas, and I think it was riot. I'm not sure I could be wrong there, but they made, like, $32 million in a month just selling electricity back to the grid. And while we were there, they were like, hey, be careful of power outages. Apparently, there is, like, a water boil advisory, et cetera. So, I mean, there is one bullcase for bitcoin tying it into the real world. That might be a stretch, but nonetheless, I think the bigger topic here, and takeaway from permissionless, is that no one was actually talking about bitcoin.
00:14:41.154 - 00:14:52.140, Speaker B: Like, this is just our own conversations, our own curiosity. But I didn't see a single side conversation happening trying to solve the bitcoin fee problem. And I think that speaks volume on its own.
00:14:52.750 - 00:14:58.090, Speaker D: Good save, Matt. Matt and I were about to turn this entire podcast into bitcoin versus smart contracts.
00:14:59.070 - 00:15:28.706, Speaker A: It's crazy, because you're right. There wasn't a single conversation at the conference about bitcoin. This was, know, five beers deep at midnight between Dan and I, just arguing out, like, year old arguments. At the conference, I saw a lot of conversations about Ethereum, about cosmos, about Solana, and the one other thing that kept coming up is there's a lot of institutions there. People from things like KPMG Ey, some of the banks, things of that nature. So a one takeaway was, the institutions are here. Institutions are coming, they're here.
00:15:28.706 - 00:16:06.770, Speaker A: Maybe their teams are only five or ten or up to, at most, 50 people, so they have a lot of room to grow, but they are here. They're interested. And even more than when I was having these conversations with people like this, some of them were interested in what they call public blockchains, which is something that I have an issue with, because these are just blockchains. You shouldn't call it public blockchains. They're just blockchains. Anyways, they're also interested in this idea of private infrastructure creating new technology that particularly supports their stack and their business, rather than using Ethereum and things like that. So I thought that was something interesting, and I had a lot of pushback against it, but it did keep coming up, so I thought it's worth mentioning.
00:16:07.430 - 00:16:07.842, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:16:07.896 - 00:17:07.778, Speaker B: Shout out, Citigroup. Actually, today we saw that news of them doing a pilot program with a private blockchain, basically for 24/7 cross border payments and financial primitives that anyone in their network can actually access. But I think this kind of ties back to the Voorhees speech that we started with, to be completely honest. Because why would you not want companies innovating this way? I get you hate the notion of a private blockchain, but I don't think anyone really knows the true use case for blockchains today. And yes, you can argue, we're arguing over whether bitcoin is going to be around in 20 years, considering the fee problem becomes such a big problem here pretty soon. So I think I'd rather have entities tackling this problem from every angle, even if it is in a walled garden environment, just so we can actually figure out where we fit in in the world and what the end state is. I think there's so many applications for this stuff, and I'd rather have everyone working on it than just saying, nah, we want to completely leave out any type of notion of the Ethos that doesn't fall with the original ideals of crypto.
00:17:07.874 - 00:17:56.754, Speaker C: This was something that I asked during a panel I moderated. So the panel that I moderated was the evolution of centralized exchanges. And I asked all of my panelists, one from Gemini, one from Kraken, one from Coinbase, and one from OKX, what are institutions? Right? Because I feel like us in crypto, we always like to say, oh, the institutions are coming, the institutions are coming. Whenever a spot, BTC or ETF gets approved, the institutions will come. But I don't think a lot of us have a single clue what institution really means. And to be honest, that was the same answer that I got at the panel. Institutions are so wide ranging, it can include central banks, it could include sort of tradfi institutions, such as investment banks or just traditional banks.
00:17:56.754 - 00:18:46.770, Speaker C: It can include Fortune 500 companies. And I think one interesting statistic that Greg from Coinbase pointed out was that they had quite a lot of institutional demand from Fortune 500 companies. So not financial companies just like standard big old american companies. And they had a lot of interest from them in integrating idle custody or being interested in crypto as a whole, or blockchain. And you see that more and more over the past year, for example like Shopify or, sorry, Visa, integrating with USDC on Solana and using Solana as a settlement layer. And also, for example, Circo's wallet as a service partnering with Grab. For those that don't know, Grab is one of the largest super apps in Southeast Asia.
00:18:46.770 - 00:19:35.502, Speaker C: It's like Uber, Uber eats payments and ten different other things all in one app. It's basically like the WeChat but for Southeast Asia, without the messaging functionalities. And that partnership was very bullish, right? There were like vouchers that you would be able to use from day one. You got nfts. It wasn't another one of those, just partnerships that just had no purpose to it other than for a brand name sake, for example, like Microsoft and an AI utility. Not going to name names here, but it feels like we're definitely seeing a lot more institutional adoption, right? Especially in the defi space too. For example, Layer Zero made a big announcement that they were going to integrate Google Cloud as the default Oracle.
00:19:35.502 - 00:20:31.554, Speaker C: So when I first heard the news that Google would be doing something with Layer Zero, I wasn't very sure what it would be. My gut feeling was that it would be Google running the relayer, since that's kind of like the less demanding, perhaps from a blockchain or crypto economic security role perspective between the Oracle and the relayer. But then Google Cloud is now the default Oracle for layer zero and they replaced chain link. To me, that was like really big news that wasn't talked about enough. First of all, because it's now the default Oracle. Chain Link got pushed out for Google Cloud to come in, and I feel like that should take a lot of people in crypto by shock. Actually, Chain Link is like a decentralized Oracle network where Google Cloud is very far from decentralized.
00:20:31.554 - 00:21:15.070, Speaker C: It's just like a bunch of data servers, probably 100% controlled by Google. And there is even worked with Google in order to set up all of the infrastructure they need in order to act as Oracle. And truth be told, it was cool when I first heard it, but I'm not sure how I feel about it. After thinking a bit about it, I asked the layer zero guys what's like the security model behind Google Cloud running the default Oracle. And their answer was, Google is a $1 trillion big tech company. They're not going to rug you. But then internally I'm thinking if Google Cloud rugs layer zero, no asset manager even knows what layer zero is, none of them are going to go out there and go, oh, I'm going to sell my Google holdings on my portfolio.
00:21:15.070 - 00:21:51.546, Speaker C: That's just not going to happen. But also on one hand, it just seems like Google Cloud running the default oracle is like social consensus on steroids, like big tech social consensus. And at that point, I'm not really sure what the point of using an institution for the blockchain is. There's like a whole other argument here of how crypto has been trending towards just moving stuff off chain, not bothering to do anything on chain, and sort of like just giving up on decentralization. But that's an entirely argument. So as far as institutions as a whole. Sorry for going slightly off topic.
00:21:51.546 - 00:22:26.406, Speaker C: I definitely agree. Institutions are coming. There's a lot more that happens behind the scenes than we know, right? There's these consulting companies, there's these auditing companies, there's these finance companies who all do things behind the scenes. We just never hear about it, right? These guys are under guys that are spending like 3 hours of the day on Twitter posting about what they do. They just do stuff in the background. Helping companies sort of form blockchain frameworks, helping incorporate NDs, helping incorporate a crypto into sort of like the daily operational or logistical needs. It just happens very behind the scenes.
00:22:26.406 - 00:22:29.820, Speaker C: But I think we all got a taste of that during permissionist, which is very good.
00:22:30.430 - 00:23:14.330, Speaker D: Yeah, a couple of things on that, Ren. So backing up to the USDC part, yes, there was a USDC and shopify integration. There was also the beam and visa integration, leveraging USDC. There was also the visa and Salana integration, leveraging USDC. There's also the circle and Coinbase deal, bringing kind of like pushing out USDC to the cosmos ecosystem through Noble and to more ETH L two s, including base, Coinbase's L two. And quite honestly, most importantly was the SAP integration. I know you mentioned Citibank as well earlier, and that was super interesting because they're kind of doing the same thing, right? Allowing their existing clients to use cross chain payments through USDC.
00:23:14.330 - 00:23:59.714, Speaker D: That is what institutional adoption looks like. Full stop. If people can use their existing service providers and send meaningful value transactions using USDC, and it's not going to be me and you most likely. Well, I think that's part of adoption. But what institutional adoption looks like is these Fortune 500 companies using this technology. So that's why I think it is insanely exciting to see banks like Citi and payment processors like Visa and big companies like SAP that are already integrated into a majority of these Fortune 500 companies really pushing this tech forward on the layer zero stuff. Can you run us through what, the super high level? Because obviously this could be an entire podcast.
00:23:59.714 - 00:24:14.110, Speaker D: But the relayer versus the Oracle, they use this two bifurcated security model. Can you just run us through that real quick? And I guess my ultimate question is here, does that mean that Google Cloud is running a full node for every layer zero supported chain?
00:24:15.650 - 00:24:44.626, Speaker C: Yeah. So layer Zero is a cross chain security marketplace. There's a bunch of different security providers, for example, Chainlink and now Google Cloud. And basically how it works is that there's two entities that facilitate this cross chain. General message passing or whatever you want to call it. The first is the oracle, and the second is the relayer. The oracle is in charge of retrieving block headers.
00:24:44.626 - 00:25:41.050, Speaker C: More often than not, you have to run a full node and the relayer is in charge of sort of fetching a transaction identifier proof and then providing that to the endpoint. Basically, the oracle feeds the block header to the endpoint. Sorry. The relayer feeds transaction identifier, a transaction identifier proof and the message. And sort of when these two things get sent to the endpoint and they match each other, then the message is unlocked and whatever transaction that needs to be executed gets executed. And so I actually asked, how did Google set this up? Right? And the answer I got was that layer zero was very involved in helping Google set up everything they need in order to run an oracle. I also asked someone, I can't remember who.
00:25:41.050 - 00:26:30.278, Speaker C: So is Google running like a full node for every layer zero supported chain, which I think as of today, stands at around like 33 or 34. And I think the answer I got was no, which left me a little bit confused because to my understanding, you need to run a full node in order to pull the block header from a blockchain. And so I'm not really sure what's happening behind the scenes. And I think that's another thing that left me a bit concerned. Right. Layer Zero runs one of the default relayers for layer zero. And now Google Cloud are running an Oracle service that was sort of built by layer zero, or layer Zero definitely had a very involved role in helping Google Cloud be able to achieve whatever they need to do as an oracle.
00:26:30.278 - 00:27:19.820, Speaker C: And so the whole security model of layer zero is that these two roles, the relayer and Oracle, are completely distinct from each other, right? Only if both of these collude with each other, then you can do something malicious with layer zero. But now it seems pretty tightly integrated, especially with the fact that this partnership has been one year or so in the making. But, yeah, that's like a brief announcement of the layer zero security model. They gave out great swag, so I'm probably not going to complain that much, but just use iffy. I feel like we've been moving a lot of stuff off chain, whether that's like execution or order matching or whatever, especially in the realm of Defi. And this kind of feels like something similar. It kind of feels like we're just giving up on decentralization a little bit.
00:27:19.820 - 00:27:36.990, Speaker C: But it is also very cool that Google Cloud was willing to do, quite frankly, like a huge partnership with a crossing bridge. Like there is know. It's quite rare that you get such a significant partnership from a big tech company in crypto, and it definitely puts us on the radar.
00:27:37.650 - 00:27:46.558, Speaker A: I think I would trust Google as a company over the three or five multi SIg that controls chainlink. Maybe that's a hot take, but at the end of the day, I don't.
00:27:46.564 - 00:27:49.134, Speaker D: Think Google's probably four of nine.
00:27:49.252 - 00:28:05.650, Speaker A: Four of nine? Sorry. That might be worse. Actually. No, it's better. And also, it's crazy how into crypto Google has gotten. Their GCP has become. Google's become a competitor to Alchemy know, providing archival node data to those that need it for Ethereum.
00:28:05.650 - 00:28:41.794, Speaker A: So I think they're pretty sophisticated at this. Sure. You know, at the end of the day, they're still getting into it. I'm sure layer Zero helped them set it up, but I wouldn't worry too much about Google being controlled by layer zero in their oracle endeavors, for lack of better. I think they're full steam ahead into crypto and really trying to be in the space, and it's really cool to see, and I guess that is an example of an institution in crypto. At the end of the day, I think these types of partnerships are way cooler than the institutions that everyone else wants to come into crypto, which would be the endowments and the people that are, quote unquote, coming to buy our bags. I would actually rather see this.
00:28:41.794 - 00:28:51.078, Speaker A: I'd rather see infrastructure that would help this space become more efficient and better, and I think that's what's happening. But, yeah, that's just my take.
00:28:51.244 - 00:29:16.480, Speaker B: I think it's worth mentioning too, that it's just the default oracle provider, so you can still configure the oracle of your choice if you'd like. You could do three if you want, and then take a median. So that way if either one of them goes down. I think really the big take home thing to get out of this is just like Google Cloud is partnering with a web three company, and they're putting the reputation on the line in the process of it. So I agree with Matt. I think that's pretty huge.
00:29:18.690 - 00:30:07.482, Speaker D: Yeah, I like this breakdown of what is an institution, right? It's like you almost have financial institutions, and then I don't know if the right word here is like consumer institutions, but might honestly just be non financial institutions, but the financial institutions are definitely coming as well. I think the ETFs make this super easy. I had a panel with John Wu from Avalab, Stan Lowe from QCP Capital, and Matt Hogan from Bitwise. And that's obviously something we talked greatly about was what does the ETF coming actually mean? And what it really means is lower barriers to entry for family offices, RAs capital allocators to get into this space. Right. For those people, it's pretty hard to get a Coinbase account or a Coinbase custody account or a Coinbase pro, whatever it may be that they need. It's not just downloading the app and opening it, it's getting it past compliance.
00:30:07.482 - 00:30:47.770, Speaker D: It's getting comfortable with. You're getting your clients comfortable with you using this new software service to hold their value in. It's much, much more than the download from the App Store and submitting your KYC. It's a process, and internal compliance is a total bitch to hurdle. So what these ETFs do is put the ability to allocate into the space directly on the Bloomberg terminal or whatever allocation software that they're already using. Right? So the inflows are expected to be great because the demand is increasingly great. And anyone who's listened to a lot of zero x research knows we're a big fan of bitwise and Matt Hogan and Ryan Rasmussen as well.
00:30:47.770 - 00:31:32.726, Speaker D: And they've come on the show a few times. And every time we ask them, where is the institutional mindset, financial institutional mindset with crypto? Because it feels like even just a year and a half ago, it was like, all right, 1% of the portfolio and we'll put it in bitcoin. Then maybe like six months ago it was like, okay, this ethereum thing, it sounds pretty interesting. Still 1% of the portfolio, but we're going to cut a sliver off of that and put it into ETH. And then now it's like, all right, well, internally within the industry, we're always talking about how staked ETH is. This cash flow generating asset is super attractive, especially with Ethereum. It's not just earning new ETH on your ETH deposits and kind of that inflationary reward mechanism.
00:31:32.726 - 00:32:08.754, Speaker D: You're actually getting this real yield concept through MEV, through Mevboost, and priority fees, through transaction volume. So they're actually earning yield on your asset. And that's like this super attractive thing. We always talk about it, and every time I ask Matt Hogan, I'm like, where are we on the staked ETH? Are they interested yet? And they go, look, it's still 1% of the portfolio. If that's your allocation approach, you either want to make it double it and make it 2%, or be okay with it going to 0%. Earning another 3% on that allocation is just totally uninteresting, which I always think is a really interesting thing. So we're not quite there.
00:32:08.754 - 00:32:17.782, Speaker D: That's kind of where we are in the risk curve. So while all of us go out and buy these defi tokens, that's where the financial institutions are sitting. And I always think that's a good sentiment check.
00:32:17.836 - 00:33:03.798, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I agree with that. Another interesting, I guess, conversation throughout the conference that just came up constantly with shared sequencing, especially given the espresso partnership with arbitrum. And I actually had the privilege of speaking with Stephen Goldfeder, the founder of Arbitrum. And he was just talking about how wrong people have this debate in general. He's like, everyone thinks it's about decentralization, but really it comes down to MEV as well. It's like, do you want to create batch auctions and basically internalize this MEV, or are you trying to just do FIFO and mitigate the MEV altogether to improve the user experience? And he was saying like, yes, decentralization is part of this, but then when you decentralize the sequencer, you likely create more centralized parts in the system.
00:33:03.798 - 00:33:36.574, Speaker B: So it's not like, all right, decentralize the sequencer. We can stop here. We're all good now. We won. So there was just a lot of interesting takes on the sequencing space. But I do think the espresso partnerships that we've seen over the past couple of months are pretty huge, because I feel like a shared sequencer network doesn't actually work unless all the l two s opt in to create kind of those network effects and value accrual just for the entire ecosystem. So now it's starting to become not, are you doing an espresso testnet deployment? It's more like, oh, you're not doing an espresso testnet deployment.
00:33:36.574 - 00:33:38.660, Speaker B: So I found that super interesting as well.
00:33:39.830 - 00:34:48.550, Speaker A: One of the most interesting conversations I had was with Stephen, and Pat works at the Arbitrum foundation and Stephen of the off chain labs about what is so, like at the end of the, like, okay, we can all probably agree that sandwich attacks have victims, right? So maybe malicious or bad for the network or for the user experience, maybe more so than the network, because that would be debatable. But what about back running? What about just taking a swap, and after it goes through arbitraging it versus another domain versus binance or a different exchange or whatever, it's like, well, those are very different things. Back running is probably not bad for the user, whereas, of course, sandwich attack that makes the user's price execution price worse, is probably bad for the user. And then we have all these new types of things people call MeV, too. Like, if you look at Friendtech, there's all these smart contract bots out there. They're sniping newly created accounts, so not paying for ordering, which is what traditional MEV does, but we're still calling it MeV. I think it's like we need better definitions of MEV before we can build solutions for sequencers that address what dows actually want.
00:34:48.550 - 00:35:20.690, Speaker A: Because one of the panels I hosted was on the problems in dows today. And it's like a lot of the delegates, token holders, the people who are making decisions about, for instance, arbitrum, like, what should the sequencer look like in the future? They don't actually know. They just know the word MeV, and they don't actually know the nitty gritty granular differences between these different types of MeV and how you could design a sequencer that only allowed for some types of MEV, but maybe not others. Really, we need better education around this subject, and it needs to get into the hands of token holders and delegates yesterday, in my opinion.
00:35:22.070 - 00:36:24.838, Speaker C: I want to agree with you, but also, I think crypto researchers have collectively spent probably 1 million man hours just endlessly debating definitions on Twitter. But no, I think before you tackle a problem, you always need to define what it is. And math, especially from a rollout perspective, is probably something that we need to figure out. And not a lot of people have a good idea on. I think another thing that I think about when it comes to shared sequences is value accrual, right? Today, the value accrual for base arbitrum, optimism, are all very pure. Like the sequencer collects fees on the L two and then it pays the L one data costs, and you take the difference between those two, and it's just pure profit to a sequencer with a shared sequencer. That looks very different, because to my knowledge, I don't think you can send a transaction both to a shared sequencer and sort of like the native sequencer of that roll up.
00:36:24.838 - 00:37:03.490, Speaker C: And so if all transaction order flow goes to a shared sequencer, right, and if Espresso's plan is to use reset deep of eigen layer as sort of like the token that secures or validates the shared sequencer, then what happens to the value accrual of optimism arbitrage the tokens itself. I don't think I've had a lot of like, I haven't heard a lot of very clear thoughts from people, and I think that has the potential to change a lot of things, both from an investment perspective, but also from, I don't know, ecosystem alignment or security perspective.
00:37:05.350 - 00:37:58.034, Speaker D: This is a super interesting question, and I don't have a good answer to what happens when you plug into a shared sequencer network. But I think this question is going to become increasingly prominent for l two s as they continue to battle for users, because they could see a world where the spread that l two s capture on the amount, like basically the profit, right? So revenue being the amount of transaction fees paid by users on the l two, cost being the amount to post the data back to the L one, the profit being the difference. You could see an L two. That's like, no, we're super ethereum in line. We don't want to capture profit, we want to be a public good. So anything, there is no surplus we're going to capture. And we're going to create a field algorithm that is designed to always generate $0 of profit and only charge the users what it costs to post back to L one.
00:37:58.034 - 00:38:08.920, Speaker D: And in that sense it's like, all right, then there's no value accrual here. And there are some pretty ethereum aligned l two s that might be their end state of what they're at least thinking about building.
00:38:09.690 - 00:38:57.814, Speaker A: So it actually wouldn't change the current profitability or model you could build for an lT's fundamental value accrual doesn't change for shared sequencers because the way it's built today is there's congestion fees, which are at least for arbitram. Arbitram is the only one that this is true for, but it's driven to Dow, treasury, Dow controlled address, and you have another fee that goes to the sequencer that pays them back for their cost. So this doesn't change. But what gets interesting is, where does the MEV go? How do you make sure the sequencer returns the MEV back to the treasury if that's the goal, which I would imagine it is, at least for arbitram. So, yeah, that is an interesting point. And then, like Dan said, last time I checked out Ava, which is a roll up built with the op stack, the ribbon finance team built it. They actually were doing exactly what you said.
00:38:57.814 - 00:39:35.046, Speaker A: So there was no fees for transacting, and they were just pocketing the fees for trading. So the sequencer was constantly taking a loss, but it was made up for in trading fees. And you could even see a world in the future where you had subsidized trading. Like, if you make sure that if you do some sort of cyber resistance and make sure that those transacting are actually real and you've created this token that has a lot of value, you could even subsidize getting users onto your platform. I think this is actually, it sounds kind of crazy, but I would not be surprised to see this. It's not my base case, but I wouldn't be surprised at all to see this, because we will probably have 20 l two s at least by the end of this year. Actually, we already have 20 l two s.
00:39:35.046 - 00:39:54.220, Speaker A: We could have 100. Lt's by the end of this year, and we could have 100. Lt's with tokens. So it's like, how are they going to get builders? How are they going to get users? We're going to see this knife fight between l two BD grants programs and dows, where they just are doing anything to incentivize developers to get there and users as well. So I think that that's a really cool future to think about.
00:39:54.910 - 00:40:50.474, Speaker C: Yeah. On the topic of open ended questions, and just as Matt was pointing out, we haven't really defined MeV property, at least from a roller. Like, what happens if there's a sequence of transactions that the shared sequencers, that the shared sequencer views as optimal for the shared sequencer, right. But if it sends that sequence of transactions to, for example, one of the individual roll ups, that sequence of transactions is not optimal for the roll up. And it could be reordered some other way to make it the most optimal for the roll up, whatever your definition of optimal is, whether that's like, maximize MV, maximize value accrual, maximize utility for users or something. And yeah, there's just like a lot of open ended questions that I don't think a lot of people have a good clue to yet and will definitely get answered along the way as espresso or other shared sequencer projects continue to work on it.
00:40:50.512 - 00:41:12.210, Speaker A: Yeah, you always have the potential model where in order to participate in the sequencer network, you have to put up a stake and then you build slashing. But I've always had the idea that, I don't know, I think we can do better. I don't think this sounds to me like an optimal way of ordering transactions on an L two, but I also don't have a great solution, so I can't really be a huge critic.
00:41:13.030 - 00:41:18.466, Speaker D: I think that's largely because the L two s are a bit siloed.
00:41:18.498 - 00:41:18.646, Speaker C: Right?
00:41:18.668 - 00:42:10.950, Speaker D: Like, even the op stack, you don't have interoperability. And that's sort of like this unsolved problem that shared sequencers are maybe a step in the direction of. Like, obviously you don't get the same bridging guarantees by any stretch of the margin, but you do get some cross domain benefits that gives them a little bit more of a connected ecosystem. Right. And so we're even starting to see, I think maybe not in the next three months before the year end, but 2024 is going to be interesting. Like, do these ZK ecosystems with richer bridging guarantees actually start to kind of hit some sort of a critical mass and gain traction at all? And just actually today, on Monday the 18th, we saw the announcement that Kanto is actually going to move from a Cosmos based app chain to an ethereum L two on the Polygon CDK. So that is like their zk stack type solution.
00:42:10.950 - 00:42:36.906, Speaker D: It's going to be interesting. I'm just excited to see this real time richer bridging, if you will, in production. So I don't know what the ETA is on them actually getting that built into production, but it gets pretty interesting on that point. That's really kind of the universe that I'm looking towards is where we get these constellations of ZK ecosystems that actually have better interoperability guarantees.
00:42:37.018 - 00:42:38.990, Speaker C: Am I allowed to change topics here?
00:42:39.140 - 00:42:39.870, Speaker D: Fire away.
00:42:39.940 - 00:43:38.258, Speaker C: All right, I'm going to make a point. I think another recurring theme about the conferences about permissionless or just in general over the past few weeks has been about data I think we've gotten to the point where we've all agreed, like blockchains are these open permissionless ledger. You can see all of the, or like technically you could view all of the data that you want about every single transaction about a state in any moment of time or any blocking time of the blockchain, but none of that is readable. Normal users not able to read editorscan. Most people don't have SQL knowledge in order to form a query on chain. And I think both from a usability perspective, a lot has been focused on wallets, account abstraction, the user experience. But I think it's also coming to a point where a similar notion is happening for research and data.
00:43:38.258 - 00:44:37.686, Speaker C: Right. So obviously I'm going to self show a little bit here that blockbooks just released their analytics product last Wednesday. You get trusted, verified source of transparency and data for all of the L one and L two s and dabs, and we'll be having that by the end of Q four. There's a fantastic mix of very tradfi native metrics such as cash flows, but you also get very crypto native metrics such as e supply flows, staking rates, user activity. What are the top gas gazetting contracts? And I think sort of, that's one thing about crypto, right? You have these open permissionless platforms that you can build anything on, but also at the same time, there's sort of like a brand name alignment that people have to eventually work towards. And that's not just like for our research product, right? Sure, we have a fantastic research team and we use sort of like data that anyone can technically access. But there's also sort of like a verified component to it.
00:44:37.686 - 00:45:09.760, Speaker C: And it's a similar thing for whether you're a roll up or protocol building on sort of like a modular stack, right. Eventually you would want to sort of lean towards a verified company or sort of a company with a better brand name. And I think that sort of brand building component, even if everything is kind of the same in the future, say we get the same roll up stack frameworks, is something that's going to increasingly come to the front of mind over the next one, two, three years.
00:45:10.770 - 00:45:41.530, Speaker D: That was beautiful run. Yeah. But transparency is my favorite quality of blockchains, to be completely honest. It's the fact that we can see what's going on. But to your point, it's not always easy to abstract the complexities away and just like give me the data in a line chart sometimes that's what this product does is we're building out the interpretation layer, making it easy to access health and profitability metrics for our covered asset list. So we started with the approach of launching the infrastructure layer first. So we're supporting all of our L ones and L two s.
00:45:41.530 - 00:46:31.522, Speaker D: So everything from bitcoin, Ethereum, Salana, arbitram base, optimism, and then we're going to build out support for the DAP layer. So I think first on the docket, I don't want to speak too soon, but it's looking like it's going to be uniswap and lido, and then we're going to kind of build out, going down there. So again, as Red mentioned, we really want to take the approach of kind of threading the needle between what traditional finance is and has built out and understanding that they've done a lot of phenomenal work in how to value things and what cash flows are and why that's relevant. But we're building it greatly in a new paradigm, and there's things that don't exist before. The notion of just, like, spinning up a digital economy has never existed before, and we're going to need some of our own metrics. And so that's kind of the direction we're thinking. And again, just trying to thread the needle between tradfi and crypto native.
00:46:31.522 - 00:46:45.760, Speaker D: So a lot of great stuff on there. I think we'll probably do a live demo on this YouTube channel at some point in the near future, but definitely go to the website, check it out. I'll put the link in the description, but it's app lockworksresearch.com slash data.
00:46:47.730 - 00:47:13.062, Speaker B: Yeah, I remember like a month before we launched this. So about this time last month, Dan, you dropped know the product, and you're like, hey, try and break this. Try and figure out what information is wrong. So I have every single data provider in crypto pulled up. So naturally there's discrepancies between our data and everyone else's data, pretty much across every metric. And I'm like, Dan, you got to check this. Westy, you got to check this.
00:47:13.062 - 00:48:12.806, Speaker B: And you guys were like, I'm 100% sure that we are correct here. And just hearing your guys'confidence there was pretty sweet just to know that we have all the right information. But, yeah, definitely check that out. But some other takeaways I had from permissionless, I feel like Cosmos has a ton of stuff going for it. I feel like we've talked about it a lot, but got to know Ethan Buckman and Sam Hart a bit because I got to moderate a panel with them, and now I can officially call them my friends, which is pretty cool, but nonetheless very good. Guys, big brains, seriously just hyped up about the vision and I asked them about metamask snaps, which was also announced at permissionless, which basically lets people, honestly, it kind of turns metamask into more of like a modular product because now different teams can build different plugins for people to integrate. And now you can use cosmos chains with metamask, which in my opinion is huge for the cosmos ecosystem because having to download another wallet going centralized exchange to osmosis and then to wherever else you want to go, just the flow has been terrible.
00:48:12.806 - 00:48:42.302, Speaker B: Then you got the native USDC. So, yeah, I think the app specific chain thesis is definitely gaining steam, especially with DyDxv four main net here pretty soon. I also hosted a panel on gaming that was with Argus, Brevin, Howard, and Animoka. So kind of a wide array of speakers on that one. But I feel like everyone just really wants gaming to be where you want it to be. You know, it's got so much potential in crypto, but I think everyone also isn't really sure when that moment is actually going to come. And it was funny.
00:48:42.366 - 00:48:45.182, Speaker D: Guilty as charged. Absolutely guilty.
00:48:45.326 - 00:48:45.682, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:48:45.736 - 00:49:07.526, Speaker B: No, it was funny, though, talking to Scott from Argus because he's like an on chain Maxi. He's like, yeah, everything should be on chain. He's the creator of the Dark Forest. And then you had the investors going, whoa, I think we got to take some of this stuff off chain because these games just suck. So two completely different perspectives. And then I would also say just bullish. Salana builders.
00:49:07.526 - 00:49:29.970, Speaker B: I met the drift team. They just launched V two. Xano and Lucas, two really good guys over at Jeto. They're at like 2 million liquid Jeto soul stakes. So, I don't know, bullish on a lot of different ecosystems. And I feel like I went into this conference feeling so confident in my ideals and predictions, I guess, over the next five years, and I'm really leaving it more confused than I entered it.
00:49:30.120 - 00:49:38.070, Speaker D: I got a question for you on the gaming thing. So on chain versus off chain, what's your personal take on how much of the game needs to be on chain?
00:49:38.410 - 00:50:19.314, Speaker B: I'm in the investor camp. I think that the NFTs, the assets themselves should be on chain, and then I think that we should have a lot of stuff off chain. I think it'd be pretty cool if even you had a game on the App Store, and let's say there's tokens involved in the on chain economy. Like the hardcore users can go use the on chain game, but then the casual players can spend their ninety nine cents to buy this thing. And then that buy pressure ultimately flows on chain and the user doesn't actually even know it. And I think you get around a lot of the different NFT token gateways of the App Stores of the world. So I don't know, this is a space too where I'm really excited about.
00:50:19.352 - 00:50:59.070, Speaker D: But I have no idea what the end game looks want. I think I'm in the investor camp to your point as well, Sam. But I also agree with Matt. I haven't spent enough time to really know if that's the best answer. It's just like in my head I have the concept of just give me a runescape with the economy of the game on chain. That is all I want. That would give you a very interesting dynamic of make and you could even do this in a permissioned blockchain sense and I think it would still be interesting, right? Because Eve online, Ren, you pointed this out to me, and they have this vibrant economy, but they don't actually have any of the in game assets directly swappable for dollars, which I find very interesting.
00:50:59.070 - 00:51:01.194, Speaker D: And they have this super cool proxy.
00:51:01.242 - 00:51:01.840, Speaker A: Where.
00:51:03.910 - 00:51:46.606, Speaker D: The dollars in the game, I think they're called Isk. ISK is redeemable for the subscription to play the game on a monthly basis. And so they can change the value of the subscription. Sort of like think of it as like a fed funds lever, right? Based on how cheap or expensive this subscription is, it changes the inflow of capital into the economy, which is so interesting. And you could find all of these crazy, crazy ways to maybe I don't want to use the word manipulate, but change the dynamics of an in game economy. And I just think that'd be incredibly fun to play and experiment with in real time. And I love kind of the MMORPG style games as well.
00:51:46.606 - 00:52:42.606, Speaker D: So I just think that'd be fun. But then you got to think about who's going to build this. Are you really going to bet on a crypto native firm that loves crypto and has maybe built a decks or something within crypto and so it'd be perfect to go build the in game economy for this? Or are you going to bet on the team that has spent 20 years building out this exact game, but without the crypto element? And I really just feel like it's easier to go kind of backwards and pick up the crypto element than be crypto native and pick up how to build a fun and exciting game element. So it's like, not only does that make sense for the fun side of things, but actually creating a virtual economy, that is not an easy task. And ev online has actual economists on their team. So I don't know, a 16 and Z funded the company that built Eve online to kind of experiment with blockchains. So definitely going to be paying attention to what they're doing.
00:52:42.708 - 00:53:11.334, Speaker B: Two other takeaways from that gaming panel too, was it was a side panel, so I thought it was going to be pretty empty, to be quite frank. And it was packed. So people are interested in gaming, there's no doubt about it. And yeah, I feel very strongly about that. And then the other one was, I was like, so I feel like in 2020, everyone was like, oh yeah, imagine you can take your call of Duty gun over to Fortnite. And that was like the envision of web three gaming, super composable. And I asked them if they're bullish composability and interoperability.
00:53:11.334 - 00:53:25.360, Speaker B: And they're like, honestly, kind of bearish composability, but pretty bullish interoperability, like the ability to just cash out of one economy very seamlessly go to another game and play in that economy. And that actually made a ton of sense to me. That one hit home for me.
00:53:26.290 - 00:55:01.962, Speaker C: I'll add that as an avid gamer, or used to be an avid gamer, I'm not sure I have the time for that these days. But as an avid gamer, I'm definitely excited about onchain games. But one area that I'm also super excited about is gamified things. Right? Whether that's gamified learning, gamified work, or gamified, I don't know, I feel like I said learning already, but just like putting gamified stuff on a blockchain where you have token incentives and you directly get streamed out of US dollars for working, that feels like a very natural evolution of taking sort of the best of big tech or startup type apps and sort of like the retention that they have and putting it on blockchain, especially as the economy moves into a slightly more like freelance model, it seems like you're seeing more people do more things on the side, right? Whether that's like writing, drawing, doing a cartoon, ghost writing, and especially as sort of emerging economies come online and they have an entire plethora of talents that graduated from good universities, are super smart, very talented. It's just that they don't have many job opportunities available domestically. It seems like crypto at least from a financial payment bills perspective, has the opportunity to sort of equalize that and make those opportunities more accessible. Or for example, say you're like an AI company.
00:55:01.962 - 00:55:33.846, Speaker C: Your prompts suck today. You want to improve the results of your responses, right? You don't want to have to go build out your own platform. You don't have to go find your own customer base. So maybe someone creates like a decentralized human resource marketplace where anyone can come on, help train your models. You can stream them USDC for every prompt that they did well, and you can add some token incentives or whatever and gamify. That seems like a very natural use case of crypto, and I feel like I want to see a lot more of that happening, too.
00:55:33.948 - 00:56:10.420, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm definitely for gamified experiences as well. Ren, I couldn't agree more there, but I did want to ask one last question before we wrap up because there was a really good panel with Monad and eclipse blanking on the third party on this one, to be completely honest. But I feel like just the SVM has kind of been a big talking point. Anatolia had that one talk on stage where it got really heated with some of the other panelists and why the single shard thesis is the right way to scale blockchain. So I'm curious, how do you guys feel about the SVM on Ethereum as a roll up with Eclipse? I believe that news should be coming out soon this week.
00:56:11.110 - 00:56:51.166, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm super excited about that creation. Right? And so I actually talked to. I had a panel on the modular stack with John Adler, Cnode, and Neil from Eclipse as well. He was there and I asked him, I was like, okay, look, plugging an SVM based roll up into Ethereum, which is EVM based, got to be some complexities. Know, I can't tell you why from a developer level, but in my head, that's just like, I don't know, taking two ends of an electrical cord and trying to plug them in together when that just doesn't work. And he was like, no, it's not. And I was sitting next to John Adler on stage when I asked this question.
00:56:51.166 - 00:57:40.014, Speaker D: And John was actually, you know, I can think of a few reasons why it would actually be easier. And I was like, all right, now I'm very confident that you're not lying to me. And this is actually work is true. So getting the localized fee markets and the paralyzation of the SVM and plugging that into Ethereum's liquidity hub as a settlement layer, what else do you want? I mean, that's kind of like the best of all worlds that we have right now, and you can even expand that out into the future and say, all right, use ETH as a settlement. So put my bridge contract there, give me the liquidity based that it currently has, and I can tap into some of the liquidity, maybe even in those l two ecosystems, and then give me the cheap da from Celestia, and then I'm going to use the SVM. That kind of seems like this dream world of what we have from an infrastructure level today. So very excited about what eclipse is doing.
00:57:40.014 - 00:58:07.154, Speaker D: It seems like they've kind of bailed on the role as a service thing Neil's been very open about. They just don't see the economics behind that. And I don't know, I haven't really dove too deep on that. But in my world, I'm relatively bearish on the idea of hundred roll ups, 1000 roll ups, a million roll ups. That's like a roll up per user at this point. I think a couple of roll ups is probably the most logical starting point for me, and that's where I'm at right now. So I love to see the SVM.
00:58:07.202 - 00:58:34.782, Speaker A: All right, so I'm pushing back on all comments here. Yes, having localized fee markets on an L two is cool, but in my opinion it's somewhat worthless because you can have application specific roll ups. You're not really fighting congestion on your roll up anyways. If you launch something really cool on Arbitrum, go spin it up into an L three. If you launch something really cool on optimism, go spin up your own l two on the op stack. If it gets enough use that it's really competing for block space. And as far as.
00:58:34.782 - 00:59:03.094, Speaker A: That's why I think localized fee markets on L two is cool, but kind of worthless. And then as far as the SVM, I guess. Okay, cool. We're going to get rust developers over here, but as we've seen with arbitrum and arbitrum stylus, they're going to support a full WaSM compiler in the future if the Dow approves it. So I think that's actually way cooler. Like a WaSM compiler, you can do rust C C, so not just rust. And I think Zksync is doing something very similar with their own custom compiler.
00:59:03.094 - 00:59:28.420, Speaker A: They actually don't even use the EvM. They're going to have their own virtual machine. Likewise, they'll be able to compile multiple different languages down into, I think eventually, probably into EVM bytecode or ethereum bytecode. So realistically, not a ton of value in this. Yeah, we're going to onboard all the rust developers, which I already kind of have a problem with. At the end of the day, if you're an amazing rust developer, you can probably go learn solidity. There's other benefits.
00:59:28.420 - 01:00:01.840, Speaker A: For instance, with the Wasman compiler, you're able to come and put in custom pre compiles, so easy to comport some super complex elliptic curve into your application. Know, rewriting in solidity would just be close to impossible because it'd be too expensive. That's fucking awesome. But everything else is like, I don't know, I just don't see it as anything but cool. I do think it's cool. I just don't see it as super valuable for the roles. And then also, if you're using Celestia as your data availability layer, you're not scaling Ethereum, you're not really gaining Ethereum security.
01:00:03.490 - 01:00:41.094, Speaker D: Okay, I agree. But I think my biggest pushback will be on point one, right, because I'm still sitting in the camp where atomic composability is this thing that we haven't really figured out the true value of today. And so I'm not ready to give it up, honestly. I want apps to be fully composable with each other, especially in a financial sense. And again, I'm not going to sit here and tell you I have the silver bullet as to why, but that really feels like a major unlock of blockchains that settling for async composability, even if it's just like one block delayed, it just doesn't seem like the best move. I really feel like there's a huge unlock there. We just haven't figured it out yet.
01:00:41.094 - 01:01:00.302, Speaker D: So I'm not ready to settle to say, all right, just move them to its own app chain, l three. But I hear you there, and I do think localized fee markets are still interesting because at times of peak congestion, we've seen arbitram fees still get increased materially. Localized fee markets are elite. There's no way around it.
01:01:00.436 - 01:01:33.050, Speaker A: But do you really still have synchronous composability with localized fee markets? Correct me if I'm wrong, but if two things touch the same state, I don't think they can be composable. You can't be composable in the traditional sense and be in separate fee markets. I might be wrong here. I'm not the most well read on Solana, but I think that if you're touching Defi, which I think most people want to be able to touch the same state. So if you're touching Aave and uniswap, so you're being composable between the two, you probably can't have these transactions be in separate fee markets.
01:01:33.950 - 01:02:06.610, Speaker D: I don't want to pretend like I know the specifics here either, because my thought is basically, it wouldn't necessarily be the token contracts that are like the piece of state being altered. And it's more so the liquidity pools themselves, right? So each pool would be a different piece of state. But we definitely need to get a paralyzation genius gigabrain on here and be like, I want to know on a protocol level. Let's pretend uniswap was on the like, what does that mean for Uniswap? That would be such a fun conversation.
01:02:07.590 - 01:02:40.074, Speaker B: That's a great idea for a podcast. Honestly. We should definitely do that. Honestly, though, my biggest takeaway here is that Solana is the winner. Let's say eclipse launches and one single shard. They're the winner here, though, out of this situation, because let's say eclipse launches, a ton of liquidity migrates up there, and then you get a bunch of builders who are like, oh, now I want to learn SVM coding. And then you're going to have deployments both on this roll up and on Solana, because why not? You might as well deploy both places, and then you'd be able to see the benefits of having a layer one versus a roll up as an SVM.
01:02:40.074 - 01:02:45.220, Speaker B: So I don't know. I put the real winner as Solana for sure. And I know Anatoly says that as well.
01:02:45.830 - 01:03:37.914, Speaker C: I'll say that block space is abundant, but liquidity and network effects aren't. And I think that's become very evident in the past few months, especially as roll up after roll up launches, but also as Appchain after Appchain tells the press know they're Ethereum aligned. They're totally not like a cosmos project. I do think Solana has been winning in the grand scheme of things in the past a few months, whether that's sort of like the real integrations it has or, for example, Drip is doing really well. They have a decent amount of Defi projects launching on Solana these days, especially zeta Drift. It all seems like they're doing very interesting things. I think there's one project, I can't remember the name, but they launched zero day futures.
01:03:37.914 - 01:04:27.714, Speaker C: I hope it's a Solana project, but that was really cool. But also another point I keep on coming back to is a lot of these metrics don't matter today, right? Even your favorite blockchain protocol or your favorite network probably has like, what, 5000 daily active users? And all it takes is one consumer app to come online to blow every single user metric out of the water. I wouldn't be very surprised if near and that Cosmos app has more daily active users than every single blockchain combined together in existence. Just because it's sort of like a retail shopping app. It's found, I think, product market fit and it's generated near, like, I don't know, like what, 3.6 million transactions for today? I haven't verified that data myself, but I would guess it blows everything out of the water right now. And it's like you can discuss all you want like whatever is better tech.
01:04:27.714 - 01:04:36.126, Speaker C: But then near, which I'm pretty sure everyone had written off, suddenly comes along with one consumer app and it just shits on all of your metrics.
01:04:36.238 - 01:05:09.966, Speaker A: I think cute was the right word. At the end of the day, a lot of the applications we have today are cute and they're not. We're so early stage, like one thing can come and just blow up all these cute applications improve this infrastructure. Really. We built the infrastructure, now we need an app that gains traction among users. I think we are at a point that was another topic of conversation. I'm sorry, I know that you guys are probably trying to wrap up, but account abstraction and other ways to abstract away tough user experiences and the general public make it easier for the general public to use blockchains was another thing that kept coming up.
01:05:09.966 - 01:05:38.966, Speaker A: And I think we are seeing such significant evolutions there. And it's really cool that I think in the next bull market it might be as simple as set up a wallet. You never see a private key. Use your face ID to sign off on a transaction and you never even know you're using a blockchain. Like you have an account abstraction and someone's covering your gas costs because it's $0.03 on base anyways or wherever you're transacting. And that was just like one last thing I want to mention.
01:05:39.068 - 01:06:02.622, Speaker D: Definitely bullish on abstracting away the fact that you're using a blockchain. Matt, you sent me that goldfinch thing, and credit to you, you flagged this thing like four months ago. And I was like, I'm not looking at that. And then you pulled it up at permissionless and you were like, dude, just click the link and do it. And this Goldfinch app. Like, you click, like, three links, so you scan your face and boom, you just signed a transaction. You never knew you had a private key.
01:06:02.622 - 01:06:18.950, Speaker D: You never knew that your address was some long hexadecimal address. You don't even know what a blockchain needs. Like, you don't need to know what a blockchain is or know you're using it. It was fucking cool. I was like, all right. That was actually felt like a mass adoption moment. I was like, I can tell my mom to use this.
01:06:18.950 - 01:06:27.960, Speaker D: And it would work. That's cool. So I definitely agree. Abstracting away blockchains beyond the sense of just, like, traditional account abstraction is really cool.
01:06:28.490 - 01:06:28.854, Speaker A: Yeah.
01:06:28.892 - 01:06:55.258, Speaker B: At a web three wallet worth panel, and that was obviously a very common topic of conversation, was account abstraction. But I did find it interesting when I asked them, so what's the long term business model here for wallets? Not a single one of them could say how we're going to monetize the user base. I think everyone just thinks this is a winner takes all market. We got to get in there, outcompete metamask, make a better wallet, get the users, and then we'll figure it out later, which I just find hilarious.
01:06:55.434 - 01:06:58.110, Speaker D: Can't say sell your order flow on stage.
01:06:58.790 - 01:07:13.330, Speaker A: Sell your order flow. And then didn't metamask print, like, a billion dollars from their swap product over last year or something? Like at least a couple hundred million, which is just absurd. Plus, also, I didn't say this, but they're going to launch a token for sure, right? I think we can all assume they're going to launch a token.
01:07:13.490 - 01:07:34.234, Speaker B: Yeah, actually, I led into the question that way. I was like, so I doubt users will get railed on 1% fees forever, like in app swap. So what's the next step here? And, yeah, I think you guys are right. Payment for order flow. Anyways, that's probably a good spot to call it. Definitely. Let us know in the comments how you like the new structure with the analyst segment and then the interview.
01:07:34.234 - 01:07:41.278, Speaker B: We feel like there's two cohorts listening here, so, yeah, just drop it in the comments. But, guys, thanks for coming on the pod, and we'll see you here next week.
01:07:41.364 - 01:07:45.180, Speaker D: Yeah, appreciate it, guys. And Matt Cutler episode next week should be a good one.
