00:00:05.320 - 00:00:36.085, Speaker A: Today we're talking AMMs. AMM stands for Automated Market Makers. But what exactly is it that they do? Think of an AMM as a type of robot that manages a trading market to enable crypto exchanges. It does this by using pools of tokens that provide liquidity. Instead of an order book with buyers and sellers. AMMs operate on a mathematical formula. And the most common formula is X, Y, K, where X and Y represent the quantity of two different assets in a liquidity pool and K is a constant value.
00:00:36.085 - 00:01:21.351, Speaker A: Using this formula allows AMMs to determine prices by the ratio of assets in the liquidity pool instead of relying on a traditional order book. Now let's take a closer look at liquidity pools. They are essentially big pots of money that the AMM manages. Users, also called liquidity providers, can deposit their assets like crypto into these pools and in exchange they might receive rewards such as a share of the transaction fees. The price of assets in such liquidity pools is typically determined by the balance of the assets. For example, if a lot of people are trading Ethereum for dai, the supply of Ethereum in the pool will increase and the supply of DAI decreases, which affects the price. Now, these price movements can also bring liquidity providers into a tricky situation.
00:01:21.351 - 00:02:00.493, Speaker A: If one token of your token pair strongly moves into a certain direction and when the proportion between the tokens is out of balance, an impermanent loss can occur. Okay, now imagine you could choose exactly which price level your money works at. That would be pretty cool, right? That's exactly what concentrated liquidity pools allow. So instead of spreading your money across a wide range of prices, you concentrate it on the price levels where you think most trades will happen. Now this might sound a little bit confusing, so I'm going to show you using a Kubo. So I'm heading to ekubo.org and clicking launch app.
00:02:00.493 - 00:02:31.383, Speaker A: Here you will have the option to simply swap tokens. Let's move on to charts where you will see the total value locked and 24 hour volume. Also worth noting, next to the volume of each pool, you'll see the fees. To set up a new position, head to pool and connect your wallet. Click create new position and choose your pool. In this case I chose ETH as my base token and LORZ as my quote token. This graph is what differentiates normal AMMS to AMMS with concentrated liquidity.
00:02:31.383 - 00:02:57.815, Speaker A: Here you can select your own price range. You can manually adjust the yellow bars or click these options below. Here you can specify the amount. For this video I chose 0.02 eth then you'll see your share, the estimated APR and capital efficiency. Quick Disclaimer the APR is only a very rough estimate since it assumes the circumstances will not change over the year. It is also important to note the withdrawal fee.
00:02:57.815 - 00:03:26.155, Speaker A: This indicates how much needs to be paid when withdrawing. The Liquidity Once you're happy with what you entered, click Add Liquidity. Then after a few seconds, you'll see your new position here to adjust, click Here. You'll see a complete overview of your position. To quickly recap, concentrated liquidity pools in DEFI allow you to choose exactly where in the pool you want your money to be used, resulting in overall higher efficiency. Thank you very much for tuning in and take care. Bye.
