00:00:00.440 - 00:00:34.760, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 18 May 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours. So I actually put this tweet out earlier today and basically a list of things that I'm excited about in the Ethereum ecosystem that don't get nearly enough attention. And you know, this is for one reason or another maybe like a lot of us don't talk about it very much or it's not as marketable as something else. Right. You know, we're all well aware of like AIP 1559 and the merge and things like that, and those are really big things.
00:00:34.760 - 00:00:59.164, Speaker A: But I do believe there are tons of other kind of like major things happening within the Ethereum ecosystem that not enough people are talking about. So I'll go, I'll quickly go through my list here. I also wrote more about this in the Daily Gwen newsletter. You can go check that out for, for some links and things like that as well. But essentially the, the list goes like this. So the first thing is EIP 3074, which is going to be a major boon for user experience. Now I'll give a quick tldr here.
00:00:59.164 - 00:01:44.432, Speaker A: What this allows for is it basically replaces something called meta transactions with a new feature that basically reduces smart contract complexity, makes it more trustless to do these kind of batch transactions and have a really great user experience at the same time. Now, what does this practically mean for users? Well, you know how every time you go on like uniswap or some decentralized exchange and you have to approve a token because before you can trade it. Right. So you have to do two separate transactions. Well, what 3074 will allow developers to do is to build functionality into their smart contracts where you no longer have to do that. So you can essentially do one transaction for the approve and the swap, you know, in the same transaction. So this works to save on gas fees, of course.
00:01:44.432 - 00:02:32.132, Speaker A: And this also works to get rid of that really crappy ux where you have to approve two transactions. Now that's just scratching the surface of what this can do. Developers can basically, from my understanding, string together any number of transactions that they want and kind of like one, one transaction here, sorry, any number of actions that they want in kind of one transaction so that you can do a lot of really cool stuff around that. So yeah, that's really cool there. Next up is the Altair upgrade, which is the first ETH to network upgrade, this includes a bunch of upgrades, specifically around the incentive mechanisms and the penalties associated with like slashing, going offline, all that sort of stuff there. So, and I think it's really exciting because as I said, it's the first major ETH two upgrade. It's gonna be the first time the ETH two network hard forks, you know, as part of that network upgrade.
00:02:32.132 - 00:03:17.496, Speaker A: And it's just gonna be great to see, to see that happen. Next up we have the Ethereum core dev apprenticeship program, which I talked about, I think it was yesterday or the day before, was refuel. And essentially what this entails is it's a program that allows people to, I guess, more simply be on boarded to become an Ethereum core developer, as that kind of process has been very murky in the past, where it's been very hard to onboard. It wasn't simple in any way, and it took a lot of time people to get on boarded, and it would actually scare a lot of people from trying because it was just too much of an investment and too, too messy. So this program aims to simplify all of that. Next up, we have Daos launching grants programs. I've spoken about this before on the refill as well, about how a lot of these DeFi projects have massive treasuries now, and they're trying to kind of like find what to do with them.
00:03:17.496 - 00:04:03.912, Speaker A: And one thing they do is they create these grants programs. So we have like compound grants, Aave grants, uniswap grants, there's a bunch of others out there. And these grants work to either reward individual contributors or reward teams and stuff like that. And I think this is going to have like a very big impact on the wider ecosystem, and it's going to be able to fund a bunch of different things that wouldn't have gotten funded before. So that's really, really cool. And last up, we have aztec networks, l two, or L2 privacy tech, which I think is really, really cool, uses a lot of the same technology that we're all used to in the L2 space, but has privacy as its backbone here. Now, I think privacy is, is really underappreciated and really under discussed within the crypto ecosystem, especially for something like ethereum, where every transaction that you do is traceable, right? Like very easily you can go on ether scan and say anything you want.
00:04:03.912 - 00:04:35.436, Speaker A: And of course, like, there's a lot of financial transactions happening, so definitely need more privacy there. But Aztecs late L2 kind of role. A privacy roll up is live you can go use it right now if you just go to the aztec website or ZK money actually, and you can use it on there and kind of play around with it. So definitely check that out. But I think, you know, privacy is going to take a little while to adopt, but I hope to see privacy by default eventually. If we're all on L2s, then there's no reason for privacy not to be the default at the end of the day. So, yeah, those are just five things that I came up with.
00:04:35.436 - 00:05:22.262, Speaker A: There's plenty of other things happening within the ecosystem, of course, that to be excited about, but these are the lesser known things and I just wanted to kind of put a spotlight on that one. So Cl, everyone's favorite anon cat on Twitter today basically put out a tweet where he said he has this flippening thesis, which is essentially he says ETH has better futures market structure. There's no grayscale unlock proof of stake in q one. So the merge not polluting indefinitely, which is a narrative, right? Like how bitcoin has the really bad narrative right now around proof of work. It's the base pair and collateral for Defi, which Coinbase have now made a wallet for which I will go over in the next tweet. And it's the currency of the NFT space that is pricing in all Internet culture. You've got got 1559 and yeah, I mean, there's lots of catalysts there.
00:05:22.262 - 00:06:00.774, Speaker A: So I think looking at this, this is a lot of the stuff that I spoken about before on the refuel. So this shouldn't be coming as a surprise to any of you, but it's good to see other people that I wouldn't consider like hardcore Ethereum people kind of like clueing into this and putting the signals out there that the flippening is real. And I think it's definitely going to happen sooner than most people realize. There is just so many positive headwinds for ETH right now. ETH has been able to battle off so much fight and come back stronger. The ETH BTC ratio has obviously been trending up for a few months now and it's been going, you know, really great across the board there. We have the major catalysts that I always talk about, like 1559 and the merge and things like that.
00:06:00.774 - 00:06:40.862, Speaker A: So I won't dawdle too long on this because I speak about this all the time. But I think it's just good to see people from, you know, outside the hardcore community putting a spotlight on this and talking about that Coinbase wallet here. So essentially what this is, is basically a browser extension that allows you to connect to deFi or to defy apps or two different kind of like Ethereum apps by using the Coinbase mobile wallet app. So it's like, it's like a wallet connect kind of functionality here, which essentially allows you to kind of sign transactions on your phone, but. But use kind of like the desktop experience, sort of like what you would do with Metamask. So you can use this for basically anything that you can use metamask for. Right.
00:06:40.862 - 00:07:31.786, Speaker A: You can see it right here in the screenshot. This allows you to connect your Coinbase mobile wallet app to all of your favorite apps without having it to. Having to do it through the mobile app. Now, the reason why Coinbase has released this or released this wallet extension is because if you remember, the Coinbase used to have an inbuilt web3 browser where they would actually have like favorites and kind of app and link to different apps and stuff like that. But the App Store or the Apple App Store has a policy that you're not allowed to do that because that's like selling us. It's technically like selling a service within the app without, you know, without Apple getting a cut, which I thought was a bit stupid, but that's what it is. So this is Coinbase solution, essentially allow users to keep the Coinbase mobile wallet app, which is a great mobile wallet app, mind you, I am, I have some assets stored on there, but then also use them with, you know, all of your favorite apps on desktop without having to use it through the mobile wallet app.
00:07:31.786 - 00:08:12.042, Speaker A: So really, really glad to see this. Really happy to see Coinbase supporting more, you know, defi stuff. And, and they're really going all in on Defi here. I think that's really, really important because as I've spoken about before, you know, we have other exchanges that are rather hostile to a theory I'm right now, you know, binance obviously has BSc that they're trying to promote, FTX has Solana that they're very heavily involved in. I've seen there's other kind of like centralized exchanges now that have essentially launched their own chains trying to replicate the, the success of BSC. So it's really great to see Coinbase taking this neutral approach where they're just like, well, we're just going to support Ethereum and Defi. You know, they've supported kind of like obviously bitcoin.
00:08:12.042 - 00:09:03.856, Speaker A: And I'm sure if the light network ever matures to a certain point, they're going to support that and things like that. So, yeah, really cool to see this from Coinbase, and kudos to them for getting this out there. Speaking of mobile wallet apps, Argent, another very popular app here, one that I also use, announced today that today that they've got over $1 billion now stored across all of their argentine wallets, which are smart contract wallets for those who don't know, which basically allows you to get, you know, smart multi sig security, as they say here, one tap defi, no free seed phases, no single points of failure, and their L2 is on the way. Now, I've discussed their L2 plans on the refill before, so I won't rehash it here, but this is just really cool to see that there's over $1 billion stored in argent wallet. So over $1 billion worth of capital is trusting argent wallets to secure that capital. So, yeah, just, just awesome to see that. And I figured I'd bring that up.
00:09:03.856 - 00:09:21.992, Speaker A: As you know, Coinbase wallet isn't the only game in town. Right. You have Argent and Rainbow wallet as well, is killing it on a lot of fronts, too. So really, really great to see this. So diversify has announced a new strategic round today. So $5 million raise here. Full disclosure, I did participate in this as an angel.
00:09:21.992 - 00:09:46.614, Speaker A: I wrote a small check. But for those who don't know, divisive diversify is building a L2 Defi ecosystem on Starkware's technology. They are basically, I would. I would say they're very similar to loopering in that sense, where they're trying to build things like decentralized exchanges and ways for people to tap into Defi on L2. So, obviously, I'm bullish on diversify, as I am an investor here. I think the team is great. I think they're doing amazing work, and they've been at it for quite a while now.
00:09:46.614 - 00:10:14.104, Speaker A: So, yeah, this. This round is really great to see. And you can see, like, it's basically the who's who of Defi investors. You have parafy capital, which I think led the round, and you have defiance capital, Delphi Ventures, uh, you know, Finbushi, Starkware invested in it, too. Spartan, you know that basically most of the top tier kind of investors here. Now, for those of you who don't know, there is going to be a DVF token. This was basically a strategic round done before, I think the public kind of air drop of the token.
00:10:14.104 - 00:11:14.722, Speaker A: I'm not sure if they have the breakdown here, but there is essentially a breakdown where that says that 8% of this token is going to be airdropped to people. So if you're not using diversify, maybe it's uh, you know, it's best to get on there and start out, you know, start, start using it, not just for the potential of an airdrop, but also to, to avoid the kind of gas fees, obviously, and, and get cheaper and faster transactions and to basically, you know, learn to love Ethereum again. I've been seeing that, that comment from a lot of people lately as they use more of these L2 solutions or kind of like side chain slash commit chains, like, like polygon and stuff like that, where essentially they're saying they love Ethereum again because they get to have this really, this experience with cheap and fast transactions. Um, but like an Ethereum like experience at the end of the day, which is really, really cool. So yeah, congrats to diversify on this round. Very happy to have been included and I'm really excited to see where they go from here. So Connext network put out a blog post today that they've created this thing called the virtual amm and liquidity auction.
00:11:14.722 - 00:12:06.314, Speaker A: So this is how they're planning to solve the liquidity problem, or the fragmented liquidity problem between different chains and different L2s and stuff like that. So this is fully detailed here of how it all works. But essentially, I mean, you can read this blog post for yourself, but essentially this is the TL doctor in this screenshot here is that you have two different kind of like, I guess you can call them chains here where you have the polygon pos chain and you have the arbitrum L2 chain here. And these chains want to kind of talk to each other, right? They want to, liquidity wants to move between them. And so how do we do that without going to Ethereum's layer one? Well, you can go through the connext router, which acts as a liquidity provider or a cross chain kind of decentralized exchange, if you will, for these two platforms. And it uses state channel technology, which is a L2 technology, to, to achieve this. So that's essentially what connects, tries to do basically be the router between all different types of chains.
00:12:06.314 - 00:12:39.410, Speaker A: Doesn't matter what chain it is, doesn't matter what L2 it is. They want to be able to do this by using, you know, amm technology here. So anyway, I suggest going and reading this blog post. It gives a lot more detail about what this actually is and how it actually all works. But I'm personally very excited to see how this pans out, because I do think that liquidity fragmentation is a problem not only for L2s, but also for different chains and things like that. But once we have these bridges, it goes from a problem to an opportunity, and you can start building really cool apps with these bridges as well. So yeah, really, really cool to see these from connects.
00:12:39.410 - 00:13:23.534, Speaker A: Definitely go check out the blog post. So Scooby trooples put out a really great tweet that I really love today. Just reiterating this that I've been thinking about a lot here, but essentially he put out this tweet that said, all these ETH killers are trying to solve the scalability problem, but don't have enough usage to even have a scalability problem. Keck. Which is, Lol. This is really important because if your chain has, I guess there's two reasons why your chain would have low transactions or kind of like, I guess low transaction fees or kind of like fast transactions and things like that. So one of the reasons is that it sacrifices decentralization for scale, right? Which is essentially true for every non L2 chain.
00:13:23.534 - 00:13:53.000, Speaker A: I mean, to be fair, it's even true for the polygon pos chain. There's, yes, they have over 100 validators, right? Securing the network. But it is not as decentralized as Ethereum. I love, obviously love polygon, but it is not as decentralized as Ethereum. So they can achieve a greater scale because of that. That's not to say it's bad or anything like that, but generally, Ethereum could scale more if it wanted to on layer one, but it doesn't want to sacrifice the incredible decentralization that it has. And secondly, you know, these platforms will tout.
00:13:53.000 - 00:14:22.806, Speaker A: They've got like 50,000 transactions per second. And this, sorry, this feeds into the first point where they'll tout this. But again, they'll never tell you that they're centralized or they're way more centralized than Ethereum. They're always going to try to sell you on a narrative or something like that. So that's where a lot of this comes from. And also, if you have no users, users at all, and you're not generating any fee revenue, then, I mean, you're not gonna have kind of like these scalability problems and you're solving for nothing. It's essentially building, as I said here, a ghost chain or like a ghost city, whatever.
00:14:22.806 - 00:15:15.984, Speaker A: And I've spoken about this before, so I won't kind of like dawdle on them on too much here. But I think this is just a really great way of putting it at the end of the day. But yeah, as I said, I won't dawdle too much here. I just thought it was interesting. And I think that. I think that it's something to keep in mind when you're comparing different chains to aetherium and even just like different chains to, to bitcoin and kind of like other, other chains out there, you always need to look at, okay, where is this scalability coming from? How are they achieving this, and what are they giving up to achieve it? On that note, I did want to kind of like re, I guess, like, uh, I guess shine a light on this post from Vitalik that he put out back in October of 2020 called a roll up centric Ethereum roadmap, because there's a lot of new users into the crypto, especially Ethereum ecosystem. Since this post was published, and I think this is basically required reading for anyone in the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:15:15.984 - 00:16:04.940, Speaker A: Like, it's not very long, but if you want to understand the future of Ethereum, how it's going to scale and what it's kind of like, scalability roadmap looks like Vitalik's post here is it. And the TLDR of it is essentially that ETH two and sharding and L2 are all complementary technologies. They do not kind of like, they're not parasitic to each other. Just because we have ETH two coming with sharding doesn't mean that L2 becomes obsolete. What, what sharding does is it actually enhances L2 and gives us even more scalability at L2. And the roadmap for Ethereum is basically to do this right, keep layer one as decentralized and secure as possible while scaling via L2. And obviously, I'm preaching to the choir here, and I've spoken about this a lot on the refuel, so I won't, I won't rehash it again here, but definitely go give this a read.
00:16:04.940 - 00:16:44.190, Speaker A: Like, I mean, I highly recommend this to everyone, and if you don't read this, you will continue being confused. Because I think a lot of people are confused by the ETH two sharding, L2 thing, and they think that, you know, one sharding gets here, L2 is dead, and there's no point to it. That that's, that can't be further from the truth. So, yeah, just definitely go, go give this a read here. So Mariano put out a tweet, I think it was yesterday, where he said, the number one reason I'm bullish on Ethereum is because I'm building on it and so are all my friends. I mean, this is the bull case, right? The developers. The developers have so much power in this ecosystem, they, a lot of them are in it for the tech.
00:16:44.190 - 00:17:28.634, Speaker A: A lot of them don't want to just make like a quick buck and just exit scam or whatever, or just like go build on another chain that doesn't, you know, fit in with their values. Right. This is why you don't see a lot of teams focusing on other chains like whether that be BSc or like, you know, any number of the other chains out there, because they want to build on Ethereum. And at the end of the day, the developers, you know, are the ones which the users follow. So if the developers build something on it on Ethereum, then the users follow that, the users are going to use it. And then when we have L2s, the developers are going to have such an amazing design space to start building better applications on without the constraints of the layer one main net with, with gas costs and things like that. And I guess like problems with speed and stuff like that.
00:17:28.634 - 00:18:22.060, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, I couldn't have put it better myself, I think Mariano, you know, at home here with this tweet. So the universe XYZ whitepaper is out here. So essentially what this is, it's basically a meta universe guess, targeting kind of like nfts and, and kind of like things like that. They describe themselves here as like the universe protocol or a dow for kind of like kind of like nfts and transforming nfts from standalone objects into franchises of collections and things like that. But basically what this white paper details is, you know, how it all works, you know, how the auctions work, how the royalties work, stuff like that, how all the collections are going to work, how their dao is going to work. So there's actually going to be a token involved and you'll be able to farm this token too. And this is the first yield farm that I've seen in quite a while that's going to allow you to farm with just naked tokens.
00:18:22.060 - 00:18:53.614, Speaker A: So typically you'll need to kind of like put lp tokens up, which exposes you to impermanent loss. But essentially what this farm lets you do is just put up any of these tokens to farm these XYZ tokens. So yeah, definitely, if you're interested, go, go. I guess like check this out. It's not live yet. I'm sure it's gonna be live soon, but yeah, this is one of our project that I've been following for quite a while. For those who don't know, this project was actually the Pepe Pepe NFT project originally, but stuff happened around there with the original creator and things like that.
00:18:53.614 - 00:19:20.450, Speaker A: So the project needed to kind of reimagine themselves. And I was an early contributor. So I guess just to disclose here that I'm part of this contributors og section here. So I'll be getting airdrops from tokens from this. But I think that the project is really cool. It's backed up by a lot of people in the ecosystem that I highly respect and that know what they're doing when it comes to this sort of stuff and how to build products. And I really do think that nfts right now in a little bit of a bear market, but that doesn't mean that they're going away or going to, you know, permanently go away.
00:19:20.450 - 00:20:08.958, Speaker A: The NFT kind of design space is still huge and there's still much left to develop and to explore here. So I'm very, very excited to see how universe handles all of this and what they build here. So Stani is out there teasing ave pro for institutions again here. So he basically put out a screenshot of basically and then captioned it with Ave pro for institutions, which led to a bit of mixed feelings, I think. And I spoke about this the first time Stein kind of tease this on Twitter, where people are worried that this is going to invite unnecessary kind of regulations and kind of like Kyc AML into the ecosystem. And some people are actually saying that we shouldn't be building this stuff, which I actually think is quite insane. Like, I don't believe in policing people about what they should or shouldn't build.
00:20:08.958 - 00:20:36.746, Speaker A: The fact that this is a permissionless platform and you can build whatever you want is what you just have to deal with. You cannot say to someone, oh, you shouldn't be building this because of X, Y and Z. Well, I mean, yes, okay, maybe if it's a scam, you should be telling people, well, you're building this and it's a scam. Like, we're going to denounce you. Right, but this isn't a scam. Like, this is just an ave liquidity kind of market for institutions who, who aren't able to play in the normal defi markets. Like because they're just bound by regulations, they can't do it.
00:20:36.746 - 00:21:25.594, Speaker A: Like, it's impossible for them to do it. So instead of them having to struggle and not adopt this technology at all, why not help them on board to this technology and do that in a controlled ecosystem that they are allowed to essentially experiment in and play around in while having the safety that they need. Essentially. This is like, I guess, a special economic zone for institutions where DeFi and the wider Ethereum open space is kind of like the normal economy, but then you have these little pockets where institutions can play in to get comfortable with this sort of stuff. Then they can hopefully move on to the more public stuff here, which I think they will. I don't think they're going to be stuck doing these kind of like, you know, private liquidity pools and stuff like that forever. I do believe that they're going to transition to the public stuff because there's just more opportunity there and it's more kind of like, credibly neutral, as I've discussed before.
00:21:25.594 - 00:22:06.100, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but there's lots of discussions, I guess, in the comments about this and about people's concerns and things like that and about, you know, how this is, I mean, not even just in the comments, but in the, quote, tweets as well and about how this is potentially going against what DeFi stands for. And people shouldn't be supporting this. I don't know. I take the other side of this. Like, you can support this while simultaneously thinking that KYC and AML are ridiculous, which I do think they are, and, you know, believing that we should all be able to go bankless and there shouldn't be any of this sort of stuff and anyone should be able to access this. But at the end of the day, the institutions themselves would have built this stuff, you know, on their own if they weren't going to tap into these other things, it would take them longer, but they would eventually build it.
00:22:06.100 - 00:22:51.724, Speaker A: So why not kind of, like, use the Trojan horse of these kind of private institutional pools to kind of, like, defi pill these institutions and get them playing in the public markets. And I can't, you know, think of a better team than Aave to kind of be onboarding them here and to doing that, because Aave definitely believes in, you know, a truly decentralized financial future. So, yeah, really, really awesome to see this playing out here. And I think the, the, you know, the, the concerns around this are definitely overblown at the end of the day. So a coindesk? I guess not coindesk. Zappa announced that they have raised a $15 million series a here, and coindesk obviously covered it. Framework Ventures led the round, and I discussed framework ventures yesterday and about how they raised a new $100 million round.
00:22:51.724 - 00:23:24.128, Speaker A: But essentially, there was participation from people like Mark Cuban as well, which is really, really cool to see, and Ashton Kutcher, which was a bit random. That was funny to see as well. But, you know, some celebrities on board with this, with this round here, and this follows their seed round that they completed in November of 2020, which I actually participated in. So just the disclosure there. But, I mean, we all know and love Zappa, right? This is. I mean, I use Zappa every single day. It is the best tool for, in my opinion, for tracking, you know, all of your assets, where they all are, you know, best tool for kind of.
00:23:24.128 - 00:23:58.214, Speaker A: They've got these things called zaps, where you can get into and out of different positions within Defi, and there's a bunch of other features that they've got now, like they let you bridge your liquidity over to other networks. I mean, they're building so much behind the scenes as well. They've been teasing a mobile wallet app for quite a while, which I. Which I think will be ready eventually, or, sorry, ready ready sooner rather than later. But, yeah, really great to see this, I guess. Congrats to them for this raise. And their previous investors during the seed were also big names, including Coinbase Ventures and Coin fund, and Kane from Synthetix and paraphy and scale.
00:23:58.214 - 00:24:25.598, Speaker A: I mean, you know, you would have seen a lot of these names around there, so really, really, really cool to see this. And, you know, I. $15 million is a lot. They're going to be building out, expanding the team, I'm sure, and I can't wait to see what they get up to over the next. Coming over the coming months. So, last up, we. I have this question here, and I didn't answer this on Twitter because I wanted to answer it on the refuel, because I believe that some of you may have gotten confused about this, but it was a question from Nacion here.
00:24:25.598 - 00:25:32.690, Speaker A: He basically asked on that yesterday on the refuel, I said that other chains want to take business away from ETH because their token increases in value with adoption, unlike Polygon. But why wouldn't Polygon have the same incentives? Now, I want to clarify this and say that I didn't mean to imply that Polygon or the Matic token is unlike this, but what I did want to kind of like I talk about is how I believe that the Matic token going up in value does not take away from ETH going up in value. And this is actually a wider discussion, so maybe I'll take a step back here and talk about things that, because this is a discussion that I see typically play out in the ecosystem a lot. And it played out a lot last year where people said, well, if, you know, Defi is a massive driver of its value or Ethereum network's value, then you may as well just buy Defi tokens and not buy ETH. This was a popular narrative last year and that I was obviously wrong. Right. But the reason why this was popular is because people believed that you could just speculate on the application layer and leave, and leave the protocol layer, and they didn't understand the value drivers for east.
00:25:32.690 - 00:26:01.774, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to rehash the value drivers. I've talked about that a lot. Right. The TL doctor is that ease value comes from 1559, staking and trust as collateral in Defi. And it's uses money within kind of like ecosystems, like nfts. But that was like a popular talking point, right? And what this all comes back to is, you know, if one token price is going up, does that affect another token price? Well, you could make the argument that if someone puts $1,000 into matic, right, that's $1,000 that didn't go into ETH. But I don't view it like that.
00:26:01.774 - 00:26:40.104, Speaker A: Markets don't work like that. People don't just own one asset. I do think that people can own multiple assets, and I do think that it's all additive. At the end of the day, I think that Polygon adds a ton of value to Ethereum, both from being socially and politically aligned, but also technically aligned. You know, Polygon, as I've discussed before, that the PoS chain actually pays Ethereum gas fees because all the staking logic lives on Ethereum, and it commits itself to a theorem periodically as well. So. And my comments around other chains and why they are competitive, it wasn't just around their token being competitive to ETH, but it was also around how they approach it.
00:26:40.104 - 00:27:13.536, Speaker A: These other chains want to take value away from ETH, right? They openly, they're open about this. They want to make sure that their token becomes the centerpiece of their ecosystem, or else they wouldn't have a token. You've seen this play out with BSC, where they want BNB to be the centerpiece, right? They have BNB for fees on. On BSC, and they're not going to change that. Now, I know Polygon has matic tokens for fees on. On the Polygon pos chain, but the mat, the team has signaled that they, they have plans to integrate ETH as a fee token as well. And I know the team personally, they're all massive ETH balls.
00:27:13.536 - 00:27:36.872, Speaker A: They hold, you know, lots of ethanol, that good stuff as well. Whereas I think a lot of these other competitor teams don't. I think they hold their, their tokens, like, whether it be Solana, they hold soul. You know, I know that the Eos people, they sold all their ETH from the ICO. They bought bitcoin with it. So now they have BTC and EOs. They definitely don't care about ETH going up in value, and they don't want it to go up in value and then all the other ecosystems as well.
00:27:36.872 - 00:28:01.336, Speaker A: So, you know, not everyone is going to. Not going to be of someone who doesn't hold any ETH. But I think that at the end of the day, you know, there's, there's enough money to go around. And I think the markets don't work as simply as if a $1,000 goes into this. It wouldn't, it didn't go into this. That means, like, you know, this took money away from this, because you could say that if a $1,000 goes into ETH, that means a $1,000 didn't go into like, the thousands of other crypto currencies. And that would be true too.
00:28:01.336 - 00:28:42.774, Speaker A: But I think that's the wrong framing here. And I. Yeah, as I said, I didn't mean to imply that the, the kind of other chains don't take. Sorry, that Polygon takes business away from, from ETH if its token goes up in value, whatever or whatever like that. I think that Polygon being as aligned as it is with Ethereum, is just very good for Ethereum and net positive for, for the value of Ethereum. You know, even though, you know, there's a lot of debate right now about Polygon, the pos chain and it not being like a, quote unquote true L2 and it being more like a side chain or a commit chain. I mean, I get all those comments, but at the end of the day, to me, it's more about the, the kind of social and political side of it and the technology side evolves over time and things like that.
00:28:42.774 - 00:29:12.328, Speaker A: So I don't think that, that the polygon, you know, ecosystem has the same incentives as the other ones. I think that polygon or Matic network has always been an Ethereum scaling solution. They've always positioned themselves as that. They have never tried to be anything but that. And if you think the other L2 or the other scalability solutions, whether they be L2 or otherwise aren't going to issue their own token, then you're fooling yourself. They're all going to have a token, right? Whatever that token is for is up to them. But I'm telling you right now, Starkware is going to have a token.
00:29:12.328 - 00:29:58.766, Speaker A: Arbitrum optimism. ZK Sync I don't have any inside information here. I don't know if they will for sure, but I'm telling you that I believe they will. Because at the end of the day, tokens act as a way to, a very good way to obviously coordinate capital, right? If, whether it be a dow do kind of governance things act as like, staking tokens as well, because to decentralize L2s, you need to incentivize people to run the nodes. And to do that, you need to kind of like, have some monetary reward, at least to bootstrap it. And obviously, it's, it's a way for the team and investors to kind of like, monetize the protocol as well and things like that. But I do believe these L2s are just going to keep ETH as the fee token at the end of the day, because it actually makes more sense for them to do that because these L2s have to collect a small fee anyway, so they can pay the fees to layer one.
00:29:58.766 - 00:30:45.832, Speaker A: So essentially that east just gets burned or whatever. So, yeah, from that perspective, I think that if you're talking about, you know, if, you know, what tokens are parasitic to whatever other tokens, because someone invests in that instead of buying that, I don't think that's just the right framework to look at these things. And it goes a lot deeper than what I have time to discuss today. You could do, like, you know, case studies on this and research into this, but I think the proof is in the markets has the adoption of, you know, Defi, and DeFi tokens has the adoption of other kind of, um, networks, like, you know, even BSc, with the value of BNB going up and, and kind of like polygon, like a side chain or whatever going up and stuff like that. Has that taken away from the value of ETH? I would say it hasn't. I mean, ETH went to $4,400. Yes, it's come down because the whole market sold off.
00:30:45.832 - 00:31:22.188, Speaker A: But I would say that the value of ETH has. ETH has its own value drivers, and the matic token has its own value drivers, and all the other tokens have their own value drivers. And it depends on, you know, how many, how much people value this and I think that people can own multiple tokens, right? You know, I think that most people hold a lot of their portfolio in ETH. Then they might speculate on Defi tokens because there's more risk there. And then they might speculate and buy other tokens like L2 tokens or whatever at the end of the day as well. So hopefully that answers your question. Nazion, I will actually link this to him, link the video to him because I didn't actually reply here but I just figured it was important to clarify my comments on, on the refill.
00:31:22.188 - 00:31:36.284, Speaker A: So yeah, I'll leave it at that. That's it for today's episode. So thank you everyone, everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
