00:00:00.720 - 00:00:29.354, Speaker A: Good morning, class. Nice to see you all. Maybe I'll just pull this a little bit, too. So it's cliffhanger day today. I'll say more about. Everything's working, I guess. No one's complaining.
00:00:29.354 - 00:01:08.084, Speaker A: I'll say more about Alen Khan's approach to the index theorem. What I'm going to. You'll see, as we go through today's material, that there are a couple of issues which are left up for grabs. There's going to be one or two analytical issues in such and such a continuous field and so on that I'm not going to spend time on. These things are dealt with in a similar way to the things that we've dealt with already. And then there are things in K theory. We have officially only a modest acquaintance with K theory in this class.
00:01:08.084 - 00:01:54.234, Speaker A: And in order to seal the deal in the index theorem and write down an actual formula, you need to. Need to know more about K theory. You need to be able to calculate certain isomorphisms which we don't have the technology to do so in this class today. So that's what's going to happen. I'll indicate the lay of the land, the way the argument goes, but there'll be one or two places where we'll just leave. Leave some details for your imagination. However, it's possible to strip down the argument that I'm about to give when you deal with certain specific operators, Dirac operators.
00:01:54.234 - 00:02:23.070, Speaker A: And so in the next lecture. Oh, yes, we need the. Oh, it's the fish eye now. Wow. What's it doing? It's crazy. It's like, it's what exactly what the people in Hollywood are striking about. It's talented professionals being replaced by AI.
00:02:23.070 - 00:02:43.024, Speaker A: That's exactly what's happening, and we are witnessing it. In this class, our brilliant cinematographer has been made superfluous. Just a few lines of code and that's it. Terrible. Anyway, on Friday, we'll. No, Thursday will. I'll show you a stripped down argument.
00:02:43.024 - 00:03:26.504, Speaker A: I mean, it's still a complete argument, but it makes some of the things which are left, going to be left mysterious today a little more explicit. That's the good news. Everything is more concrete, will be more concrete on Thursday than it is today. The bad news is that we'll be looking specifically at the Dirac operating. But, I mean, who cares about anything except the Dirac operators? All right, so here is the main construction, which we already talked about a little bit on all those days ago. On the last Thursday, we had a class. Suppose you have a lead group point.
00:03:26.504 - 00:04:16.858, Speaker A: And a manifold, smooth manifold on which g acts. And what does that mean? Well, let's suppose we're also given a morphism. Smooth map. Well, a map, let's just say to begin with, from g into the group of diffeomorphisms of e, which is a functor. This is a group. And so it's a category with one object, and g is a groupoid. So it's a category with potentially many objects.
00:04:16.858 - 00:05:07.554, Speaker A: But you can talk about a functor from one category to the other. What it does on objects is predetermined because this only has one object. So every object goes to the unique object in this group oid, which is just the identity element of the group, and it should be functorial. So the key condition is that alpha of any composition should be the composition of the alphas. Whenever this makes sense, it should be true. And we'd like this action map. This is a big infinite dimensional space, so we don't want to discuss what it is as a Manifold.
00:05:07.554 - 00:06:07.642, Speaker A: But what's relevant here is that this action map should be smooth. Obviously, gamma e goes to Alpha of gamma, apply it to eat. This should be smooth. All right, so this is what we're going to play around with. And it's worth saying that more general arrangements are possible. More general possibilities exist, because when a group oid acts on a space, I mean, a group oid is like a family of groups. And so an action of a group oid on a space should really be an action of a group oid on a family of spaces, or a family of actions of groups on a space.
00:06:07.642 - 00:06:43.504, Speaker A: Somehow it's possible to build more fancy actions. And roughly speaking, if you're thinking of a group oid as some sort of family of groups, then we're StudyinG here actions of groupoids on some sort of family of spaces, in which we're dealing with constant families of spaces. They're all just e. But you could make a more general thing construction here if you wanted to. Good reasons for doing it, but not exactly. Those more general constructions aren't exactly going to be relevant today. Anyway, here's the thing that we briefly discussed last time.
00:06:43.504 - 00:07:47.514, Speaker A: It's just a construction. We already saw it in the simplified situation where big g was a group, it's just triples. So in e times g times e, I'll keep writing that down such that e two, you can get to e two by applying alpha to gamma and then applying that to e one. And this thing is, this new thing is a groupoid too, because you can define the source of Abbb. Well, you just apply the source map to gamma and then e one. So that'll put you in whatever the objects are for g. You've used to be calling that w times e, and same thing for the range.
00:07:47.514 - 00:10:13.700, Speaker A: It's sort of annoying that you have to put the range of gamma on the other side of e two, but nothing to be done about that. Yeah, so w here is the objects of gift, and there's an obvious composition law, which we discussed last time, which is a formula that we've seen in some variations, again and again and again like that. And so this new thing is a newly groupoid cross product or transformation groupoid associated with this action above. And just a little remark which I'll make just once. The source fibers of this thing are the same as source fibers of G itself by projection onto the g factor in these triples. If you want to look at all triples which begin with e one, which started at some e one, w w e one. Well, that determines what e one is.
00:10:13.700 - 00:11:00.452, Speaker A: And once you know what e one is, and you know what gamma is, you know what e two is. So the projection from a source fiber along the middle projection down to G itself will be a diffeomorphism from the source fiber inside of G. Acu on e to a source fiber inside of G. They're all the same source fibers. They have the same, I mean, they're diffumorphic as manifolds. So when we come to building, remember all the nightmarish, nightmarish discussions we had about densities and so on in the French, when we come to building convolution algebra using densities, or not, as the case may be. Well, we've already done it once.
00:11:00.452 - 00:11:28.478, Speaker A: If we've already done it for G, we don't have to do it again for g times e. That's the point. All right, good. So what do we want to do with this? Well, we want to look at some examples. Of course. Somehow we want to make an example which has to do with the tangent groupoid of a manifold m. But one thing at a time.
00:11:28.478 - 00:12:43.884, Speaker A: Let's just go kind of slowly to get a sense of what this is going to do for us and why Alain was interested in this construction. Let's consider just a few easy cases. To begin with. If G is a group, so G itself is a category of one object, not just this, you know, this other group dip that we have over here. If G is a group, then this is a construction we've already seen because the very first time I uttered the word group oid in this room, we considered exactly this construction in the special case where big g was just a little g, just a regular group. Okay? And now we're just making, just want to focus in a little bit on some simple cases, acting freely and properly, or principally, as they say, on b in this case. So this is an object we all ready defined.
00:12:43.884 - 00:13:13.584, Speaker A: And you can write this fellow as the following. It's, you can just look at pairs g e. I guess you'll call it g one e one g two e. 02:00 a.m. i. Doing this the right way. Let me just check my notation, make sure I want to.
00:13:13.584 - 00:14:25.472, Speaker A: Yeah. So I don't even need the g here. So let me try to speak in a complete sentence. If G is acting freely on e, and if we consider aeee two e one, then e two and e one alone are enough to tell you what g is. The projection map from e just to e two e one. That's going to be one to one. I mean, you won't necessarily hit all pairs e two e one, because this action may not be transitive.
00:14:25.472 - 00:15:40.402, Speaker A: There may be no way of getting from e one to e two by applying a group element g. But if there is a way, it's unique. There's only one g, which just does the job. So we could drop, as we did early on when we were studying the tangent group, or we could drop the fellow g from the notation. And if we did that, we would end up with the following description of this semi direct product like this. So what we're doing here is we're projecting onto the first and third factors in this threefold product situation. What's PI? Well, it's just the obvious quotient map from e for the space you get by dividing e by g, the set of all orbits, because the action is free and proper.
00:15:40.402 - 00:16:18.534, Speaker A: This thing here is a smooth manifold. What's a proper action? Well, let's just say it's an action with the property that g mod e. This fellow here is a smooth manifold. What do I mean by that? I mean that if you define a sheath of functions on this space to be all of the functions you get by looking at smooth functions on e, which are constant on orbits. And that is the smooth sheet for smooth functions, for a smooth structure on g mod e. Because the action is assumed to be nice. This thing, in a natural way, is a smooth manifold.
00:16:18.534 - 00:16:55.594, Speaker A: The function on this guy is smooth if and only if its composition with this projection map is a smooth function back on E. Great. And what we're looking at here is just this construction, which doesn't depend anymore on the group, it just depends on this item from geometry. If you like this smooth map between two smooth manifolds, this submersion from one smooth manifold to another. So the group has gone, and what's left is just some, some geometry. The geometry of this map over this manifold, g mod e. Don't know how to say it.
00:16:55.594 - 00:17:47.874, Speaker A: Mod ge, I don't know. Anyway, this over the orbit space, there is a sort of, sort of in quotation marks bundle whose fibers are the g orbits. And that's the geometry I'm talking about. So let me not say so. Yeah, this map here is not just a diffeomorphism. The above is an isomorphism, the diffeomorphism and an equivalence of groupoid. So it's an isomorphism of lead groupoids.
00:17:47.874 - 00:18:59.236, Speaker A: In this situation, when the action is free and proper, the group or g cross e, it doesn't actually depend on G, it just depends on the orbits of G. As we saw when we were first defining the tangent group, we'd find it using actions which were, which were indeed free and proper, in fact, free and proper and transitive. And we already made this observation great. On the other hand, we had a little discussion about k theory last time, and one of the things we observed is that if you look at groupoids which come from submersions like this one does, then there's a simple formula for what the k theory is. There's a canonical isomorphism like this. Well, first of all, here's our groupoid, and thanks to the isomorphism I've written above, that's the same thing. I'm not sure how I'll write it, how I did write it, but I'll write it like this.
00:18:59.236 - 00:19:45.720, Speaker A: Now that's the same thing as the groupoid or this k theory of the siesta algebra. The groupoid written on the right hand side above, just pairs e two, e one which project to the same point. And this is what we observed last time. This is just the k theory of the seaster algebra of functions on the space, which is g modding. So when we were listing the desired, desirable, useful properties of k theory, this was one of them. If you build a non commutative sea star algebra this way, it's not actually that complicated at all. I mean, full stop, it's not complicated at all.
00:19:45.720 - 00:20:39.074, Speaker A: But in particular, its k theory is not complicated at all. It's just the k theory of some space and I say just there, because our running assumption is that we have access to experts in algebraic topology who can calculate for us and understand for us the k theory of any reasonable topological space. Those experts, I guess I'm supposed to be one, but they're basically, we're not supposing that we are those experts. We're imagining that we have access to such an expert. Okay, so in this particular case, the cross product construction has the desirable, desirable effect, you might say, which is that after you make this construction, the groupoid and its k theory become easy. Let's look at another example. Let's fancify this example up a little bit.
00:20:39.074 - 00:22:34.694, Speaker A: Suppose we have a vector bundle over a smooth manifold. Of course, I'm thinking about the tangent bundle, which we saw playing a very significant role in the tangent group. But right now, any vector bundle will do. Suppose we have a map like this, and embedding into a constant bundle, trivial bundle, that's the same thing for this fellow here, is just some fixed real vector space, finite dimension that's real, not real. That's the same thing as just specifying a map alpha. If this is an embedding of vector bundles, then what happens? The formula for what happens in this component here is prescribed, because any map of vector bundles must be a map over the base space m. So all you're really doing is you're prescribing a map alpha like this, with the property that alpha of v one plus v two is equal to alpha of v one plus alpha of v two.
00:22:34.694 - 00:24:32.374, Speaker A: V one and v two lie in the same fiber of the vector bundle v, which is to say, all you're doing is you're giving an instance of this construction over here. So if we think of v as a leogrupoid, then we can apply this construction, our new today construction. Say again? Ah, yes. I think that maybe if I add a little more detail here, your question will be answered. So think of here e as included in the collection, the group of all diffeomorphisms of either as the translations. So where the alpha which has been given here doesn't look like an map alpha into the diffumorphisms of e, until you remember that each element of e gives a diffomorphism of e by translation. Thank you.
00:24:32.374 - 00:25:51.552, Speaker A: And what is this thing that we've built? Well, let q be the quotient vector bundle that you get by dividing the vector bundle by v. I write v. Maybe I should write alpha of v, the image of v under this embedding. So this is a quotient vector bundle. And let's give a name for this. Let PI be the quotient. And now let's think about what this construction over here of the transformation groupoid does.
00:25:51.552 - 00:26:50.244, Speaker A: So what are we dealing with here? We're dealing with triples consisting of two vectors in e and a vector in some, you know, arbitrary fiber of the vector bundle v. And the condition is this condition here. Of course, we should now write this additively, e two is alpha of v plus e one. Okay, so the condition, and once again, alpha is assumed to be an embedding. So if there is a v one such that e two minus e one is alpha of v one, I should have just called it v. If there is a little v such that e two minus e one is alpha of v, then that v is unique, at least in any given fiber of the vector bundle. So I can write this transformation groupoid made out of triples in a more economical way, because e two e one basically determine gamma.
00:26:50.244 - 00:28:12.014, Speaker A: Not exactly, because you also have to remember which fiber you're in, but the following will do it. V, sort of as a groupoid acting on e, is just the set of pairs like this, such that PI of m e two is equal to PI and e one. And the map is, well, you know what, e two. And so we want to map from the right hand side to the left hand side. And clearly, so we have to specify for each of these fellows over here, a triple and e two gamma, e one triple. And what's it going to be? Well, it's going to be e two in the first slot, and then e two minus e one in the second slot, and then e one in the third slot. And e two minus e one is required, thanks to this condition, to be in the, in the fiber of the vector bundle v over the point m.
00:28:12.014 - 00:29:11.370, Speaker A: And so you can write it in gamma form, so to speak, as on the left hand board. Okay, so we're again in a very easy situation. This is again an isomorphism of ligurpoids. And so by this discussion, what we have is that the k theory of the c star algebra of v, excuse me, acting on e, is equal to the k theory of the space c. Zero functions on the space q. Spaces, spaces, spaces, geometry, geometry, geometry. No, no, you know, no operators or non commutative nothing.
00:29:11.370 - 00:30:34.366, Speaker A: It's just spaces that we're dealing with. All right, one more example. Somewhere maybe we'll it. So let's start now with a smooth manifold, which I guess we sort of had before, and let's do the following thing. Let's just consider any map from m into the group of diffiemorphisms of either. So this is any map with some modest smoothness property. For example, this one, the action map that we were discussing before.
00:30:34.366 - 00:31:03.218, Speaker A: Let's assume that it's smooth. Did I give it a name? Yes. Hi. Yeah, I'm going to jazz this up in the next line. Maybe that will help. So now let g be a groupoid that we've seen, the so called pair groupoid. The, instead of all m two, comma m one s, with the obvious, the objects are just m, and the source and range map are the two projections.
00:31:03.218 - 00:32:53.842, Speaker A: And composition is given by the usual formula, this formula here, except the e's should be m's and there shouldn't be any gammas. Okay, then you can build an alpha just by taking h of m two inverse h of, so that attaches to each morphism in this category, a diffeomorphism. And the composition property is satisfied, evidently just by staring at it. All right, and so you can ask, what do you get? And the answer is pretty simple. Yeah, you. Oh, thank you very much. So here's yet another submersion called PI.
00:32:53.842 - 00:33:53.454, Speaker A: We could take PI and evaluate it, excuse me, we could take m and evaluate h on it. Now it's a diffumorphism. So this we can apply to e like that. Then this groupoid that we've constructed is just going to be one of these groupoids associated to a submersion like that. And so what should we do? We'll take m two, comma m one, comma e one e two. That's what something in this groupoid looks like. And we'll send it to.
00:33:53.454 - 00:34:43.634, Speaker A: And now we need two pairs, and the correct pairs are something like this, m one, h of m one. Oops, sorry. We should do the twos first. Yeah. And the question is, did I get there? Maybe I want inverses here. It's a little bit better. So second.
00:34:43.634 - 00:35:34.510, Speaker A: Ah, yes. So if I apply this PI to either of these, I get no. So it's not quite right. If I apply, maybe I just want to put me two here. Yeah, my apologies. If I apply PI to m two e two, I'll get h of m two e two. And if I apply PI to m one, comma e one, I'll get h of m one, e one.
00:35:34.510 - 00:37:01.414, Speaker A: And so the question is, is it true that h of m two e two is equal to h of m one e one? Well, yeah, because that follows from this definition here, the way we defined alpha, and then the formula for the transformation group void here, as long as I got the inverses right. Ah, which I did. Miraculous what I just did in my head, and in pantomime, by pointing to things, was argue that this map here is at least well defined. It goes from this set into this set, and I leave it to you to check that this map is a bijection, is a diffeomorphism, and is an isomorphism of group points. That's what this guy needs. So once again, we're in a situation where we can perfectly well understand what is the sea star algebra of the groupoid. We're in this same situation we were in before, and the k theory, to skip a couple of steps, the k theory of seastar algebra, in this particular case of our construction, comes equipped with a canonical isomorphism to the k theory of c zero of, well, the quotient space which was just e like that.
00:37:01.414 - 00:38:17.194, Speaker A: The tangent groupoid is made up out of easy groupoids which are like the one we've just discussed together, with slightly more complicated groupoids related to vector bundles like we also discussed here. And in each case, the, the cross product object, the transformation groupoid which you build from those parts, is quite easy to understand, both as a groupoid and from the perspective of k theory. Of course, we want to glue everything together, so we'll get to that in a moment. But this is one construction which, well, it's from Alan's point of view, it simplifies the k theory of the sea star algebra of a vector bundle, because it turns the sea star algebra of a vector bundle into the sea star algebra of a space, a c zero space. Of course, the sea star algebra of a vector bundle is already some abelian thing. So by Gelfand and Nimarch, it's already a space which is not the same as this space here. But this is a construction which applies simultaneously to vector bundles m to n times m, in a way which we'll see is in ways which we shall see are compatible with one another.
00:38:17.194 - 00:39:50.024, Speaker A: Okay, so we had an easy construction and a few easy examples, and let me add to that a few theorems which are not so easy, but not so hard either. So maybe, I think hopefully by now this notation is internalized. I'm going to consider for the rest of the talk, actions which are always by translations on e, which will always be a vector space. It could have been, I can't remember what I said now that I just erased this, but at the beginning it could have been any smooth manifold, although in these examples it was just in a vector space. So e equals a real vector space, an alpha, an action by translations. So we can write alpha in the following way. Instead of being a map into diffumorphisms, it can be just a we'll think of it as just a map into e and a smooth map.
00:39:50.024 - 00:41:12.274, Speaker A: So this map, the conditions on this map are that it should be a c infinity map and alpha of gamma one gamma two gamma one should be alpha of gamma two plus alpha of gamma one. And we'll write all actions additively from now on. One advantage of doing this is that you can multiply section action by any scalar, because if alpha is a homomorphism in the sense that I just described, alpha gamma one, gamma two, is alpha of gamma one plus alpha of gamma two, then so is s times alpha. So you can study all of these things here. I wasn't very explicit in my notation about the action. I didn't write down alpha in the notation for the transformation group order. Now I have to fix that up somehow, so I'll write g cross e sub s for the corresponding group word.
00:41:12.274 - 00:43:16.754, Speaker A: I still didn't mention alpha, but what you're supposed to think is there's only one alpha. There's only one alpha we're caring about. But except for the fact that we want to rescale alpha by multiplying by a scalar, you could take all of these actions, the rescaled versions of the actions alpha, and glue them all together and get just one mother of all actions on e times r like this, using, I don't know, let's call it alpha bar of gamma is equal. So now we're going into this thing here is equal to s alpha gamma s like that. This is again something that we already did in the world of the tangent group. We studied this mother of all translations of what we were looking at, one vector space acting on itself by translations. And what Kahn observes is that if you look at all of the siesta algebras you get as you vary s.
00:43:16.754 - 00:44:25.656, Speaker A: Well, there's really only two sea star algebras that you get, because if s is non zero, there's an obvious isomorphism. Well, I'll get to that in a moment. All of these sister algebras are basically the same for all non zero s, but the one that you get when s is equal to zero is quite different, just like we saw with the tangent group. And this thing here is a continuous field like we were discussing, and you're not really supposed to mention the word continuous field, without mentioning the continuous sections. So let's do it. Well, the obvious thing to do is study the smooth, compactly supported functions on big g times, this mother of all actions, e times r. If you have a smooth, compactly supported function on g times e times r, then you can restrict it to g times es for every s, and you'll get a smooth, compactly supported function there.
00:44:25.656 - 00:45:15.890, Speaker A: And therefore, each element of this enormous set, actually it's a vector space. Each element of this enormous vector space gives a family of elements, a section of this family of vector spaces. And when you do this, the axioms of a continuous field are satisfied, the main one being that the norm of the element in the seastor algebra you get by restricting to s is a continuous function in S. Why is this sort of thing true? So this, if you're a, if you're a topologist, you don't care about this, you just say to yourself, well, yeah, of course it's continuous. Everything's continuous and smooth. And so this is going to be continuous and smooth too. But it ain't quite that simple.
00:45:15.890 - 00:46:26.458, Speaker A: But makes the following observation, that when you make this construction, what you're getting on the nose is a type of sister algebra about which we know a great deal, namely, you take Eric and you take its pontrial dual group. So that's another group of all l group homomorphisms from e to the circle group. So that's another abelian group. It's another vector space of the same dimension as s. And let's keep the s in the notation here. And now I'll take a semi direct product, a cross product in the language of sea star algebras, with the sea star algebra g. So what Kahn notes in the world of sea star algebras is that this geometric construction of got my notation wrong, of the transformation groupoid, followed by the Siesta algebra construction, can be thought of as two analytic constructions stacked on top of one another.
00:46:26.458 - 00:47:25.882, Speaker A: One is the Siesta algebra of G, and the other is this transformation, this cross product groupoid sea star algebra construction. Excuse me. So the right hand side here is the seastar algebra associated to an action, the action of e hat, as automorphisms of the sea star algebra of G. Let's call it alpha hat. And what is this? Well, AlphA Hat should be evaluated on some character of e. So what should we call that? I don't know, SigmA or something. So sigma is a, basically, that's an element of the dual space of E.
00:47:25.882 - 00:48:18.418, Speaker A: It's a homomorphism of lead groups from E into the, into the one dimensional circle group U one. And now if I have a smooth, compactly supported function on g, I want to explain how it's going to be transformed by the automorphism alpha hat of sigma. ANd here's the answer. What you get is another function on the Lee grOupoid, and its value on gamma is just alpha of gamma. Bit more rooms. Sigma evaluated on s r alpha r gamma f r gamma is some tautological thing. Gamma is an element of the group or g.
00:48:18.418 - 00:48:57.278, Speaker A: Alpha of gamma is an element of the vector space e. And when you multiply it by s, it's still an element of the vector space e. Sigma is a group homomorphism from that vector space to the group of complex numbers of modulus one. So this whole thing is just a complex number of modulus one, and you multiply it against the value f of gamma. And that defines a new function on the groupoid which is just as smooth and just as compactly supported as before. And that's how you define this fellow. Of course, you have to show this formula which I'm defined describing, using the idea of smooth, compactly supported functions.
00:48:57.278 - 00:50:24.454, Speaker A: You have to show that it does extend to these sister algebra completions, which of course Kahn does well, doesn't he? Did in his notebooks. And then you get this one. What this does is it takes the problem of understanding this group called sister algebra, and it puts it in another context, the context of groupoid, excuse me, cross product sea star algebras, should have put those words here, crossed product c sterogen, some twisted tensor product of the group algebra of het with c style g. So now, yes, I don't, that's the way I've written it. I could just, I should remove the s there. I want to put an s in to indicate the dependence of s somewhere. And maybe I should put it down here, should use, what am I calling it? Well, anyway, this action here, which depends on s, I guess I should do it like this, alpha.
00:50:24.454 - 00:51:12.884, Speaker A: Okay, I don't want to put in another subscript, but the formula depends on s and the groupoid depends on s. And somewhere you should stick into your notation, an s, but you can decide where to put it. It does depend on s. It doesn't depend on s. In a very right hand side like cross product, that doesn't depend on, well, it does depend on s, strictly speaking, but not up to isomorphism. So maybe I'll just make that point right now. It doesn't depend on s in an interesting way.
00:51:12.884 - 00:51:37.256, Speaker A: How about that? Say again, s equals zero. Is that. Yeah. When s is equal to zero, this formula sort of degenerates. And the formula for this action doesn't depend on sigma anymore. In other words, the action is the trivial action. And what you get from this construction is not a twisted tensor product.
00:51:37.256 - 00:52:20.456, Speaker A: It's just the tensor product of the group algebra of e hat with the seastar algebra of G. So it's a special case. Yeah, but the formula is still okay. Yeah. So you see that when s is zero versus when s is not zero, there's two different things happening. But if you take this continuous field of all of these c star algebras, this thing. So just, this is the rebuttal from Dan.
00:52:20.456 - 00:53:15.830, Speaker A: This thing is isomorphic to a constant, because all of these, in fact, all of the groupoids can be identified. So here we have an e two gamma e one, and we can just send that to s of e two, gamma s of e one. So nothing fancy is this is not an isomorphism. Of course s is equal to zero. It's still a functor, but it's not an isomoxym. But when s is not zero, this is equivalence of categories. A diffumoxin.
00:53:15.830 - 00:53:37.442, Speaker A: It's everything all at once. It's just fine. And by the way, it also preserves the, the measures in a HaaS system that we've assigned to the source fibers of all of these groupoids, because they all, all of these source fibers are the same. They don't depend on the action at all. They just depend on the group. So that's what we're talking about. Like we've seen more than once.
00:53:37.442 - 00:54:30.494, Speaker A: We have a continuous field of sea structures, and there's one exceptional fiber at zero, and then all of the others are the same. And in this situation, as we discussed last time, there's always a morphism from the k theory of the special fiber to the k theory of the. Not exactly the generic fiber, the k theory of any other fiber. For example, the one at lambda equals one. So I'll just drop the s s one. I'll just drop the s from the notation. And this thing is of some interest.
00:54:30.494 - 00:55:09.794, Speaker A: This is an object which Kahn had dealt with previously, many, many years earlier. If you. So the theorem is that if you take the k theory groups of the sea star algebras of all of these represent all of these. Oops. Got the grammar wrong there. Of all of these groupoids, as s varies, like this, all s. Now, not just s.
00:55:09.794 - 00:56:05.494, Speaker A: Nonzero. This is constant in us. This is, as we were discussing saying it's constant, thanks to continuous fields, the theory of continuous fields and a property of k theory. These k theory groups of the sea star continuous field, they always are the stalks of some sheep. And that sheep is the constant sheep, constant sheep, or isomorphic too, constant sheep. And another way of saying the same thing is that the morphism above, which was previously studied by Kahn, and he called it a Tom homomorphism. This thing here, it's actually an isomorphism.
00:56:05.494 - 00:57:41.024, Speaker A: This, strictly speaking, we don't need these facts, but if you want to consult a topologist and you want to ask him what a certain construction, purely in the k theory of spaces is, what is a good formula for it, then you'll probably need to supply that topologist with this additional piece of information. So this is Kant's famous tom isomorphism theorem in the world of Siesta algebra. It applies in this sort of context that we're talking about. If you have a single sea star algebra a and an action of the group of real numbers on a by automorphisms, then you can imagine rescaling that action just by scalar multiplication, exactly the same as we just did. And you'll get a continuous field of sea star algebras now over the space of all real numbers s. And Kant showed that that's always a k theory, groups are always constant, whatever the sister algebra is. Lots of interesting things to say there, but we need to move on a little bit, so we shall take this also for granted.
00:57:41.024 - 00:58:56.704, Speaker A: I think this entire discussion of these ideas of Kant deserves further study. There are lots of variations on these constructions that you might consider in these sophisticated modern times, when we study filtered manifolds and the like, and index theorems for manifolds with filtered structures. There are lots of questions you might ask about the technique of proving the index theorem, which is emerging slowly and stutteringly in this lecture, the technique that was worked out by Kahn. You could imagine doing some experiments by changing the starting point. Maybe it's not an ordinary manifold, maybe it's contact manifold, maybe it's a blah, blah, blah, nobody's done this. It seems to me worthwhile to really explore a bit more of the geometry behind these constructions, that which is what we're about to, we're about to get back to geometry, probably instantaneously. So the comment I'm now making should be transposed mentally in your mind with the definition I'm now about to give.
00:58:56.704 - 00:59:31.244, Speaker A: So I'll make a definition and then, yeah, then we'll continue. Okay, good. So these things we're going to take for granted but they're really interesting, and it's worth thinking about them reading again these old papers and thinking about what would happen if you turn this knob or turn this knob. Maybe some of the group becomes the Heisenberg group. You know what happens? I think those are really interesting questions. Good. Which we won't ask.
00:59:31.244 - 01:00:33.462, Speaker A: Now back to the tangent groupoid it, and I want to remind ourselves of something after answering Paul's question. That's correct. It just depends on the parity of dimensional. Yep. Yeah. So maybe I'll make a. Thank you.
01:00:33.462 - 01:01:31.694, Speaker A: It's worth making that remark here. In forming this object, the one I just wrote down with e zero, it means we're using the action alpha multiplied by zero, so it's not an action at all. S zero times alpha of anything is just zero. So nothing interesting is happening here, really, that isn't already happening inside of g, or maybe inside of e zero separately. They're not speaking to each other, they're not interacting, and you can calculate this fellow without difficulty. And it's just the functions on e, not the dual of e or anything, just e with values. In the c star algebra, there's just one g like that.
01:01:31.694 - 01:02:20.034, Speaker A: So this is easy. This is an isomorphism of the most basic sort, an isomorphism of sister algebras. And if you want to know what is the k theory of this, then bot periodicity answers that for you. That's one of the other things we discussed. Assuming that e is an even dimensional vector space, which it very soon will be, the k theory of this thing is just the k theory of c star of g. So that's rather easy to understand. What you see over here and this thing, well, you may say to yourself, it's more complicated to understand, but we're going to apply this construction, or study this construction in a situation where, for a completely different reason, we can also easily understand what's going on here.
01:02:20.034 - 01:03:12.056, Speaker A: And what I was going to do here is just maybe introduce some notation. The tangent groupoid of m can be broken up, can be fibered, of course, by the source and range maps over m times r. But the source and range maps agree when you further project to r alone. And so the map that you get by applying the source and then just taking the t component of the source, that's a submersion to r, and all of the fibers are groupoids, Lee groupoids. And we'll want to study all of these things. I should change that s into a t. I'm having a crisis about notation.
01:03:12.056 - 01:04:00.494, Speaker A: I haven't decided whether I really want t to be a number or a coordinate function, and at some point I'll screw up the notes by trying to change everything, confuse you. But of course, here, I mean, t is a particular number and t is a particular number. And t sub m t m sub t means a particular fiber in the tangent group. Usually it's just m times m, except when t is equal to zero, and then it's the tangent bundle of m. Okay. And now you can do the following thing. You can look at the c star algebras of all of these t sub m, t's as they individually act on es.
01:04:00.494 - 01:04:52.460, Speaker A: And now t can be any real number, and so can s. And this too is a continuous field of c star algebra. Thank you. With continuous sections just like before, generated by. Well, we'll take smooth, compactly supported functions on the space. You get the groupoid you get by gluing together all of the t, sub m t. So that's just t of m.
01:04:52.460 - 01:05:42.924, Speaker A: And now we'll let this thing act on this fancy of space, e times r, this mother of all actions that we were talking about before. This is requires a proof. This is not trivial. And it comes about from Kant's perspective on the tangent group, on the construction, his perspective using cross product algebra. And it's rather important because it has a key k theoretic consequence. Oh, dang. Of course, I know perfectly well what it is because I've been preparing this lecture, but I forgot to tell you.
01:05:42.924 - 01:06:17.964, Speaker A: Let's try to fix that up. Maybe in this corner. Sorry about that. Thank you for rescuing me. Let's start with a smooth map from m into e. What I'm saying at the beginning applies to all possible smooth maps. But in a little while, I'll want to consider maps which are embeddings of smooth manifolds.
01:06:17.964 - 01:07:04.886, Speaker A: And I'll want to consider e's, which are even dimensional. So neither of these extra conditions has a bearing on this theorem here, but it has bearing on other things. So I'm going to start with an h, and then I'm going to define an alpha, having given myself an h. And what's alpha? Well, one possibility in the world of the tangent groupoid is that you have a morphism, a gamma, in the tangent groupoid, which is just a tangent vector. That's what happens at t is equal to zero. And in this situation, I'll just define alpha of that vector to be h star of xm. What is h star? It's the derivative of of h.
01:07:04.886 - 01:07:33.894, Speaker A: The derivative of h sends a tangent vector on m at the point little m to a tangent vector on e at the point h of m. But e is a vector space, and everyone knows how to identify tangent vectors on a vector space with actual vectors. And that's what I'm doing. Okay. And then that's not the end of the story. I also have to tell you what alpha is on the rest. And here's a formula which shouldn't be terribly surprising.
01:07:33.894 - 01:08:41.710, Speaker A: I can fit it in. It's the difference quotient h of m two minus h of m one over t. The thing on the right hand side, t inverse times h of m two minus h m one is the canonical example of an interesting function on the tangent groupord, defined when t is not zero, which extends smoothly to the situation when t is zero. And what you get in that smooth extension is the associated derivative, which is this thing up here. So this is definitely a smooth function on the tangent group, or exactly by virtue of the way we define the tangent group mode. Ah, and there's a choice involved in, for thinking of the tangent group as a deformation to the normal cone, there's a choice involved about whether you identify normal vectors with tangent vectors via the projection onto the first factor in m times m, or the second. And sad to say, here I am at variance with what's in Alan's book.
01:08:41.710 - 01:09:22.273, Speaker A: He uses the other identification. And so what's in his book differs from what's here by a minus sign here and there. Both are correct. He just uses this different identification. Okay, yes, you could do that. I have such a remark later in the dying moments of the lecture. But yes, indeed, you can use the punctoriality of t, or, if you like, the punctoriality of this deformation construction.
01:09:22.273 - 01:10:51.560, Speaker A: All right. And now, thanks to the check, or the theorem that's just mentioned here, this, the diagram that I'm now about to write down is not just going to be a diagram, it's going to be a commuting diagram. And here's what we'll put at the top. Thank you. We have a continuous field of sister algebras. This is something we did look at. When you take the tangent groupoid and you decompose it into all of these fiber groupoids, t m sub t, then you get a continuous field of siesta algebras.
01:10:51.560 - 01:11:24.414, Speaker A: So there's a pre preliminary version of the theorem up here which doesn't involve the E's. And that's a true theorem, and we did prove it. And thanks to that theorem and the fact that the groupoid is constant away from t equals zero. There is a morphism, just like we were discussing. You take an element in this stock, you extend it a little bit to get an element in some nearby stalk, tm, sub epsilon. But as soon as you get to Epsilon Tm, epsilon is equal to tm one. So you're done.
01:11:24.414 - 01:12:03.222, Speaker A: And so we have a map here. This is the analytical index map. This is what we were discussing in the previous two lectures. This is the thing that we want a formula for, because it takes, if you have an elliptic order zero pseudo differential operator on m, it's a multiplier algebra of a certain c star algebra. And it has a symbol which lies here, a k theory class of the symbol which lies here. This thing here, this whole k theory group is just the integers. And what the map does, as we checked, is that it sends a k theory of the symbol class, excuse me, the symbol, the k theoretic symbol class of an elliptic operator to the index of that operator.
01:12:03.222 - 01:12:57.564, Speaker A: So this is what we want to calculate. Okay, now let's plug in this space e zero. So this is a situation where t of m is not actually acting on e, where in this situation here, the sister algebra is easy to understand. And if we assume, as we did assume somewhere that we did assume, yeah, e is even dimensional, then there's no difference in the k theory between these two fellows. This is the bond periodicity isomorphism. And there's a similar one here. And it follows from the basic properties of the periodicity map that this diagram commutes.
01:12:57.564 - 01:13:59.280, Speaker A: And if we fix s equals zero and let t vary, then we still have a continuous field. And so there is still this map from the k theory of the special fiber to the k theory of the typical fiber. Like that. And now, instead of letting, instead of letting t vary, we can let s vary while keeping t fixed. And now there's a map from the k theory of this special fiber in the sense of s being special, to the k theory of this typical fiber in the sense of the value of s here being typical. Same thing over here. Oh, I realized, oh, no.
01:13:59.280 - 01:14:39.654, Speaker A: But this notation is fine. But I made a mistake. But I didn't. And here's the map that you get did make a mistake here. So the horizontal maps come from thinking of s as being fixed and t varying, and the vertical maps come from thinking of t as being fixed and s varying. And you might ask yourself, why is it that this diagram commutes? And the reason it commutes is that we have a continuous field for any pair of numbers s and t. There's a, a k theory group, k theory of c star, tmt acting on e s.
01:14:39.654 - 01:15:02.794, Speaker A: There's a whole square's worth of k theory groups. They form a gigantic sheath. And just the existence of that gigantic sheaf tells you that this diagram is going to commute. That's an exercise in the notes. So that's the tricky part. And you get it for free from this continuous field perspective. And now we're getting very close to where we need to be.
01:15:02.794 - 01:15:53.094, Speaker A: Yeah, good. And there's one more row on this diagram, but I need to pause for a moment and elaborate on the examples that we were discussing at the beginning of the lecture. Here we're looking at the action of a vector bundle on an e. And this action comes from an embedding of the tangent bundle of m into the trivial bundle with fiber e. That's what h star does. The derivative of an embedding is an embedding of the tangent bundle. And so the k theory of this thing, in fact, this sea star algebra, we've determined exactly.
01:15:53.094 - 01:16:32.750, Speaker A: This is a sea star algebra, which is, well, in the language, which is the groupoid, sea star algebra for one of those groupoids coming from a submersion, as we discussed before. So the k theory of this thing is the k theory of the quotient vector bundle q. You get by dividing the trivial vector bundle with fiber e by the tangent bundle of m. In other words, it's the k theory of the normal bundle of the c zero functions on the normal bundle. What appears down here is easy, easy, easy. In this bottom left corner, the k theory group is the k theory group of the sister algebra of c zero functions on the normal bundle associated to the embedding of n. Excuse me, m.
01:16:32.750 - 01:17:12.796, Speaker A: The manifold into E. Mcke theory over here is easy to compute as well, because when we restrict to t equals one, the groupoid is m times m. And we had a formula for figuring out what the cross product transformation groupoid is. When you have m times, I'm acting on e one for any action at all on any manifold whatsoever. It's nothing to do with linearity or anything. And what we saw is that this is also one of those submersion groupoids. And the k theory is just the k theory of the space e, the continuous functions vanishing infinity on either.
01:17:12.796 - 01:17:34.480, Speaker A: So this is the k theory of the space. This is the k theory of the space. And we just need to figure out a little bit more about this map, and we'll be done. And let's just do that. Which is the final topic somewhere. All of vertical arrows are isomorphism. It happens to be the case that all vertical arrows are isomorphisms.
01:17:34.480 - 01:18:56.084, Speaker A: Yeah, I didn't, it's not actually, well, as long as your bot periodicity map goes in this direction, it's not relevant that the bot periodicity map is an isomorphism. As long as this map goes in this direction, also not relevant. But indeed these are all isomorphisms. What I need to do in order to achieve some clarity towards the bottom of the picture is take the three or two, really, examples of calculations we did at the beginning of the lecture, where we figured out what the transformation groupoid is, and we need to combine them into one calculation, which answers the question, the geometric question, what is the groupoid that you get when you make this transformation? Groupoid construction when t is equal to one, excuse me, s is equal to one. So when we're dealing with an actual embedding. So now I'm going to use the fact that h is an embedding and I'm multiplying by s equal to one. So it's still an embedding.
01:18:56.084 - 01:19:48.200, Speaker A: And here is the answer. So here's a certain map which you can conceptualize in a number of ways. I'm going to write down on the right one of these deformation spaces, deformations to the normal cones that we talked about before, and I'm going to embed m into e to make that deformation to the normal cone. But just a small funny detail. The sign comes, it's just the way it is. So Kahn figured out his sign so he didn't have to put a minus one there. But that means there's a minus one somewhere else.
01:19:48.200 - 01:20:25.484, Speaker A: But it's actually into the minus one version of e. That is to say, the embedding is not m goes to h of m is m goes to minus h of m. Okay, that's just the way it works out. And what is this map? Well, over here, the points are easy to describe. Over here, in deformation space Land, it makes a difference whether t is zero or t is not zero. And here's what you do. Let's put the generic one first.
01:20:25.484 - 01:21:23.732, Speaker A: Here's a combination of t's and e's and h of m's and so on, minus signs. What is this crazy thing? Te minus h of M t? Well, I don't know, but it's certainly an element of the vector space e. It's a linear combination of things in e. Okay, so, and that's what the fibers of this deformation space are when t is not zero. On the other hand, when t is zero, then you can do the following thing. You can take e like that, and you can think of this e as a vector. You can think of it as not just a vector, but a tangent vector at the point h of m, actually the point minus h of m.
01:21:23.732 - 01:22:06.034, Speaker A: And that's exactly what I'm going to do. So I want to think of e as a tangent vector at it. So happens the point h of minus m like that. Okay, and what are the square brackets mean? I want to consider that tangent vector, modulo tangent vectors, which are tangent to the image of m. So in other words, the square brackets mean take the class of e in the normal bundle for this embedding, the minus h embedding, okay. And then you just put zero. And this map here is submission.
01:22:06.034 - 01:23:12.530, Speaker A: Let's give it a name. P. Apropos of what Eckhart was saying before coming down to the wire here, one way of understanding what's going on here is to consider the normal space for the embedding of m into the product m times e or m times e minus one. That's like embedding a manifold as the zero section of some vector bundle, in this case the trivial vector bundle with fiber e. There's a small shift coming from the, you know, where the zero section is located. But whenever you embed a manifold as the zero section in a vector bundle, the space you get is always very easy. Whatever wrote is correct.
01:23:12.530 - 01:24:05.174, Speaker A: To make it look like what was above, just reverse the factors like that. So one way of understanding this submersion is to understand this general fact that if you embed a manifold as a zero sections of a vector bundle, then the deformation space is just the vector bundle. In this case, m times e times r. And now this construction is functorial. So I can just project off the m, that's a submersion down to the space that we're talking about up there. So that's one way of thinking about this. And now the final calculation has to do with the space, the cross product space.
01:24:05.174 - 01:25:07.824, Speaker A: This is when s is equal to one. The objects in this groupoid are m times r times e, and the same thing down here. So one of these is the source map and the other is the range map. And these are our maps, p down to the space I was just mentioning. And the theorem is that this diagram commutes that. In fact, this is pullback, the geometric fact. Okay.
01:25:07.824 - 01:27:13.304, Speaker A: And it just follows from the definitions that everything hangs together. And for better or for worse, you need some minus signs to make it work. But okay, so this groupoid is yet another example of one of these submersion groupoids. Must be a better name for them than that one of these groupoids associated to a submersion map. PI is meaning via the particular map implied by the theorem. It's going to be this thing. So what I'm going to have to write down is this space crossed over by p, as I called it inside, that allows us to calculate this map at the bottom over here.
01:27:13.304 - 01:28:02.580, Speaker A: Thanks to the calculations that we did at the beginning of the lecture, this thing is just the k theory of the c zero functions on the normal bundle. I'll say q or n. I used the notation q when I gave the example earlier on. N is a little more traditional for normal bundle. Take your pick. Over here we have the k theory of c zero, of c zero of e. No group points on the map.
01:28:02.580 - 01:29:13.268, Speaker A: At the bottom here is the map associated to the continuous field of c star algebras, which are the c zero functions on the fibers of this deformation to the normal space as t varies. That's another continuous field of sister algebra. It's a very easy continuous field of commutative sea star algebras associated to just the fibers of a submersion from this normal space down to the real line. And so this map here is within the realm of topology. And you can ask a topologist what is this map? And he'll tell you right away that the map along the bottom, you get in the following way. You take the space, the manifold q, or n, whatever you want to call it, you realize it via a tubular neighborhood embedding as an open subset of e. And then you take advantage of the fact that k theory is in the right direction for inclusions of open subsets.
01:29:13.268 - 01:29:48.768, Speaker A: That's the simplest case of so called wrong way functoriality. Usually K theory is a contravariant function of spaces. But in the particular case where you're including an open subset of a manifold into a manifold, or indeed the open, an open subset of any space into the space, there's a wrong way map from the k theory of the open subset and the k theory of the whole space. And that's what appears at the bottom. This thing, a topologist can tell you what it is. I just told you what it is, too, so it's done. Okay, these groups are all just the integers.
01:29:48.768 - 01:30:20.634, Speaker A: This, they're all, these maps are all isomorphisms. We already know that this is just the integers. So modulo an issue of keeping track of generators. This is just integers, integers, integers, integers. And the maps are just identity, identity, identity, identity. Okay, if you identify this k zero of cov with the integers via Bart periodicity, the same Bart periodicity that you use up here then the composition is just the identity. Along the top we have the index homomorphism.
01:30:20.634 - 01:31:39.154, Speaker A: Down here we have effectively just the Bart periodicity isomorphism from the integers to itself. And the only other thing you have to worry about is this guy. And this is the thing in the black box about which I'll just say a couple of words and then we'll stop. It comes from all of this isomorphism stuff. You want to calculate what this map is, you can do so divorced of everything else in this diagram. You can just focus on what happens here. And what you can observe is that this thing exists for any smooth vector bundle v and embedding into a trivial bundle.
01:31:39.154 - 01:32:22.614, Speaker A: And what you have on one side is the circle algebra of the groupoid associated to a vector bundle. And on the other side you have the sea star algebra of functions on this quotient vector bundle that we were talking about before. So the map which is given by a question mark is generalizable. So that's a clue that it, it cannot be that hard. It belongs to the world of bundle theory. Much easier than many other worlds like real life. Much easier than real life to study vector pants.
01:32:22.614 - 01:33:08.772, Speaker A: Now this thing, if you going to ask a topologist what this is, the first thing you have to do is get rid of the sea star algebra. Rubbish. I'm not going to like that. So let's just do it like this. V is a real vector bundle and v means the dual vector bundle whose fibers are the vector space tools of the fibers of v. And what do we have over here? Well, we have q. And maybe the right way of thinking about q is like this.
01:33:08.772 - 01:34:11.324, Speaker A: We'll take e times v times v star and dividing by v plus v star. So v is a vector bundle and oopsie, set that wrong leap. Let me try that again. So really what we're studying is emod v but it's a little better to which is q. It's a little better to think of this as e plus v star mod v plus v star. It's the same thing. You killed the v star that you put in in the first place.
01:34:11.324 - 01:35:06.864, Speaker A: And now the question is what is this map? And the answer is something that the topologists can answer for you. For any vector bundle voice or v star you can do the following thing first of all, according to bot, you can just stick in b. I guess we're using c zeros. Okay, so what, you've written e plus v to star and gone to e plus v star, that is just q on the nose, right. Canonically isomorphic to q, or it is q, something like that. Yeah. The squiggle is like almost.
01:35:06.864 - 01:35:46.558, Speaker A: Yeah, maybe I should put underline or something. I mean, the vector bundle, the constant bundle with fiber e. Yeah. My question is just, yeah, there's no tomfoolery. There's no tomfoolery with this map. This is about periodicity isomorphism. And what is this one here? Well, what we're doing is we're taking the vector bundle e inside of e sits v.
01:35:46.558 - 01:36:55.142, Speaker A: So inside of e plus v star sits v plus v star. And in fact, I could write the whole bundle e plus v star as q plus v plus v star. And v plus v star is not just any vector bundle, it's a bundle of symplectic vector spaces. And the tom isomorphism applies if you have any vector bundle and you want to cancel out a vex vector sub bundle, which is a symplectic bundle or a complex vector bundle, or just about any reasonable type of vector bundle, without changing the k theory, you can do so because there is a famous tom isomorphism which allows you to do it. And so what you need to do is take this information and give it to the topologist so he can tell you what this Tom isomorphism is. The theory of the Tom isomophsim in k theory is a little complicated. In regular cohomology, you can just talk about the Tom isomorphism.
01:36:55.142 - 01:37:45.984, Speaker A: That's it. There's one and only one Tom isomoxym. That's not the case in k theory. So when I say Tom, that's not enough. There are many different people called Tom, and you have to say, which Tom is it? But that's the job of the topologist, to write down this map and give a reasonably useful formula for this map so that we and then prove that this diagram here commutes. So the answer to the final question to the final index problem is that the index is given by a map, which is basically a Tom isomorphism, followed by an inclusion into the wrong way map into an ambient euclidean space e, followed by, well, bot periodicity. And that's what Etir and singer discovered and what Alain figured out using this technology.
01:37:45.984 - 01:38:48.208, Speaker A: So next time we'll try to make this a bit more concrete at the expense of two things. First of all, generality, and secondly, at the expense, sorry, Eckhart, of throwing away groupoids will speak only of geometric spaces next time to do essentially the same thing, but in a more concrete way. Good questions like this is significantly higher than. No, I would not. No. I mean, well, a tir and singer, of course, were pioneers, and not they, but their consultants, people like Nirenberg and Cohen were doing inventing the relevant pseudo differential operator theory on the fly. And then Etir and Singh had to synthesize all of that with algebraic topology, k theory, which was also basically invented on the fly, I mean, just a decade earlier by Etiran Hoseb.
01:38:48.208 - 01:39:45.114, Speaker A: So they had to build everything from scratch. If you accept that you live in a non commutative geometric world, and you accept certain facts about sister algebra, theory is now foundational and basic, then this argument becomes very, very conceptual. And I would say that this becomes better after you've proved the theorem of Etiran Singer, as Etiran Singer proved it in Etir Singer one, there's still the problem of actually calculating what the heck is it? And what's a formula for this map for a particular operator in terms of characteristic classes? That second problem is about equivalent, although it's about numbers, not k theory groups. It's essentially this argument here. So let me put this in another way. There is a tier Sanger one and a tier singer three. And between them they prove the index.
01:39:45.114 - 01:40:26.424, Speaker A: Here, tier Sanger two is about families. And this part, understanding what's going on here, is basically tier singer three. It's the same. But as for a tier singer one, which was this tour de force of analysis and k theory and everything, it's basically made trivial. The one thing that you need from the realm of analysis is this guy here. This is a continuous film. Yeah, of course, it depends on what you know and what you're disposed to feel that you understand.
01:40:26.424 - 01:41:11.444, Speaker A: But I would say that from beginning to end, this is more efficient, because throughout this entire discussion of the index theorem, you don't actually need to mention the world word pseudo differential operator even once. It's, they're just gone. This thing, which was the seastar algebra of t, of m, or let's just say t of m itself is, is an object on which pseudo differential operators just naturally live as a scaling family. Some slightly jazzed up version of what is a pseudo differential operator is just a multiplier algebra of c, of a sea star algebra. That's easy. Easy, easy conceptually, I think, to explain what it is. And then there's, that's it for any multiplier, it doesn't have to be a pseudo differential operator.
01:41:11.444 - 01:42:06.040, Speaker A: Each time you have a multiplier algebra, multiplier of the seastor algebra, you get by gluing together all of these fibers between zero and one. Each time you have a multiplier multiplier, however you got it, you get a formula for the index. So I think it's, this is a better argument because it compartmentalizes the analysis and the geometry better. It's true that there are ingredients like this continuous field that may seem odd. You know, if you belong to the pseudo differential operator camp or the geometry camp, you may not be predisposed to like this, but it's not actually a difficult thing. Yeah, we've only proved, as I said, the index theorem for multipliers, so zero order. Ah, yeah, yeah.
01:42:06.040 - 01:42:49.364, Speaker A: What is, that's true. So next time we'll talk about the Dirac operators. So that will partially address your concern. Yeah, there's still, there's an, if you want to prove the index theorem for pseudo differential elliptic elliptic pseudo differential operators of order three, then you need to somehow cope with the fact that operators of order three are not bounded. And of course there are techniques for doing that. Exactly, some kind of bounded transform argument or multiply by Laplacian to the minus three over two power and something like that. That's a good point.
01:42:49.364 - 01:44:06.494, Speaker A: There's still that to be done. Why is the index then get something bounded? But why? Yeah, so as you say, there's a method of taking an elliptic order three operator, converting it into an elliptic order zero operator. And now you want to know, why does the index not change? Well, if you look in the homework exercises to maybe the last lecture, what you'll see is that the index of an order zero elliptic pseudo differential operator is much more than the dimension of the kernel of the operator as it acts on l two minus the dimension of the cokernel. It's the dimension of the kernel as the operator acts on c infinity sections minus the dimension of the cochlear. So it's very simple to remove the extraneous Hilbert space theory that comes about when we're discussing siesta algebras here. We made operators into Hilbert space operators so that we could use the language of Siesta algebras. Why did we do that? Well, we wanted to use K theory, and that's already existing for Siesta algebra.
01:44:06.494 - 01:44:40.574, Speaker A: And so we had to take a pseudo differential operator and make it into something in the world of bounded Hilbert space operators. That's not necessarily good news. But the good news is that when you make that transformation, the index doesn't change. And it's an elementary argument. I mean, the argument which is not precisely the answer to your question is written in the Hallmark exercise sizes. But I think you could then make a new exercise for yourself and solve this problem of the bounded transform. Good.
01:44:40.574 - 01:44:44.714, Speaker A: Got to look, no questions there. Looks like we are done.
