00:00:00.330 - 00:00:11.358, Speaker A: You. Hey, I'm speaking to you from the future. From a lambo. Lambo from the moon. Yeah. We made it. We did it.
00:00:11.358 - 00:00:56.026, Speaker A: Cast your mind back to 2017, where there were influencers only too ready to tell you how they were gonna retire from crypto. What's out of shooting Ian? Tell me if it's good. I laugh, and I do wonder how many of them actually did. Because the. See, the thing is, if you cash out of crypto, you're going to be hit with a large tax bill. But it did get me thinking. What am I going to do when this bull run finally pops? Am I just going to cling on through another bear market? Or am I going to be sensible and do something sensible with my money? All of that will be discussed in this episode, where we will look at passive income strategies, lending, staking synthetic stocks, all that good stuff, and whether Defi can actually do what the fire movement does in something I'm calling defire.
00:00:56.026 - 00:01:33.158, Speaker A: Yeah, this is sensible. And it is the defiant before we get going on defire, I just wanted to let you know about our new Telegram channel. It's where we post all the latest videos and articles from the team, and you can find it in the description below. Oh, and also, if you're not subscribed to the channel yet, do us a favor and I can't do it. You know what to do. First, a massive disclaimer. I am not a financial advisor, and this video is purely designed as entertainment.
00:01:33.158 - 00:02:34.366, Speaker A: If you're interested in this kind of thing, you should really seek the advice of a certified professional, or CPA, because, well, they're actually licensed to give it. So this last week's shenanigans with Wall street bets amped up something I've been thinking about for a while, which is basically to how to ensure I didn't suffer the kind of catastrophic drawdown that happened once the last bull run popped. And I've been thinking about crypto, and particularly defi, from a non crypto heads perspective, thinking about passive income strategies and how they might apply here. Now, I follow a few non crypto finance channels, and they're delightful people with delightful teeth, and they're only too happy to share with you how they became millionaires. And they talk about conservative investment vehicles such as dividend stocks, real estate bonds, and they do talk about crypto, but really only as a speculative investment. And no, no mention of DeFi, most likely because they probably don't know about it or they just don't get it. So maybe they should just follow this channel Andre Graham get subscribed now.
00:02:34.366 - 00:03:18.570, Speaker A: One of the promises of DeFi is financial freedom, and crypto heads crave independence. We feel oppressed by the restrictions of the modern financial system, and if you hang around finance chat long enough, you will undoubtedly come across the fire movement. No, that's not code for by XRP. It actually stands for financial independence. Retire early. And it's a movement dedicated to a program of extreme savings and investment that should, in theory, allow you to retire far earlier than traditional budgets and retirement plans would allow. Now, these cats dedicated up to 70% of their cream to savings, hoping to eventually be able to quit their jobs and live solely off small withdrawals from their portfolios decades before the conventional retirement age of 65.
00:03:18.570 - 00:03:50.450, Speaker A: And it's inspired by the 1992 bestselling book, your money or your life, by Vicky Robin and Joe Dominguez. Now, fire captures a core premise of the book, which is juxtaposing expenses and time spent at work against hours of your life. Every expense is compared to the time spent at work in order to earn the purchase. And in more recent years, millennials in particular have embraced it. And when you see how hard it is now to get a job, to get on the property ladder, well, it's kind of understandable. Now, the formula is pretty simple. Save as much as you can, sometimes up to 70% of your income.
00:03:50.450 - 00:04:47.278, Speaker A: Then once their savings reach approximately 30 times their yearly expenses, often roughly $1 million, they retire, withdrawing three to 4% of their net worth each year to live off. Sounds good, right? Or does it sound like a giant orgy of penny pinching and monklike sacrifice? Now, there are several flavors of fire that dictate the lifestyle followers are able and willing to abide by. There's fat fire, an individual with a more traditional lifestyle who saves more than the average retirement investor. Lean fire, which refers to stringent adherence to minimalist living and extreme savings, necessitating a far more restricted lifestyle. Then there's barista fire, which refers to followers who have quit their traditional nine to five job but still employ some form of part time work to cover current expenses that would otherwise erode their retirement fund. Then there's coast fire, which also applies to followers with a part time job. But these proponents do have enough save to fund their retirement and current living expenses.
00:04:47.278 - 00:05:37.382, Speaker A: Now, today, I want to introduce a completely new flavor of fhir, decentralized fhir or defire. Now, we know crypto degeneres are mentally geared towards FoMO and aping, but could they retrain those pathways, adopt fhir methodologies and enjoy genuine financial freedom, but without cashing out to fiat, using lending protocols, or investing in synthetic stonks. And if you're thinking these conservative passive strategies are going to need big time upfront capital, you are right. But one of the core skills here is understanding how much you spend and how much you actually need. So grab your calculator, it's time to do some maths. Now, the first thing you have to do is figure out what you're comfortable with living on as an income. For most people, $40 to $50,000 will let them live virtually anywhere in the world.
00:05:37.382 - 00:06:18.814, Speaker A: But if you're a mobile citizen, you can take advantage of geographical arbitrage and move to a different country where the purchasing power of the dollar affords you more. Now, the average net monthly income of a US citizen is $3,740. But if you move south to Guatemala, for instance, it's $261 per month. That's $3,132 per year. Using the fire methodology, if you need to make that much pulling 4% in passive income, then you're going to need $78,300. Now that's an extreme example, but it gives you an idea of how fireheads think. Using the 4% standard, most people need around a million dollars invested in passive income strategies to be able to live off the returns.
00:06:18.814 - 00:07:08.382, Speaker A: And if I wanted to make 100 grand a year, then I would need two and a half million dollars working for me. And that sounds outrageous and far off and probably completely out of reach. But many will see their portfolios hit this figure and more at the top of this ball run. The question is, really, what are they going to do about all that money once they do? Cashing out, literally taking your money out of crypto and converting it into fiat currency, isn't as straightforward as just pressing withdraw. And when you're at those levels, limits come into play, and your bank account might raise a red flag if a cool couple million dollars just appears, not to mention the taxable event. Now, in the US, the amount you pay in federal taxes on your crypto gains depends on how long you have held the coins and your ordinary tax rate. If you've held coins for one year or less, they're considered short term capital gains.
00:07:08.382 - 00:07:53.950, Speaker A: And in this scenario, the gains are simply added to your income for tax purposes and taxed at your ordinary income tax rate. Now, this is the higher tax treatment scenario, but if you have held the coins for more than one year, they're considered long term capital gains. And in this scenario, the gains are taxed between zero to 20%, depending on your ordinary income tax rate. And this is the lower tax treatment scenario. So it does make sense to think about not cashing everything out, but under our passive income scenario, only the 4% or so that you need to subsist. So if we're going to be looking at more conservative places to park money that still offer a decent return, then where do we look? Fire advocates generally look at real estate and stocks. They don't ever mention savings accounts.
00:07:53.950 - 00:08:20.970, Speaker A: And here's why. A quick search of the best high yield savings accounts rates gives you this. And compare today's defi rate charts. Big difference. Now, there is one caveat to all this, but I'll come back to that. Now, we could deposit stablecoins into one of the many lending protocols listed on Defi rate, but there is an inherent problem here. The interest rate fluctuate a lot, which makes it kind of hard to build a conservative, passive strategy where you need a dependable rate of return.
00:08:20.970 - 00:09:00.582, Speaker A: And, yeah, I realize dividends can't be counted on either, but that does give us a neat segue into the next item we can look at. Synth stonks. Now, earlier this week, I demoned how easy it was to trade synthetic stonks on mirror protocol. And it seems that there are more such platforms on the way. And with a 24/7 market, it opens up an interesting dynamic for trading traditional assets. And of course, with Robin Hood's recent freeze on GME trading, it does kind of seem like this is the moment for these synths to gain greater exposure. So what synths can you actually trade? Well, it's a small list at the moment, but if we look on synthetics native exchange, Quenta, we can see we've got crypto there, we've got forex, we've got equities and commodities.
00:09:00.582 - 00:09:34.766, Speaker A: And if we look in the forex, we've got SusD, S, Euros, S, JPY. And then in the equity section, we've got a synthetic FTSE 100 index and a synthetic nikai two two five index. And then in commodities, we've got a silver synth, we've got a gold synth, an oil synth, and an inverse oil synth. And if you're wondering what inverse means, it basically just means you can short it rather than long it. And that is synthetic. But there's actually a bigger list on mirror. So if we go through there, there's 14 assets listed.
00:09:34.766 - 00:10:09.146, Speaker A: They're not all synths, but we've got iShares, gold trust, we've got pro shares, we've got Tesla, Twitter, Google, Alibaba. But if we put our DFI hat on, we're looking for dividend paying stocks in particular. Generally, people expect between two to 5% for a dividend paying stock. But many stocks don't actually offer dividends. And if we look at our list, for example, looking down, Apple definitely does, as does Microsoft. But Google doesn't. Tesla doesn't.
00:10:09.146 - 00:10:55.402, Speaker A: Alibaba doesn't, Amazon doesn't. So that limits us to kind of Apple and Microsoft. But it does also raise a question, like, how do dividend payouts work in synthetic stocks? And there's actually a really simple answer to this, and it is that they don't. So holders of M assets are not entitled to dividend payouts. So that's kind of a non starter, is it? Now? I guess what I'm really looking for is a fixed rate savings account that pays better than those wretched sub single digit, high yield quotes that I received earlier. The thing is, while I didn't realise it was right under my nose all along, and not only that, it can be used to power some pretty interesting yield strategies for synth stocks as well. Its name, anchor protocol.
00:10:55.402 - 00:11:44.302, Speaker A: It's built on Terra, and it's described as the reference interest rate across the universe of blockchains. And what's particularly interesting is that it's built around not one, but four blockchains, terra, Polkadot, Cosmos, and Solana, the so called interchain Asset association. Now, Anchor's white paper describes it as the gold standard for passive income on the blockchain, which sounds exactly what we're looking for. Anker offers, as they call it, a principal protected stablecoin savings product that pays depositors a stable interest rate. And it achieves this by stabilizing the deposit interest rate with block rewards accruing to assets that are used to borrow stablecoins. Anchor would thus offer DeFi's benchmark interest rate, determined by the yield of the pos blockchains with highest demand. A fixed interest rate, not a variable, and a fixed one.
00:11:44.302 - 00:12:15.960, Speaker A: This could be what I'm looking for. Now, where this gets really interesting is if you run back through do Kwan, CEO of Terra's Twitter feed, you find a peek into the future. By integrating with Anker to use AUSD as a mirror collateral, the protocol enables the creation of yield bearing stocks. In other words, hold Apple stock to get more apple stocks. Now, that isn't exactly a dividend, but it's kind of a proxy for one. And because it's all on chain, it will be transparent. And presumably simple to distribute too.
00:12:15.960 - 00:13:05.426, Speaker A: Now, I don't know what the expected fixed interest rate will be on anchor, and perhaps we shouldn't expect anything too dramatic, but you would hope that it could at least match the 4% required by our dfire strategy. But if it's more comparable to the current yields on stablecoins at around 10% or so, then to enjoy a passive income of 100 grand a year, you'd need a million bucks, not two and a half. And that makes a big difference. Something to think about now look, it is still super early on, but I think anchor have it right when they claim a reliable savings protocol is the catalyst for mass adoption of cryptocurrencies. When capital preservation is your goal with downside protection, then that all makes a lot more sense. But there is just one caveat, of course. Those savings accounts with the terrible interest rates, well, they are in fact FDIC insured.
00:13:05.426 - 00:13:26.222, Speaker A: Crypto savings won't be, mind you, nor are stocks. So there is that. But being your own bank carries with it risks that you'll definitely want to be mindful of, especially when dealing with sums in the seven figures or more. So that's it for this week. I hope you found it useful. Do let me know in the comments below if you liked it. Give us a like and do us a favor by subscribing to the channel.
00:13:26.222 - 00:13:31.210, Speaker A: Oh yeah, don't forget about our Telegram channel as well. This was the defiant.
