00:00:04.010 - 00:00:04.880, Speaker A: Streams. Live.
00:00:06.370 - 00:00:07.966, Speaker B: Yes, streams. All right.
00:00:08.148 - 00:00:32.374, Speaker A: All right. Well, hey, everyone, welcome. Thank you so much for joining us here on this wonderful Thursday morning. I'm sean on. I'm from ETH Global, and I'm very happy to be joined here by Eric from Livepeer for the Video NFT workshop. So so, Eric, feel free to take the show away. And guys, if you have any questions, please reserve them for either put them in the chat or for the end.
00:00:32.374 - 00:00:34.150, Speaker A: And Eric floor is yours.
00:00:34.730 - 00:01:29.050, Speaker B: Thank you, Shanghan. Hello, everybody. I am Eric from the Live Peer team. So today we're going to talk about Video NFTs. So my goal of the talk today is to kind of introduce the general concept of video NFTs to people who are not so familiar and dive in a little deeper into kind of the technology behind what enables video. NFTs to work and then talk a little bit about some of the interesting ideas that has not been built yet in this crazy web three space, but some huge opportunities that are right here ripe for the capture today. Okay, so before we dive into the Video NFTs itself, let me just talk a little bit about Livepeer, and then we can talk about how these things are related.
00:01:29.050 - 00:02:54.260, Speaker B: Livepeer is the platform that decentralizes live streaming. And what that means is Livepeer provides the necessary infrastructure for any application developer to build a video live streaming app with a small fraction of the cost of today's cloud infrastructure. And what that enables is this new wave of live streaming applications that simply was not possible before because of the high cost in this cloud infrastructure space. We already have over 2 million minutes of video being processed every week. And these are kind of streams that power musicians, power artists, power events, researchers doing conferences, all kinds of different use cases. And we're really excited to be here talking to you guys about Video NFTs specifically and why that is significant. So in order to talk about Video NFTs, it's important for us to also mention the creator economy, right? Because I really think these two things are closely related, because when we talk about creator economy, we can talk about why we're building the NFTs, because a lot of times we're building them because we can give creators that control, right? So let's look at the creator economy today.
00:02:54.260 - 00:03:34.514, Speaker B: One thing to note is that this is a huge industry. Forbes estimates that the creator economy is about $100 billion big investors today, and it's rapidly growing, and COVID has only made it grow even faster. But the creator economy is not without its problems. Creators constantly are kept hostage by the platform. The creators don't own their work or their fans. The platform owns them. For example, if you upload a piece of video onto YouTube, YouTube owns that content.
00:03:34.514 - 00:04:43.858, Speaker B: We all know that the platforms keep most of the profit. And one of the big reasons that we haven't seen newer platforms to come up. And more competition in this space is because these big platforms are very monopolistic and they have built these deep modes around the infrastructure that they have built, around the network effect that they have built that is very hard to compete with them. However, having worked in this space for the past five years at the intersection of crypto and video, what we are seeing is that the creators are starting to recognize this, right? They recognize that the game is rigged against them and they're starting to tinker with new solutions. And this is where the Web Three opportunity comes in. People are starting to realize that by moving from these monopolistic platforms into the Web Three platforms, they can actually have a lot more autonomy and have a lot more control. So we're seeing this big shift of migration that's happening, which is really exciting.
00:04:43.858 - 00:05:51.390, Speaker B: So what is this? This is people moving from the Web Two applications like YouTube, Twitch and Instagram that are built on top of the Web Two infrastructure. So, like the AWS, the Google or Facebook, amazon. They're moving over to the web. Three applications. So these are openc Zora, like these open NFT Exchange platforms or applications like Glass XYZ or Audience that use kind of Web Three NFT based mechanism that is a building block, but also starting to build other interesting social mechanisms on top of it. So what we're seeing is that these applications that are built on top of the Web Three infrastructure so for example, Rweave and Filecoin doing the storage, the Graph doing the data indexing, and Live Peer doing the video processing and streaming. This is emerging to be the new standard and the new platform for the creators.
00:05:51.390 - 00:07:29.210, Speaker B: So why are creators coming into this Web Three space? Well, in this space, the creators own the content because if you mint an Ft for the work that you have done, you own that piece of work because it's associated with your private, with your public key and no one can take that away from you. You own the audience because you now can take your content and you can put it onto different platforms. These platforms start to become more like tools for creators instead of platforms that captivate the creators, right? And in this space it's very modular, which means you can build your audience on one platform and then cross promote your work from the other platform and the platforms have less ability to be able to keep you there. The payment model in the Web Three economy is a lot more transparent because all the payment mechanisms are built in the smart contract layer. So the applications that are built on top don't have any ability to go and all of a sudden change the game on everybody. These applications are built on Web Three infrastructure and that's pretty interesting because in the long term, these applications are going to be a lot more scalable than the Web Two applications just because of this incentive alignment with creators. We expect to see in five years this new wave of Web Three based creator economy platforms are going to be five times, ten times bigger than the platform that exists today.
00:07:29.210 - 00:08:13.306, Speaker B: And the Web Three infrastructure is the way to scale those applications so that they can handle all of that load. With all this exciting movement momentum in the Web Three creator economy, let's look at what people are creating. It's all known that video content is dominating kind of user engagement. On average, people view about six 7 hours of video content per week. And this is old data from 2019. COVID has only accelerated that dramatically. We're here numbers that are twice three times bigger than this number today.
00:08:13.306 - 00:08:58.650, Speaker B: And if we look at from an infrastructure perspective, about 80% of all the content on the internet is video content, right? And that's why we want to talk about video based NFT here, because this is a huge opportunity and this is huge shift that's happening from Web Two to Web Three. So let's dive into video NFTs and talk about what they look like today and what are some of the interesting mechanisms behind it. Here's an example of a video NFT. It's a beeple. Beeple is a famous artist in the space. This NFT was last sold for over $6 million. And if you look at it, it's a pretty simple video that just loops.
00:08:58.650 - 00:09:57.820, Speaker B: It's actually Donald Trump. Another example, Saturday Night Live, which is a US based comedy show, made a music video about NFTs and they minted an NFT using that music video that then sold. They sold that on OpenSea. So these are some examples. What are some commonalities around these NFTs? Well, they're public by default, right? So that means anybody can watch this music video even though there's a single address that owns the actual NFT. These are collector items. A lot of times you own a beeple probably because you like the content, but also because you think the value of this video clip is going to go up over time because it's a piece of art and people's notoriety is only going to increase over time.
00:09:57.820 - 00:11:00.874, Speaker B: Sometimes these NFTs have unlockable content behind them, which is pretty interesting. I know this is a feature in OpenSea where when you buy the NFT as the owner, you can use your public key to unlock some secret message. And finally, sometimes these NFTs even have real world utility, right? So of course these are not encoded on chain, but these kind of enforced socially. So for example, the owners of the SNL skit NFT actually have access to go look at the taping of the new shows in the new season. These are really interesting. So let's look at how these are built. What enables these video NFTs? So we all know that ERC 21 is the NFT standard and one of the fields in the ERC 21 metadata is this Token URL.
00:11:00.874 - 00:11:45.470, Speaker B: So if you look at what the specification it says the Token URL basically leads you to a JSON file that defines the schema of the NFT itself. So let's look at another example. Here is a video NFT created by, I think, Steve Aoki, which is a famous DJ. So we're in here, if we can see this, we'll see that here is a Ethereum address that's associated with this NFT. So let's go to the Ethereum address. We see this is a contract. Let's go look at this transaction.
00:11:45.470 - 00:12:48.494, Speaker B: We see that this is some kind of minting operation with the Token ID. So the Token ID information is probably important. So let's copy this. If we go back to the contract, we can actually read the contract from Ether Scan, right? So let's go to that Token Uri field and let's try to get the Token Uri of this video NFT and we see that it's hosted in this URL. If we go to this URL and try to load it, we'll see that this is a piece of JSON, right? Like just following the spec here. So let's go to a JSON formatter and take a look at what this piece of JSON is saying. Well, it has an image, which I'm guessing is the image of the NFT itself, right? If we go here, yes, this is the image of the NFT.
00:12:48.494 - 00:13:29.054, Speaker B: And then there's the animation URL. So if we go look at this animation URL, we see that it's an MP4 file. And if we load this MP4 file, of course this is the video of that NFT. We kind of get the structure using the animation URL. You can specify a URL of the video itself. You can host that video somewhere, either on a decentralized storage like an IPS IPFS or an Rweave, or any storage location at all. So that's all good.
00:13:29.054 - 00:14:12.846, Speaker B: Let's dig in a little bit deeper to look at the animation URL itself. We see in the specification here that the animation URL supports file extensions in all of these different formats. Sometimes there are video files, sometimes they're audio files, but we also see in here the animation URL also supports HTML pages. And that allows you to build even richer experiences. For example, like interactive NFTs using JavaScript and things like that. So that's pretty interesting. In fact, this allows us to take it to another level.
00:14:12.846 - 00:15:15.570, Speaker B: For example, creating live streamed NFTs. And there I think live streaming NFTs is going to be this new ground and new territory that I really want to see some interesting hacks out of this ETH online hackathon. So in fact, this already is a thing, it's just not yet popularized. Here we see an Ft of a live stream that's happening on Twitch. So you can simply embed a video player in this HTML, in this HTML page, and then you can play a live stream and create an Ft of that live stream. So let's talk about some ideas, right? We're here all to build hacks. What kind of hacks can we build with this concept of video NFTs and especially live streaming NFTs? One is you can build a mobile live streaming application for NFT drops.
00:15:15.570 - 00:16:45.678, Speaker B: What we see in the video usage graph on the internet in general is that mobile video has been growing just with the hockey stick. So for the NFT space, there's a blank space for creating a really great mobile broadcasting experience that allows anybody to go live with a click of a button on their phone and be able to create an NFT of that experience and maybe do an NFT drop, maybe sell the recording of that live stream as an NFT after the stream has ended. Another interesting idea is kind of building a live streaming application with the NFT of the live stream acting as royalty. So what does that mean? It means people can create an NFT before the live stream starts. Other people can bid and buy the NFT and the proceeds of that NFT will go into the production of the live stream so that the live stream can be created. And then for the owners of the NFT, they could also get a portion of the earnings that's created by this live stream, right? So a good example would be an artist wants to put on a show, they need some capital in order to produce the show. They can create an NFT using that doing that kind of crowdfund the show.
00:16:45.678 - 00:18:08.780, Speaker B: But in the show they can sell tickets they can take, right? And the NFT owners can take certain percentage of the proceeds of that and maybe even take proceeds in the selling of the recording afterwards. Another interesting idea is using NFTs as event tickets for a live stream, right? So if you own the NFT for a live stream, when you go to the interface, the interface automatically authenticates with your ethereum public address and you can see that in the wallet there is an NFT that's accepted and it automatically unlocks the screen and you're able to watch the video stream. And if you don't own that NFT, it does not unlock. Another interesting thing that we want to see is this clip mint experience in live streams. Because the clipping idea is already a thing in live streaming. If you go to Twitch you will know that a lot of times people are kind of clipping the really exciting moments in the live streams. So here, this is a natural extension so that after you create that video clip of a really exciting moment in the live stream, you can then right there mint NFT with that clip and then maybe even auction it off during the live stream itself.
00:18:08.780 - 00:18:57.800, Speaker B: From here we have some great prices that we put together. There's $8,000 in total. It's broken down into three different tiers and there's a price pool of $1,000 for anybody who is building applications and hacks using the Live Tier API. We've put together a really great list of resources. So we're putting together a tutorial on how to create NFTs for video Live streams. We are building an in browser broadcaster that will be available later this week. So you can just embed that into the application and allow your user to go live directly in the browser by opening up a new tab or something like that.
00:18:57.800 - 00:19:58.326, Speaker B: And there's also a great list of other example applications. There's one for a web based application and there's one for a mobile based application built by using React native so they can be Android and iOS compliant. We have some great guides on Live, which we're dubbing calling the Live Here Streaming services and it's a hosted gateway for the Live Here network and the easiest way to get started building video applications with Liver. And of course a lot of the team members are in the Discord channel for Ethanline and we're there to provide technical support for you. Or if you just want to talk about your ideas and hash things out a little better, we're there to do that as well. So feel free to come in and drop us a note. I think a lot of our team members have the Live Peer name next to their handle in Discord.
00:19:58.326 - 00:20:20.610, Speaker B: So you can DM me if you don't feel comfortable talking in public and all of that is fine. So yeah, that's the conclusion of the presentation. I want to open it up for Q as for people who have any questions yeah, and would love to see you bring your creativity to build using Live Peer.
00:20:22.550 - 00:20:37.080, Speaker A: Thanks so much for that presentation, Eric. That was awesome. So there's a question in the chat. Does using Web three infrastructure, Livepeer, protect creators from getting banned while doing Live Stream? Or if a song is playing in the background, will the stream stop?
00:20:37.950 - 00:22:06.680, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. And this is really around kind of DMCA takedowns, right? And that's a thing that's been a problem with bigger platforms like Twitch or Facebook or YouTube where if you have any kind of copyrighted soundtrack in the background, your video could be automatically stopped and your account could be suspended. The Lifepeer infrastructure itself does not do that. But at the same time, for the applications who are building using Livepeer, you'll be taking on kind of the responsibility to follow the DMCA rules. So if you get a DMCA takedown notice, for example, you would want to make sure to take that content off because otherwise the application itself would be liable for that. The thing that we are working on a research project that kind of provides a tool so that we can automatically, I guess the application builders can choose to automatically detect copyrighted content. We're happy to answer more questions around that and if you're interested to try out those features, you can ping us and we can help you get started.
00:22:08.250 - 00:22:32.814, Speaker A: Sounds good. And for everyone that's here, all of the recordings including this one will be locatable on the Ethg Global YouTube channel. So definitely go ahead and check that out. If you are developing afterwards and you want to refer back to this video, Philippe asks did you say it was possible to put an entire live stream into an NFT? And if yes, can you detail more.
00:22:32.852 - 00:23:30.190, Speaker B: About yeah, yeah absolutely. And it's right, you can put an entire live stream into an of. It sounds kind of crazy but the way it works is really by using this animation URL. Because the animation URL allows you to link to an HTML page that can optionally contain the live stream. So you can simply link to the live stream HTML. And after the live stream has ended, if you use Live here for example, you can choose to automatically record the live stream. So after the stream ends, you can kind of swap out the live stream content with the recorded content and therefore the NFT will kind of outlast its live duration.
00:23:33.140 - 00:24:08.730, Speaker A: Yeah, pretty crazy. That's awesome. Does anyone else have any other questions? And if not, if you have any further questions down the road as you're flipping, please don't hesitate to kind of message the sponsors in the sponsor Live Peer channel. And yeah, if you all have no extra questions, this has been really great. Thanks once again to Eric for the amazing presentation and thanks everyone for coming. We will see you all in the next one.
00:24:09.260 - 00:24:09.750, Speaker B: Thanks everybody.
