00:00:00.840 - 00:00:40.004, Speaker A: Thank you very much. I wanted to thank the organizers for organizing this conference. So, and I wanted to start out by saying all my, everything I'm going to be talking about is joint work with Melene Paviniak. Okay, so I wanted to start out with the basic objects that I'll be looking at, and I'm using terms a tiny bit non standard. So by simply Toric manifold, I will always mean a two n dimensional closed connected manifold, m. People don't always insist on this, but I want to, and I want to have an integral symplectic form, omega. This relates back to Benjamin's talk, why I need this.
00:00:40.004 - 00:01:11.988, Speaker A: We may be able to get rid of it in the future. A faithful s one to the n action and a moment map mu from m to rn. It doesn't matter too much. But the convention I'm using is if you take Omega and you input the vector field from the j circle action, you get minus d of the jth coordinate of the moment map. And then we'll talk about the moment polytope, which I'll denote by delta. And this is just mu of m. This is well known to be a convex polytope.
00:01:11.988 - 00:01:50.644, Speaker A: And the two facts due to del Zant. And the first is that two symplectic toric manifolds are equivariantly symplectomorphic. Exactly. If their moment polytopes differ by a translation. And a consequence of this is that all simple jet toric manifolds are projective varieties. So by this I mean that we have a, it's an algebraic, you can give it a structure as an algebraic variety, and you can embed it inside projection projected space so that its implied to form is just the restriction of the flavini studio form. And I will be doing that in a fair amount.
00:01:50.644 - 00:02:12.556, Speaker A: Okay, great. So. Oops, sorry. There we go. Give some examples of some pledgatoric manifolds. So the first example I want to think about are Herzebreak surfaces. So consider the Herzebrook surface sigma sub m.
00:02:12.556 - 00:02:56.980, Speaker A: And what I want to do is I want to take the line bundle o of negative m over, which is the holomorphic line bundle over p one with churn class minus m, and I want to take the direct sum of that with c. Then I get a c two bundle over p one. And then I'm going to project, devise that bundle, and I get a p one bundle over p one. So my claim is that this is a symplectic torque manifold. Of course, you have to choose some embedding to get the symptom form. And the action is pretty easy to see. So you have a circle action on the base p one, and these bundles, it lifts to an action on each of these line bundles, and therefore an action on their sum, and therefore an action on their projectization.
00:02:56.980 - 00:03:28.880, Speaker A: And that's one of the circle actions. And the other circle action is you just spin the fibers. So each fiber is at p one, and you just consider the natural action on that. So the moment polytope of all of these is always a trapezoid. So I include rectangles and squares as trapezoids, of course. And the coordinate ring has a very, very easy description. It's just two generators, each in degree two, x one and x two.
00:03:28.880 - 00:03:54.236, Speaker A: And then x two squared is zero and x one squared plus mx one x two is zero. The example you might want to think about, there's two important examples. Well, there's many. I'm just drawing two. One is p one cross p one. So of course, in general, you get any rectangle. But here is an example of a rectangle you might get, and if we take sigma two, we see it similar.
00:03:54.236 - 00:04:26.562, Speaker A: But you can see this line here has slope two or negative two. Anyway, so the subscript is telling you how steep this line is. So those are Herzeberg surfaces, and then we can generalize those to bot methods. So, so we just keep on going, basically. So we define a bot manifold m, which is going to be the x nth inductively. So you start with x one. It's just going to be a copy of p one.
00:04:26.562 - 00:05:05.036, Speaker A: And once you've constructed xi minus one, you take any holomorphic line bundle l over it, and then you add a trivial line bundle. So now you have a c two bundle over it. You projectivize that and you get a p one bundle over xi minus one. So what you're going to have is a p one bundle over p one bundle over p one bundle, blah blah, blah blah blah. And properties is these are autosymplectic torque manifolds, and the action is basically the same. You just do it in stages. And the moment polytope delta is always going to be commonly equivalent to the hypercube.
00:05:05.036 - 00:05:42.846, Speaker A: What this means is that you'll have two the n facets, and they come in pairs and opposite pairs and don't intersect. But otherwise every combination of faces intersects. The next two bullets are kind of explicit if you've never seen this before. The point is just that this is explicit. So we can write delta as the set of p and rn, which satisfies some formulas. So the inner product of p with ej is basically bigger than or equal to zero. And the inner product of p with ej plus the sum over I of AI jei is less than or equal to lambda j for all j.
00:05:42.846 - 00:06:06.754, Speaker A: And this is for some strictly upper triangular integral matrix, a and lambda and zn. So for each one, you're going to have this unique matrix and lambda. And the other thing is that the cohomology ring is very explicitly given. So you'll notice this looks like what we had for the Herzebrook surface. If you've seen this, this is just Danilov's theorem. If you haven't seen it, that's fine. It's just the point is here.
00:06:06.754 - 00:06:44.664, Speaker A: But it's very explicit presentation of both the Cholmondeley ring and the symplectic form in terms of these invariants. And one important thing is that this xj is a very specific element of cohomology. It is like a named, known element of cohomology that I can point to. And it's the point gray dual to the preimage of one of the facets in the j's pair. So these are the objects that I'm looking at. Are there any questions so far? Okay, so then we'll go on to the questions. I'm sorry, I'm having a little comologically rigidity.
00:06:44.664 - 00:07:27.896, Speaker A: So if you haven't seen this before. So let s be a family of manifolds. And pick two manifolds, m and m prime, in your family. So if m and m prime are dipomorphic, then we all know that the cohomology of m is isomorphic to the cohomology of m prime. And that's as rings. And the question is, does the converse hold? So if we know that their rings are isomorphic, does that imply that the manifolds are diffeomorphic? And if the answer is yes, then we're going to say that the family is cohemologically rigid. Now, this is a very greedy thing to ask for, right? Like, it's not a generally true thing, but it is sometimes true.
00:07:27.896 - 00:08:08.456, Speaker A: And so one example is that surfaces are homologically rigid. So we know that if they're orientable, all you need to know is the genus, which you can just read off of h one another, which is also very well known, maybe not quite as well known, is that Herzebrook's surfaces are cohomologically rigid. So if you go back to Herzerbrook surfaces, it's easy to see that these comology rings are going to be isomorphic. If and only if both, like m and m prime are both even or both odd. That's sort of just a very easy, explicit thing to check. And in fact, it's well known that all the even Herzerberg surfaces are diffeomorphic. And all the odd Herzebreak surfaces are diffeomorphic.
00:08:08.456 - 00:08:46.700, Speaker A: Now, of course, they're not biholomorphic. And that's kind of the point of herzebric surfaces. I think, historically, the different holomorphic structures on the same underlying manifold. And so, however. So even though I said things are almost never chromologically rigid, it's very special. There was a very sort of bold conjecture by Masouda and Su, which is, are all toric manifolds chromologically rigid? This is a very strong conjecture, but there has been some evidence that it's true. And the theorem I want to speak to you especially about is the theorem.
00:08:46.700 - 00:09:37.944, Speaker A: A special case was proved by Masooda and Penoff, and then probably in general, by Choi and Masouda, which states, let x and x prime be bought manifolds. And I want to assume that both of them have rational cohomology, which is isomorphic to the rational cohomology of p one to the n. So in this case, if their integer cohomology rings are isomorphic, then the manifolds themselves are diffeomorphic. So it's the language I used before. If we look at the family of bot manifolds with trivial rational cobology, that family satisfies comological rigidity. Comological rigidity also holds in a number of other special cases. This is due to Cho, Choi, Li Masuda, Panava park, and Sioux.
00:09:37.944 - 00:10:16.924, Speaker A: But all of these are still pretty special cases. There's definitely generalizations of this, but it's usually other bot manifolds or something called generalized bot manifolds, which is similar to bot manifolds. But you allow PJ's instead of p one s. And the important thing is, there's no known counter examples. So this conjecture still very well might be true. So what I'm looking at is symplectic homological rigidity. So now we're going to let g be a family of symplatic manifolds, and we're going to fix two elements in this family.
00:10:16.924 - 00:11:17.556, Speaker A: So now if we know that m and m prime are simplectomorphic, then obviously, again, there's an isomorphism of rings from the comology ring of m to the Kolmogoring of m prime. And this takes the cohomology class of omega to the cohomology class of omega prime. So, but again, we can ask, is the converse true? So, suppose that you have an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the cohomology of m prime, and that it takes the class of omega to the class of omega prime. Does that imply that m is symplectomorphic to m prime? Well, if the answer is yes, then g is symplectically homologically rigid. So an example, a very well known example, is that sympactic surfaces are symptomatically homologically rigid. So, if you want to classify surfaces up to symplectomorphism, you just need the genus and the area. And of course, the area is given by the Kolmogy class, so it still works.
00:11:17.556 - 00:12:01.182, Speaker A: And also fairly well known is that symplectic Herzebrook surfaces are also symplectically homologically rigid. If you go back, we said they were classified up to diffeomorphism just by whether it's even or odd, which gives you the ring. And then if you want them up to symplectomorphism, you need to know the total area of the polygon. And you need to know basically, that this width here on the bottom is the same in the two cases. And it's very easy to check that that satisfies them up to ring isomorphisms taking cohomology classes, and it's sort of been well known for a long time that that satisfies them up to. Up to some plectomorphism. I don't actually know who first proved it.
00:12:01.182 - 00:12:48.910, Speaker A: It was well known, like 30 years ago. But it follows from, for example, Yale Karshawn's paper. Okay, so this is the question I am looking at is, the question is, are symplectic torque manifolds symplectically chromologically rigid? So that's say we have a very ambitious smooth conjecture. Let's go ahead and make the same symplectic conjecture. Now, there's much less that was known. In this case, the most important theorem is due to Macduff. And if you have a symplectic torque manifold, and you know that the cohomology ring is isomorphic to that of PI cross PJ, then you know it's symplectomorphic to PI cross PJ.
00:12:48.910 - 00:13:25.104, Speaker A: So. And of course, it will be the symplectic form where your cohomology class goes. So, it is true in that special class, there's other partial results due to Karschan, Kessler, penasault, and Macduff. But those are mostly like, finiteness results other than on the nose. So, this is the background, and my question are there any questions? Okay, then we'll talk about our results. Oops. Okay, so our main theorem is the exact counterpart to the theorem I mentioned before.
00:13:25.104 - 00:14:26.204, Speaker A: So let m and m prime be symplectic bot manifolds. And again, I'm going to assume that the rational Coulomb and the rational Coulomb ring of m prime are both isomorphic to the rational cohomology ring of p one to the n. In that case, if I have an isomorphism from the cohomology of m to the Coulomb, and it takes the class of omega to the class of omega prime, then the manifolds are symplectomy. So in particular, if you're not that happy with Bot manifolds, this has a corollary which is maybe a little friendlier. If there's a symphactic torque manifold, and the cohomology ring of m is isomorphic to the cohomology ring of p one to the n over the integers, then m is symplectomorphic to p one to the n with one of the standard symplectic forms. So I just want to take the Houdini study forms and pull them back and multiply them by some constant. So that's sort of the standard product form.
00:14:26.204 - 00:14:58.994, Speaker A: And it's very easy to see that this follows from the theorem. And the reason is, is that Masouda and Pena prove it. In this condition, m is a simplex plot manifold. So I can just apply the previous. So for those of you who have happened to have seen comological rigidity, there's also a version called strong comological rigidity, which means that given an isomorphism, you have a simplectomorphism which induces this isomorphism. And that also holds. But I don't want to focus on.
00:14:58.994 - 00:16:02.692, Speaker A: Okay, so for the rest of the talk, I'm going to talk about how do we prove this? And this is where torque degeneration comes in. So the proof of the main theorem and the key step, the part that makes this sort of hard, is we need to construct new symplectomorphisms. And otherwise the proof is quite similar to the smooth case. And I'm not really going to talk about it, but we need to prove this one proposition. So let m and m prime be symplectic bot manifolds, and assume that we have some k less than l, and an isomorphism from the cohomology ring of M to the cohomology ring of m prime that takes omega to omega prime. So that's the standard thing. But now I need to have some very specific additional property is I need this isomorphism to take x k to xk prime minus gamma xl prime for some gamma in z, and xi to xi prime for all I not equal to k.
00:16:02.692 - 00:17:07.424, Speaker A: So it's a special class of isomorphisms. I also need a technical condition which is, remember I had this matrix a, and I want that if I take the Lkth component of these two matrices and add them, I'm going to get something non negative. And that's kind of easily fixed just by kind of flipping, flipping the varieties over. So what I'm going to focus on the rest of the time is just how do I prove this proposition? How do I construct my new symplectomorphism? Any questions? Okay, so, so I'll start talking about how to prove it. So the first, the main tool is torque degenerations. And I'll go through this slide fairly quickly because we've talked about it before, but let x be inside pn, be any smooth projected variety. And I want to fix a local coordinate system on x.
00:17:07.424 - 00:17:57.554, Speaker A: So I want to identify a neighborhood at some point with cn where little n here is a dimension of my manifold. And of course you may have seen in other talks this afternoon, people talk about valuations. This is one way of getting valuations, but it's pretty general. So once you do this, you can define an associated semi group. And again, we heard a little bit about how to define this in earlier talks, but all I want to think about is it's a semigroup inside z cross z to the m, and I want to think of it as the union of m greater than zero of m cross s to the m. So SM is just the layer of this semi group and the level m. So once I've done this, I can define an acunk of body.
00:17:57.554 - 00:18:40.998, Speaker A: And what I take is I just take my semi group smooth, I divide it by m, I take the union over all of those, I take the convex whole and I take the closure. Great. And then I have a theorem by Herodica which is assumed that this semigroup S is finitely generated. The first fact is that if I take, if I let x naught be proj of c of S, this is a projective torque variety with moment polytope delta. So of course it's not generally smooth and may not be normal. But anyway, it's a projective torque variety. And there's a continuous surjective map phi from x to x naught.
00:18:40.998 - 00:19:25.044, Speaker A: That is a suplectomorphism on an open dense subset of x. So in the previous talks, they usually talked about getting a set of functions on x which were completely integrable. And in that case, they're just pulling back the moment map from x number that gives you functions on x. So the key observation that we really need is that if x zero is smooth, then this map, phi, is a simplexomorphism. So this is a very special thing, though, in general, x naught is not smooth. This process of finding a coordinate system and taking a semi group is pretty violent. And so generally speaking, it induces singularities.
00:19:25.044 - 00:19:54.654, Speaker A: But maybe it doesn't. And if it doesn't, then you actually get some pleistomorphism between them. And as Benjamin mentioned, the idea of this is we construct a torque degeneration of x. So it's a flat family, so the fibers over other over zero is x naught, and the fibers of all other points are x. And then we're going to lift a radial vector field and construct a flow and then exponentiate it. That's the general idea. Okay, great.
00:19:54.654 - 00:20:38.984, Speaker A: So this is turtricenerations. And how do we use them? Well, the way we use them is through a slimming we call the slide operator. So first of all, we have to fix a vector. We have to fix an integral vector, and we don't want all the coordinates to be positive. At least one coordinate has to be negative. In this case, I can construct the slide of any subset of z to the positive quadrant and z to the n. And what I just do is I slide every point along w as far as possible within the positive quadrant in the direction W.
00:20:38.984 - 00:21:15.572, Speaker A: Let's see what this does in this example. So you see here, we're sliding along the red arrows, and here we can't slide here we can't slide here we can't slide. But you see this point right here? There is room to slide it. I can slide it one position here. And now I get this picture. So I go from this picture to this picture by sliding along the red arrows. And the claim is, let m and m prime be symplectic torque manifolds with moment polytips, delta and delta prime.
00:21:15.572 - 00:22:03.860, Speaker A: And I want them to be equal to the positive or near zero. So just like we have here, I want to just put them in that position if there exists k less than l and c greater than or equal to zero, so that if I slide delta, well the integral points in a multiple of delta. But I think about it sliding delta along the direction minus ek plus c to the l, then I get delta prime, so I can get from one polygon to the other by sliding the integral points. If I can do that, the m is simplectomorphic to m prime. So you look in this example, and you're like, great. This was p one cross p one, and this was the Herzebrook surface sigma two. And you can see I get from one to the other by sliding.
00:22:03.860 - 00:22:58.254, Speaker A: And that tells me that these two sublitic metaphors are sublectomorphic. So, which is well known, but just a way of visualizing that symplectomorphism. So great. So how do we use this to prove our theorem? Well, remember that the hard thing we had to prove was proposition star, which said, let m and m prime be symptom bot manifolds. And I wanted to assume that I had an isomorphism of a particular kind and that this quantity c was greater than or equal to zero. I want to prove that those manifolds are symplectomorphic. And the proof is now very simple that you check that if you're in the situation of this proposition and you slide the polytope delta in the direction minus ek plus c to the l, then you get the polytope delta prime.
00:22:58.254 - 00:23:15.552, Speaker A: So this is a simple thing that you just need to check. Like it's really just a check on the level of polytopes. It's a very hands on convex geometry type of thing. And you check that this is true. Okay, or backwards. So it's going to be a slide one way or the other. It's not both ways.
00:23:15.552 - 00:23:39.274, Speaker A: And then we're done, right? Because we know that in this situation, we can slide one polytope to the other, and that gives us, and then we apply this claim, and that tells us that there's some function. And by the way, the way you prove the claim is we construct very explicit coordinate charts, and you just apply her out of Keba. So I think I'm out of time, but I'm done. My talk.
