00:00:01.840 - 00:01:02.200, Speaker A: So today I will do my least technical talk. Probably I will talk a bit about the idea of hyperbitcoinization and our story and how did we get there and what are our plans to achieve hyper bitcoinization through modularity. I'm co founder of Citria Bitcoins first ekrol app, and I will just start bitcoin a long way back to bitcoin. And this is the first sentence of the bitcoin white paper, which Satoshi says a purely peer to peer version of the electronic cash will allow online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a financial institution. So this was more than a decade ago, and Satoshiva had only one idea in his mind, and it was single use case payments and simple goal, no centralized financial institutions, institutions or intermediaries. But this was more than a decade ago, and some things probably changed since then. It's a very simple idea.
00:01:02.200 - 00:01:45.070, Speaker A: But he solved that problem with the bitcoin white paper and the implementation. And five years after that, five, six years after that, there is an old bitcoiner now. He supports BSP dovat Daniel Krevitz. He came up with the idea of hyperbitcoinization in a very short article and defined it like this. Hyper bitcoinization is a voluntary transition from an inferior currency to a superior one. And its adoption is a series of individual acts of entrepreneurship, rather than a single monopolist that games the system. So he is talking about a world where bitcoin is the dominating currency, and it is probably not only used in payments, but everything in real life or online payments.
00:01:45.070 - 00:02:22.072, Speaker A: It can be lending, borrowing, it can be buying stuff, it can be just some giving money for your friends, instead trusting them. And he also talks about the inferior currencies and puts another thing in his article, talking about hyperinflation. And hyperinflation happens very, very similarly to hyper bitcoinization. Actually, in these two events. In hyperinflation, the price in the doomed currency will skyrocket. And in hyper bitcoinization, it is also not so much different. The price in the doomed currency will skyrocket.
00:02:22.072 - 00:03:01.220, Speaker A: So it's very relevant concept. And he also thinks that hyperinflation will come after hyper bitcoinization, but start around the same time. And this is inflation rates from couple countries, Turkey, where I'm from, Argentina and Zimbabwe. And we already started seeing signs of hyperinflation in Turkey and Argentina for the last couple years. And in Zimbabwe it already happened, but now they just removed their currency from circulation. And then pushed again, and now they're experiencing the same hyperinflation. So, just as an example, if you want to buy eggplant from grocery, you have to pay more and more each day.
00:03:01.220 - 00:03:49.696, Speaker A: So the price of the eggplant in that doomed currency started skyrocketing. And at the same time, if you just look to the hyperinflation and correspond to hyper bitcoinization event, you will see that this turkish lira against bitcoin now worth zero, argentinian peso worth zero. So I think now you can correlate the hyperinflation and hyper bitcoinization. So the price of pesos bitcoin in these doomed currencies already started skyrocketing, and it's going more and more and USD not so different. I think. While I'm talking about in every single podcast, I already mentioned turkish lira, because this is where I live in Istanbul. But people think that, oh, turkish era, it's so bad.
00:03:49.696 - 00:04:27.334, Speaker A: And like us dollar, it's doing fine. Okay, it's fine, but it's not fine. And it will end up just like turkish lira. And why we call BTC as the superior currency, but not just any other inferior currencies, because bitcoin is decentralized, bitcoin is censorship resistant, and more importantly, bitcoin is borderless. So all of these countries, they have some kind of capital control. They can control their own fiat currencies of people. They can also control maybe other fiat currencies of other countries for their own people, but they cannot control your bitcoin.
00:04:27.334 - 00:05:28.164, Speaker A: And this is where bitcoin hyperinflation will be affected, because they cannot control the hyperinflation. They can control the hyperinflation, but they cannot control hyper bitcoinization. This is also a graph from a bitcoin writer, an anonymous writer, and he describes the hyper bitcoinization growth model, which very similar to the crystallization event of a mineral. And he puts these three different phases, like equilibrium, nucleation, and crystallization. And each phases, this is where actually Satoshi started. And this is, I think, around 2010, where we see innovations, we see small meetups, we see miners joining the bitcoin, but bitcoin value is still so low and is only have like maybe $100 or $1,000 value. But the phase after it, we start seeing engineers working on bitcoin, we start seeing pools working on bitcoin, increasing hash rates, increasing adoption and security and conferences.
00:05:28.164 - 00:06:01.920, Speaker A: And this is the micro bubble phase where we start to see bitcoin adoption and rapid price appreciation started to happen. And I think this is where we are now. Now we are seeing new kind of exchanges instead of empty gogs. And we are seeing layers build, especially for the last one and a half year. There are a lot of people trying to build layers on bitcoin, and it is a reason I will come back. And the industry use. This is already happening with some of the institutions that's adopting bitcoin for their treasuries or for just backing their some of the stocks.
00:06:01.920 - 00:06:35.288, Speaker A: And there's a tipping point where we see all this curve happening and going to the institutions, bank and governments. But at the same time, bitcoin is now becoming more of a medium of exchange and than unit of account instead of staying as a store of value. And meanwhile, there is this rapid price appreciation events and ending up with minimal price volatility. So like I said, we are coming through tipping points. That's cool. That's fine. We are seeing new exchanges, we are seeing new layers, we are seeing industrial use.
00:06:35.288 - 00:07:08.710, Speaker A: But how do we scale there, how to handle this rapid price appreciation and then minimal price volatility? Because in there, there will be tons of activity. There will be people trying to use bitcoin in action in real life. And current bitcoin l, one cannot handle it. This is the challenge. Just moving from store of value to unit of accounts. Bitcoin L1 cannot scale to everyone. And bitcoin L, one cannot scale for all use cases as well.
00:07:08.710 - 00:08:03.378, Speaker A: If you want to do all of them, then enable a trink, complete smart contracts on bitcoin and put terabytes of blocks. Do you think it's scaling? No, it's not scaling. It might cover these use cases for some time, not for unlimited time, but it is still not scaling, because now you are losing your properties like decentralization, censorship, resistance, and becoming borderless because now we are putting limits on people's computer. So, how to solve this challenge? Like l one doesn't scale? Okay, that's fine, but where is the answer? I think we can just turn back to the definition of hyperbitcoinization. Hyperbitcoinization will be achieved through a series of individual acts of entrepreneurship. And actually, modularity is a series of individual acts of entrepreneurship. Rather than pushing a single monopolist that will game the system just like the l one.
00:08:03.378 - 00:08:42.060, Speaker A: Instead, we try to just specialize on a couple things and do it better than everything else, and we can connect them all to the bitcoin. So bitcoin can scale for everyone. And all the use cases we are building Citria and Citra is the execution shard of bitcoin. With Citria, you can build bitcoin applications without the scaling or programmability limits of bitcoin. L1. But I want to talk a bit about the background of Citra as well. We started our company two years ago in Istanbul with my other co founders, Ekram Esadamburat.
00:08:42.060 - 00:09:15.166, Speaker A: And our idea was, okay, let's build some privacy systems on crypto because there is not enough privacy on chain. And this was just maybe weeks after tornado cash sanctions. And we built privacy on ethereum, we built proof of innocence, then we built privacy pools. But around same time we saw that inscriptions are happening on bitcoin. Okay, inscriptions are cool because now people are demanding bitcoin in action. Instead of just keeping bitcoin as their server value, they want to use bitcoin in action. They want to buy and sell stuff with bitcoin.
00:09:15.166 - 00:09:51.600, Speaker A: They want to land bitcoin for their digital art. So there's a need of bitcoin as a medium of exchange. And we realized that, okay, we'll allow bitcoin. Why not just build something on bitcoin and start our journey? Build several API endpoints, indexers. And we realized there's not enough development in bitcoin. Happened for the last, more than a decade, like last 15 years. Instead of just dealing with the base infrastructure, we said, okay, let's build a roll up on bitcoin that can enable all these use cases for everyone without getting through the l one limitations.
00:09:51.600 - 00:10:26.320, Speaker A: And this is where citri idea started. Around a year ago in last Ecc in Paris. Actually I was talking with all these people in modular summits, including Celestia guys, including sovereign labs guys. That's why we decided to build this roll up and leave all the other products that we are doing. But this is not ideal. We don't want everything to be built on Citria. We want layers on top of bitcoin that is specialized in different things, that's all connected through this lightning channels, chain abstractions.
00:10:26.320 - 00:11:07.158, Speaker A: People can seamlessly interoperate between all these layers. They can use arc for privacy, they can use mercury layer for just using channels in a private manner. And they can use Citria to build three incomplete applications like other privacy applications, just mixers or private swaps, private transfers. And on top of citria now you can build all the other vms, you can build MovM, you can build SVM, and they can use different Di layers, they can use celestia, they can use avail. But everything will be connected with bitvm without limitations of the bitcoin L1. So that's our goal. How we see bitcoin in the next ten years.
00:11:07.158 - 00:11:27.720, Speaker A: So that with this table now we can scale bitcoin for all use cases and to everyone without getting through custodials, centralized financial institutions or intermediaries. And lastly, modularism, not maximalism. Thank you for listening me. If you have any questions, I can answer here or outside.
