00:00:07.690 - 00:00:19.370, Speaker A: So without further ado, I'd like to bring on Sarah to talk about what the fem is and how it works and what's next and everything else you need to know about the Filecoin virtual machine. So please welcome Sarah.
00:00:19.450 - 00:00:35.910, Speaker B: Thank you, Karthik. Hey, everyone. Good to meet all of you darling in over here from East Seoul. So if any of you are here in East Seoul and you're staying up to watch, welcome, welcome. Hi. Also. Hi to everyone from around the world.
00:00:35.910 - 00:01:22.614, Speaker B: I think we've seen each other probably a few times now. If you've been following the East Global hackathons, my team is the developer advocate team for FBM, the Falcon Virtual Machine, and we've been through multiple East Global hackathons now. Denver was a really big one that just went by and we'll be in Paris as well. So looking forward to meet all of you. I thought through today for Hackfs and we're super excited for Hackfs because it is the first hackathon that FBM is going into that combines with all the other Protocol Labs teams that have provided great infrared products and putting it all together in a hackathon. So we've been holding FBM specific hackathons for a while now. We've been doing a lot of these tutorials and documentations and presentations, and I was thinking what's kind of new that we can share.
00:01:22.614 - 00:02:09.000, Speaker B: I think we've come to a point where we actually launched two and a half months ago now, and a lot of things have progressed since then. There's a lot of new things that we very quickly shipped right after launch where we realized these are things that developers are asking for. And we also have a lot more new things coming up as well. So it kind of feels like we're going right into our next phase and super excited to be able to share that with everyone. Yeah, so I'll cover today Falcon Virtual Machine, what, why, and what next. I might be a little bit more summarized on the what and the why just because we've gone through that with a few presentations and we have resources to share that with you. So I'm going to spend a little bit more time on what's coming up next and get everyone really excited on what they can build with us for the next month.
00:02:09.000 - 00:02:46.478, Speaker B: Oh, also a quick shout out if you have not followed us yet, do follow us on the FBM Dev Twitter account. We give updates. My teammate Matt has been amazing in building up our socials and he gives a lot of great updates about our product as we go along, so stay tuned there. He's also doing interviews with hackers on site, so really, really fun stuff. And we have a twitch stream, which is the Phil builder stream. So just a shout out there every Thursday, except for doing a large hackathon like that where everyone is in the middle of the hackathon workshops. But every Thursday we do try to keep to a schedule where we live, demo and break things.
00:02:46.478 - 00:03:09.746, Speaker B: Well, mostly it's me breaking and Matt fixing, but you can see us try out new things and bring on new partners and hackers. As you know, if you submit for the hackathon, you could also be one of the guests for the session. Cool. So I'm going to cover what the FBM is. I've also added a link over there. I know it's a little bit summarized, but let me run through it. And I also have a QR code over there if you want to go deep.
00:03:09.746 - 00:03:43.970, Speaker B: Dive into a little bit more of an explanation for a talk that I did at East Tokyo recently on what the FVM is. So I have been getting a lot of questions from developers, like can you clarify what the FVM actually is? So I thought to put out some key points here that we have been answering to developers so far, and I hope this really helps to clarify it for everyone. So the FBM is a runtime environment for smart contracts on FalcoIn. It sits on top of the FalcoIn network. It is a feature of the FalcoIn network. It is not a separate product on its own. It is a layer one on top of FalcoIn, which is a layer zero.
00:03:43.970 - 00:04:18.894, Speaker B: It is also fully EVM compatible. So we have a fully feature complete ethereum JSON RPC API. And that is how the FBM is fully EVM compatible today. So all the tools that you are super used and familiar with using as an EVM developer can be used for the FBM as well. So things like Hard Hat Foundry, we actually just put out a Foundry starter kit, so that's really cool. From a teammate. Zach MetaMask yeah, using your you know, you barely have to even think about what the conversion of the address will look like into filecoin, for example.
00:04:18.894 - 00:04:54.460, Speaker B: So all these things are things that we've figured out on the back end. So for you, it should be super seamless to use all the tools that you are familiar with. FVM as a whole is also intended to be VM agnostic. So today the first foreign runtime for the FVM that we are focusing on is EVM, because clearly the Ethereum community is just super robust and super exciting ideas and developers in that space. And so we wanted to provision that first. And so we have the EVM today, but tomorrow it could be something else. And we're hoping to build out or build with builders as well to help us build more VMs that can be compatible with other chains as well.
00:04:54.460 - 00:05:25.038, Speaker B: We are also live on Main net since March 14, 2023. So if you took part in that event, it was tidy, it was super fun and exciting. Great if you joined us on that day and super easy to remember to date as well. So kind of looking back, a lot has happened, a lot is on this slide. I kind of want to go through it. I just want to take a moment to kind of think through it. The last time I think I was on Eve Global TV was back in November with Fevm.
00:05:25.038 - 00:05:55.950, Speaker B: That was like the first FBM specific hackathon that we had, or the first hackathon that FBM was going into. And it was super hacky we had. A lot of developers gave us really good feedback. We were very aware that we were putting out a product that was almost fully complete, but not really. And there were features that we wanted to test with developers and we got really good feedback then. But we have come such a long way since then and since launch itself. A lot also has happened since the Pi day that we launched to Main net.
00:05:55.950 - 00:06:24.930, Speaker B: So some things that have happened. Adoption has gone up. We have about 2.9 mil filled today in total contract balance on FalcoIn main net, and we have about 175k transactions that have taken place so far. And we also have about 1.1K unique contracts deployed to date, coming from about close to 200 unique deployer addresses. And that's like amazing, right? And we really want to thank everyone that has been deploying the main net, working with us, our early builders.
00:06:24.930 - 00:07:09.398, Speaker B: It's just super exciting. Right now, if you want to check out these stats, they are from our partner, the FBM Starboard Explorer. So you can actually head over to that Explorer and look at these contract analysis and kind of see how the FBM is doing. If you are curious to see how the statistics are tracking week on week, things that we've shipped, we have about ten DAP integration partners and we have many more partners as well, of course. But during this hackathon, I know this is of interest to everyone, these are also coming back around. You see them as sponsors. During this hackathon, we've integrated these partners to come on board to Mainnet and as well as to provide support for testnet so that it gives you a richer DAP development experience.
00:07:09.398 - 00:07:53.470, Speaker B: With Fem, we've shipped new features on our block Explorers, including contract verification and smart contract analysis. So again, thank you to all our great Explorer partners out there and many more that are in development right now. We're hoping to really build a much richer ecosystem around the smart contract space. On filecoin we have the SDM Foundry and Datadaw Starter Kit that we pushed out since launch. So that should really help developers with getting a template to start moving along. And we've also gotten a docker image for Lotus and Boost, making it super easy to set up storage and retrieval on a local net so that you can keep testing before you put it to testnet and so on. So that has made it much faster for people to adopt FBM and test out our client contract for storage.
00:07:53.470 - 00:08:43.822, Speaker B: So kudos to that that was shipped out as well. We've also transitioned testnet from Hyperspace to Calibration. So if you haven't seen the message on the Slack channels or on our Twitter, just a heads up. We have deprecated the previous testnet that we've the good old trusty hyperspace testnet that we've been using since back in November and now we are transitioning over to Calibration testnet which very much mimics the main net. Yeah, the filecoin Mainet as well. The goal of this was really to allow developers to simulate what Mainet conditions would be like and be able to test all these what you would consider experimental features with fem on your depth solutions to make sure it works in a production environment first, and then once it deploys the main net, it should work seamlessly because we worked in Calibration and that's why we have moved over. So a lot more documentation and tutorials that will be coming up in the workshops.
00:08:43.822 - 00:09:39.640, Speaker B: But there are some slight differences between the two testnets over there. So huge transition over there migration thanks to my team and we have Redfield that shipped thanks to Gliv and Alex Reid that has kind of helped to ship that out and has been used by quite a few teams at this point. We've also had Staking pools that launched so that was super exciting. And we also have more cookbook resources that have come up over time for people to get ideas and get a better sense or maybe kind of see what the FBM team is thinking about how you could use FBM itself and I'll touch on that in a little bit. We've also had tremendous builder movement, builder momentum. We've had about three or so e partner hackathons and even more hackathons outside of that since the launch itself, which is just insane thinking about it because it's only been like 2.5 months but we've had hundreds of FBM projects that have been submitted since then so really seeing really strong interest there.
00:09:39.640 - 00:10:23.826, Speaker B: And we've also had an FBM Mainet builder cohort where teams have shipped MVP solutions. We have about 27 of them that have also deployed to main net. Thanks so much to our cohort like myself and my DX team were very close to this cohort. So thanks for everyone for participating and building with us for six months and trying out all these new features and giving us feedback and building out different tools with us for Fem. And now you can all use in the hackathon. So this will all be in the hackathon cheat sheet and some of these teams have also become partners as well, which is awesome. And then also from that amazing cohort, 40 of their smart contract templates have actually been uploaded to Cookbook Dev which is a smart contract hub that we've been working very closely to.
00:10:23.826 - 00:11:24.050, Speaker B: So shout out to them as well. So that makes it even easier for you in this hackathon to adopt those templates and kind of try it out for yourself and see and build upon what other teams have done so they walk so that we could run, I don't know, which is just great. And we've also had about 20 teams that have progressed from being in a builder cohort, going from hackathon to build a cohort to then being accepted into FBM focused accelerators. So we have some accelerator partners out there, ov, GPC, LongHash and a few other accelerator partners as well that have not had fully focused, fully FBM focused accelerator cohorts, but have taken in quite a significant number of FPM teams into their cohorts as well. So a lot of like, if you think about it as a whole builder momentum, we're really excited to see all these great ideas come up from hackathons and then progress onwards to become really sustainable products and solutions for themselves in the ecosystem. So, yeah, just huge momentum since we launched 2.5 months ago, which is honestly kind of insane.
00:11:24.050 - 00:12:07.070, Speaker B: So you have no excuse in a month to build something really cool. All right. Okay, so why FBM? So now we're going to touch on the why again. If you're interested to read more of a deep dive, there is a QR code over there that you can watch the talk on and I can go a little bit deeper into where FVM stands in the FalcoIn Master Plan, why it came in, why the FalcoIn network eats it and so on. But to summarize, the FVM is meant to bring on chain programmability to the FalcoIn network and achieve step number three in the FalcoIn Master Plan. So, for those of you who have been in the FalcoIn ecosystem, this is a test for you. What is the FalcoIn master plan? Well, very simply, the first one was to set up a storage provider network and a decentralized storage network.
00:12:07.070 - 00:12:50.786, Speaker B: The second one is to onboard important data onto the network and the last one would be to compute that data and that is where the FBM comes in. So we are really here to achieve step three in the Filecoin Master Plan. It's a really exciting stuff because it's only up from here. And then to kind of break that down a little bit because I do get questions around what does on chain programmability mean to us? That means to enable custom logic to be written around storage and retrieval workflows. Again, Filecoin is fully focused on storage and retrieval and so there's a ton that you can do with all this data, right? You could decide how you want those workflows to be automated or to be event driven. It's up to you. So that's what the FBM is really meant to do.
00:12:50.786 - 00:13:56.130, Speaker B: And we think that because data is so important in today's world, that can unlock a lot of opportunities for developers and different solutions out there. And then also I always get the question around why use SVM that is EVM compatible rather than just using EVM alone. Well, the main point here is that it will enable custom logic and storage capabilities to be in a native environment. Rather than you writing your EVM smart contract and then writing to a separate storage platform which you might not have much control over, you can actually be able to customize it as much as you want and have everything. Within a native environment, which makes a huge difference when you actually deploy or implement your application because then it leads to a significant improvement in terms of performance, in terms of cost and so on. So that is really the key point as to why moving on to FVM, especially for storage focused use cases, would be super great to use with EVM rather than just EVM alone. And lastly, to enable L2 storage focused solutions to be developed at web scale.
00:13:56.130 - 00:14:44.226, Speaker B: This is really the vision that we have. If you think about web two and what, for example, AWS allows today, that's what we hope to be able to do with a ton of data and being able to compute that data as well. Okay, so that's kind of the TLDR and why. So now we've covered the what and the why and we're going to kind of talk about what next. So today I was at East Seoul and I had a hacker come up to me and a friend that came out and asked me like, kind of want to know what actually does FBM solve? So I'm going to go a little bit into that and touch on two areas that we are thinking about very deeply these few days. So for us, there are a few resources over here where you can see how we're thinking about it. We have three key resources over here and these will be in the hackathon cheat sheet.
00:14:44.226 - 00:15:30.066, Speaker B: You can check them out for ideas. I've shared some of them into the discord so far and I can keep sharing or answering questions. We have a lot of mentors to help you out here, but three key resources, one would be data plus FBM over here as the first one. So that will go deep into things like programmable storage, markets, data dows. If you're really focused on the storage component of your solution, what can you build with FBM today? So that goes super deep into that. And then we have a solutions list which is kind of the current ideas that we have and the workflows that we're thinking around how we can use FBM, these kind of go across the board in many different ways. So it's not a dumping list, but we have a lot of different ideas about how you can build with FBM and we write out detailed workflows that you can go expand on and build for your projects.
00:15:30.066 - 00:16:05.722, Speaker B: And then lastly, we have even broader and more high level categories of what you could possibly possibly build with FBM. So that would be our request for startups resource, which some of you might be familiar with. It's been around for a while, but these are really broad ideas on what we think people can grow in that space. So do check all these resources out from super deep to super high level and see where you and your team want to build in. Yeah. Okay, so I'm going to go a little bit, take it double click a little bit into two areas. One would be programmable storage markets and one will be data dows.
00:16:05.722 - 00:16:50.686, Speaker B: And the reason why I want to double click into these is because I think that these are really areas that is where FBM really shines, right? So if you're thinking about using FBM storage component, having a storage focus is going to make your app have that unique value prop. So I'm going to touch a little bit on this on programmable storage markets. There are a few basic building blocks over here. This is within the data plus FBM resource that I just shared earlier on. I'm going to walk through them and then kind of get your brain juices flowing around these, right? So around building blocks, you can think about FBM being able to enable storage deal creation on the FalcoIn network. So before the FBM was introduced, storage deal creation was something that developers themselves wouldn't really interact with. You wouldn't actually really interact with the filecoin protocol as well.
00:16:50.686 - 00:18:02.086, Speaker B: And if you wanted to run this process on your own, it does require a lot of steps and it does require a lot of deep technical understanding. The process is well TLDR pretty long, right? So with storage deal creation, with FBM, it allows a storage deal to be proposed maybe automatically, or maybe you could key in your parameters and you set it to be event driven and it can actually propose a storage deal to the storage providers using a smart contract. And once that whole process is completed with the smart contract doing it for you, it can actually generate a deal ID and return it to your application or to the user, to the client themselves. So storage deal creation and automating that process is a big building block that we hope to see more of in projects. The other one that we're interested in is data replication. So yes, you store your data once, but again, it's a huge decentralized storage network. You might not just want to store one storage provider, you might want to replicate your data across a few storage providers because if one drops in your, at least you have a few backups, right? So the ability to replicate a piece of data x number of times, depending on how many you need across storage providers that you trust or whoever it is that you choose to select is going to be super important as well.
00:18:02.086 - 00:19:24.798, Speaker B: So we're interested to see how you could use FBM to interact with the protocol, know that maybe a storage deal has only been replicated like twice and you want it more and how can it automatically replicate that for you? So that's another basic building block that we're interested in seeing, storage provider selection, being able to select storage providers that for example, GDPR policies that you want to meet. How can you be able to automatically select storage providers that are in a certain geography that you want to work with or maybe fulfill certain criteria that you have and allow you to make the storage deal even faster? Again, these are all composable. So it could be a solution that even includes the first three things that I talked about. Yeah, so think about how you could build like maybe a huge dashboard that can do something like that or a platform that is really an enhanced programmable storage platform. And then really quickly we have storage deal renewal. Again, knowing that your deal is almost close to expiry and how can you renew that automatically? These are also things to think about aggregation, thinking about how you could have like, let's say so today on the Falcon network, there is a certain capacity of storage that a certain data size that would be more attractive for storage providers to accept your deal proposal for. So if you have a smaller piece of data, it will need to be aggregated into a larger deal size first before you can propose and have storage providers to pick that up.
00:19:24.798 - 00:20:19.694, Speaker B: Now, what happens if you want to retrieve your one piece of data out of 100 pieces of data and then return it to your client, or you want to just renew for that specific piece of data? So these are things to think about when it comes to aggregation. And we see that as a huge, huge opportunity in the programmable market space because users come with all kinds of data sizes and we want to be able to have solutions for that. So think about filecoin today with a storage provider network being like this huge infrastructure and being like a factory warehouse, whereas when we have aggregation, it's kind of like the reseller and the retailer in the middle that is able to provide that service. So we kind of want to see a lot more in the aggregation space. And then I will go a little bit into data dows in the next slides. But before that, I want to show a quick example of what it can mean to have a storage market. So I'm just picking an example as like take it as one of your alumni from a previous hackathon.
00:20:19.694 - 00:21:03.754, Speaker B: This is the data house project. They actually built a really cool all in one solution that incorporated different building blocks that I mentioned earlier. Of course, back then the tech was a little bit different, so there were certain things they couldn't include. But they built an all in one storage platform over here and that was actually a really powerful platform. So you could think about examples like that and then moving on to data dows. This is also in Data plus FBM and has more of a write up, but I get a lot of questions around what do you mean by data dows? Right? So really quickly, a data dow is a dao as we know it that is focused on a very important data set. So you have like a really large data set that you want to be able to manage, renew, persist, be perpetually stored, control, access to, so you can do many different things with that dows.
00:21:03.754 - 00:21:51.966, Speaker B: So we've actually lent a lot of thinking. Our product team has done a great job of providing more of a guidance or a framework to think about data dows. So if you think about it as a L2, which is the base, a layer one, which is the base, which would be persistent, and perpetual storage, kind of similar to what I spoke about for programmable storage market earlier on. So you could take those composable building blocks and put it into a data dow to make sure that important data set can be renewed and replicated and so on. And then you have a L2 on top of that, which you can think about governance and incentivization, either through providing tokens that people can earn as incentives or just to fuel a different action within the Dow. Or it could be tokens to use for governance to then decide how the data is going to be managed. Or it could be an endowment fund that could continuously fund the renewal of your data.
00:21:51.966 - 00:22:40.398, Speaker B: So a lot more thinking in that space. And I know this is something that people have asked for since previous hackathons and they want to see like it's a very new concept, right? And so this is something that is very unique to FBM and I think if you build a product or solution here, it's going to have a huge market space and it's going to be very different in the market. So we're very interested to see data dows be built. And then really quickly, I want to show an example of a data dow again from an early builder that has been just fantastic. She's also now a mentor, which is great. So this was actually SPN Dao, formerly known as Spendao, and now it's called Dalin, it was from the hack favour hackathon way back. And they actually had this really cool example of taking people's credit card data and putting it into contributing it into a data set as part of a Dao and then providing access control on top of that data set.
00:22:40.398 - 00:23:24.554, Speaker B: So that maybe companies, the marketing companies that want to access your data could then pay the Dow's Endowment Fund to access the data, and then the users could get directly paid for their data as well. So that's a really good example of a data dow in a real world scenario. So these are things that you can think about for examples of how you want to build, like how are you going to solve real world problems with a data dow? Cool. So kind of giving you a little bit of an idea there on things that are unique to FBM. And of course you can build almost anything that you want with FBM, especially anything to do with data, to have a rich, DAP environment. We've actually onboarded and integrated a lot of partners over here. So again, I realize this looks like a trivia board of you to guess what partners these are.
00:23:24.554 - 00:24:17.146, Speaker B: Shout it on the chat if you know them. So you can help shout them out because I didn't put the titles in here, but they are mostly sponsors and they all have integrated with FBM and you can use them within your solution as well. So it makes for a much richer, DApp ecosystem and many more of these partner integrations are going to be coming up very soon. Okay? And then lastly, what's next for FBM? A lot of things, but I think clearly from the product side, things that we are super interested in right now is working on proof of data segment inclusion. We call it Potsi. What it actually refers to is, remember how I talked about if you have a small data piece within a larger aggregated data deal, how are you able to prove that your small piece of data has been stored? And how do you know where your data is? How are you able to pull it out to then renew in a separate deal and do whatever you want with it but know where it is within that larger segment? So Potsi is one big thing. We're thinking about decentralized aggregator DevTools.
00:24:17.146 - 00:25:05.294, Speaker B: We're super interested to see developers and maybe even in this hackathon build your own decentralized aggregator. We have a few centralized aggregators today that allow developers or clients to upload their small data, but we would love to see people build their own and think about decentralized solutions for this as well. And then we're also thinking of building more stacks and more devtooling and maybe some platforms as well on our end for replication, repair, renewal of your data FVM as a whole and not pertaining to the EVM compatible FVM, but we're also planning on scoping out for native WASM actors to be built. So that would be a whole different type of FVM and more to come on that. We're also working on a lot more partner integrations to come in. We hear you're asked for guessless transactions and so on. So looking to build some of those partnerships and integrate more for Richard debt experience.
00:25:05.294 - 00:25:22.274, Speaker B: Some of them might come in during the hackathon, we don't know. We hope to bring those in and maybe help you along this month long hack. And then lastly, more devtooling from the DX team to. Help you with more docs, tutorials and so on. So a lot more is coming up for FBM. Super excited. We moved, as you can see, in 2.5
00:25:22.274 - 00:25:36.454, Speaker B: months. So many things have happened. More can happen during the hackathon. So definitely keep an eye out and keep talking to us in the discord channel. Cool. And then where should you begin? This is a really simple QR code. Everything that I talked about should be in here.
00:25:36.454 - 00:26:13.022, Speaker B: We have Docs, a hackathon cheat sheet that's super easy to use. More ideas and grants and hackathons coming up as well. For hack FS, do look out for the storage and retrieval series that's coming up. So my colleague Matt, as well as Hong Hao and Lungfei will be covering a three part series on storage and retrieval. They will go deeper into the tools and tutorials and demos on how you can build some of the programmable storage market components that I talked about earlier on so that you can use it within your project. So this should happen within next week. And then applications to build with FBM, we have Michael Zach has built up quite a few starter kits that you could use as templates.
00:26:13.022 - 00:26:33.958, Speaker B: So he'll be covering that coming Monday as well. So you can see what starter kit you want to fork to then build your project from there. Okay. And then that's it. For me, that was a lot. I mean, I tried to make it simple, but still a lot of things because super exciting things are happening with FBM. But again, thank you from the whole team as well as really close partners that we work with.
00:26:33.958 - 00:26:41.370, Speaker B: Again, this is like and it's not just everyone on this page, there's way more people. But again, thank you so much for building with P m. Bye.
