00:00:05.840 - 00:00:50.904, Speaker A: All right. Hey, everyone. How's it going? So, hi, I'm Marcus. I'm the director of engineering for crypto infrastructure at Circle. I'm really excited to be here today with all of you guys at Breakpoint. Solana is one of our closest partners with Circle, and we've got some really, really great news to share with you guys that helps to grow our commitment for the Solana ecosystem. So for those of you who are new to circle, here's a quick primer on our vision.
00:00:50.904 - 00:02:00.174, Speaker A: We are focused on unlocking real world utility on chain for businesses and developers by issuing the world's most stable digital currencies. Many of you may be familiar with USDC, our us dollar backed stablecoin that's also here on my shirt. We also issue Eurocoin, a fully reserved euro backed stablecoin. Our infrastructure enables businesses to increase reach and capital efficiency, and empowers developers to create the future of commerce by building with programmable money. But Circle is also more than just a stablecoin issuer. While financial institutions are mainly familiar with our platform for twenty four seven real time access to stablecoin liquidity, we do a lot more for developers. As you're building apps and businesses on Solana, you can consider integrating Circle's custody solutions for treasury operations, designing NFT marketplaces and more.
00:02:00.174 - 00:03:01.984, Speaker A: You can add fiat on and off ramps for USDC into your app. And we've got APIs and SDKs to make that integration easier. And as part of our most recent acquisition of Sybavo, we're working on introducing direct custody solutions, managed nodes for smart contract deployment, and an SDK for easily creating iOS and Android wallets. Stay tuned for more on that this year. All right, so now that you know what's possible with USDC on Solana, it's time to expand the design space a little bit. Eurocoin is coming to Solana. We're targeting the first half of 2023 for mainnet availability and are really excited about the use cases that Eurocoin will unlock on Solana's ultra fast, ultra low cost network.
00:03:01.984 - 00:03:50.654, Speaker A: Let's start with 24/7 instant FX on chain. This is truly a game changer, given that over $6.6 trillion worth of FX trades are made daily in traditional finance. Pairing USDC with Eurocoin enables the future of FX with transactions that can settle in 400 milliseconds and costs a fraction of a cent. Salon is really fast. Businesses, institutions and users alike should be switching to FX on chain. And of course, there's trading, lending and borrowing giving users the optionality to use eurocoin as a base currency for trading unlocks a lot of this functionality.
00:03:50.654 - 00:04:51.540, Speaker A: You can enable lending and borrowing with a fully reserved eurobacked stablecoin that users can trust, just as they trust USDC. Last but not least, how about seamless payments in euros with Solanapay? Users love how easy it is to pay with USDC on Solanapay, and now they can do so in euros as well. And there's already a lot of enthusiasm from the ecosystem. FTX will support deposits and withdrawals of eurocoin on Solana at launch. Radium and Solend, two of the leading DeFi protocols on Solana, have expressed their intent to do so as well. Thank you to the teams and communities behind these platforms, and it's really the ecosystem that's going to drive the usage and adoption of eurocoin. We can't wait to make this possible with all of you.
00:04:51.540 - 00:06:19.734, Speaker A: Stay tuned in early 2023 for updates on mainnet availability, but we have just one more thing to tell you guys. We're also happy to announce our intent to deploy the cross chain transfer protocol on Solana in the first half of 2023. Initially enabled for native USDC transfers across blockchains. We'll also be planning to enable it for Eurocoin at a later date as well. For a quick refresher on the cross chain transfer protocol, it is our permissionless infrastructure, designed for developers, that allows the USDC you know and trust to move natively across supported blockchains. This is achieved by sending some USDC on one chain to deposit and burn it, and then triggering a mint of USDC at the destination chain. By effectively teleporting USDC from one chain onto any other chain, developers can create novel cross chain dapps that stack together the various functionalities of trading, lending, payments, nfts, gaming and much, much more, all while abstracting away the complexity of cross chain work away from the users.
00:06:19.734 - 00:07:30.898, Speaker A: To put it in further context, cross chain transfer protocol is a low level primitive for developers to leverage and extend. This means that bridges and other cross chain messaging platforms can integrate with the low level infrastructure that we've built for you and create your own user experiences. We expect a wide range of bridges, wallets and dapps of all types to serve end users and facilitate seamless movement of USDC throughout the crypto ecosystem. Basically, we're building this for you guys to build on top of. The cross chain transfer protocol is expected to launch on ethereum and Avalanche in early January and expand to Solana in the first half of 2023, amid a growing roster of integration partners, wormhole intends to support the protocol's implementation on Solana at launch. That's a wrap. Thank you to everyone for coming in and tuning in to this announcement.
00:07:30.898 - 00:08:12.404, Speaker A: We can't wait to bring these foundational pieces of steam infrastructure to the whole Solana ecosystem. So to learn more about these announcements and the rest of the Circle platform, check out our website, circle.com. Follow us on Twitter Circle and if you're a developer, join us on our all new Discord channel, build on Circle, which I think you can scan the QR code right up there. Let's unleash the utility phase of crypto and create the next Solana summer together. Thank you.
