00:00:00.240 - 00:00:33.908, Speaker A: Hello. Yeah, my name is Daniel. I'll be talking about validator responsibility and self regulation. So a little bit about myself. I used to work at Steakfish and led their protocols team, and I used to head the ecosystem team at Terra before I rage quit in 2020 because of all the issues I saw there. And that's how I got into the validator ecosystem. So this is one of my favorite quotes by Philip Monk from the urban ecosystem.
00:00:33.908 - 00:01:35.114, Speaker A: If you don't understand a system you're using, you don't control it. And if nobody understands a system, the system is in control. I think the validator ecosystem is a particularly misunderstood ecosystem in terms of its agency and independence to guide progressive decentralization and manifest that. And I think we're in this sort of pivotal moment, especially with regulation and the west sort of hating on us for us to be able to make something of ourselves and guide us into a more decentralized system. And so. Right, what is the system supposed to be? Right, we have delegators, validators, decentralized foundations, the core teams, let's say for Ethereum specifically, we have like the seven or so client teams, and then the variety of connections between each of them. So I'll be talking about some of the responsibility, I'll be talking about some of the self regulation, and then perhaps some of what we might be able to look forward to doing.
00:01:35.114 - 00:02:46.010, Speaker A: Maybe one way to sort of visualize the cycle is if from the start of Pos, maybe five ish years ago, we were maybe children in terms of these validator entities that had an understanding of what we were supposed to be doing from the design that was passed on to us from core teams that were building these l one s with various Pos mechanisms. Maybe right now we're in the sort of adolescent phase where there's enough money going around. We've had a few years of experience under our belts, and I think we're at this sort of junction where in order for us to mature and be taken seriously, we have to figure out a lot of these problems that we've been seeing, and that's been resurfacing time and time again. More specifically, we don't want to have these governments say, playtime's over, we'll take it from here and have these centralized panopticons. So responsibilities. I think the most obvious example is infrastructure management. The DevOps side.
00:02:46.010 - 00:03:55.720, Speaker A: Let's imagine that's very well developed, strong right arm. The second is perhaps governance, which is maybe a lesser developed left arm. And then the purpose of what we exist for we as the validators, should exist to manifest that type of progressive decentralization that a lot of blockchains, or like their white papers say, like, eventually it will be a decentralized system. And so what does that look like? And I'll use a few examples from other POS networks like Cosmos and Polkadot, but I think it also applies to Ethereum. Maybe the analog to Ethereum is that we have these service providers that are sort of these pools a la, like the mining pools and the bitcoin mining farms we had in POW. So there's fiduciary, fiduciary responsibility and governance responsibility. The fiduciary part is perhaps where we get to a lot of these head budding with governments, these sovereignties that want us to protect their citizens.
00:03:55.720 - 00:04:47.582, Speaker A: And then the governance aspect is sort of where we're kind of driving these l one s as an example. Right. This governance responsibility is right. Once these, hypothetically, once these centralized foundation core teams disperse, and then everything gets handed off to validators, and we're supposed to take on that responsibility of guiding these chains. And so this is ideally what we would have, but sometimes they're not necessarily aligned. I think one of the really good examples and more glaring examples we had was when I was at Terra, validators knew a lot of these problems even before I had joined. And when I found them and I started poking around and seeing all these skeletons be unearthed, validators chose not to do anything.
00:04:47.582 - 00:06:20.804, Speaker A: And that's largely the reason why I think I've been so passionate about the validator space and evolving it. And then when I rage, quit in end of 2020. So even though validators knew, they chose not to do anything about it, which is quite contradictory to the existence of validators being these separate independent entities that are supposed to exist alongside these blockchains and these core foundation teams, basically these foundations were saying, jump, and all the validators were saying, how high? Which is like, then why do validators exist independently if they should just all follow the leader? So communication is important. I'll run through few of these pretty quickly. So, a really good example with this right, like this self regulation that we hope to see in the validator ecosystem that may be the appropriate complement to existing alongside sovereign nations that have certain, right, have certain, like, things that they want us to be doing right, protecting their citizens, is we have regulatory bodies from these centralized organizations. This is a picture of the SEC which has been pushing out all those filings against Coinbase and binance, and specifically in some cases, highlighting the earn related products. But this centralized example evolved alongside hundreds of years of governance history.
00:06:20.804 - 00:07:27.404, Speaker A: And I think what's funny is that, right, none of us claim to be Alexander Hamilton, but we've tried to create a system without these hundreds of years of experience. Maybe we've had five. If we're lucky, then who is responsible for keeping us in check? I think one of the most misused mantras that a lot of us have have echoed to the public or these non crypto natives is like that whole don't trust, verify mantra, which is completely false. There's very few of us, even those who are technically inclined, know how to check the code or know where to check the code, or even bother to check the code. And so if it's not the people, then. Right, what happens? Right, who's supposed to deal with these bad actors in a decentralized system? And then who's supposed to define what is bad behavior? There's obviously no double spends, but from the protocol and technical level, that's important. But when you get into the more ideological perspectives, then you have some issues.
00:07:27.404 - 00:08:06.568, Speaker A: This is a funny picture. I actually used to work at a law firm that was defending HSBC in the 2012 congressional hearing where HSBC had got caught for money laundering and terrorist financing. I actually quit the law firm, and that's how I got into bitcoin mining, because I want to, you know, I didn't like the banking system, but. Right. This enforcement thing, this is the most glaring example of, even in centralized environments, right. No one went to jail, slap on the wrist, and then HSBC continues to exist with all their bad doings. Right.
00:08:06.568 - 00:08:42.942, Speaker A: There's other issues that we've seen in the existing POS community. Juno is a cosmos based blockchain that completely violated self sovereignty by yanking almost, well at the time, at the peak, it was $134 million worth of Juno tokens out of someone's wallet through governance. The cool thing was, it was like 99% of all stake. Juno voted on this. So. Right. There are these particular assumptions that we have from these decentralized systems that expect these systems to behave appropriately.
00:08:42.942 - 00:09:25.860, Speaker A: Maybe what we think as like an efficient market or an efficient governance system, because it's decentralized, people will natively want to kind of participate. But when there's, like, this type of decentralization, we also have this bystander effect and these assumptions of rationality. And assuming what we think is right is going to be upheld because it's open source and people are going to be looking. Clearly, that wasn't the case. And we have examples like Terra now, right? Most don't care. I think these slides will be up sometime. But this is a really good example of this sort of, like, paternalistic attitude that we had all expected centralized organizations or regulatory regimes to protect us with.
00:09:25.860 - 00:10:19.772, Speaker A: And then we maybe assume that some of this would be taken up by others in a decentralized system. But that is also very false. False in the sense of there's not really good mechanisms for that to occur. And the type of people, let's say, for example, the infrastructure service providers, aka validators, who have the opportunity to do something literally on chain and coordinates, most of them are barely surviving, right? They're right. Maybe the usual suspect validators, who are the larger ones, have the ability and the time and the money to direct towards initiatives like this. The rest of the validators that are outside the top ten, for example, they're just struggling to keep the lights on. And so examples are, we can have activist shorting that come from outside infrastructure providers.
00:10:19.772 - 00:11:30.216, Speaker A: We can have cancel culture, and then this is like, post crash cancel culture, or post exploit cancel culture. And then if you go back to here, the types of people that then, if we don't have these types of mechanisms from sophisticated actors to support these ecosystems, we have, like, a. We have to deal with, like, the people, right? Because the community makes up the ecosystem in terms of, like, the governance or applying pressure to particular teams to change the chain. This is a really good example. I don't know if you recognize him, but his name is Luciano Maggi, who is a Juventus director who had been caught, right? Intimidating refs, like, locking them up, like, you know, fixing games. The interesting thing about this was that, like, the fans loved him still, even though there was clearly wrongdoing. And so that's, I think, some parts of the dilemma, which I think we're familiar with, like, this sort of bag holders dilemma, even though there's, like, a shit token or, you know, it's horrible, or, you know, there's something wrong going on.
00:11:30.216 - 00:12:22.264, Speaker A: You have so much invested in the success of that project, or in this case, the team that. Right, maybe what is right or wrong, it becomes subjective. Obviously not to the outside world. That's, again, mob rule that we have. This is an example of what we had in 2014, when we had no strict or very clarified controls or standards for how we dealt with catastrophic failure in our systems. G hash was a mining pool at the time that had exceeded 51% in its mining hash power that was directed to it, and they literally just, like, shut down the front end of their website so that no mining farms could contribute to it. And that was like a really bad case of what the hell are we doing? And so this case, right, we have tyranny of the devs versus tyranny of the majority.
00:12:22.264 - 00:13:18.434, Speaker A: And, right, this is the type of governance that we have. I'm going to go quickly through here. So I think what we can kind of look for in terms of like this sort of maturation step for our industry as infrastructure providers or validators who have the opportunity, or even what we would say a mandate to guide these, these ecosystems, is that we have to figure out what to do when shit hits a fan. And this is a really clear example of what shit hitting the fan. Right. The west is completely antagonistic towards crypto, and we have here, right, Gary Gensler declaring war on all these centralized exchanges, and coincidentally, him highlighting, staking and earning yields as a point of contention for what is deemed a security or not. And so we have certain options, and this is a very abstracted one.
00:13:18.434 - 00:14:20.014, Speaker A: Three very abstracted. We die, crypto dies, and we all fall under some centralized panopticon chain like USDC. We go dark, we all go anonymous. The last line of, let's say, defense in terms of who's going to power these blockchains, are not necessarily the token holders, but people like us who power these nodes, where do we power them? Do we power them in data centers, bare metal in our basements and cloud servers that are ultimately beholden to particular regulatory regimes, where they're located or we find a way to, which is not necessarily the most ideal option, but perhaps the most immediate option. We have to self regulate. This is like a funny picture I made with mid journey, where it's like the adults are coming and telling us, what have you done in your sandbox? And if we have nothing to show for it, then it's like they're going to take it from there. This is an example of fed chain.
00:14:20.014 - 00:14:34.234, Speaker A: Well, this is supposed to be a video, but I don't know how to play it. But this is a scene from Mister Robot. Are you able to.
00:14:36.334 - 00:14:48.594, Speaker B: When we control the ledger and the mining servers, we are the authority. I will make sure you have visibility into every single wallet that's open, every loan, every transaction.
00:14:49.884 - 00:15:28.286, Speaker A: This is a clip from, I think, the fourth season of Mister Robot, where they were talking about Ecoin, where it's like a centralized, centrally controlled ledger that everyone has access, they have access to backdoors, et cetera, which is pretty antithetical to why crypto exists as a permissionless system. That's example. If we're dead, this is example. When we go dark, are we going to all live under caves, you know, have, like, machines strapped to our backs and, you know, carry on the good fight, but. Right, like, people like me, I don't want to live like that. You know, I like living in normal society. And then there's an opportunity.
00:15:28.286 - 00:16:10.624, Speaker A: This is like a corny slide, but, like, self regulate. And what that potentially means is we have to figure out a way of. Right, no offense against, like, the network state thesis, but no, everyone lives somewhere. We all have to, as infrastructure providers, host our infrastructure in some legal territory around the world. We're not seasteading on these abandoned oil rigs. We are beholden to someone. And so in order for us to make sure that we protect some of these principles as infrastructure providers of where we decide to host, like, cloud providers, data centers, et cetera, we need to figure out a way of not just being obliterated.
00:16:10.624 - 00:17:25.338, Speaker A: And so when it comes to the responsibilities in engaging some of these institutions or regulatory authorities, we have delegators, have to take apart validators and core teams. And where in particular, the validators are the ones that continue to exist? L one s will come and go, and we've seen them come and go, but validators are always there, kind of learning those lessons. Communication has failed, right? Allowing people to engage has failed. Validators trying to engage with the community on Twitter is yelling into a storm that's failed. And so we're beginning to see validators rise up as a class. And FINRA is a good example, not the perfect example, of what potentially we might be able to see when there is this type of self regulation that exists to allow this interplay. FINRA is a non governmental organization that is a consortium of financial institutions in the United States that has the ability to self regulate and enforce each other, that the government allows sort of like, hands off approaches, maybe that might be one way, but right before we can get to that, we need a lot of work to be done.
00:17:25.338 - 00:18:22.574, Speaker A: These are klepto political parties, as an example, activism. And so this is the last slide. But something, what we need is this type of standardization frameworks, classification enforcement, formalized governance, and most particularly, maybe at the protocol level, these types of incentivization mechanisms that crypto is so adept at creating. So I think this particularly is the opportunity for validators themselves, perhaps, to work with core teams to understand how we move forward together in an environment where there's clear eyes on us and clear action happening, where we need to figure out what to do. So, yeah, that's it. I only have a minute, but if anyone has questions, maybe we can do some. Or maybe we're just done.
00:18:22.574 - 00:18:27.498, Speaker A: No. No questions. Okay. Thank you.
00:18:27.626 - 00:18:33.304, Speaker B: No one. Not there. No, not there. Okay. Thank you anyway.
