00:00:00.250 - 00:00:30.870, Speaker A: I'll explain how to read the liquidity price graph. Let's say that the current liquidity on unison B three is L and we're trading on the curve x times y equals l square. And let's also say that there is a single position supporting this liquidity from the price range p of A to p of B. Let's map this position in orange onto a liquidity price graph. First of all, as a review, p is equal to 1.1 raised to the power of t, and to get back t, you would do log of 1.1 to the p and you will get back t.
00:00:30.870 - 00:01:16.274, Speaker A: The tick from p of A, P of B, and the current price p. We convert it to ticks using this equation and we map it horizontally. T of a being the tick for the lower price range p of A, the current tick t for the current price p, and t of b for the upper price range p of B. And then we'll use the vertical axis to represent liquidity. If liquidity is high, then this L will be high, and if liquidity is low, then this vertical line will be low as well. We'll say that token zero is x and token one is equal to Y to the left of the current tick t, all of the tokens will be in token one in Y. To the right of the current tick t, all of the tokens will be in token zero in X.
00:01:16.274 - 00:01:51.242, Speaker A: Liquidity is y for left of T, and liquidity is x for the right of T. Let's see why this is. First, I'll explain why liquidity is in token one and Y for left of the current tick t. Here's the graph of the curve X times y equals l square. And the thing to remember here is that when the current price is equal to p of b, then liquidity is fully in token one. Let's say that the current price P started over here, and then the price increased all the way up to P of B. As the price moves up along this curve, you can see that the amount of token Y also increases.
00:01:51.242 - 00:02:20.070, Speaker A: At the same time the amount of token x decreases. However, there's a limit to the amount of token x that can decrease. At some point, the amount of token x will be equal to zero, and at this point the price P will be equal to p of B. Let's see what this situation will look like on the liquidity price graph. Here we have our graph of the ticks. We have T of A and then the current tick T is equal to T of B. T of B is the tick for the price range p of B, the current tick will be here.
00:02:20.070 - 00:02:56.498, Speaker A: When we do a trade, the liquidity stays constant. So we'll have our L somewhere here the price increases. So our tick would have started somewhere in between T of A and T of B and then shifted over to the right to the T of B. Let's see what happens to the amount of tokens as the price increases. So as the price increase, we would see that the amount of token next will decrease and the amount of token Y will increase. And at this point when p is equal to pob, we know that the amount of token next is equal to zero. So representing this as an area under the liquidity, we can draw a box where all of the tokens are in token Y.
00:02:56.498 - 00:03:27.950, Speaker A: Here we say that token X is equal to zero. And then here we're representing it by saying that all of the liquidity is in token Y. Next, I'll explain why liquidity is x for right of the current tick t. So again we start with the curve x times y equals l square. And let's see what happens when the current price p is equal to P of A. We know that liquidity is fully in token zero. Let's imagine that the price was somewhere between p of A and P of B, and then the price decreased to p where it is equal to p of A.
00:03:27.950 - 00:03:51.474, Speaker A: As the price swings to the right, we'll see that the amount of token x increases from left to right. At the same time as x increases, we'll see that Y will decrease. But there is a limit to the amount of Y that can decrease. At some point y will be equal to zero. And this happens when the current price p is equal to p of A. Let's draw this on the liquidity price graph and see what it looks like. First, we draw the ticks.
00:03:51.474 - 00:04:26.942, Speaker A: T of B will be the tick for P of B, and T of A will be the tick for P of A, and the current tick t will be equal to t of A. This is because the current price p is equal to P of A. During the trade, the liquidity L does not change. So we have our liquidity here and here. We're imagining the case when the price decreases. The price would have been somewhere between t of a and t of b, and as it decreased, it moved over to the left as the price decreased. We observed here that the amount of token x increases and the amount of token y decreases.
00:04:26.942 - 00:05:08.620, Speaker A: When the current price p is equal to p of A, the amount of token y is equal to zero. On the liquidity price graph, we can represent that the amount of token y is equal to zero by saying that all of this liquidity is in token x. To summarize, when the current price is equal to p of b, then the liquidity is fully in token Y. When the current price p is equal to p of A, then the liquidity is fully in token x. Combining these two observations together, we know that liquidity is in Y for the left occurrence t, and liquidity is x for the right of t. We get this graph to the left of the current tech t we have token y, and to the right of the current tech t we have token x.
