00:00:10.920 - 00:01:13.208, Speaker A: All right, hi, everyone. I'm Gregory Landiway. I'm one of the founders of Regen Network, and I'm going to give a little talk about what needs to be true for the cosmos ecosystem to be the home for Refi or regenerative finance. I just came over in an Uber from the Sustainable Blockchain summit, which is a parallel event taking place in which protocol labs and Celo and Solana and a bunch of other ecosystems are having this conversation about regenerative finance and tokenization of carbon credits and other things. So I have a lot of very freshen insights to share. It's like hot off the press, what needs to be true? So I'm going to try in my 20 minutes to do three things. One is I'm going to sort of explain, WTF Refi at a high level.
00:01:13.208 - 00:02:40.936, Speaker A: What are we even talking about here? And then the second thing that I'm going to talk about is a little bit about what region network is actually doing, you know, functionally and in terms of our business development cycle. And, you know, just the application, the app chain that we're developing, what is it? But I want to kind of keep that brief because really what I want to talk to people in the ecosystem about is how we as a community need to approach being attractive for the regenerative finance movement, which is an enormously important movement for the planet, and also for, you know, I would argue for just financial viability of the blockchain world. Okay, so what's Refi? It comes from this concept of regenerative finance. So you're sort of like smashing regenerative finance, not refinancing loans into the hashtag meme refi. And what most people are talking about really relates to climate action. The dominant narrative in the refi movement is around carbon sequestration, avoiding emissions, and fighting climate change, and sort of integrating and upgrading the incumbent or legacy carbon markets using blockchain technology. There's a lot of that conversation, that level of conversation.
00:02:40.936 - 00:04:09.384, Speaker A: But I also think broadly, that movement is trying to go a step deeper and ask the question, what happens if we redefine value flows and creation to align it with some sort of public good that a community identifies as important for their existence? Because that's a level deeper than just the climate question. Right? Because climate change, we're sort of saying, hey, we have a biosphere. All of our lives depend on the biosphere. All of our industries depend on the biosphere. Our monetary system is sort of like a figment of our human imagination and our human imagination depends on the biosphere functioning well. So how do we connect the financial, how do we connect and coordinate our human economy with the larger world, the real world, the tangible world, of climate flows, of carbon cycles, of water cycles, how do we do that in a way, and if you do that, if in some way there are assets and collateral and financial instruments that are all linked in a legitimate, transparent, and plausible way to ecological health or regeneration, think about the transformation of what economics means and what finance means and what money means. It's really mind blowing when you start to go in deeply into that.
00:04:09.384 - 00:04:46.600, Speaker A: So refi, it's a huge deal in the rest of the crypto space right now. The Ethereum community has kind of glommed on to the regen meme and Refi, and there's a huge amount of activity. It's quite frothy, it's pretty hand wavy. A lot of it isn't great, but it's like a thing. People are really pouring lots of money and time and energy into it. The same is true. Like, every ecosystem now is like jostling to try to get in on the thing, because it somehow has to do with, I think, the kind of utopian roots of the blockchain movement.
00:04:46.600 - 00:05:50.320, Speaker A: Almost all of us probably are here because we genuinely think some sort of open, distributed, permissionless democratic system is going to be better, right? So all of us have some impulse to try to serve and transform society. And that is pretty deeply resonant with this maybe the one layer deeper, which is, hey, let's tangibly connect those aspirations to real world regenerative outcomes. Okay, so Regen network. Our attempt is to create an open. Thank you so much. Our attempt is to create an open system for communities to define and mint ecological assets. And we're starting with carbon markets because there's an existing market, and people already exchange these ecological assets in the form of carbon reductions or avoided emissions.
00:05:50.320 - 00:07:00.246, Speaker A: And that market is $350 billion per annum or so, and it's growing at about 30% a year. And most people are forecasting that specific market to be something like $2 trillion per year of economic exchange. So there's like a, there's a, that's a, that's real money, that's a real market. That's a market that is going to surpass, you know, the far, surpass the current crypto market and our market cap as a community. But fundamentally that's, that go to market strategy is really in service to a set of tools that are meant to allow communities to kind of define how they're going to incorporate ecological health into their value system. I'll get back to why that distinction. Like, why I'm not just sort of like, why we're not all in on just like, the carbon market thing, where we're like, yeah, we need to serve this emerging carbon market, right? We need to improve it.
00:07:00.246 - 00:08:00.980, Speaker A: We need to make it become more legitimate and more efficient, more transparent. But also, it's not everything. There's something deeper that we need to pay attention to. There's a more holistic kind of regeneration that's really at the deeper root. So region network currently has a structure in which the community can delegate the ability for someone to create a new credit class. That credit class has to have a set of metadata, it has to sort of define the minting standards whereby you're using science to say there's an outcome somewhere like a carbon unit or a biodiversity unit or a water outcome. And we have more than 40 different projects all around the world doing some of the most inspiring things with ecocredits.
00:08:00.980 - 00:09:04.129, Speaker A: Soil carbon sequestration, coral reef restoration, marine protection areas, green carbon, sorry, blue carbonous kelp regeneration, seagrass dugong conservation, salmon watershed regeneration. It is amazing. It's like, astounding. The creative and powerful things, and these are scientists from Yale or MIT and their indigenous communities from the Amazon. The spectrum of people who are trying to collaborate, to innovate quickly. And one of the interesting things is that's because in the legacy system for carbon markets, it is incredibly claustrophobic, it is incredibly bureaucratic, it is incredibly just like constricted. And what we're trying to do is open up a creative space and say, put the community of actors in charge of defining their own minting standards, what is, you know, and let the market decide the value.
00:09:04.129 - 00:09:26.084, Speaker A: Markets are good at that. That's what they're for. So that's what we're building at region network. There's a couple of other pieces which are important. We're trying to do some backwards compatibility with legacy institutions and markets. So that's why we've been super slow recently to get you all the nature carbon ton. Apologies about that.
00:09:26.084 - 00:10:22.634, Speaker A: We're building a bridge, and that's proven to be a little bit harder than we anticipated. Coming shortly, region network is going to have a full featured user experience that allows you to buy and sell and retire ecocredits to bridge existing carbon credits over from polygon or celo onto regen, and therefore into the cosmos ecosystem, where they can then be used to yield farm on osmosis. Or potentially, who knows? There might be other sort of fun financial applications that are coming. And there's also a user experience for people to go through the origination process. So to define a standard and to provide the data that backs that standard and to mint a new eco credit directly into the marketplace. Right. In a disintermediated way.
00:10:22.634 - 00:11:22.490, Speaker A: The last thing I'll say about Regen is each of these credit classes, each credit is essentially a self governing dao, right? So that's the concept. Right. I think I'll refrain from going a layer deeper in, sort of like what's happening with region network. Because the real meat of the talk that I want to give and the real conversation I want to have with everybody here is about what we need to do as an ecosystem to be attractive to this movement. And region has a big role in that. What we need to do is build fantastic tools for project developers and farmers and scientists to make it easy for them to bring their land, their stewardship and their scientific expertise together to create a representation of regenerative impact or conservation impact. That's our role.
00:11:22.490 - 00:12:09.108, Speaker A: Right. That's what we need to do well. But as an ecosystem, the cosmos ecosystem, what we need to do well to be attractive to this broader movement, because that's just one application, right? But refi, that's like at the root of regenerative finance. It's the deepest layer, origination. Without good origination, you get what happened with Klimadao. Anybody familiar with that? Anybody? Klima holders? So what happened there is they tried to jump directly into financialization and liquidity, and they sort of chose a sub prime carbon asset and tokenized it. And there was like a massive market whiplash.
00:12:09.108 - 00:12:41.210, Speaker A: So they relied on hype and they relied on the sort of like Degen ape. We're all going to go in it together. And that's a market force. That's an important thing to understand. But deeper than that, we have to understand the roots of legitimacy and the roots of how we create assets that are deeply meaningful. They have real impact, they represent real regeneration is actually a hard thing to do. So we're trying to do that at region network, but we also need.
00:12:41.210 - 00:13:08.106, Speaker A: We need a bunch of other things. So I'm going to outline the things I think we need as a community. Number one, we need to mature our capital formation as a community. Capital formation in the cosmos ecosystem sucks. Let's be frank. We're trying to work on that with cerulean ventures. So we recently raised some money, we're raising some more cerulean ventures, not R and D Inc or region foundation.
00:13:08.106 - 00:13:49.146, Speaker A: We said, hey, let's get a, let's have a VC fund that focuses specifically on the cosmos story for regenerative finance. So we raised seven and a half million and some region, and they're actively raising. I can put you in touch with them, but it needs to be bigger and better than that. That's one organization. We need to be serious about capital formation in our community. We need to be able to deploy startup capital and follow on rounds and make it attractive. We need to have capital formation attention around regenerative assets like Celo, their treasury and Makerdao.
00:13:49.146 - 00:14:56.922, Speaker A: Now, those treasuries for backing stablecoins are super aggressive in trying to buy carbon credits and other regenerative assets they're trying to market make. We need to make sure that inter and any of our other stablecoin projects are understanding the key role of these types of assets on their balance sheets. And I could go on a whole dissertation about why that's financially responsible and an important thing to do. But just to say, in capital formation, there's sort of the market making of the asset itself, and there's the investment in startups and projects and infrastructure and development that actually makes it all work. So capital formation, the second thing we need to do better as an ecosystem, is around the defense and articulation of the value proposition of app chains, and why it is important to have your own sovereign state machine. For many of these applications, because it is, legitimacy is sourced, Vitalik even wrote. Vitalik wrote one of the most cogent defenses of the app chain thesis that's ever been written.
00:14:56.922 - 00:16:25.472, Speaker A: And it was the blog that he wrote about legitimacy. And in that blog he said, legitimacy doesn't come from the immutability of the blockchain. It comes from the community of actors choosing to imbue legitimacy. And here in the cosmos ecosystem, we understand that we can link the consensus of a state machine to the community's generation together of legitimacy. And we can tie that to specific features that we would call SDK modules, where there's executable logic of some sort that the community thinks is important and legitimate. Right? And so for these markets, for public goods, regenerative outcomes impact that sovereign state machine. That inclusion of the entire community in generating consensus about what's going on is, if you really dig into it from a game theoretical perspective, is far superior than running on a giant rent seeking, arbitrary, smart contracting platform, right? Where people have different incentives, their incentives are any asset is good, any activity is good, as long as I can extract value as a miner, as long as it hypes and pumps, which is different from a scenario where you're trying to align people's incentives around a set of qualities of an impact, right? And that's where the value is being derived.
00:16:25.472 - 00:17:19.217, Speaker A: So we have a philosophy, we have an ethics, we have a tech stack that is really deeply aligned with this thesis of regenerative finance. Really deeply aligned. But we need to do better at being able to articulate why that is true. Why is it true? And we need to be able to make that argument kind of over and over and over again because everybody kind of like has this. I don't know, I kind of like to call it the machine brain, right? Where there's a set of assumptions and people just like, keep on those assumptions. It's like the ultrasound money thesis of ethereum, right? It's just a mantra. So we kind of need to develop our own mantra about the roots of sovereignty in legitimacy, and that legitimacy is the prerequisite for a regenerative economy.
00:17:19.217 - 00:18:28.780, Speaker A: So you really can't run this on an arbitrary smart contracting platform that's owned by a bunch of VC's or owned by just a bunch of early people who happened to be there that have nothing to do with your use case either way. So that's number two of the things that we need to be thinking about as a community. So there's capital formation, there's sort of like our brand, our marketing, that defense of sovereignty linked to legitimacy, linked to regeneration, and how important that is for us to articulate. And the third thing is the tech stack. We just have to do, we have to continue to do better at composability and lowering the cost of deployment, there's been huge leaps in this recently, and I know the SDK team is cranking away on app wiring and other things that are going to transform the developer experience. And with interchange security, this is going to transform the modular blockchain stuff that Celestia is doing is going to transform this. This is all kind of about to happen.
00:18:28.780 - 00:19:31.380, Speaker A: It's all about to happen. But we do need to understand as an ecosystem that those are barriers to getting adoption from passionate, talented humans who want to deploy their time and their energy and their capital to try to make change happen in the world. Because let's face it, it is more expensive to do it in cosmos. So while that is true, the capital formation, like winning the meme war and winning the tech usability story, while we're still not quite there on the tech usability. We have to really lean on these other two. We have to be willing to fund and make it possible to receive funding and be generous and aggressive in making it an open, dynamic community and build on. We need to subsidize that a little bit more aggressively than I think we are.
00:19:31.380 - 00:21:00.860, Speaker A: And we need to just keep reminding everyone why doing it a little bit, like taking the time to it, costs more money and it costs more time to deploy an app chain than it does a smart contract, period, full stop. Why is that important? Why is it important? Right? And I tried to make my case for that. I would just encourage everyone. I guess the purpose of my talk is to just say, let's have that dialogue over and over again and let's sort of like distill our community story around why that is so important, why sovereignty connects with legitimacy, and why legitimacy is the foundation for a regenerative economy. And if we can do that to ourselves, if we can articulate it and believe it, I certainly believe it, right? I am a deep believer in that. That's why we put so much time and energy into, from the very beginning, building on the Cosmos stack before the SDK even really existed. And that's why we contribute to the Cosmos SDK is because we believe that having an application specific blockchain technology that any community in the world can create a state machine that links to their cultural system of value and their ecological state is really the thing.
00:21:00.860 - 00:21:28.424, Speaker A: Right? Region network is important and what we're doing is essential. But the bigger game here is making it cheap and easy for communities to link their value production on their own terms without there being some sort of weird incentive rent seeking situation. So I'm not sure where I'm at with time. I'm done. Thank you all for listening. It's always a pleasure to see everybody. I'm so stoked to be here.
00:21:28.424 - 00:21:30.520, Speaker A: And this venue is amazing, isn't it? Good job, you guys.
