00:00:00.240 - 00:00:26.070, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony designer, and today's the 9 July 2024. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone, but I am back today. Obviously, I said that I'm going to be doing episodes on Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays, but if there is a rug fuel on one of those days, then I'll just make up for it on the next day, which is what I'm doing today. The episode for tomorrow, tomorrow being Wednesday, will still go ahead.
00:00:26.070 - 00:00:43.546, Speaker A: I don't plan to, to miss that episode. So there's still going to be three episodes this week. So yeah, anytime that happens going forward, but it's just going to be chopping and changing the days there. But I'm going to try to stick to the Monday, Wednesday, Friday cadence, but sometimes it's just not possible. But anyway, enough about that. Let's jump into the news. So we got some movement on the Eth ETF's.
00:00:43.546 - 00:01:05.030, Speaker A: You know, it feels like we're in the final days now before these things are going to launch. I feel like at this point they're probably going to launch next week. Obviously, my prediction of early July or July 8 was, was wrong. Of course, I didn't expect them to move this slowly because if they launch next week, which is, I believe July 15 is the Monday next week. Let me just check here quickly. Yeah. If they launch next week, it'll be almost two months since they were approved.
00:01:05.030 - 00:01:10.166, Speaker A: So it's. Yeah, I don't know why don't. Why it's so slow. Just. It is. It is what it is. It's slow.
00:01:10.166 - 00:01:54.226, Speaker A: But hey, we're almost there in the home stretch here. But the reason I bring it up today is because there's been some movement on Grayscale's ETH product. Yeah. So now, as you guys know, the ETH product that Grayscale has been live for quite a while now has around $10 billion worth of ETH Aum right now. I think maybe a little bit less than that since the ETH price went down, or I think maybe just on that because it was at a discount for a while. But he's now pretty much like at par, at fair value, if not at a premium sun some days. But the announcement we got today, I guess the news we got today was that Grayscale said that they have set a record date of July 18 for the initial creation and distribution of shares of the grayscale, through minitrust to shareholders of ethy, and Ethy will contribute 10% of its ETH to the minitrust.
00:01:54.226 - 00:02:19.926, Speaker A: In other words, what this means is that essentially 10% of ethy is basically going to be converted into this mini trust, which is going to have the lower fee. As you guys know, I've explained before about how Grayscale is going to have two products. They're going to have ethy and then the. The mini eth eTf, just like they have for BTC. They have GBTC and their mini BTc ETF. Because the GBTC fee is 1.5%, I expect the ETH to probably be 1.5%
00:02:19.926 - 00:02:35.632, Speaker A: as well, lowered from 2.5%, I believe it is right now. And then their mini trust fee is going to be 0.2%, which is more in line with the other issuers here. So that means that automatically 10% of ETH is not going to be outflow. We can guarantee that. That 10%, whatever, whatever number it is, I think it's.
00:02:35.632 - 00:03:30.858, Speaker A: I don't know what the current Aum of ETH is on the top of my head, but if it's 10 billion, then a billion of that is going to be automatically converted. It is not going to be outflow. So we can say that based on this announcement here, the other 90% we don't know still, right? That's just the open question that everyone's still kind of speculating on right now. We don't know what that's going to look like, but there are good arguments to be made that the, as I've made before, that the outflows aren't going to be as big as people think they're going to be. And I think that once the market sees that, that's probably going to be a very positive development for ETH. And also, the other big open question is, what's the flows going to look like? You know, what are the inflows going to look like for the ETF's? Given that the market has been weak over the last few weeks, especially generally a summer week, summer lull period in the markets, are we going to see those big inflows like we had for BTC? It's probably not going to be as big as BTC, because BTC obviously was the first. What was the first crypto ETF, and it was also launched at a very different time.
00:03:30.858 - 00:03:57.402, Speaker A: So we're going to have to see what it looks like. But, hey, I do think the inflows are going to surprise people, and I do think they're relatively low outflows from ethy because there will be some outflows. But I do think the relatively low outflows from ethy are going to surprise people as well. But yeah, that's really all the news. There were some more s one s that got pushed back to the SEC from the issuers. No new fees from what I can see, but we're expecting all the fees to be around 0.2%, which is in line with what they have for their BTC ETF products.
00:03:57.402 - 00:04:25.614, Speaker A: Anyway, surprises there. But anyway, if you want to read this for yourself, I'll link Nate's tweet in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Something that I came across because I believe someone posted it in the daily grade Discord channel was this relatively new initiative called the Stakers Union. So they're calling themselves a collective of home stakers for the Ethereum network. So there is a website you can go to called Stakers Union.com, which is essentially a way to get acquainted with what they're trying to build here.
00:04:25.614 - 00:05:04.806, Speaker A: So from what I can see, I'm not, I haven't joined the stakers union yet, but from what I can see, they're essentially, essentially trying to make a community of solo stakers, whether they be, I guess, like true solo stakers or maybe solo staking with, with rocket pool or something like that, create a community here, work together to improve the incentives and understanding of solo staking and basically make it so that solo staking can remain competitive, obviously with the wider staking ecosystem, but also basically bring new solo stakers on. So pretty cool initiative here. Now, if you want to join and become a member, you can. There is a way to do that here. As I said, I haven't become a member myself. I haven't vetted it myself. I'm just putting this on your radar because I believe it is a legit project.
00:05:04.806 - 00:05:51.786, Speaker A: I'm not saying it's a scam or anything like that. They have a doc section that you can go look at for in terms, in terms of like how to become a member and how to prove that you're actually a solo staker. And you can, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But just something that I wanted to put on your radar because obviously you guys know that solo staking is, I don't know if I'd call it like the most important thing in Ethereum, at least to me. I do think it is one of the most important things within Ethereum because it enables all the other really nice features that we want, right? The features of censorship, resistance, decentralization, allowing people to essentially verify blocks and propose blocks from their home hardware from consumer hardware. That was always the dream of Ethereum, and I think we achieved that dream with proof of stake, but obviously we want to make it so that more and more people can become solo stakers and also feel valued.
00:05:51.786 - 00:06:26.874, Speaker A: I think that's one thing that maybe solo stakers don't feel, is that, you know, that there was that kind of narrative for a little while that projects would airdrop tokens to solo stakers. There were a couple that did that, but it hasn't really materialized, which is sad. And I feel like airdrops generally have kind of falling out of favor anyway, or falling out of favor. So it's not exactly something that we can rely on there. And also, obviously, being a solo staker, probably Netsu, I mean, it depends on like what you're looking at, but like, you don't get an LST, right? You got it. You don't get an LRT, so you can't go use it in defi. So if you're not interested in that, like, I'm not interested in doing that, then it's fine.
00:06:26.874 - 00:07:26.804, Speaker A: But there is an opportunity cost there. So I understand why maybe solo stakers feel a little bit less valued than they otherwise would. But I guess, like at the end of the day, from the recent estaker survey that I saw, it seems like a lot of sellers, they could simply don't care about that stuff, right? What they care about and what they care deeply about is essentially having complete and total control over their ETH and getting rewarded for that by being part of the network and being basically a block proposer and also running full nodes to verify the network and obviously attesting the blocks as well, I should should mention. So, yeah, it definitely seems like the solo staker cohort, or at least most of them, are definitely not in it. So much for like profit maximalism, because I don't think you would become a solid stake if you were a profit maxi, but definitely in it for the ideological reasons that the other theorem exists for, which is really awesome. I mean, that's what I meant for obviously, if I was a profit maxi, I wouldn't be solo staking. I'd be going in, got a staking with an LST, taking that LST, depositing it in defi, going leverage long, right, to try and maximize my gains.
00:07:26.804 - 00:07:54.296, Speaker A: But I mean, one that's obviously much more riskier than just staking. You're now taking on smart contract risk, you're now taking on leverage risk, right? And then you're also getting really emotionally involved with it too, because you're trying to manage different positions. But yeah, I mean, if I, as I said, if I was a profit maxi, that's what I would do and that's what a lot of people do do. But I think that a solo stakers are generally quite conservative. They've probably had their ETH bag for quite a while as well, because obviously to be a true solo stake, you need at least 32 ETH. Perennae Validator. We've probably had that for a while.
00:07:54.296 - 00:08:17.928, Speaker A: And you don't want to, you don't want to fuck around with it, right? You don't want to do anything that would basically jeopardize your ETH bag, but you still want to be part of the network, you still want to be part of the movement, and that's the best way to do it. As a solo staker, even running a full node is fine. As you guys know, it doesn't cost anything. To run a full node doesn't require an ETH. I mean, okay, it does cost something. It costs like making sure you've got the right hardware, the Internet connection, electricity. But you don't need 32 e that.
00:08:17.928 - 00:08:38.560, Speaker A: You don't need any ETH to run a full node. Anyone can run a full node or any consumer hardware that you want. And even lower than that, you can run it on a raspberry PI, as you guys know. But obviously to be a staker on the network, or to be a solo staker on the network, you need that 32 eth. And then obviously you run all the software as well there. But anyway, you can go check out the stakers union for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:08:38.560 - 00:09:29.150, Speaker A: All right, so just want to give a big shout out to emperor here on Twitter. So they've created something on GitHub called a map of Ethereum, where they describe it as a place to, I guess create a, sorry, they describe it here by saying, trying to place discourse papers, eth research posts, blogs and talks around current day Ethereum research and future directions. Essentially, this is a treasure trove of Ethereum research. Basically a lot of this stuff is still relevant from what I can see, or at least pretty much all of it is still relevant. So if you are someone who likes reading research papers, likes reading research blog posts, likes keeping up to date with, I guess, the bleeding edge of Ethereum research. This is a resource for you. I mean it when I say you could literally spend a days, if not weeks, reading through all of this, digesting it all, getting up to speed with everything that's happening on the Ethereum research front.
00:09:29.150 - 00:10:02.380, Speaker A: So I'm very glad that emperor has put this together. So a huge kudos to them to have basically a one stop shop for it. Now, of course, because this is on GitHub, you can essentially submit your own pool request if you think something is missing, and they will probably add it if it is relevant here. So I can go check this out for yourself. I just wanted to give it a shout out here for you guys because I thought it was very cool. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out. All right, Puffer has announced a big, I guess, development in their roadmap, which has been coming for a little while, I believe, and been on their roadmap for a little while here.
00:10:02.380 - 00:10:31.742, Speaker A: But they've introduced something called Puffer Unify, which is puffers based roll up. So they say here, imagine a world where all l two s are working as one. The future is too bright. We need sunglasses, obviously, in reference to being based or all based roll ups. That's the kind of meme that Justin Drake is trying to put out there. If you're interested in learning more about this, you can of course read their litepaper here. But the reason why I thought this was cool and thought this was really interesting, not because it's a new L2 that's being spun up, or a new roll up that's being spun up, I should say technically.
00:10:31.742 - 00:11:26.886, Speaker A: But the reason I think it's cool is because the fact that it's a base roll up. Leveraging pre conformations basically means that you get the nice UI and Ux of L2 of a roll up in terms of fast and cheap transactions, and then you also get interoperability with l one. Now, the reason why I think this makes sense for something like puffer is because staking is done on l one, right? And if you want to create interoperability between staking on l one and the l two s, what essentially you've had to do is bridge across your lsts or lrts to these l two s, and that kind of obviously fragments liquidity. This is where fragmenting liquidity actually is an issue. Whereas when you're doing it as part of the base roll up or with base roll up architecture, at least from my understanding that doesn't happen. You can access that liquidity, you can access those assets and that staking ecosystem on layer one through the base roll up without having to incur layer one transaction times and layer one transaction fee. So that's why I think that this is very, very cool.
00:11:26.886 - 00:11:51.466, Speaker A: Now, of course, puffer details this in their twitter thread here. You guys can go check this out for yourself for full details on this. But I do expect to see more of this, I think, happening within the ethereum ecosystem. Now, there's obviously a lot of chatter about app roll ups, right? Like the app chain thesis, where. Where everything is going to be its own roll up. Every app is going to have its own roll up. And then there's discussions about the super chains within the ecosystem.
00:11:51.466 - 00:12:37.456, Speaker A: Like you have the op stack super chain, you have the arbitrary orbit, one polygon, CDK, so on and so forth. So what is the world of l two is going to look like in a 510 years from now? As I've said before, I do think there's going to be a bunch of super chains that will all interact with each other. But then on the other side, we're going to have a bunch of chains like what puff is launching, where they're going to be base roll ups that are set to a very specific use case. And the reason why these are so cool is because they're not isolating themselves in their own little island on their own l two. Outside of the l one, they're on the l one. They're using the l one to essentially process their transactions here and become interoperable with everything. And then they also, if designed in a specific way, and if the other l two s join in, would be able to interoperate with those other l two s as well.
00:12:37.456 - 00:13:05.112, Speaker A: So I can, I can see something of a privacy based roll up being spun up. For example, I know there's been a few attempts at this. Aztec is still working on it, but I can see a privacy based roll up existing in its own world being spun up. I can see more staking rops being spun up, not just puffers, but. But more out there. I could see rest taking base roll ups being spun up. Because at the end of the day, base roll ups are essentially what, what seems to be the end game for enshrined roll ups.
00:13:05.112 - 00:13:50.610, Speaker A: You guys will know that I originally talked about enshrined roll ups maybe a year or two ago now. And it's something that Justin Drake was talking about where essentially what you would do is have the roll up be part of the core protocol itself. Now obviously the drawback of this is the fact that if it's part of the core protocol, it basically can't change, or nothing can happen to it unless it goes through the proper Ethereum governance l one governance process, which is extremely slow. So obviously that doesn't really work. But base roll ups get us essentially the best of both worlds, where essentially you can still change things, you can still upgrade things, you don't have to go through the whole etherium l one governance process. You can have your own governance process if you want, but you also still get the benefits of using the l one validators to process your transactions. Get that interoperability as well, and be tightly coupled with the l one here.
00:13:50.610 - 00:14:33.708, Speaker A: So very, very cool. I love base roll ups. I think that the, there's a bit of debate now not so much about base roll ups, but about pre conformations and their viability, because pre conformations definitely add a centralizing force to anything that they're on, not just based rollouts, but anything generally. Now there is discussions about lowering the Ethereum block time to 2 seconds. So you wouldn't need pre conformations, because the whole point of pre conformations is essentially to give the l two fast transaction experience to base roll ups, to, I guess some, to basically anything that's happening on the l one. Essentially what you get from a pre confirmation is a promise that your transaction is going to be included in a block. Whereas when it comes to Ethereum, l one block times at 12 seconds, or I should say slot times, are 12 seconds, a block is included in that.
00:14:33.708 - 00:15:38.208, Speaker A: So you have to wait up to 12 seconds. But with pre conformations it could happen basically instantly, and then you get a promise that will be included in the block. That promise is kept, is kept via crypto economic guarantees, but there are centralizing forces with that, and obviously it's not as secure as just using the l one normally. So there is a lot of discussion around potentially reducing the block time of Ethereum, or slot time, I should say, to 2 seconds. Now, these very early conversations happening here, I don't know if the trade offs are worth it, because as you guys know, maybe you don't know, but just, just for those of you, for you who don't, essentially, if you were to lower the slot time to 12 seconds, sorry, to 2 seconds from 12 seconds, I feel like you'd sacrifice a lot of the, I guess, consumer grade full nodes and especially stakers, because to keep up with the tip of the chain, some people already struggle with twelve second slot times. And this is a bandwidth issue definitely, but it's also the issue of processing all the transactions as they come in, processing the blocks, making sure you keep up with the head of the chain. Of course we're making a lot of improvements to l one to make it a lighter chain overall.
00:15:38.208 - 00:16:06.996, Speaker A: One of those is Max Eb. So essentially cutting down the amount of validators on the network while still keeping the same number of node operators, but essentially taking that bandwidth, bandwidth load off the network, going to vocal trees, things like that. Right. So if it does happen, if we do reduce slot times to 2 seconds, probably not going to happen for a couple of years at least. But that has been tabled recently and there's a lot of research going into it. I'm happy that if, if it gets done, because it obviously is a huge ux upgrade to have two second block times instead of twelve second. But the thing is, is that there are trade offs here.
00:16:06.996 - 00:16:51.788, Speaker A: There's always trade offs, but I'm still not sure if the trade offs are worth it unless we can preserve what we have within Ethereum while obviously making the trade off to get, you know, to maybe kick off some really, or at least make it unfeasible for really low powered devices to be on the network in order to give us a huge ux upgrade on L1. And you essentially wouldn't need pre conformations, you can still do them because pre conformations can, can do things in like 100 milliseconds, but you wouldn't need it for the good user experience. I mean if you have to wait 2 seconds for a transaction to confirm, like who, who cares, right? Like 2 seconds is nothing. It really doesn't matter at that point. But yeah, I mean 12 seconds obviously. Like it's the same thing as going to a website. If you have to wait, what, more than 2 seconds for a website to load, you're clicking off of that website.
00:16:51.788 - 00:17:21.320, Speaker A: Like I don't think I would wait 12 seconds for a website to load, as stupid as that sounds, that's what happens. So, and when it comes to transactions, especially when it comes to things like MeV as well, there are other considerations to talk about here. So yeah, definitely go kind of check that out there. Check out puffers thread here about their new base roll up. But there's a lot of research going on in that other stuff I talked about. You can probably google a few of those things, but I've highlighted a bunch on the refill before. Go check that out for yourself.
00:17:21.320 - 00:18:04.216, Speaker A: All right, last up here, I got a couple of things I want to talk about. Two different things, but I guess kind of related. So the first thing is about keeping your funds on centralized exchanges and services. Second one is going to be about price and something different about price, not something you're used to. Something that I came up with on one of my bike rides that I'm really excited to share with you guys. But first off, I just wanted to hide this tweet here. So this Twitter account called Medx put out a tweet over the weekend, basically saying that a lot of the people that had funds in Celsius before Celsius went down to, obviously went bankrupt have been sued, essentially because they withdrew within 90 days of Celsius going bankrupt, and they're being sued to get those funds back.
00:18:04.216 - 00:18:20.296, Speaker A: So Celsius wants those funds back. The bankruptcy lawyers want those funds back. And apparently this is completely legal. Apparently. I don't know if it was in the terms of service or it's part of bankruptcy law, the Celsius bankruptcy. I guess lawyers, whoever they are, they're allowed to claw back. I think it's.
00:18:20.296 - 00:18:53.748, Speaker A: I think it's for people who withdrew over $100,000 from, from Celsius within 90 days of it going into bankruptcy. They are allowed to claw back all of that money, I believe, to redistribute to all creditors here. And they have sued to do this. Apparently, from what I've heard from. From different lawyers out there, what I've read, this is completely legal and you can't fight it, essentially. So that's, that's what's happening here. And the reason I bring this up today is because I wanted to remind you guys that if you have the ability to self custody in a safe and secure way, you always should do that.
00:18:53.748 - 00:19:30.212, Speaker A: And there are more than just like, self custody options of you retaining complete and total control over your assets. And if you get compromised or if you lose your key to it, there's no way to recover it. There are multiple different ways to custody or to self custody without having to essentially give up recovery options. So, for example, Coinbase offers one with their custody solutions, where essentially it's a multi sig. They hold one of the keys, someone else holds a key and you hold a key. So if someone else you trust holds a key, and then essentially if one of the keys gets lost, you could still recover from because it's a two of three, and then you can obviously extend this out. So it's basically just a multi seq, right.
00:19:30.212 - 00:20:12.366, Speaker A: But it's done with like a trusted custodian such as Coinbase or fireblocks does it as well. And there's other companies out there that do this as well. But the thing is, is that if you do have the ability to safely and securely self custody yourself, you should be doing that. And I practice always withdrawing assets that I have on centralized exchanges to self custody because of the fact that you can see here, even within 90 days of you withdrawing from somewhere, those funds could still be clawed back. So you should be doing it all the time so that you can get past that 90 day barrier as soon as possible. I believe this approach, this 90 day period, approves to all you, sorry, applies to all us bankruptcies, from my understanding, when it comes to this stuff. So you should definitely be doing this with any us based companies out there.
00:20:12.366 - 00:20:59.148, Speaker A: But I do understand that self custody is a daunting task. I do understand that self custody is maybe too involved for a lot of people out there, and I completely understand why the majority of people leave their funds on centralized exchanges and trust them to be their custodian. But if you're in crypto, if you're like deep in crypto, you're listening to the Daily Gwei, I feel like you should definitely have enough knowledge and enough, I guess, confidence to safely and securely custody your own funds. And there are very many custody solutions you can go with. Obviously, a hardware wallet is one of the best ways to do that. But you can do things like multi sigs, you can do some sharing, you can get pretty complex with it, but really, you don't want to get too complex with it because then if you overcomplicate it too much and then you forget how to access it, obviously that's bad. But there are various different self custody solutions and paths.
00:20:59.148 - 00:21:29.078, Speaker A: You can go down here. Now, of course, on that note as well, there's nothing wrong with leaving your funds on a centralized exchange in terms of, you know, you shouldn't be made fun of for doing this or you shouldn't be made to feel guilty about this. But there are risks. There's always risk. There's like this risk with self custody. As I said, the risk if you've just got a normal ethereum account and you lose your, your seed phrase to that, right, that's, that's a risk. But there's the risk on a centralized exchange or a centralized crypto service that they'll go into bankruptcy or that they'll, you know, you'll get hacked or they'll steal your funds.
00:21:29.078 - 00:21:53.334, Speaker A: There's always risk here. So it's about the risk that you want to take and the risk that you're comfortable taking. But I will say on the note with Celsius here, people may look back in hindsight and say, oh, yeah, Celsius was an obvious fraud. And I remember I called out Celsius a few times as something that was dodgy. I didn't know the extent of what they were doing within the. Within Celsius. I didn't know that Alex Machinsky, the founder, was committing complete fraud, just like SPF Washington.
00:21:53.334 - 00:22:34.614, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that at the time, Celsius was considered one of the gold standard crypto apps, or centralized crypto apps out there. Like, everyone was shilling them. There was the whole Celsius and army, because they had a token, like, it wasn't considered something that was well known to be shady or something that was committing fraud or something that was going to rug their users. And we all know how that turned out. So it doesn't matter how trusted you think one of these brands are, one of these services are. I don't think that they deserve so much trust that you store everything with them and then you essentially trust that they're not going to go bankrupt, or trust that they're not going to steal your funds, or trust that your funds aren't going to get frozen arbitrarily for whatever reason. Right? And again, um, as I said, like, uh, self custody is daunting.
00:22:34.614 - 00:22:58.200, Speaker A: I get that. But you can do a hybrid approach. Maybe you keep half on the exchange, maybe you keep half in self custody, maybe you keep a quarter on one exchange, a quarter on another exchange, you know, a quarter self custody. Course, somewhere else, who knows, right? There are different ways to do this, but I would never have all of my funds on one centralized service. Centralized crypto service. Like, never. I would never even have one of my funds in one.
00:22:58.200 - 00:23:28.150, Speaker A: I guess, like, self custody solution. Like, I try to practice security and hygiene here and try to keep myself, you know, nice and secure with my self custody solutions. But, yeah, generally, I don't like keeping anything on centralized exchanges and services, and neither should you. But, yeah, sucks for all the Celsius people that got out 90 days before or within that 90 day window and now have to basically pay that money back somehow. You know, maybe they don't even have that money anymore. Just not a great situation to be in. So I just wanted to give a heads up on that one there.
00:23:28.150 - 00:23:56.606, Speaker A: All right, finally here I have what I wanted to talk about. Now in front of your screen, if you're watching the video, you will see that I have a spreadsheet open. Now, this spreadsheet is called zoom out. Now, as I said, this idea came to me while I was riding my bike because I was thinking about that. We said the market went down recently. And I was thinking to myself, what if you looked at the opening price of eth every month? Like the opening price at the start of the every month for the last eight years. I think this goes back to 2016.
00:23:56.606 - 00:24:34.122, Speaker A: The price action that I have here, what is the percentage that you would be happy? Aka would the price be higher than the previous month? Or sad, would the price be lower than the previous month? So, for example, in July, the price was at the start of the month, the price was 3437. But at the start of June, it was 3762. So essentially, if you checked it in July, sorry, if you check the price at the 1 June, then didn't check the price at all, and came back and checked it on the 1 July, you would realize you would see that it went down and you're not happy. Right. So I was trying to come up with a happiness media here. And as I said, I did this all the way to. To 2016.
00:24:34.122 - 00:25:04.092, Speaker A: And essentially I spat out a percentage. So 58% of the time. So 58% of the months that is part of this data set, the price was higher than the previous month, where 42%, it was lower than the previous month. So on net, you were more than half the time happy if all you did was log on once a month on the 1 July or the 1 June, whatever it is. Right. The first of the month each month, and checked what the price is from there. Now, obviously, this is completely oversimplifying things because this is the price at the start of the month is not the price that you bought the asset at.
00:25:04.092 - 00:25:43.562, Speaker A: If you bought the asset at 4900 in 2021, at the all time high of ETH back then, and you're checking the price every month since then, you are not happy. Right. But that's not the point of what I'm trying to illustrate here. The point I'm trying to illustrate is that if you zoom out into the monthly timeframe and longer than that, and I've got those, those sheets that I'll show you in a second, you can basically see that you are a happy camper because ETH is essentially up only for the majority of its life so far on the monthly timeframe. Really, there are only a few months where I guess, like, if you had bought ETH, you would be in loss because there's those few months where ETH was higher than $3,000. Right. But this doesn't show that.
00:25:43.562 - 00:26:06.030, Speaker A: This just shows the opening price at the start of each month. Yeah. Now, if we go to the quarterly opening price. So if you check the price at the start of every quarter and every quarter only, you didn't check the price. Besides this, you were happy 67% of the time. So 67% of the time, the opening price of a quarter was higher than the opening price of the previous quarter. At 32% of the time, it was lower.
00:26:06.030 - 00:26:51.810, Speaker A: Here, if you zoom out even further and check half yearly, you're at 70%. So if you only check the price of Eat since 2016 at the start of the year and at the midpoint of the year, and that's all you checked, you would be happy with the price 70% of the time, and you would have. It had an amazing streak from 2020 to the current month, as you can see here. If you check the price in July of 2020, and then every, every six months from there, excluding one period, the price of eat was higher than the previous month, as you can see in my spreadsheet here. So you would have been completely happy. You wouldn't have had to deal with all of the bullshit, all of the bearish stuff, all of the narratives, all of the complaining, everything. You wouldn't deal with any of that because you're only checking it every, every half year.
00:26:51.810 - 00:27:17.058, Speaker A: And if you go to the yearly chart, it's basically. It's quite funny. The yearly is actually a bit different here because there are some. Some outlier stats here. But the yearly is basically a similar picture. Now, where this gets really interesting is, because what I've done here is I've zoomed out, right? I've zoomed out on the monthly, quarterly half yearly. And if you only check the price at the start of each month, the start of each quarter, and the start of the half yearly, you would be happy most of the time, especially on the half yearly chart here.
00:27:17.058 - 00:27:36.610, Speaker A: But let's say you check the price every week, would you be happy checking it every week? Not really. About half the time. You would be sad because half the time, it's almost half the time. It's no, 46.6% of the time. If you check the price once a week, it is lower than the previous week, 53.3% of the time, it is higher.
00:27:36.610 - 00:28:03.390, Speaker A: Now, where things get especially interesting is on the daily. If we go to the daily. And I was actually shocked by this data. This was hilarious to me when I saw this, because I was like, surely not. I had to recheck this data a bunch of times because I didn't believe what I was seeing. If you go to the daily, the percentage chance that the price of ETH would be higher one day than it was the previous day is 50%, almost exactly 50.5% compared to 49.5%
00:28:03.390 - 00:28:43.636, Speaker A: on the no side here. So essentially, when people say that checking the price every day is a random walk, it is true, you have a 50% chance, a coin flip chance of guessing. If the price of ETH is going to be higher one day, then it was the next. Okay, so what's, what's my point here? What's this? What's the moral of the story here? Zoom out. Stop looking at the daily charts, because you have a 50% chance of being happy and a 50% chance of being sad on every, any given day, right? And then also you have strings of bad days and strings of good days, but on net, it's 50 50. Right? It may not feel like it, but this data goes all the way back to 2016. This is not a year's worth of data.
00:28:43.636 - 00:28:51.292, Speaker A: This is not a bear market. Yeah. A bull market. Yeah. This is 2016. This is eight years worth of ETH price action. I could have gone back further with BTC.
00:28:51.292 - 00:29:10.388, Speaker A: It would have painted the same picture here. Eight years worth of price action. You had a 50% chance over those eight years of guessing if it was going to be higher one day or lower the next. And this is exactly why most people don't make money trading, because it is a random walk. There is no way to know. There is no way to tell the future. You can guess.
00:29:10.388 - 00:29:29.536, Speaker A: You can be a better trader than others, but essentially, if you're trying to do it on a daily timeframe, it is near impossible to guess it correctly in terms of. In terms of guessing it correctly consecutively. Right. You can guess it correctly for potentially ten times in a row, but you've got a 50% chance each time. It doesn't. It doesn't accumulate. You know, percentages aren't.
00:29:29.536 - 00:29:47.034, Speaker A: Sorry, statistics is dictates. It's not accumulative here. And if you look on the weekly, it's essentially the same thing. It's almost 50%. But then you zoom out to the monthly gets a bit better, 58% versus 42% quarterly. 6732 half yearly is my favorite. You have a 70% chance.
00:29:47.034 - 00:30:32.292, Speaker A: So that's why zoom out, focus on long term and realize that checking the price every day is going to be a coin toss of whether you're going to be happy or not with the price. Now, as I said, this is very, this is an oversimplification, because only checking the opening price of each time period that I've looked at here, it is not checking the price that you bought the asset at. Now, you can obviously massage this data and say, okay, well, I bought most of my ETH for an average price of $1,000. And then you check each day that the price was over $1,000. Maybe you bought it at in 2020, you bought ETH for $1,000. You will have been happy, I think, 90% of the time because ETH has not been under $1,000 for more than a few days. I think it was even just like a couple of days that it was under $1,000 for 1500.
00:30:32.292 - 00:31:05.204, Speaker A: Same thing you'd be happy for most of the time from. I'm going off memory right now, so you can chop and change this data, but the point I'm trying to make here is literally zoom out, guys, is the fact that, like, trying to look at the price each day and get happiness from that, or essentially try and guess what it's gonna do is near impossible. Even on the weekly, it's near impossible because of the fact that it's a coin toss as a random walk. It is not something that is predictable. And I really was just utterly amazed by this daily data here. Like, I really was. And it fits perfectly, because, as I said, most traders don't make money.
00:31:05.204 - 00:31:30.184, Speaker A: Most people have no idea what's going on from a day to day perspective, because the day to day perspective is not based on fundamentals. It is a random walk based on traders, really. Then you zoom out more. That's where the fundamentals shine. The half yearly is where the eth fundamentals really shine. Right? In terms of, in terms of seeing how it's basically up only here. And even if you look in recent times, if you ignore all the data before 2020.
00:31:30.184 - 00:32:07.144, Speaker A: So back when ETH was a lot smaller, it was a lot less uncertain. Now, with the certainty that we have on the half yearly, there was only one period where price was lower than it was the previous month, and that was the depths of the bear market. That was July 2022. Basically, June 2022 was the bottom July 2022. And then from then on, it was higher and higher from there. So essentially, if you get rid of that, you have had since July 2020 to July 2024, you had four years. If you just check the price every half year and you had bought in July 2020, you would be happy every single time.
00:32:07.144 - 00:32:48.660, Speaker A: That. That's amazing to me. I don't know that that really is amazing to me. And it's amazing because of the fact that it really perfectly encapsulates what a lot of long term crypto investors say is zoom out, stop focusing on the day to day stuff, and you'll be a lot happier. But anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed that little, I guess, like, statistical analysis there. I certainly did when I made it, and it really was just came to me on my bike ride, and it was hilarious when I put all the data together because I had a. I guess, like a guesstimate of what this would look like, because I am pretty in tune with what the price of ETh is, for better or worse, over the last seven years, since I've been in, since 2017, I basically know each month, almost each month, what the price was.
00:32:48.660 - 00:33:07.516, Speaker A: It's kind of stupid that I know that, but I do, or at least like, the range that it was in there. And the thing is, is that I was calculating all this in my head on my bike ride before I got home to do it on paper here, and I was like, yeah, this. This is hilarious. Like, this is gonna. This is gonna be great. I can't wait to tell the Daily wear community about this. And the daily thing just.
00:33:07.516 - 00:33:22.380, Speaker A: Yeah, it just really shocked me that it was so accurate, and I just love seeing that. But anyway, I'm gonna leave that at that one for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
