00:00:01.280 - 00:00:52.710, Speaker A: Okay, so welcome everyone. So I will make a small review of what we have seen last time. So, can you see the screen? Yes. Okay, so what I wanted to show. Sorry, back a little bit. Yeah, so last time I talked a little bit about this problem of elimination of near potent points for foliation by curves. So I recall you that you have this, this triple that I call the singular foliated manifold.
00:00:52.710 - 00:02:20.304, Speaker A: So a manifold equipped with normal crossing divisor and a foliation by curves, which of course can contain singularities. So, but with these two conditions. So I suppose that the foliation is everywhere tangent to this divisor and moreover, that the nipotent locus of the foliation is of dimension greater or equal than two. So this near potent locus is, let's say the bad guy, let's say the locus that we want to eliminate by, by some, some sort of resolution of, synchronized by seq, by some sequence of blowing ups. Because, well, let's say that the points which are not neopotent are the points where you have a sort of good local decomposition of your vector field into a nil potent and semi simple part. And you can use this semi symbol part to, for instance, to develop a theory of normal forms. So, okay, so the idea, generally speaking, is to use algebra, let's see, by which I mean to use a resolution of singularities to simplify as much as possible your foliation, and then apply more, let's say, more analytic tools like normal form theory and the study of small divisor problems and so on.
00:02:20.304 - 00:03:45.174, Speaker A: So the goal is this one. So, as I recall, we try to find this for each relatively complex set, we would like to define this sequence of blow ups such that the important locus at the end is empty. And moreover, we not like to modify the foliation outside the potent block. So, I'm, I mean, insisting on this point because you're going to see in a moment that it's a quite dedicated point. Okay, so one of the goals of this course is also to teach you how to make computations, right? So how do you compute explicitly the resolution of similarities of foliation that they given by some explicit expression? So the idea is that the computations are easier to then by using the, by force, the expression in this lower ethical basis where, let's say you force the appearance of this x 1d over the x one, x and d over x, because this is precisely the base which transforms nicely under this power maps like the blowing up. Right? So this is, well, I just recalling this. So I'm just writing this blow up as um, let's say like a substitution, a substitution map.
00:03:45.174 - 00:04:45.864, Speaker A: So the variable x one goes to x one, x two goes to x one, x two, and so on. And then each one of these derivations is mapped to something like this. It's mapped linearly. Okay, so I'm just going to jump this because it's already done. Yeah. So one of, one of the points that I want to stress is that you have to be careful in the choice of the blowing up centers because it's not, let's say, even if you ask your blow up center to have normal cross with the divisor, you can in some sense make the similarities get worse if you don't choose it appropriately. For instance, here I have given an example where you choose a blow up center which has a tangency with the foliation, right? So my foliation here is given by, let's say for k equals to one is such a set of parabolas like this.
00:04:45.864 - 00:05:34.480, Speaker A: And now I choose a blow up center which is, let's say, one of the x's. So let me show you that in the second case. So of course this vector field has, it's, has no singularity at all. So it's a elementary one. But if you blow up with a center which has a tangency with a leaf like this, then you get a non elementary singular point, right? So, well, in the logarithmic basis, so just you rewrite this derivation, forcing the appearance of this logarithmic basis. So you see that it shows up this term of polar order one. And then, well, the center, which the center x equals to zero has no problem.
00:05:34.480 - 00:06:26.828, Speaker A: It's still elementary. But when you blow up with the center given by the horizontal axis, then as you can see here, okay, so the total transform of your vector field is simply computed by, let's say, replacing x. So this coefficient gets replaced by x, x times y, x minus one times, sorry, by x minus one times y minus one. And this one, well, transforms as you expect. And then you, you have to multiply to get something which is not meromorphic, you have to multiply by the equation of the divisor, which is y. And then you see the appearance of this singularity here, which is, it's in fact near potent singularity. So it's not elementary.
00:06:26.828 - 00:07:37.080, Speaker A: So I have to take care when you do the blow up, and the center should always be invariant by the derivation. Otherwise at some point you're going to create such kind of problem. Well, so let me start with the well known result. So, in dimension two, what I call the elimination of the important points is the, the so called Benjamin sulcide bear theorem, which shows that you always can eliminate these important locks by a finite sequence of blow ups, right? But let's say, contrary to the intuition, this result is false if you suppose that the ambient dimension is greater or equal than three. So we usually are using to say that, well, these statements on resolution of singularities are, are sort of tautology, because, well, it's just perhaps difficult to prove that it should be true all the time. But for the, what I had just said to you, it's, this statement is false in dimension greater than three, at least if you do what we usually call the blow ups. Right.
00:07:37.080 - 00:08:03.464, Speaker A: So this is an example that appears. Now, I think it's not highly pledge, but it's due to Fernando's sans and Fernando Sanchez, alas. So, well, it starts with a very, very well known phenomenon, which is the following. You take the Whitney umbrella. So it has already appeared in the, in the course of Andre, I think. So is this Whitney umbrella. So I write in this way.
00:08:03.464 - 00:09:18.084, Speaker A: So the handle of the Whitney umbrella now is the vertical axis, the z axis, right? So, well, this is an algebraic set, the zero set of omega, and well, what here is the property of the point at the origin. This is a so called pinch point. And in fact, there is a symmetry in the Whitney umbrella, which is the following end. If you parameterize these two, so you take the slices given by z equals two constant. So you have these two straight lines which cross, which are just written as y equals to square root of z times x. But there is a symmetry here, which the following one, if you make, let's say in the complex domain, you make one turn around the origin in the z axis, then these branches get interchanged between them, just because by analytic continuation, when you make one turn, then the square roots get the true determination of the square root get exchanged between them. So this is one of the characteristics of this pinch point.
00:09:18.084 - 00:10:33.944, Speaker A: And the fact is that even if you take this as analytic and an algebraic set, there's a theorem, it's not very hard to prove that, in fact, you cannot eliminate. So this is, of course, this point on the origin is not a normal crossing point for the, is not the normal crossing point for the, for this algebraic set. And in fact, the only way to, to turn this into a normal crossing situations is that at some point I have to blow up the handle, right? So there is a very, let's say even a more, more general result which has the following. So you start with, let's say c three with this embedded algebraic set, and you consider any birational map such that it's an isomorphism along the handle. So it's a directional map which doesn't touch the handle. Then this pinch point is stable in the sense that you get exactly the same configuration in, let's say in the new variety. So it's a quite stable situation in this sense.
00:10:33.944 - 00:12:05.498, Speaker A: And now here I've drawn a vector field which is tangent to this with an umbrella. So you just make the computations and you see that when you apply delta to omega, you get just a multiple of omega, I think it's two times omega, or something like this. This means that all the solution curves of this vector field or the leaves of the foliation are tangent to this Wheatley umbrella. You can see that in this case the handle is just, except for the origin is just a leaf of the vital brain. It's not formed by similar parts, but. Well, okay, so as I said, you can perhaps take this at some point you could imagine a resolution of singularity which take this handle as the center of the, of the blowing up, because, well, you can see that for, in this case, the point, the pinch point is not an elementary point for this associated vector field. But now the example of Sanchez Salas and Fernando Sans, it modifies a little bit this example by adding this new red term here, right? So what happens that when you add this red term, this Whitney umbrella in fact becomes a formal and non convergent Whitney umbrella.
00:12:05.498 - 00:13:25.738, Speaker A: So by adding this lambda here, when you try to write the equation for the handle. So let's say you just make some formal expansion like this, and then you replace on the differential equation associated to delta, and you try to solve it, and you find that the only possible equation is. So it's, you determine this coefficient by recurrence and you get some kind of jv type growth of these terms, which shows that this axis, this handle, cannot be convergent, right? So it means that you don't have the right to take this handle as a center for your blowing up procedure, because at least if once you stay in the category of analytic manifolds, you, you're stuck here. So this is the counterexample to the statement in the mesh. So how to solve this? Right? So, so I said that the handle is non analytic, so you cannot take it center. So in this case you are stuck. So the solution is to, let's say to enlarge the set of allowed maps by considering what we call the weighted blow ups.
00:13:25.738 - 00:14:52.468, Speaker A: Right? So what's a weighted blow up? I'm going to spend some moments on explaining this because it's centered to what comes next. So the usual blow ups can be seen as let's say a way to separate the orbits of the action of a torus on c n minus zero, which just given by taking all the lines. So the orbits of this torus action are just the lines through the origin complex lines. And then the blow up just separate these lines in one, let's say one map. And now the idea is that instead of taking the usual tolerance action by taking the weights one one one, you take a more general situation where you allow some vector of positive integral nonzero vector, positive integers omega one, omega n and you just take this map here. So in this case imagine that the orbits of the storage axis are just this monomial curves through the origin and well you can try to understand what's the quotient of cn minus the origin by the action of this torus. And this is a well known object which is called the weighted projective space.
00:14:52.468 - 00:16:04.458, Speaker A: So if you take the usual case where omega equals to one, one and so on, you get the usual blow up space, usual protective save, sorry. And this sort of generalization we're going to show to you some pictures. So now how to define the weighted blow up associated to this tolerance action. Right? So the, so the, this pie here is just the quotient map which associates to each orbit the associate point on the quotient space. So there's the quotient map. And now what I'm going to do is that I can consider the graph of this quotient map. So it's a subset of, as a subset of CN times the weighted projected space, right? So yeah, so in principle the graph is just lives in the product of CN minus zero times the weighted parachute space.
00:16:04.458 - 00:17:19.993, Speaker A: But I want to consider this map on the closure by which I mean CN times the PM's and then I take the m tilde as being the Tsarisci closure of this graph on this product here. Right? So this MTL is what I'm going to call the blow up, the blow up space and the corresponding b rational map which I'm going to obtain just by extending this, sorry, it's not very good notation but the projection map which is just the projection of this manifold on the first coordinate, it's what I going to call the blow up, the blow up weighted blow up of the origin in CN. So I just made a drawing here in the usual case where we have blow, all the weights equals to one. So in this case, let's say the basis here is of dimensional. Let's say I just made a picture in the case where I have r two. And then you can match that. In this case, the blow open space is a sort of Moabius band which develops above.
00:17:19.993 - 00:18:26.930, Speaker A: So in the vertical direction we have just the one dimensional projective space. And then this projection here is precisely the blowing up map. So let's write some equations for this blow up problem for this weighted blow up. So as I mentioned to you, there is this weighted projective space which has in fact some additional structure with respect to the usual projective space. Because, how do you cover the usual projective space with coordinates? You just take some slice for the action like this and then you just identify each point of the slice with an orbit of your reaction. But here, as I've drawn this picture, you can see that if I fix a slice, let's say for instance, in this case I fixed the slice given by x one equals to one. The orbits can cut this slice in two different points.
00:18:26.930 - 00:19:26.444, Speaker A: So here, for instance, I have taken the weights one, two and one, right? So in this slides, you cannot separate these two points if you're going to define, let's say the orbit space. And this leads you to a sort of new structure which is called an orbit fold structure, right? So how do you define the charts of a blowing, weighted blow up? So the x directional chart. So for instance, this one that I've written, I've drawn here. So it parameterizes the orbits cut in this slice. And in this case you can write this as a substitution map of this form. So x one goes to y one to the power omega one. X two goes to y to the power omega two, so on.
00:19:26.444 - 00:21:00.400, Speaker A: So in this case you can see y two up to yn as the coordinates on the slice. And these are the parameters given by the torus, right? So the y one here is just a t in my previous notation. Okay, so now the new thing is that this y one in can, has to be interpreted as an orbit chart in the blow of the space, by which I mean that they live in, let's say in the affine space cn, but now which should be equipped with a group action which takes into account the symmetry that I've just drawn to you in the previous slide. So here, for instance, in the case of this parabolas, there is a asymmetry given by the action of z two, right? So the reflection with respect to the vert to the horizontal action. So in general, if you have this weight omega one and omega two, up to, again, there is a small misprint here. The group which are going to act in this CN to give you the, let's say the symmetry on the slice is the cyclic group z quotient by omega one times z. And this section is defined as also omega y.
00:21:00.400 - 00:22:18.404, Speaker A: One goes to psi y one, and yk goes to psi to the minus omega k yk, or where xi is just a primitive root of unity. Right? So this takes into account the symmetry that I've just explained to you. Okay, so the other charts are defined analogously. So the new, the new information here is that this new manifold, the manifold that I obtained by this weighted blowups, is not manifold should not be considered manifold in the usual sense. But now with, as an object, which is called a norbifold, right? So I'm going to give a very small review of this, of what is an orbifold. So I recommend this book where there are very detailed proofs and definitions and so on. So what's an orbifold? So roughly speaking, an orbifold is a topological space where you have a group of local symmetries acting on each neighborhood.
00:22:18.404 - 00:22:59.276, Speaker A: So you have some underlying topological space m, which is part of space. So sorry, it's x. I could correct this. It should be emma here. So a norbifold chart on this manifold is given by a triple. So given by an open set of c, n or rn and a group affinity subgroup of the group of automorphisms of different of this open set. And then a map phi, which goes from u to m and which is moreover invariant by the.
00:22:59.276 - 00:24:15.450, Speaker A: So this map should be invariant by the action of, of the group g in the sense that should map all points on the same orbit into the same point g. So of course they, in this, in such a way that it defines an omorphism between the quotient of U by G and the image open set phi of U. So the idea is that locally this orbit fold should be, look at that as the quotient of U by this group action G. Right? So now there is a way to define compatible charts. I'm not going to enter too much into detail here, but you can define compatible charts by recurring that by firstly define what is an embedding of a normal fault chart into another one. And, well, I think I'm going to go a little bit quick in this, because just, I just copied the definition which appeared in this book. So for a Norbifold chart is, sorry, a Norbifold atlas on a, on the manifold, and it's just given by collection of these triples.
00:24:15.450 - 00:25:38.214, Speaker A: So, open sets, finite group and embeddings such that they are compatible in the sense that they've detailed here, and such that fee of u, they are maximum, they form an open cover of m. So once you have an orbifold, you can define a sub orbifold as given by some subset y of m, such that on each local chart, ugh. Let's say the counter image of this subset y is a Genevarin submanifold of you, right? So it should be invariant by, so in fact, it should be invariant by the direction of the group G as a subset of you. Okay, so one of the important things that, let's say in the, when this object has been introduced, let's say for the first time, people had the tendency to concentrate just on the structure of the manifold M. So it's, let's say a manifold with caution, singularities. But now it's important also to keep the information about the groups. So the local group action are part of the structure.
00:25:38.214 - 00:26:28.104, Speaker A: So it should be taken into account not only the manifold itself. Sorry, Daniel here. So the action of the group, so you describe it chart by chart somehow, right? So do you mean that there is one group acting on the manifold or is it a local action by possibly different groups? Yes, it's a local action. So let me just go back here. So the prototypical example is the example of this. They all charts on the, on this manifold. So you see that according to the chart that you choose, you have a different group, which, so if you take this, this is the group, the secret group with, with checks in the first chart.
00:26:28.104 - 00:27:07.806, Speaker A: In another chart, it would be another group. Yes. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I'm going to make an explicit example in a moment. So, just a simple example to show that now the underlying topological space can be singular. So for instance, if you take x to be c two co shanted by the group by z over two z, let's say just by symmetry with respect to the origin, then this is just given by the spectrum of the group of, sorry, the ring of invariants.
00:27:07.806 - 00:28:33.328, Speaker A: So the rig of invariance of polynomials in two variables with respect to this action is just generated by x squared x y and y square. And of course, there is a relation which says that the second one to the square is equals to the first times the second. So it's just given by, let's say, the spectrum of this ring here. And so x is a quadratic cone, right? So it's the ideal, the zero set of this. So what's the idea here is that when you give it this extra freedom of choosing this weighted blow ups, you are going to adapt this weight in order to take into account some natural quasi homogeneous filtration of your object, right? So this extra freedom, in fact, we're going, will allow us to, for instance, to solve the problem that is posed by the example of sans and sans de salas. So let's see the example of the Whitney umbrella, right? So without vector fields here, but even in the case of algebraic sets, let's see what happens. So you take this algebraic set here, and I'm going to blow up the origin with weight one, two and two, right? So in the z.
00:28:33.328 - 00:29:30.840, Speaker A: So in the z directional shark, this corresponds to this optomal field here. And you see that when you write the Whitney umbrella in these new coordinates, you get something like z to the power four, which factor result, and then y square minus x square. And you see that here you have just a normal crossing divisor. Okay, so I just make a drawing here. So what happens in the z? Let's say the z directional sharp, you just have an orbit chart, which is c three with a group z over two z and an embedding phi. Okay? And the action of z over two z is just this symmetry here. So x goes to minus x, y goes to y, and z goes to minus z.
00:29:30.840 - 00:30:28.764, Speaker A: So of course this is just a symmetry. When you apply this change here to the right hand side of these equations, you just get, get the same variables on the, on the left hand side, right? So just, it means that two points which are on the same orbit are mapped downstairs to the same point by the blow down map. So you see here that this, let's say the whitting umbrella is covered. Each one of these parts of the whittling umbrella is covered two times by them. So here in the right hand side, I've drawn the equation of the transform of it with an umbrella. So we have this x and y, and you see that these two hyperplanes here are mapped. So the symmetry is just given by exchanging these two parts.
00:30:28.764 - 00:31:31.642, Speaker A: And in fact, you cover two times the red part and you cover two times the blue part here. But I mean, in this orbit chart, you get a normal crossing situation without blowing up. In some sense, the handle, that was the problem in the example of the Fernando's. So if you don't like too much to work with the manifold with singularities, there is another way to think of these things, at least if you work over r is to work in the category for manifolds with corners. So manifolds with corners are just manifolds which are locally modeled by open sets, by quadrants of rn. So in this case you can replace your weighted blow up by what you call weighted spherical blowup, which is just given by a map. So now I have this sphere here.
00:31:31.642 - 00:32:28.884, Speaker A: So we just given this map, proper analytic, analytic map from r positive times s minus n two rn, which is well, just given by this, right. And in this case you have to enter the exceptional divisor. This is the thing that just collapses to the origin by the blow up map. It's just a frontier, a boundary of your manifold, which is just a copy of this here. So just make a drawing here. So you see that here. In fact, instead of dealing with this orbitful charts, you see that in fact you can separate the positive and negative part of the orbits by just adding this sphere and saying that you just take the positive part.
00:32:28.884 - 00:33:24.554, Speaker A: This is an alternative way to say things. So one of the advantages of this, let's say of work in this setting that you stay in some sense in the category of manifolds. But there is a drawback, which is the fact that you forget the group in some sense. And it means that when you make this blob, there is an intrinsic symmetry here that in some sense you lose when you don't look at the group of symmetries which is given by the, which is given by the orbitful charts. So let's say for this point of view I recommend to you there's a very nice book of Melrose where he makes many, many. He has a very long discussion about analysis on many folded corners. So his idea is to solve partial differential equations in this kind of objects.
00:33:24.554 - 00:34:14.884, Speaker A: I'm going to see later on that there is some relation with what I'm going to, to speak about. Okay, so just a small example. So if take the Whitney umbrella, and now I'm going to make a blow up, a real blow up of the Whitney umbrella. Well, and now there are two shards because even if you take the z direction of chart there, there are, there is, so there are two different slides here, z positive and z negative. And this gives you two different charts here. So this is the first one and this is the second one with minus z square here. So you see that in the first chart you get these two lines which are crossing, which, let's say these two planes, even by y equals to minus plus or minus x.
00:34:14.884 - 00:34:51.664, Speaker A: But in the second chart, you just have this equation here. And of course this is just the fact that, let's say I just make a real drawing of the Wheatley umbrella. Just the fact that for z negative, the zero set in three reals is just this line. Right? Okay. But anyway, let's see. You see that everything here is normal crossings. So in some sense you have won the game by this blowing up without touching the handle.
00:34:51.664 - 00:36:11.574, Speaker A: Okay, so what extreme, to use the case where you blow up a point in cn or rn. So when you try to generalize this to blowing up a center, which non local, say to center a submanifold on a manifold, have to take some extra care. Why? Because let's say in order to blow up the manifold c given by x, one equals to etcetera, xk equals to zero. In fact, you have to repeat the construction that I've made moments ago. But now, taking this tolerance action, which only acts on the first k variables, so it does not touch the remaining variables. And the problem is that in this case, this action is defined on a neighborhood of each point of your, let's say a global manifold c, and it defines a filtration in the local ring, which is so called a quasimogenous filtration. So it gives you that you have to give weight omega one to exam, etcetera, weight omega k, omega k to xk.
00:36:11.574 - 00:37:10.380, Speaker A: But when you change from one, let's say from one chart to the other chart which covers our manifold, you have to be careful to guarantee that this weighted filtration is compatible. Right. So I draw this here. Yeah, so they did that. In fact, awaited blow up is not defined exactly by this torus action, but more precisely by the quasi machinist filtration of the local ring. Associated to this, you have, let's say the local ring at the point p, and then let's say, call this o zero. And then there is a nested sequence of subrings here where the.
00:37:10.380 - 00:38:56.354, Speaker A: Yes, so where x one is lies on the omega one and so on. And x n lies on omega n. Right? So an alternate, you say a way of saying this is each is the sub ring of functions of Quasimodo's weight greater or equal than k. So if you want to define now a quasi marginal blow up along a submanifold or a suburb more general subarufault of m, we have to have a global trivialization such that the transition maps between the two different charts should respect this filtration here. Right? Okay, so let's say a more fancy way to see to say this, the following one, you have to have, let's say a sequence of nested ideal shifts of your structure, shift f zero, f one, f n, and so on. So this is a global nested sequence of ideal shapes in such a way that you have this, let's say filtration like property, and at each point p on the support of these ideal sheaves, this talk of this filtration coincides with the cosmogenous filtration defined above. So, I'm asking this just to have this sort of filtration by ideal sheaves in such a way that locally it corresponds to a Cosimo z infiltration.
00:38:56.354 - 00:40:30.634, Speaker A: Okay, so, well, this is a, let's see, a more fancy way to see this, but in more concrete terms. What I mean the following thing. So suppose that you want to blow up the y axis on c three, so with weights one beta. So in this case, assume that you have some local trivialization given by the variables, let's say, x and y. And now you are going to look at all possible optomorphisms on the variables x and y, which preserve the quasi machines filtration associated to one beta, right? So roughly speaking, it's just given by, let's say, maps of this form, where in fact, since y has a weight beta, when you make, let's say a translation like y goes to y plus psi times x to the power l, the exponent which appears on L here should be greater or equal than beta. So this is, let's say in general, each kind of this automorphic here preserve the one beta zero quasimogeneous filtration of c x z. Right? So, okay, so now I just made a general statement about which kind of automobiles preserve this filtration.
00:40:30.634 - 00:41:52.574, Speaker A: Sorry, just go back. So, in fact, given a manifold, an arbitrary manifold submanifold c on a manifold m, the existence of such a kind of, of so, and given some weight, oh my God, I say the existence of a trivialization such that the transition maps preserve the filtration is a non trivial topological restriction, right? So it's not true that you can always achieve this condition on any manifold and for any submanifold. So this is one of the things that has to be taken care of when you try to apply this kind of generalized blow ups. Okay, so, so let's just maybe give some expressions on how to compute the weighted blow up for, for a vector field. So, it's very similar to the case where we have the usual blow ups. So, assume that you, you want to make a blow up in the x one direction with weights omega one, omega K. And again, it's very easy to see how the logarithmic basis transforms.
00:41:52.574 - 00:42:38.744, Speaker A: So the x 1d over dx one goes now to some linear combination of this type. So you see here that omega one appears, all the weights appear like this, and the other, the other elements of the logarithm basis are preserved. So, for instance, if you take this vector field here, which is called the n node. So recall, I recall to you that this is the case where the orbits are just the curves given by y. Sorry. Yeah. Yes.
00:42:38.744 - 00:43:24.214, Speaker A: Y equals to x equals to some constant times x to the power n. Right? So in fact, if you take the blow up with weight one n, you're going to separate the orbits of this, of this node here. And this is precisely because the solution curves are the orbits of the torus action given by this. So in fact, this block is chosen in such a way that you separate all the orbits of this action. Okay, so if, I don't know if you recall, but we have drawn them. I've explained to you, let me just go back. Yeah.
00:43:24.214 - 00:44:42.876, Speaker A: The case of the cuspidal singularity, sorry, long time ago. So the cuspidal singularity was an example of a non elementary singularity where you could apply some sort of resolutions to achieve a situation where the transverse behavior was well explained by, let's say, by some transition maps locally defined nearby the tree saddles, which you can hear. So for the usual blow ups, you have to take three different steps in order to achieve the singularity, the limitary situation. But now let's see that in the, using weighted blow ups, in fact, you take into account the natural quasi homogeneous structure of this cuspidal singularities. And a single blow up will suffice. But it's not, let's say there is also, perhaps, I want to finish with this, for example. So you take this cuspidal singularity, right? So you recall too that this there is the cusp, which is almost a first integral because it's, let's say it's a first integral for the initial part.
00:44:42.876 - 00:45:39.584, Speaker A: And then there is a small perturbation delta here, which accounts for the non integrability of refoliation. But we'll suppose that this part here is of weight greater than the initial part. By this I mean the weight with respect to the filtration given by two and three. So now to blow up this example, I'm going to, first of all, to write it in the logarithmic basis. So, enforcing the appearance of x d over dx here. So here you get x minus one times y and here three x squared y minus one. Right? And now the natural choice is to use the weights two and three, right? Because why? Because this is the quasi, the quasimogenous weights which come from the natural cosmogeneity structure of the first integer, the almost first integer.
00:45:39.584 - 00:46:47.702, Speaker A: So as I said to you, the first term, the first parenthesis gets mapped to this. The second one is preserved, right? And then when you regroup the terms, you get x y. Excellent. So this expression and the perturbation terms gets multiplied by the power x two of the, where x is the equation of the exceptional divisor. So now recall that I want to keep this condition that the exceptional divisor should not be, should be invariant, right? But not formed by nipotent points. So if you want to eliminate the nil potent points which appear on the exceptional divisor, by which I mean the line x zero, you have to divide out this, the equation of x of delta by x. And what you get just by factoring out x is the second expression here.
00:46:47.702 - 00:47:25.680, Speaker A: I don't know if you can see it. Yes. Okay, so now in the wide chart I'm going to be a little bit quick here because much time you get this expression, but. Well, yeah, so we got this second expression. Perhaps I'll leave it to an exercise to show it. But then the results that in fact if you look at the singularities which appear on both charts, you see that in fact they're elementary charts. They are elementary similarities.
00:47:25.680 - 00:48:27.002, Speaker A: So you get these two saddles which appear. Let's just go back here. So in this, this first chart you see that the synchronize appear by y equals to minus one or equal or plus one. And then on each one of them you get set of signals. So in some sense in this case you succeed by a single quasimogeneous blow up, right? Okay, so in this case just, let's just study the symmetries of the orbit chart that you obtain. So there are two charts which cover, sorry. So now you have this, your weighted projective space is this blue liner here, right? So we have two charts which cover it.
00:48:27.002 - 00:49:57.154, Speaker A: So one chart is c two mod the action of the two symmetric group of the two cyclical group. And the other chart is situated model direction of this three symmetry group, right? So in fact in my drawing in one chart you see these two singularities, right? So, but in fact in the quotient they are identified with a single singularity. And in the other chart you see these three singularities here, which again are identified with this single singularity in the, let's say in the quotient ambient space. And now if you look at them, you recover this alonomy groups that I've discussed with you by this name. Well, perhaps I'm going to finish with this. In fact, when you look at the expression of the, let's say this expression of the vector field in the first chart, which is given by this, right? So of course the group of symmetries, it acts on the delta one, and delta one is symmetric in some sense with respect to the action of z over two z. I'm just going to compute this action to show to you.
00:49:57.154 - 00:51:02.044, Speaker A: So you see here you have this vector field on the first chart and then there's z over two z, which acts on this because of course you obtain this vector field by the weighted blow up which has the symmetry. So how is the symmetry goes when you make them, the group acts on X goes from to minus x and the group on Y goes to minus y. And then by simple computation you see that when you make this group x on this expression, it gets multiplied by minus one, right? So here I've just made a drawing of the vector field. In the first chart. You see, you see that there is a symmetry here which is intrinsic to the transformation that is made. And on the other chart you have this symmetry given by the action of z over three z. Let me just finish, try to make some small drawings.
00:51:02.044 - 00:51:52.616, Speaker A: So in this case, recall this set which I've drawn here is the blow adapt space. And here you have, as I said, the defoliation which leaves on the surface, on the horizontal surface here, which is lifted to this singular set. And then you get this non singular, let's say this elementary foliation by lifting. Okay, so I think that's all for today. So thank you for your attention, but I'm going to put these notes on the web page so you can consult it if you want more details. Thank you. Thank you Daniel.
00:51:52.616 - 00:51:54.984, Speaker A: Thank you. Okay. Thank you Daniel.
