00:00:01.850 - 00:01:27.430, Speaker A: Decentralized finance is the instantiation of a specific type of smart contract, right? Or what I call hybrid smart contracts, which are these contracts that combine the on chain code together with the off chain proofs that something happened. They're called a hybrid because they basically use both of these systems, right, the blockchain and the proofs about what happened. And what DeFi I is, is one specific type of hybrid smart contract that is taking on the contractual agreements you traditionally find in the global financial system, right? And that's basically the world of lending, the world of yield generation for people giving me, or giving whoever their money and somebody giving back them yield back to them, which is what bonds do and what treasuries do and what a lot of the global financial markets do, as well as the ability to gain exposure and protection from different types of events and risks. That's a lot of what derivatives do, right? Derivatives allow us to say, hey, something's going to happen, and I'm either going to protect myself by getting paid if it happens, or I'm going to benefit from it happening by basically saying it's going to happen. Putting money down on that and that prediction will get me a return. Now, that's a very large part of the global financial system, excluding all the stuff for global trade and letters of credit and all the stuff that facilitates international trade. So excluding that, at least for now.
00:01:27.430 - 00:01:58.810, Speaker A: So if we look at what decentralized finance does, it takes all of those agreements about generating yield lending, and all of these types of things you find in global finance and the world of derivatives and a few other types of financial products, and it basically puts them into a different format. I think that's what Defi is about in a practical sense. It is this clarity about your risk. It is control over your assets. And amazingly, at the same time as having those two unbelievably useful properties, it is actually superior yield.
