00:00:00.170 - 00:00:55.802, Speaker A: Hey there, it's AlP Gasimov here with today's quick take. And today we're talking about the absurdly low levels of gas fees on Ethereum, which have been dropping down to levels we haven't seen since last October. Miners are surely upset, but it's a great opportunity to do all your DFI transactions, mint an NFT or two. Or maybe you can renew your EnS domain for 30 years like this guy did, but what's the cause behind such significant drops in gas price? We're going to get to it right after this message about Oasis, which is the leading privacy enabled layer one blockchain for DeFi. It was founded by Don Song, the award winning professor from Berkeley, and has many key backers such as the Andreessen Horowitz, Axel Binance Labs and more. Oasis already has several projects building on its network and partners such as the Cryptosafe alliance with Finance, Chainlink, Balancer Meter and others. Oasis recently launched a new smart contract environment with fully EVM solidity, toolchain support and gas fees that are 99% lower than Ethereum.
00:00:55.802 - 00:01:52.430, Speaker A: If you have a bigger project in mind, Oasis runs a large grant program with over 1.5 million USD in rose tokens available for DFI apps. Visit their website@oasisproteocol.org, to learn more. Now back to gas guide dipped to levels as low as 36 on Sunday is it because of the effects of L2 solutions that are starting to add up? Is it because of the Berlin hard fork from the week prior, or is someone planning a bad joke for block 1234-5678 that's coming up later this weekend? There are two likely reasons that explain these guai levels. First might be due to the 20% increase in block size or gas limit coming from the mining pools, which enables more transactions to go through in each block that either reduces the gas price or increases the number of people who can transact at a specific gas price? Another probable reason is due to the current status of the market. When the market goes quiet, activity drops, which brings gas fees down with it.
00:01:52.430 - 00:02:08.370, Speaker A: Whatever it is, all I want at this point is for Guai to hit single digits. So Andre Crony releases one of his five new protocols he's been hesitant to share. Drop it, Andre. Thanks for watching. Make sure to subscribe and to keep up with the latest defi news, join our Telegram group Hadibana Evala half day guru shirts.
