00:00:00.560 - 00:00:37.038, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 5 July 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into the news from the weekend. So actually, just before we do that, on Friday, I published this piece in Defi pulses yield farm newsletter called the Bullish case for governance tokens. Now, this is behind a Paywall right now, you will have to kind of subscribe to the yield farmer newsletter, but it will be available for free later on this week. And I'll definitely share that on Twitter once it's available. But if you do have a yield farmer subscription or you want to subscribe to it, you know you'll be able to read this.
00:00:37.038 - 00:01:26.496, Speaker A: And I mean, I'm pretty proud of the piece. I thought it was pretty convincing myself, mind you, but something that I've, you know, outside of the Daily Way newsletter for once. But I had a good time kind of writing it, and I thank Defy post for giving me the opportunity to, to put it together as well. So if you haven't read it yet, definitely recommend it, but you can wait for the free version to come out if you don't want to subscribe later on this week. So I were meant to talk about this last week, actually, I think I did, but I think I was not confused, but like, wasn't sure when this was going to happen. But I put out a tweet kind of yesterday where I said yesterday a couple hours ago where I said the mainnet date or block number for London, which contains AIP 1559, is expected to be discussed and possibly announced that this week's Ethereum core devs meeting, which is taking place on July 9 at 1400 UTC here, which is 02:00 p.m.. UTC.
00:01:26.496 - 00:01:54.090, Speaker A: Now this is basically the regular all core devs kind of like meeting that they do every couple of weeks. There's an agenda. I forgot to link it in my tweet, but it's somewhere in my chrome tab somewhere. But basically, yeah, it's on the agenda, right, to discuss. And my guess would be if we get the earliest date, the earliest it's going to be is August 4, and then after that it'll be like in weeks after that. So if it's not August 4, it'll be August 11, if not, then August 18. You get the idea.
00:01:54.090 - 00:02:24.764, Speaker A: I'm hopeful that it's going to be August 4, considering that we've had two testnet deployments of London. So far. And it's gone extremely smoothly, obviously, on Rinkeby and Gurley there. And then we have, sorry, Ropston and Gurley, and then we have rinkeby happening in the next couple of days. And if that goes smoothly, I see no reason to kind of like, not do an August 4 mainnet date. Now that would be really, really cool, really hype. But even still, like, I've said this multiple times on the refuel, where I basically said that even if the date was to happen on August 11 or even August 18, I really don't think it's a big deal.
00:02:24.764 - 00:02:45.900, Speaker A: I don't think the market's going to care. I don't think many people are going to care at all. I think, you know, we've waited so long for it. As I've said every time, it's just not a huge deal. Plus, we'd rather get it right and we'd rather, you know, the core devs and researchers feel comfortable with deploying it before doing so. And that's basically it. Like, it's funny because I always think about Ethereum governance and how it all plays out.
00:02:45.900 - 00:03:18.446, Speaker A: And, you know, sometimes I get some troll comments when I say things like this where people are like, oh, you know, Ethereum centralized because the core devs can decide when to upgrade the network. It's like, well, no, no, the core devs don't decide when to upgrade the network. They just set a block number or a main net date block number that they're comfortable with for the upgrade to go through. But one like London and all the ips within it, obviously, AIP 1559 being the major one, went through two plus years of scrutiny. So it's not like the core devs just woke up one day and said, okay, well, you know, we want to put 1559 on Mainnet. It's going to happen within a month. If you don't like it, then piss off.
00:03:18.446 - 00:03:42.664, Speaker A: We're in control. That's not what happened at all. And I know a lot of you listening to the refill, don't fall into this bucket. I hope all of you don't fall into this bucket, because it is not one that I think that it comes. It's not an intellectual bucket to be in because I showed the other day Andrew put together, or cyber hokey, I showed a tweet of the ethereum governance process. He put together a really nice flowchart there and it was huge. I mean, I couldn't even show it all in the video because it was so big.
00:03:42.664 - 00:04:04.476, Speaker A: And, you know, that's basically how it works. And it's very, it's very messy. Like, don't get me wrong, it's, it's frustrating, it's messy. It's, it's definitely something that I kind of view on. And I'm like, ugh, we could literally fix all of these problems if everything was just centralized. And when I think about that, it's even more hilarious. If you think about pretty much every problem within crypto, it can be solved with centralization.
00:04:04.476 - 00:04:34.506, Speaker A: If you want to solve anything, just add a sprinkle of centralization to it and you've, and you've got, like, the solution. But the whole point is that we're trying to solve these problems without doing that. So from that perspective, we don't want to centralize Ethereum's governance process. We want it to be like this. And as frustrating as it was that it took AIP 1559 two plus years to get to Mainnet, it is still an incredible achievement in my mind that we got such a major upgrade onto main. I mean, obviously it's not, it's not happened yet, but it's going to happen soon. Given, like, there was a lot of pushback on it originally.
00:04:34.506 - 00:05:17.558, Speaker A: There was a lot of people saying, oh, well, we need to do thorough testing on this because such a major change, which is fine, but if you imagine something like this and like a small, I guess, like, I wouldn't say like a large corporate, but like maybe a small to medium sized corporate business, this wouldn't have taken two years to happen because it's that centralized, right? It would have, it would have happened very, very quickly. You would have had a project manager assigned to it. They would have managed it all. They would have fed it up the chain. And then obviously they would have had, like, you know, whoever's up the chain say, yes, okay, let's do this. And there's obvious, obviously, hierarchies still in corporate environments, but it's different. It's very, very centralized, whereas within Ethereum, we have to get, like community consensus across pretty much the majority of the ecosystem before the ecosystem would be happy putting 1559 in.
00:05:17.558 - 00:05:48.642, Speaker A: And there are a lot of people who, maybe not a lot, but there is definitely some people that don't want 1559 going in. And they, they think it's bad for the network. They think that burning ETH is bad. And that's fine. They have, it's fine for them to voice their opinion. But at the end of the day, the majority of the super majority of the network sets what ethereum is, and if you're part of the minority, then you have the choice to either just go along with the majority, or you can kind of like fork off into your own network and try to build up your own ecosystem from there. Now, in saying that within a theorem, it's very hard to do that, obviously, because there's a lot of dependencies.
00:05:48.642 - 00:06:20.078, Speaker A: The Ethereum network is sprawling. It is not just the blockchain, but it's all the apps on top of it, all the assets and things like that. So I think I've spoken, I spoke about this at length in one of the refuels of, it's probably a couple of months back now, where I basically described how a theory is essentially unforkable at this point. And I don't know what that's going to hold for the future. I don't know what's going to happen in a truly contentious kind of time where, you know, it goes even beyond what happened with prog power. For those of you who are around for that last year, prog power is extremely contentious. But the thing is, is that that didn't get very far along.
00:06:20.078 - 00:06:54.194, Speaker A: I don't think. I think that got to a point where it basically hard stopped and we kind of like killed it off as a community because we're like, this is not something we want. But you know, you know what? The net, there's inevitably going to be other kind of governance challenges. There's going to be people trying to capture governance. So it's going to be interesting to see how the Ethereum ecosystem manages that, considering there's so many dependencies on top of it now. And Ethereum as a network is not only defined by the, I guess, like full nodes and the economic nodes and, and things like big. The bitcoin network is defined by the same things, but it's also defined by its rich, rich app layer that sits on top of the network itself.
00:06:54.194 - 00:07:30.694, Speaker A: So it's going to be interesting to see how that plays out. But anyway, I'm looking forward to this week's core devs meeting to see if they give a date on there. They may not even give a date, maybe, though, they think, okay, we want to kind of like, wait, wait it out. I suspect that they're going to give a date, and as I said, like, I'm going to assign a probability of maybe like 80%, it being August 4 and then 100% by August 14. I don't see them extending that out to August 21. That seems very, very long. And that's obviously dependent on the final test net going? Well, if for some reason rinkeby blows up with, with London, then it's definitely not happening on August 4, let me tell you that much.
00:07:30.694 - 00:08:19.072, Speaker A: But there's no reason to believe it will, considering the last two testnets went off without a hitch. So another kind of, a bit of chatter over, I guess, like the weekend was around mev and bitcoin is for some reason discovering that MeV is a thing on Ethereum after how many months or even a, like a year plus at this point, that the ethereum ecosystem as a whole has been like very focused on it. Um, and you know, I think two plus years where a lot of the top researchers have been really deep down into the mev kind of rabbit hole here. But for some reason, bitcoin has just discovered it now. And I say for some reason, but I know the reason, it's because they don't pay attention to anything ethereum unless it's fed to them through some kind of watered down narrative machine. But anyway, I won't go on a rant about that. What I did want to talk about is how ironic it was that they started talking about MeV and there was this massive threat that I'm not going to, I'm not going to go through.
00:08:19.072 - 00:08:47.220, Speaker A: I'm sure you'll know which one I'm talking about. That someone, bitcoin Maximus of course, was just calling ethereum broken because of MeV. And the grand irony was that he posted that thread while there was an MEV summit going on with Ethereum's top researchers. It was 8 hours plus of talks and videos and, and, you know, the Ethereum ecosystem coming together and saying, we know MeV is an issue, let's fix it. Like, let's work on it, let's see what we can do with that. And it's not just that kind of like summit. It's been basically years of this views of research and development.
00:08:47.220 - 00:09:11.936, Speaker A: We had flashbots come out as a kind of like, as a culmination of a lot of that research that's helping with a lot of things. And there's more eyes on the MEV ecosystem than there ever has been. There's more people talking about it, more people getting involved. And just the irony of a bitcoin is saying Ethereum is broken because of Mev, because they just figured out what Mev was, or they just, they just, you know, became aware of it. Now is hilarious to me. But enough on that topic. There are two other threads about this.
00:09:11.936 - 00:09:56.290, Speaker A: One from El Dogo Diablo here or fubulubaloo. I think that's how you say his name. I love saying it where he says, tradfi solves mev by making it illegal. With Defi, we are trying to find different ways to avoid Mev without regulations and laws which break Mev is inherent to any system where a profit can be made from privileged access to a system's operation. No blockchain has solved Mev. Now, this goes back to what I was saying before about how, you know, if we just, if we just introduce centralization, that being regulations and laws, into, you know, the ethereum ecosystem, we could solve Mev too. Uh, but in saying that, um, uh, on top of this, uh, tradfi, technically, yes, does make me v kind of like illegal in some sense, but it also makes it even more privileged than, uh, what kind of like ethereum does.
00:09:56.290 - 00:10:37.176, Speaker A: Ethereum doesn't kind of give any one set of people, like, specific privilege or rights to MeV. They basically, you know, anyone can do Mev on Ethereum. There's no central body saying, okay, well, only you can do it and you can do it. It's obviously skill based and, you know, it's very sophisticated, but it's still open to anyone, whereas within tradfi. And as state f notes here, MeV is actually very legal, but it basically goes to, like, institutions and businesses because, for example, Robin Hood outsources its MEV extraction by selling its order flow to Citadel, which is a big trading firm, which promptly proceeds to front run it. So, I mean, some of it's illegal. A lot of it can be legal, but it just depends on, like, what kind of lens you're looking through it.
00:10:37.176 - 00:11:12.400, Speaker A: I mean, it's probably illegal for non accredited investors or for individuals to do it. You won't be able to kind of do it like front running and spoofing and all that sort of stuff on exchanges. If you get caught doing that as an individual and not part of the normal kind of like, flow of things, then you're definitely going to get stinked for that. You're going to either get like a fine ban from the platform or in the worst case, arrested or taken to court in some way. So that's another thing to consider, is that no, no blockchain has solved MeV. Tradfi solved, solves it by centralizing. And we are trying to find different ways to avoid MeV in a decentralized fashion.
00:11:12.400 - 00:11:38.540, Speaker A: And that's exactly what that summit was for. And you can go check out that summit. It's just like Mev WTF I think I mentioned it on last week's refuel. But this is the power of an open ecosystem, and this is the power of Ethereum. And what I've spoken about so many times before in ethereum, we don't just brush our problems under the rug. We talk about them very openly there. From what I've seen, no one is ignoring Mev, no one that I know, at least no one is saying, oh, it's just going to go away on its own.
00:11:38.540 - 00:12:08.002, Speaker A: We're treating this like the serious problem that it is, and we're trying to fix it, or at least minimize it as much as possible. And you've seen that in many, coming many different forms. And the MEV summit videos do a very good job of breaking this down. I managed to watch some of them over the weekend. They were really informative and really educational. So I highly recommend going and kind of viewing those as well. Uh, but on that note as well, it's just, again, the irony with bitcoin is, is that they actually do sweep problems under the rug, and they don't actually fix things that are big problems in bitcoin.
00:12:08.002 - 00:12:29.524, Speaker A: And the biggest one to me is the dwindling security budget of bitcoin. Because with bitcoin, you know, every four years as the harvening. Right. And that basically reduces bitcoin security budget by half. Like the BTC block subsidy goes down by half. Uh, and if the fee, revenue, or price doesn't make up for that, then obviously it becomes less profitable to mine and less miners are on the network and blah, blah, blah. You know, the rest there.
00:12:29.524 - 00:13:06.890, Speaker A: So, long term, I think that's a huge issue for, for bitcoin. I don't think their free revenue is going to make up for the block reward, and I don't think the price is going to go up as much as it needs to, to make up for that. But that's a kind of whole nother discussion there. Uh, the last kind of, uh, thing that I wanted to cover with, uh, got to do with Mev is from Jacob here, which is, this is an awesome tweet thread. I, you know, it's a longer thread here, but basically the first tweet says, whether it's mev performance of uniswap v three or economic exploits, let's take a minute to recognize that a transparent financial system means that people all around the world with nothing more than an Internet connection can openly examine flaws and collectively work to resolve it. This, I mean, this whole thread is amazing. I love this thread.
00:13:06.890 - 00:14:02.242, Speaker A: And that's just a very powerful tweet because, you know, I think a lot of people take the transparency in Defi for granted and how quickly things can get fixed, solved, worked on, developed, you know, upgraded. It takes so, so, so much less time than it does in tradfi. And this, I guess this tweet from Jacob kind of encapsulates that where he says, think about how incredible it is that less than 24 hours after an exploit, there are dozens of Twitter threads, post mortems and blog articles flush with data revealing the precise flaw. What does that look like in tradfi? A back page Bloomberg article two years after the event. And this is so true. Like, I hadn't even really thought about this too deeply before, but this thread from Jacob kind of had my, my mind kind of racing here, really. When you look at all the exploits that happen in tradfire or anything, it comes out normally in kind of like some court documents that are made public because the state is suing some kind of like financial institution for something or kind of like doing an audit of them.
00:14:02.242 - 00:14:59.988, Speaker A: It takes such a long time for any of this stuff to come out in the traditional finance world, but because everything is hyper transparent within ethereum, as soon as something happens, like, as he said, like as soon as a, an exploit happens within Defi in less than 24 hours, we have so much information about it already, and everyone that wants to can, can look at that information, learn from it, see what they did wrong, see what not to do. You know, kind of warn users about it and kind of like the education of the ecosystem just rapidly goes up. And I guess this is just why, another reason why defy is going to kill traditional finance. And already, I mean, they've already lost, like in my mind, they lost like a while ago, but it's obviously going to take some time to kind of take over traditional finance. But this is just one of the many reasons why they've lost. There is no way that once kind of, I guess, regulatory bodies clue into this in the in, I guess, like in nation states are going to think to themselves, well, we don't want this. And I know people say, oh, well, we trying to build this stuff so it doesn't get regulated.
00:14:59.988 - 00:15:56.470, Speaker A: But as I said before on the refuel, there's a lot of, I guess, middlemen, or not middlemen, but like proxies that are going to sit between Defi and the end user that people are just going to use because of convenience, and that's fine, but those entities are going to be regulated so if the governments and nation states see that, okay, well, we can actually, you know, have better visibility over this stuff, and we can ensure safety and security much easier than the traditional finance system, then they're actually going to kind of usher in this a lot faster than, than we think. And it's funny because you think about it like a trojan horse, where we have defi sitting in the horse and we dress it up with some kind of nice, you know, transparency and security. But really what we're doing is we're just integrating Defi with the rest of the financial system and overtaking the financial system. So I think that, that that's kind of like the way it works there. But yeah, I suggest going and reading this whole thread. It's one of my favorite threads in, in a long time, actually. Like, it just got me thinking about so many different things, and I was kind of buzzing about it on the weekend.
00:15:56.470 - 00:16:32.462, Speaker A: So definitely go check it out. So Ben Edgington posted his latest what's new in ETH two newsletter packed full of updates. And I wanted to focus on one thing, was this editorial that he put together where he said that there, you know, I discussed how prior labs is announced last week, I think, or maybe the week before that. They're dropping kind of the east two terminology from there, I guess, like blog posts and GitHub and things like that. And I discussed how last week, I think I said that. I get it, obviously, because it's all one. Aetherium and ETH two might be considered kind of like harmful, as Ben here, because it confuses people.
00:16:32.462 - 00:17:04.014, Speaker A: But, you know, Ben argues that it's been part of, I guess, the Ethereum consciousness for some along such a long time now. And it's, it's a really great way to differentiate between, I guess, like ETH one and ETH two. And it's just that thing that's, that's gone very far, like a term that's gone very far and everyone is familiar with it and knows it. And I agree with him, to be honest, I don't think that I'll be dropping anytime soon. I think the only real time that we should drop it is when I guess, like we merge ETH one into ETH two, because then we can just call it ethereum. And then from then on it's just fine. Like everyone's on the same page of Ethereum.
00:17:04.014 - 00:17:33.285, Speaker A: There's no more needing to split it up into ETH one and ETH two. So, yeah, I just wanted to quickly mention that. But also in this newsletter, he's got his usual upgrades around the beacon chain. The upgrade coming to the beacon chain. The first one alter which is going to be deployed to the paramount testnet by the end of July. And we'll probably see this maybe August as he's saying here on Mainnet, on the beacon chain. There's some great explainers out here where he links to a bunch of different blog posts, media posts, research, all the regular stuff here.
00:17:33.285 - 00:18:03.996, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out and if you it's at east two news for the Permalink. If you haven't subscribed yet, you can if you head here. So Andre dropped a bunch of different projects on Twitter over the weekend, and they're not full projects, it's just code for the ones that he was working on. So there's 12345 of them. So the first one is called Lev X which is leveraged on chain spot perpetuals with any collateral as margin. And then he says this one has an unpatched exploit so be careful. So obviously very raw code here.
00:18:03.996 - 00:18:48.872, Speaker A: The second one is protection markets, which is an on chain pay as you go insurance with dynamic pricing based on utilization, the supply demand. Anyone can create any protection market. The code provided ensures Uniswap Sushiswap impermanent loss protection there aave delicate which leverages AaVE's native credit delegation to easily integrate users available debt into any product. Below example is yearn vault but can be anything curve gouge metapool where this he says this one is copyrighted but good for inspiration. New metapool that natively earns CRV rewards for being an LP auto stakes LP tokens into the gauge and distributes CRV rewards to LP's. Easy way to collect CRV awards without a gauge. And then finally, and this is the one he's actually going to be personally releasing fixed forex, which is the one I covered last week.
00:18:48.872 - 00:19:23.208, Speaker A: So I won't go into details about this now. Basically a decentralized kind of foreign exchange market. What I wanted to focus on was just how cool it is that Andre is basically open sourcing, putting out all of this code for people to create projects out of if they want to. Like he's just built it and being like, okay, I don't want to kind of like turn it into a real app, I don't want to have to manage it. Like obviously he's very busy as it is, so he's just giving it to the world for free. And this again is another huge advantage of Ethereum of Defi over the traditional system is you have people like this just giving away stuff for free. And who knows, one of these products could be, could go on to be the.
00:19:23.208 - 00:19:44.156, Speaker A: Become the next billion dollar defi protocol. You know, it can happen very easily too. It's not like you have to basically take a gamble here or it's, you know, it's not like it's a gamble. At the end of the day, it's definitely something that can happen. We've seen it happen plenty of times before within Defi. So. Yeah, anyway, if you want to check out all of these projects, they'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:19:44.156 - 00:20:15.712, Speaker A: I think this just code for now. I don't think you'll actually be able to see any kind of like Uis or anything for them. Yeah, it's, it's literally just links to the smart contract. So if you're a smart contract developer or you can read them, definitely go check it out. But yeah, there's no uis or anything for these, these projects just yet. So William Mitsuda here announced a new block Explorer called Autoscan, which is an open source, blessingly fast, laptop friendly Ethereum block Explorer built on top of the Aragon Ethereum client. Now, I think this is still in heavy development.
00:20:15.712 - 00:20:45.214, Speaker A: It is very alpha, as they say here. It's just code with like a demo video. I'm pretty sure you can run this code locally, but I do. Yeah, you have to install and run it locally, but I don't think there's a, there's a kind of like a ui for it on the public web or anything just yet. So, yeah, if you're familiar with this and you're interested in doing it, you can go do it. Otherwise, there's a video here which I'm showing on the, on the, on my video that I'm recording right now of what it looks like. It looks very similar to either scam, but obviously they're trying to be open source.
00:20:45.214 - 00:21:11.634, Speaker A: They're running it on the Aragon client, which I've spoken about before. And honestly, the more block explorers, the better. I love ether scam, but I think that the community or that the ecosystem is still definitely very too centralized around Etherscan. I would like to see more block explorers, particularly open source ones that anyone can run, kind of be put out there because a lot of people are blind without Etherscan. We don't want that. We don't want a central point of failure in Etherscan, and they don't want that either. Like, don't get me wrong, they're, they're an awesome team.
00:21:11.634 - 00:21:45.696, Speaker A: It's just that they outbuild every other block explorer, so everyone just uses them. And they also make block explorers for other kind of like chains. Not just ethereum, as I've discussed before, but yeah, still cool to see this from William here. I'm really excited to kind of like use this once there's an easier to install kind of like maybe an executable or something like that on my windows machine rather than a bunch of, I guess, like manual installation. And obviously it's doing an early alpha phase, so there's going to be bugs and things like that. But you can go check it out for yourself if you'd like. So Samuel from Rari capital put out some free alpha the other day.
00:21:45.696 - 00:22:07.544, Speaker A: We've got two links here where he says, follow token lists to see who is ready for L2. Now you can see here, this is the arbitrum token list, and you can see which projects are already on L2. So you have alchemy, which is the infrastructure. Is this the infrastructure? Or maybe it's a project that I don't know of that's called alchemy. But anyway, there. Here, balances. Here, capital finance.
00:22:07.544 - 00:22:36.786, Speaker A: I was going to go down the list here, stream curve. What other ones? Gnosis graph, obviously. Chainlink Mikdex maker. So, yeah, I mean, like when you kind of look at these things, you can kind of see which projects are either like planning to or have already kind of deployed, like Uniswap, of course, to arbitrum USDC. So yeah, raft bitcoins on there, of course. And there's a bunch of other ones like yearn finance too, so really cool to see that. And then optimism is a bit bare.
00:22:36.786 - 00:23:01.272, Speaker A: It's just got synthetics here right now. But I do think there's other project projects deployed there. I just don't think that they've probably deployed their token just yet. I think definitely uniswap would be on there by now, I believe. But yeah, we'll have to see. I'm hoping July is a big month for these L2s. Like, I know that I keep talking about them, I know that I keep teasing them, I know they're coming soon, but I think that arbitrum went the right kind of path by not giving them a mainnet date.
00:23:01.272 - 00:23:22.462, Speaker A: They've delivered on their dev main net, but not giving a public mainnet date. Same with optimism. They just said July. But if they miss July, I mean, oh God, just, you know, dates. It's dates and software engineering. You know, name a more iconic couple at the end of the day. So, yeah, I still, I still have hope that July is going to be a nice big month, but it's been good that the gas fees are relatively cheap on Ethereum anyway.
00:23:22.462 - 00:24:11.042, Speaker A: So it's not like this is like super urgent at the moment. It's definitely very nice to be able to do some five way Dex trades over the week, over the weekend rather than having to, I kind of like do it for like 50 way back, you know, just a couple months ago, so. But still long term, obviously, we still need L2. So I'm hoping in July we get the either arbitrary my optimism going live with the public main net here. So Noah here put out a screenshot of basically an email that was sent to attendees in a Zoom call called next steps in institutional defi. And this screenshot details what's called are there pro? And what our pro is. It's basically using a battle tested and exclusively audited v two smart contract system that adds a layer of whitelisting so that only KYC participants can access the Aave pro pool.
00:24:11.042 - 00:25:03.838, Speaker A: So what that means is that Aave pro, I mean, is basically a kind of like solution for institutions to use to access, I guess, liquidity on AavE. Now, this is going to be very similar, I guess, to compounds treasury product that I discussed last week, where it's definitely going to be very centralized. KYC regulated all that sort of stuff that institutions need. But you know what, what I wanted to go through is kind of like all the different points here and how they kind of like differ to the public RB protocol. So what the second point is, initially, the RB pro liquidity pool will consist of only four assets, bitcoin, ethereum, USDC, and AAVE, as those are the ones that institutional demand is, is concentrated on right now. The other pro liquidity pool will be segregated from other live, other ave liquidity pools, for example, the rv two market and the other Polygon market. So this is, yeah, as the set states here, totally separate to the public markets.
00:25:03.838 - 00:25:32.106, Speaker A: It's not, there's not going to be overlap here. You're not going to have to worry about it. There's no KYC coming to the public pools or anything like that. The next point, other pro participants will be entities such as institutions, corporates and fintechs that will be KYC and onboarded by fireblocks, which is a solution that services these kind of kinds of clients. Last, second, last point here. Fireblocks will also implement AML compliance and anti fraud controls on this market. So as I said, this is something that institutions need before they can play with this sort of stuff.
00:25:32.106 - 00:26:08.314, Speaker A: So this is a necessary evil. But the final point is the one that's most interesting. Ave pro will be decentralized and governed by Aave governance. So ave token holders will still be able to govern, govern this new Ave pro pool. I thought that was interesting because what happens when the, they kind of do something that the institutions don't like or the institutions don't agree with or, you know, the institutions can't kind of like get on board with because of some kind of regulations? I don't know. It's going to be interesting to see how that plays out, but I'm glad to see that it's still going to be part of the other kind of like family and the other kind of like a governance system. It's going to be very interesting to see how that plays out.
00:26:08.314 - 00:26:36.494, Speaker A: I'm not sure if compound treasury falls under the same kind of scope where comp token holders have governance over that. I don't think they said anything about that. But it'll be interesting to see how it plays out for Aave and then how it plays out for compound as well. So yeah, I mean, this is huge news. Obviously, as I said, the institution of DeFi is just getting started. We're going to see more and more of this happening over the coming months and I don't think it takes away from the decentralized nature of the public pools and everything like that. I think these KYC regulated, blah, blah, whatever, pools are fine.
00:26:36.494 - 00:27:02.546, Speaker A: They're necessary evil and this is how you get the institutional capital into DeFi. So Trent dot f Trent dot ETH Trent posted about the Beacon book again here where he says you can sign up to this email list to get important updates about the Beacon book. Now I've spoken about this in plenty of times. I've ran a giveaway in the daily way. Discord. Congrats to the winner there. I that they get a free book here, but they're planning to launch the book in two weeks.
00:27:02.546 - 00:27:33.202, Speaker A: There's going to be, there's going to be a limited amount of these books. I don't know the exact number, but it's definitely not going to be unlimited amounts here. It's going to be like a bidding system, I believe, like an auction system. But if you want to get your hands on one, I definitely do. You can go to this email list, sorry to this doc here to sign up to the email list and you'll get emails about when the auctions kind of launch when they're closing all that good stuff, I definitely expect this to make some noise. This is an amazing book. I mean, I saw some screenshots of it on Twitter and things like that, and I spoke to Trent about it.
00:27:33.202 - 00:28:11.870, Speaker A: It is the quintessential book. If you want to be able to get a behind the scenes look at the ETH two research and development, how it all came together, and kind of like what it looks like in the future. Right, final shout out here is for the Ethereum name service, who are looking for two positions, looking for people for two positions right now, a governance lead and integrations lead. If you want to be part of the ENS team or wouldn't help the Ethereum name service and work with them, this is definitely two roles that I, you know, think would be very interesting. Governance lead and integrations lead. I mean, ENS needs to be integrated with absolutely everything, so you'd have your work cut out for you. With integrations governance, I'm not sure what's going to, what this kind of like entails.
00:28:11.870 - 00:28:57.528, Speaker A: They do detail it here where they say this person must have first hand experience with daos and the governance of other projects. But you know, the funny thing is that right now, ENS is, I think, like a 507 multi seq or something like that. That's their governance. But what would happen if they, like, are they going to issue a token? Like, is it going to be an ENS token to this Dao? Or is the DAO just going to be some kind of like on chain thing that's linked to someone, to people's ens names and stuff like that? I don't know what it's going to kind of look like, but definitely if they're looking for, I guess, like someone that has experience with daos, it's going to be interesting. So if you want to apply for either the, either of these roles, you can definitely check out this thread and kind of, I think you just reach out to them on, on Twitter here. But anyway, that's it for today's episode. I think so, yes.
00:28:57.528 - 00:29:06.104, Speaker A: Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
