00:00:22.480 - 00:00:58.744, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. I'm Tom Shaughnessy, and welcome to Disruptors by Delphi, an invite only twelve guests per year seminar series where we host the brightest minds in crypto, not only to educate the Delphi team, but to share the guests vision and knowledge for the entire space. Today, we're thrilled to host Tracheopteryx, or Trake for short, for our second episode in the series. In this episode, Trake will discuss year in finance and the story of what Daos are, how they work, and why they matter. Daos are the next step in collective development. We're at the very start, and what we've seen is just the edge of the shadow. In this talk, Trake will share his insights from the frontier of the most decentralized Daos on the planet.
00:00:58.744 - 00:01:07.524, Speaker A: Trake will also be giving a new definition for Daos, showing their anatomy and contextualizing their value. With that, let's dive into our second episode of Disruptors.
00:01:09.984 - 00:01:25.618, Speaker B: Hey, everybody, I'm Trake. Thank you for having me here. I'm going to be talking a lot about daos, and there's a ton of material. So this is me. I'm a dinosaur. As you can see here, I'm. I'm going holding to my own heart.
00:01:25.618 - 00:01:57.534, Speaker B: And I've summoned Moloch, which is the demon of coordination failure. And I'm not killing Moloch. I am in communion with Moloch. I am speaking to Moloch because we have to love Moloch. And that's part of the story of Taos, is the balance. It's not shutting out one side of a polarity, because polarity is defined by both sides. And I believe that Taos really have the ability to create a balance in human coordination that no prior coordination technology has allowed.
00:01:57.534 - 00:02:41.776, Speaker B: So we're going to talk about that in detail. I want to start with a bit of my story. So DeFi summer rolls around 2020, I'm writing a science fiction novel, and a friend tells me to take a look at this thing called yearn. And I had been fascinated with Daos and their concept, but they'd always been kind of a white paper, and I hadn't been paying that close attention. But then I saw yearn, and it was amazing. Like, here was a guy who had given away all of the tokens, Andre, in the first fair launch, and there was this community of people coming together to work on this thing. And I started looking at the forums and participating in the discord, and then slowly creeped in some telegram groups.
00:02:41.776 - 00:03:03.280, Speaker B: And I was just amazed, like, there was nobody in charge. There was no one leader. There was no C suite. There was no corporation. But there were millions of dollars flowing through this protocol, and it was being controlled in a purely decentralized way. There was on chain voting, you could make proposals, and people were making proposals and discussing them. And I was just blown away.
00:03:03.280 - 00:03:31.374, Speaker B: And so basically I just contributed. I stopped writing my book and I started working on this new project. And it was hard. It was actually really hard because we're also used to this certain way of working where, okay, well, what do I do? And then, oh, the boss or somebody tells you what to do, and then you do it. And then did I do a good job? But there was none of that. There was nobody telling me what to do. There was nobody giving me any feedback on what I was doing.
00:03:31.374 - 00:04:09.782, Speaker B: Maybe some would be like, this is cool, you know, or like, yeah, that's a good idea. But I had to totally decide for myself what to do. It was very new and it was scary and very, very fucking confusing, but it was addictive. And one day, I basically, I guess in August, I decided I now work full time for yearn. And nobody hired me, nobody was paying me, but I had made that decision for myself. It was probably the best decision I ever made. We talk about yearn as being this black hole, and aspirationally a black hole for TVL or liquidity, let's say.
00:04:09.782 - 00:04:37.024, Speaker B: But it's more than that. It's a singularity. And singularity is something that you can't see beyond. Beyond is only the unknown. And that's kind of what yearn has been for me. Embarking on this journey of contributing to this completely new form of organization with all of its unknowns has been incredible. What I've come to learn, too, is that there are many daos, many of you participate in many daos, and they're not all the same.
00:04:37.024 - 00:05:17.134, Speaker B: We're really still figuring this out, figuring out how to make daos and how to work on them. Yearn is the most decentralized dao that I know of, and people will criticize that in different ways. We don't have on chain voting, for instance, but we'll get into some of those details. The thing is, yearn is decentralized to the core. There is no core company or team that is operating things, pulling streams in the background. And because of that, and because we've had from the beginning, product market fit, millions of dollars flowing through us now, billions of dollars in TVL, we've had a product that we've had to maintain and deliver on to real users with real things at stake from the beginning. And we've developed an entire system of governance and operations to support that.
00:05:17.134 - 00:06:14.856, Speaker B: So some cosmologists believe that the universe started with a big bang, right? With a singularity exploding into all of known phenomena. Urine was very much like this, right? There was that gift of wifey, which was like a. The explosion of the singularity, the inflaton field, of the scalar field that expanded and created everything that we know to be yearn. And then there was this short ten days of wifey farming, where people could farm the governance token, which was this incredible expansive event. And then the cosmic microwave background after that, of all of the snapshot of all the holders in the early days, the dark ages, of nobody knowing what's going on, tons of proposals, and we didn't make quorum and trying to figure it out right, trying to figure out what we're doing. And then there was a really important governance proposal that I co authored with a bunch of people. Substrate was, I think, the lead author on this, yip 41.
00:06:14.856 - 00:06:43.966, Speaker B: And this because prior to this, we had no way to pay anybody. Like, people were putting proposals through on governance to like, be on podcast. Andre should be on podcast stuff. It was very confusing. So we had to kind of knit together a theory of governance for ourselves. And this is kind of where it started. And what this proposal did was it allowed for the multisig, which is a group of nine high reputation people, to make certain operational decisions on behalf of wifi holders.
00:06:43.966 - 00:07:22.414, Speaker B: They could decide to spend a limited budget and make some other enumerated decisions. And this was the beginning of what we call constrained delegation, where token holders give powers to autonomous groups to make decisions on their behalf under guidance and oversight. But we knew it wasn't good enough. And so we said, you know, within six months, we're going to have to improve it. During that time, we did something, the mint, which is when we minted more Wifi tokens, because even though the fair launch was fair for investors and farmers, it wasn't fair for contributors. Most of the contributors didn't get any tokens. And so the community decided to give the contributors wifi tokens.
00:07:22.414 - 00:08:14.650, Speaker B: And then after that, we developed with Gabe Shapiro, who's at Delphi, amazing guy. We wrote governance two together, which is what has been going for about a year now, this concept of constrained delegation, which we'll talk about a little bit more. And so here we are, a bunch of cartoon characters in cyberspace, in the metaverse, creating weird ass software products, and it's incredible. This is an NFT that we had commissioned when one of our contributors suffered a real catastrophe and his house was partially destroyed. And he was living in friends places for a couple months, and so we couldn't all be there in person to help him build his house. So we made this and we sent it to him. It's so moving to me, and this is my family.
00:08:14.650 - 00:08:44.450, Speaker B: That's what you can find in a dao. I haven't met all of these people, but it doesn't matter. Our dao yearn constantly pushes me to grow, and it's incredible. As the collective development of these organisms happen, the individual personal development, all of the people that contribute is also happening, and we'll get more into this. But there's so much shitposting and fud on Twitter about Daos, and like, oh, this Dao didn't work. Daos can't work. Daos are false.
00:08:44.450 - 00:09:27.354, Speaker B: Whatever. And it's so far from my experience of working in a Dao, so far from the quality of human beings that I've met through daos, that it's really important to communicate some of this from the inside. I've been at the forefront of working in Daos and designing Daos for two years, and there's not that many people that have done that. And that group of people are some of the most incredible people I've ever met. The shadowy supercoders and the builders and the contributors unbelievable generosity of spirit and minds. So we're going to get to why daos are important. That was a little bit of my story, but we have to start, I think, first with saying what they are, what are Daos? And to understand that, we have to start with development.
00:09:27.354 - 00:10:08.394, Speaker B: So, going back to the big bang, a singularity, a black hole explodes. It creates all the particles, everything, all the planets. It evolves over time. There's a physicist at MIT whose work I love, Jeremy England, who basically has a thermodynamic theory of darwinism, which shows mathematically that you just basically shine a constant energy source at material with a heat bath, it'll turn into life. That life is the turbulence in the swirl of time's arrow as we progress to the heat death of the universe, which is when all the particles again coalesce into these black holes. This progression is unstoppable. And daos are a part of that, as are our human development.
00:10:08.394 - 00:10:51.274, Speaker B: So this is a slide from Ken Wilbur's integral theory, where he collected all of these different thinkers, all these different developmental psychologists and gurus. And looked at human development from Piaget children development to adult development, and we progress in similar paths. There is a order to human development, and that map is personal development. That's, for me, my internal experience. But another thing that Wilbur showed is that there's actually these four quadrants to experience. There's internal, external, collective, and individual. And while we as humans are progressing in the interior individual realm, DAos are progressing in the collective realm.
00:10:51.274 - 00:11:27.054, Speaker B: And in the collective realm, daos are the next tier of development. And it's not just an incremental step. It's a major step, and it's one that we really need, because we're at a perilous place in the world. For example, I look to biology because biology is, you know, you can get inspiration and understand from these other quadrants, other developmental paths what maybe we'll have to expect. Now, we don't know for sure, but maybe so. There was a time on ancient earth where there was just single cell organisms floating around in the ocean, eating each other. And one day, one ate another, but it didn't digest it.
00:11:27.054 - 00:12:06.884, Speaker B: Instead, this became mitochondria, and they created a symbiotic relationship. This was from prokaryotic to eukaryotic life. And from that moment, multicellular life became possible and complete new change in the ecosystem with larger body plans. This is similar, maybe, to where we're at now with daos. These corporations have been kind of like single celled little creatures eating each other, and we need something a little bit better. Yuval Harari talks about corporations as a coordinating fiction, and that the story of human coordination is one of fictions, stronger and bigger fictions that allow this to scale. Bigger and bigger groups of people.
00:12:06.884 - 00:12:41.716, Speaker B: What started with families, from tribes to nations to corporation, and now dao, this is the developmental leap that we're making now. And importantly, it's transcend and include at each stage. It's not replacement, and one is not better than the other. My feelings are not less valuable than my cognitive abilities. And the wisdom of tribes is more important a day, maybe, than ever before. So we need to bring each of these to the next level. But importantly, let's look specifically at corporations and daos, because we're at the very start of daos.
00:12:41.716 - 00:13:24.614, Speaker B: And if you think back to the very start of corporations, the Dutch East India Corporation, in the early 16 hundreds, they looked very different from the facebooks of today. They were very much more like the nation state. And then over time, they developed into what we know as modern corporations. Daos today are mostly just corporations in the blockchain, most people are taking the same systems of work, in centralized work, hierarchical work, and they're implementing them on chain and saying, that's a DaO. Sure, that's the beginning, but we can go much farther. And to understand this, let's look at the definitions. So this is a company, the corporate definition of a corporation, a company or group of people authorized to act as a single entity legally a person and recognize as such in law.
00:13:24.614 - 00:13:53.434, Speaker B: So we don't have a great definition for daos. So we've been working, some colleagues and I in the groundwork network have been working on creating a new definition. This is one that I've been working on. It's not final, it's not accepted. It's just what makes most sense to me, which is a decentralized network of autonomous agents coordinating resources with cryptographic fidelity. And so let's look at these two definitions together. Definition of a corporation, you can see, helps distinguish it from a nation state.
00:13:53.434 - 00:14:29.118, Speaker B: A group of people authorized with their own authorization, authorized by a higher power, by the nation. They can act as a single entity and recognize by law they have some type of independence from the nation state. So we need a definition for a DAO to do something similar. It needs to help us differentiate from corporations and to see maybe the essential features of a DAO and what it might be. So here's the definition. Split up. A decentralized network, decentralized autonomous agents, autonomous coordinating resources with cryptographic fidelity.
00:14:29.118 - 00:14:58.714, Speaker B: That's the organization piece. Decentralization is the network topography. It's how the agents in that network are able to connect with each other. Then the next, the autonomy part, operational access. It's how available and accessible are all the levers of power to the agents in that system. And the third one, process fidelity. How trusted, repeatable, predictable, and transparent are the states and processes within that organization.
00:14:58.714 - 00:15:41.318, Speaker B: Another way to think of it is like a road, a car, and a driver, right? The road network is open, the driver is capable, and the car is trustworthy. You can go anywhere. Fred Lalue, in his book reinventing organizations, one of my favorite thinkers and organizations, amazing guy. He looked at the most advanced corporations around the world over a few years, researched what processes they were using. These are really interesting places that do self management, things like this. And he synthesized these three axes that differentiated and defined what these teal organizations were like. Self management, wholeness, and evolutionary purpose.
00:15:41.318 - 00:16:06.290, Speaker B: It turns out these are pretty similar, actually, to what we're seeing in daos. And the way that I've been starting to think about it is interconnection, how we connect with each other. It's not just about decentralization. If you're fully decentralized, that's the heat death of the universe. We need something in between, sovereignty, what that means for each of us, and trust. So that's what daos are. Not all daos work in the same way.
00:16:06.290 - 00:16:46.576, Speaker B: But I'm going to show you what I've learned from how urine works, and some of the most advanced and developed and fully decentralized daos that I know of work. And the best metaphor, again, is biology. Cells are massively decentralized processing units. Corporations are generally tend to be kind of rigid, hierarchical structures with limited bandwidth. Cells have tremendous bandwidth because all this shit is just mixing around, happening in real time, autonomously, without bosses telling you what to do. So this is a ribosome, and this is how proteins are made within the cell. And within the cell there's tRNA, mRNA, amino acids, ribosomes.
00:16:46.576 - 00:17:31.872, Speaker B: Nobody's telling them all what to do. There's bottom up and top down processes that they're all just at the same time in chaos, bumping into each other and making all these incredible, complicated proteins permissionlessly. So let's break the definition up again and go through it in three steps. And I've fiddled with it a little bit to make it a little bit easier for this section, starting with interconnection. So, within a dao, Dao's are networks. So these dots are each contributors to a DAO, or members of a DAO. And in the middle, these are the people that are working full time, all the time, the core contributors, which is usually a smaller group, maybe 20% of the entire network outside of that ring, are people that are part time contributors.
00:17:31.872 - 00:18:00.278, Speaker B: Maybe, maybe they're multisig signers, contractors, people that are active in the forum. And then outside of that are just maybe people that are just token holders. Throw a vote down every once in a while, or say something interesting on Twitter. All of these dots are probably token holders, but there's different types of contribution, different levels of trust, different levels of engagement in all these rings. And some people think, oh, what you're trying to do is get everybody in that middle. No, that's not the goal for daos. In my view.
00:18:00.278 - 00:18:32.926, Speaker B: What you want to do is allow for freedom of movement between these spaces, to be able to attract the most interesting, brilliant, capable, competent contributors from the outside and help funnel them in if they want, and then allow people to move back and forth. These are the nodes of the network, the agents and resources in the network. These are the nodes. The edges in the network are the activity. That's action. The relationships, the coordination of information through relationships. And together, that's the network.
00:18:32.926 - 00:18:48.450, Speaker B: All daos are a network. Corporations are a network, too. Networks can take different types of structures. These are different network topologies. As you can see, there's a tree structure there in the lower left. That's like what you might see from a normal corporation. It's hierarchical.
00:18:48.450 - 00:19:05.506, Speaker B: And the truth is, there's nothing wrong with hierarchy. We're not trying to make a flat. We're not trying to say that the sun is the same size as the moon. They are different. I'm not trying to say that I have the same wisdom as a quantum physics PhD. I don't. And when I'm with that person, I'm going to defer to their expertise.
00:19:05.506 - 00:19:39.996, Speaker B: That's natural, flowing hierarchy, and that's extremely valuable. And then there's number six, a mesh network. This is what a lot of daos are like now, just very highly decentralized and chaotic. And then there's also a hybrid network. And each of these types of networks are going to give rise to a different kind of structure, different type of behavior. So there's this really beautiful hypothesis, the sapir whorf hypothesis, made famous from the film arrival. It goes, the structure of a language affects its speaker's worldview or cognition, and thus people's perceptions are relative to their spoken language.
00:19:39.996 - 00:20:15.264, Speaker B: Basically, the language constructs mind. And if you look at some studies of developmental disabilities in children, if you don't have certain words, you're not able to create certain mental constructs and endows. We're the words. So here's something I've been playing with. The structure of an organization affects its contributors perception and autonomy. And thus an organization's capabilities are relative to its structure. The way that your DAO is structured, the way that its network is connected, and all the other things are going to give rise to different levels of collective intelligence.
00:20:15.264 - 00:20:51.008, Speaker B: So let's look at some of those different types of network structures. This is a robot. A robot is kind of like a corporation. It's got a rigid control structure where there are dedicated sensors that send information up the chain to a processor that makes sense of it, and then sends its commands and electrical impulses to actuators, then execute it perfectly. This is what corporations often are trying to be. This is a very limited type of bandwidth, very limited type of collective intelligence, and quite brittle. This is the other side where corporations are more centralized.
00:20:51.008 - 00:21:22.820, Speaker B: This is massively decentralized. This is slime mold. A lot of daos are kind of like this. So slime mold is fascinating. It's actually, some researchers have shown that it can solve the traveling salesman problem in linear time, not exponential time, is capable of these incredible computational feats organically and with each cell sensing and responding to its environment, making decisions on its own, and sending those messages out to other cells. But this is kind of where I hope we're going. This is a fly brain.
00:21:22.820 - 00:21:45.618, Speaker B: It's not totally decentralized. It's not totally centralized. Somewhere in the middle. And it's capable of giving rise to incredible levels of collective intelligence. We're not quite there yet. We're maybe more like this. This is a saphonophore, which is a colonial organism composed of medusoid and polypoid zooids that are morphologically and functionally specialized.
00:21:45.618 - 00:22:05.606, Speaker B: Thank you, Wikipedia. Beautiful. But the cool thing is, they're actually different species. So, like, those pink things are one species, the yellow things another, the other. And this is kind of like urine. You know, you've got the Y teams, which is one kind of organism. You've got yfI holders voting, and the multisig and the bunny rabbit, all different species kind of working together to make something happen.
00:22:05.606 - 00:22:36.506, Speaker B: Maybe this is where dows can be now. So that was interconnectedness. Now let's talk about the next one, sovereignty. Now, this word has some baggage with it, right? I think it's important to look at it through a developmental lens. So for a child, sovereignty might be the ability to control one's body. And maybe for a young person, it's about dominion, you know, like a king having control of other people so they can't hurt you. And then you can develop further and maybe see that sovereignty is about responsibility.
00:22:36.506 - 00:23:31.124, Speaker B: It's about taking responsibility for your own emotions, your own desires, you know, not blaming other people for one's fate, you know, being a responsible, sovereign individual, working with others, taking responsibility for my own stuff. So again, all the nodes in the network, these are the agents and the resources. Let's start by defining agents. Agents can be human beings. They can be software objects, or they can be groups of human beings and or software objects, because, as we know, in defi and in crypto and smart contracts can make decisions, they can execute things. They can be agential and resources, all different types of resources. Cryptocurrency, smart contracts can be a resource, too, something that receives agents, emit resources, receive and data, and also simps, because human beings are on the spectrum too.
00:23:31.124 - 00:24:34.536, Speaker B: We can be agents, we can be sovereign, or we can be resources. We can be property. If we outsource responsibility for actions and feelings to other people, to a boss, to a father, to a memory, to people talking shit on Twitter, we've given away our sovereignty, allowing other people to control us and becoming a property, essentially. Now, there's nothing wrong with giving access to one's feelings to other people, but to do it in the light, with trust and consent, in order to have sovereignty allows for us to move from the command and control architecture of corporations and nations and conquest to the sense and respond architecture which is at the heart of. Of a healthy dao. And when you're sovereign in this Tao, like, what the hell do you do? How do you know what to do? So many people have asked me this question, so I borrowed this from the japanese concept of ikigai and adapted it to Tao. So when you're sovereign, when there's no boss telling you to do in a dao, how do you know what to do? You have to listen, and you have to decide for yourself.
00:24:34.536 - 00:25:06.914, Speaker B: And what you do is think about, well, what do you love? What are the things that you truly love doing? If you're doing that, your work is going to be better. What are you best at? What can you be paid for? This stuff doesn't happen in a vacuum. There's a market out there. The skills you can be paid for are going to be worth more generally to the DAO. And then what does the DAO need? You can find that on message boards and discords and bug bounties, all these different things. Anything in that red area is what you should be doing. And every action within a DAO is part of its dance of coordination.
00:25:06.914 - 00:25:44.790, Speaker B: All of these edges are active coordination happening within the network. And let's look in detail at that action. This is kind of the anatomy of decentralized work. All actions are between multiple agents and resources with a DAO, to a certain extent. And in order to understand how to take action in a DAO, I've borrowed another concept. This is Betty Martin's wheel of consent, which comes from sacred sexuality as a way to understand deep consent in relating to other people sexually. The same thing can be said for any type of collaboration.
00:25:44.790 - 00:26:02.992, Speaker B: And interestingly, in corporations, the people on top are on the right. They're the ones that take and accept, and the people on the bottom are on the left. They're the ones that serve and allow. They give to their bosses. But in a DAO, that barrier is torn down. You can be an owner, you can be a worker, you get to choose. It's a new.
00:26:02.992 - 00:26:32.638, Speaker B: That's why this is an important thing to look at, because relationships and contribution can emerge through all different places on this. So let's take a few examples. Say there's a contributor and they're in the discord, and they're saying, you know, I can't find the financials. Like, is that a contribution or is it interference? In this case, the DAO has an aversion to this. This is interference. This is not useful, right? That's not a contribution. But in another case, it might be a contribution.
00:26:32.638 - 00:27:02.914, Speaker B: That contributor, taking space and energy from the other people in the DAO might be useful because maybe the DAO is like, oh, somebody else in the DAO is like, oh, wow, the link is broken on the website. Let me go fix that. So that has become a contribution now. Depends on the context. Or maybe you're a designer and you want to create a logo for a DaO, but nobody likes your logo and no logo is needed, so it's not contributing. Or in that case, you're taking. But here in a different case, you could be serving.
00:27:02.914 - 00:27:30.078, Speaker B: You say, I want to, like, I'm a good designer. Or maybe the DAO wants you to provide a logo, but you're not quite sure. You're outside that circle of consent. You don't want to give the logo to the Dao for no reason. But then if the DAO adds in some money, then maybe, yes, now you're in consent. Now you can make that contribution for the DaO. An example of allowing perhaps you're a fantastic developer and you have a private repo that you could share with the DAO to help them.
00:27:30.078 - 00:27:47.994, Speaker B: That's passive and giving, and that might be valuable to the DAO. It's another way to contribute. Or if you don't want to, don't share it. It's all up to you. You can contribute by accepting as well airdrops. Daos do airdrops all the time. That's because it's valuable for the DaO.
00:27:47.994 - 00:28:34.604, Speaker B: Or maybe it's a shitcoin. So how do you know if it's a contribution? If we look more closely, the anatomy of contribution and action within a DAO, all actions start with an inspiration of some sort. And this is the sense and respond, the weight and the action, the zero and the one. The inspiration leads to execution, and then another reflection period of evaluation. And the evaluation might be automatic, unconscious in the shadow, or it might be a specific process. There might be a grants committee or coordinate or something like that. And then once that evaluation has happened, in whichever way it happens, there's generally a completion, it might be a payment, it might merge, a pull request, who knows? So this is the structure for permissionless actions within a DAO.
00:28:34.604 - 00:29:00.752, Speaker B: When it gets to permissioned actions, it gets a little bit more complicated. But this here is the kind of atomic unit of action. Action and decentralized work starts with inspiration. And if this is something that requires permission, something gated, you have to make a proposal. And then there's a decision making process. And if that goes through, it becomes execution, then evaluation and completion. It can go back, keep going.
00:29:00.752 - 00:29:27.902, Speaker B: The lines can connect between each other too. But this decision making piece is pretty fascinating. It's one of the things that we really learned a ton about in yearn. There's all different types of decisions, and there's tons of different decision making process processes. We're very familiar with token weighted voting, but there's also something called the advice process. There's rough consensus, there's consent, there's game mechanics, like coordinate. There are many, many different ways to make decisions, which is good, because the space of decision making is very vast.
00:29:27.902 - 00:30:27.196, Speaker B: There's many dimensions to it. Not every decision is the same. There are some actions which should be permissioned, there are some that should be private, some that should be off chain, some on chain, fast and slow. Insignificant. This one is like, what's the potential impact of a decision? Is it insignificant, or could it be catastrophic? Does the impact of this decision affect just one person, or does it affect every member? All the different positions on these axes means that you need a different way often to make those decisions and those decision making, the consensus mechanics as well as the empowerment of the people, and this was the foundation of what Gabe and I did in governance. Two constrained delegation. So what we saw at yearn is that we had to kind of thread the needle between both, making sure that wifey holders had ultimate power and control over everything that was going on, and individual people that were at the core of this thing working their asses off, could be empowered to do what they knew was best, because we trusted those people.
00:30:27.196 - 00:30:57.154, Speaker B: It's a very high trust network. You don't want it, but you don't want to trust them with everything you know. You need to have the multisig, or you want to have unchained voting, or some method of creating a trusted envelope, but then be able to delegate powers to people and allow them to do stuff with it. In a transparent system of accountability. And that's what this does. So instead of delegating voting power, we delegate specific decision making powers. And any group of people can say, hey, we want to execute this type of power for yearn, and they can make a proposal.
00:30:57.154 - 00:31:29.602, Speaker B: They can carve that power out of the stack and start working on it. And they might need to have specifically reporting requirements. Whatever YP holders don't like it, they can take the power back. This is the kind of foundation of this new form of governance. We've been working on it now for a year, and it's gone really well. There's still a lot to improve and bumpy in some ways, but it's starting to be adopted by tons of daos. And then later we developed coordinate, which is dao tool for doing decentralized compensation.
00:31:29.602 - 00:32:11.784, Speaker B: Because compensation is actually one of the hardest decisions to make in a truly decentralized way. Most daos kind of do compensation in the back room, and then they rubber stamp it on the forum to do it. Really decentralized is hard. And so just coordinate was one way to do that. There's a kind of novel consensus mechanic where all the members of a circle can decide to add new members through decentralized vouching, and they can reward each other through giving a poker chip like token called give. And then the total allocation directly results in the distribution of funds. So this, you know, all of this comes back to this, you know, the action unit, the anatomy of contribution.
00:32:11.784 - 00:32:46.256, Speaker B: And one of the fascinating things is that it's fractal, right? If you look in each of these nodes and each of these edges, it's the same, the same cycle. And turns out that the network is fractal too. But a better word for it is holarchic. This is a concept from Arthur Kosler. A holon is something that's both a whole and apart. The cells in my body, they are whole beings on their own, and they are a part of something larger. Me as a person, I am a whole being.
00:32:46.256 - 00:33:28.500, Speaker B: And I'm a part of yearn, I'm a part of coordinate, I'm a part of Lexpunk, I'm part of all these different daos. And this creates this structure of fractal sovereignty. The autonomy needs to go all the way down the stack to give rise to the most powerful, most healthy daos. And now, as these artificial constructs and the nature of the firm has changed, the shape of work is changing too. This is social physics. If people aren't constrained into specific roles and they can relate to anyone and collaborate with anyone. The nature of work, the shape of work changes, the surface tension changes, because the more people together.
00:33:28.500 - 00:34:05.984, Speaker B: I got this from Richard Bartlett. The more people together, the more relationships there are. So, you know, one relationship, two people, one relationship, five people, ten relationships, seven people, 21 relationships. Every one of those lines is a different place for conflict, tension, mistrust, misunderstanding to arise. It makes it harder and harder and harder to collaborate. But because it turns out corporations are these strange, distended creatures with these weird, long chain decision making processes. But the more biological DAO, that coefficient of friction has changed, and we're seeing new working patterns emerge.
00:34:05.984 - 00:34:42.820, Speaker B: This also from rich, from his microsolidarity work, where there's small workgroups that can be part of bigger congregations, bigger crews, and bigger congregations and networks. This is the kind of subdao thing that we're actively figuring out. So that's the how. Sorry, that's almost all the how. That was the sovereignty. Last part is trust, which is really the most important part of daos, the thing that separates them from corporations the most and starts in the blockchain. But we can think of it as trusts or fidelity, which is, you know, how repeatable is something.
00:34:42.820 - 00:35:27.344, Speaker B: How good is the memory, how transparent is it? How much can you trust the dao? How much do you know that your work will go somewhere valuable, that you'll get rewarded, if they say you will, that you aren't being tricked? This is incredibly important. I think of, you know, it's all in daos. It's so powerful because of the innovation of blockchain. And blockchain is like the Higgs boson of intersubjective space. This is the Higgs. It's the subatomic particle responsible for giving matter mass, right? Imagine matter without mass. Who knows what that would be like? But because it is physical, like, we can act on it, we have consensus reality around it, and we've never had that in the collective space until blockchain, because blockchain gives memes mass.
00:35:27.344 - 00:35:49.010, Speaker B: And this is a profound thing. Memes are not just a joke. Memes are like the genes of the collective space. And the collective space is just as alive as the individual space. We just don't see it in the same way. Before, we had to rely on text and magnetic platters, on jurisprudence, on governments and centralized power holders for our trust method. But now we can rely on blockchain.
00:35:49.010 - 00:36:07.584, Speaker B: It's such a stronger foundation. It's like going from rna to DNA. Rna is highly immutable. It can degrade over time. But DNA is this incredibly robust storage medium. And that change goes from the ability to create a virus to the ability to create a human being. Like that's the level of change that blockchain enables.
00:36:07.584 - 00:36:36.364, Speaker B: Now that we've looked at all of this stuff, we understand these three axes of Dao ness, interconnectedness, sovereignty and trust. Let's go back and look at corporations again and the difference between daos and corporations. Those four circles are the network diagram, the one on the left. So this, let's start with the private company. All three layers are closed. The private company, all the shareholders are decided through a centralized system. The board of directors, the employees.
00:36:36.364 - 00:37:07.868, Speaker B: The trust model is really based on how much you trust that company because they can hide reporting from the government. And the sovereignty of the individuals depends on whatever the centralized power holders decide who can do what, who can do something else. That's like the most closed. The next one over is a public company. So now the outer circle is opened. The outer circle is decentralized. You can buy shares of Apple, you can permissionlessly mostly become a shareholder to be a part owner of something.
00:37:07.868 - 00:37:42.844, Speaker B: But then the inner circles are still both closed, right? There's the board of directors, the people out in the middle sphere, that's generally still closed off. The trust model is a little bit better, but now you're relying on the trust model of the government. Government that is supporting this. And the sovereignty of the people depends on whatever the centralized power structure decides. So here's daos. Daos have this remarkable feature of decentralized tokens and blockchain and voting. And that happens all in a much more decentralized way.
00:37:42.844 - 00:38:13.984, Speaker B: But most daos today, there's an important difference between governing an immutable contract and governing an entire group of creative workers. So we can look to examples of fully decentralized immutable contracts, which are. The governance surface area is quite small. So you can do it all on chain with one single channel voting process. That makes sense, that is fully decentralized. But it really depends on where you think the center of that dow is. If the center of the DAO is the immutable contract, yes, it's fully decentralized.
00:38:13.984 - 00:38:43.286, Speaker B: But what about the private corporation, the development corporation and the VC's and the know, the big power holders in the background? That's actually where the center tends to be most of the time. That's okay. There's nothing wrong with that. It should be put into the light more often. But you can be centralized if you want. So most daos have this closed center, and most creative teams behind daos operate in the same way that corporations have operated for, you know, for 50 years. This last one is also a dao.
00:38:43.286 - 00:39:00.514, Speaker B: But this is what I believe is the future of a DAO. This is what a Dao could be like when interconnection, sovereignty, and trust go all the way through it. This is more like what yearn is like. But there's places where urine doesn't meet all of these criteria. We're still early. You know, our trust model could be improved. Our sovereignty and interconnection, all of it could be improved.
00:39:00.514 - 00:39:30.462, Speaker B: But the central part is decentralized and open and very much permissionless for a lot of it. So we've gone through the what and the what and the how. So let's get to the last piece, right? The why. Why do daos matter? Why not just do a corporation? Well, you can. You can do a corporation, that's fine. But Daos, in many ways are a better story. They're more trusted, you know, they're.
00:39:30.462 - 00:39:57.684, Speaker B: They allow for people to find their own way into it. That's better for people today. In many ways, it's the best fiction we have for coordinating whole, sovereign, evolved human beings. Because development goes in the other direction, too. The many can act as one. We can all come together to create intelligence, and what we want is to create the most intelligence that we can together. Our drive is to be able to contribute.
00:39:57.684 - 00:40:27.708, Speaker B: It's not just about making money. People want to make money, but people want to contribute, and they want to know that their contributions are valuable, and they'll go somewhere. You want to be able to put together in something unified that has strength and intelligence and the ability to progress with fractal sovereignty through the whole hierarchy. This is the nature of development, the story of development. And it becomes more clear when you look at the foundation of these organisms. So the corporation rests on this pyramid. At the base layer is government and then jurisprudence.
00:40:27.708 - 00:40:54.164, Speaker B: And from that you have finance and property law. And on top of that, the corporation can emerge. The DAO has a new foundation, develops developmentally in the same sequence with corporation at the base. It's got the Internet or maybe digital computation on top of that blockchain. And from here, DeFi and nfts can emerge. And then DAO is on top. It is a much better foundation, a much stronger foundation.
00:40:54.164 - 00:41:26.384, Speaker B: And the stronger the foundation, the more coherent the mind on top of it, that can happen, which is on the right here person is. That's an even stronger foundation. Chemistry physics, DNA, blood and body, and then person. That's the type of mind that can emerge from that strong of a foundation that far in the developmental ladder, because a person is actually in the collective space also. We just see it from the top, not from the bottom. So these are, these daos. This is the potential future for collaborative work.
00:41:26.384 - 00:41:51.080, Speaker B: You know, we're going to need the strongest foundation for the networks to be able to contribute into these things. And, you know, we really don't know what it's going to be like. And this, this logic of development, although true, is not without its pauses. You know, time's arrow does go all the way. But not every life form makes it right. Not every planet's going to make it. Not every corporation or Dow is going to make it.
00:41:51.080 - 00:42:25.988, Speaker B: We might not see the, you know, full form of a dow, but I know it's out there somewhere. We're at this phase now where we have expanded to the edge of the petri dish. So some bacteria, when they grow on a medium like a petri dish, they start with one phase of work, which is like conquest, and they grow very, very fast. And when they hit the edge, the metabolism changes. There's now limited resources. Chemical signals travel back through, through the entire colony, and they change how they work. They go into balance with their environment rather than conquest.
00:42:25.988 - 00:42:58.422, Speaker B: And that's what we need to do now. And that's, I believe, what daos are capable of. We need to, as Charles Eisenstein says, move from mother Earth to lover earth. You know, as children, we took from the mother, and now we've grown. Now it's time to be in relationship with the mother, to give, with earth as a lover, as a partner. Otherwise we can't command and control, which has been the nature of civilization for a long time, is very aggressive. Both of them are emitting sense and respond.
00:42:58.422 - 00:43:26.996, Speaker B: Is listening, listening. It's more balance. It brings more the balance into the way that we could act. Corporations, like militaries, they create these extremely distended structures. When they become abstracted, the body of the corporation is abstracted, dissociated from the world of the corporation. Because of these artificial barriers to different people's cognitive sovereignty, or the cognitive capabilities and their personal sovereignty, they can't make decisions from themselves. They have to pass things up the ladder.
00:43:26.996 - 00:44:01.320, Speaker B: Look at Dan Ariely's work on lying and cheating or on Enron. You can see that these types of abstractions lead to these types of bad behaviors. And from one lens you can say, ah, they're killing everybody. But from another lens, you see that actually this was important. The nature of the corporation is the thing. And the state, although violent in so many ways, that's what allowed us to cohere, that has created globalization, that has wired this whole planet so that we can transcend into this new digital space, which I think might have been a precursor for the next phase. Just as the caterpillar eats and eats and eats.
00:44:01.320 - 00:44:48.254, Speaker B: This is something I got from Daniel Schmachenberger, and you think it's going to explode, but then it does something totally different and it spins a cocoon and its body breaks down into a cellular slurry, and imaginal cells come and rewire it into a Butterfly, and it turns into something totally different. So I think the corporation phase is over. We have now reached the edge of the dish, and we have to rewire ourselves into something else. And the Tao, if anything can do it, it's the Tao. There's another way to look at this, which is Eliza Ukowski's work on inadequate equilibrium. If you look at the game theory of our planet, these Nash equilibria, all these different players playing their different strategies, and we're stuck in these inadequate equilibriums, these inadequate Nash equilibrium, you can't get out. The only way to.
00:44:48.254 - 00:45:26.674, Speaker B: Because if any individual player changes their strategy, it's just worse for them. These multipolar traps that make us stuck as a civilIzation. The only way to change that is to change the whole game. Blockchain is potentially for that is a potential for that as our daos, or as changing the consciousness, you can change your consciousness, you can see beyond the game. So, final thought, this is a quote from thich nhat hanh that has really inspired me. And he says, the next Buddha may be a sangha. And in Buddhism, there's these three jewels, the Buddha, the dharma and the sangha.
00:45:26.674 - 00:45:51.328, Speaker B: The Buddha is the teacher, the enlightened master. The dharma is the teachings of all the previous masters, and the sangha is your partners on the journey, and you need all three. And the idea that these Daos might turn into these enlightened organisms, capable of bringing more balance to our life again, is something. That's why I wake up every day. So thank you, trake.
00:45:51.376 - 00:46:27.482, Speaker A: That was an incredible presentation. As with any disruptor, it's going to take me a few times to go through it to really understand the gravity, but just loved your comparisons, your metaphors, the references to biology is kind of amazing. So I'll start off with a couple of questions for you, and then I'll add in a couple from the group. But I guess one question for me is everything you're describing here, when does this become normal for people, right? Like when does this become plug and play? They just show up. They don't have to understand everything you're describing, which is incredible. But when does it become second nature to them, where it's just how they interact with the world?
00:46:27.538 - 00:47:03.522, Speaker B: I think it'll come in phases, probably, and come over time. I think as consumers, people will start interacting with Daos pretty soon. As consumers of media, consumers of content, but as active workers, contributors to Daos, it'll take longer. The barrier to entry of the user experience of blockchain tech, dapps. All this stuff is pretty significant. Understanding how to be responsible with your own funds, with your own wallet, the ux around wallets and addresses. I mean, that stuff is going to take some time, but as that starts to spread more, I mean, I don't know if I put a time on it.
00:47:03.522 - 00:47:18.074, Speaker B: I mean, I think we're going to see massive change in the next five years, and Daos will be probably pretty common within five years. And then maybe over the next ten years, they might start to really, really disrupt the corporate model. But don't hold me to that.
00:47:18.114 - 00:47:35.172, Speaker A: Do you think we'll ever get to a place? No, don't worry, I won't. But do you? When do you think we'll get to a place where people identify with DAos on a global level? Right. They no longer identify with a country or a geographical region, but they identify with themselves as their place and their role within a dow.
00:47:35.268 - 00:48:14.344, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's happening already. I mean, like, I have more, I identify more with my family at urine and coordinate than I do with, you know, being a us citizen in many ways. And it's a great question because I think the future of daos is a really fascinating one. And I didn't put a lot of this kind of speculative stuff into the talk, but we see all different types of daos in the world. There are service daos, there's social daos, or protocol daos. And I imagine this future where we're part of all these different circles and we've got maybe a physical level dao. These are the people that were around every day, the people that make our food and teach our children.
00:48:14.344 - 00:48:37.872, Speaker B: And then we're going to have interest group daos of science fiction fans. And we're going to have work Daos, and we will identify with all of them in different ways. And one that might be the most important is going to be where the money is, the financial union daos that could really destabilize everything that might be what we identify with the most would be a new type of modular politics.
00:48:38.028 - 00:48:59.096, Speaker A: One question from a past disruptor guest Brooks Brown of nor was that governance votes within daos are commonly thought of in the traditional one vote, one coin method to mirror the real world. Kind of like one man, one vote idea. Given that mirrors pretty poorly, are there other models you might explore or that you're interested in for handling governance voting?
00:48:59.240 - 00:49:46.196, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think Vitalik has written some really great critique over to token weighted voting, and part of the reason you can look at one of his recent I think it's why coin voting sucks, and there's a few reasons why. One is that you can disintermediate the economic value in the voting power through wrapping, and you can sell votes. That stuff hasn't happened very much yet, but surely it will. Another reason why coin voting works now, and it won't maybe isn't so great is because we're still very early and there's a lot of camaraderie in the space. But these systems are easily manipulated. So while they have been effective, and they do work, in a lot of cases, they're not going to last. But it doesn't mean that token voting doesn't have a part a piece to play.
00:49:46.196 - 00:50:27.744, Speaker B: Going back to one of my previous slides and looking at all the different types of decisions, the whole decision making space, different consensus mechanics are going to be good for different types of decisions. We have to create a heterogeneous architecture of decision making bodies, right? And will be using different types of consensus mechanisms. Reputation weighted voting like is implemented in colony in other places, could be really useful using multisigs, you know, with elections, with delegated representatives, like synthetix does, or like the pods project, there's a lot of really interesting possibilities that are all emerging now. We're all trying, so there'll be a.
00:50:27.744 - 00:50:53.914, Speaker A: Lot of development there, definitely a lot to try out. Another question from Sarah Brennan, who's our general counsel on the venture side, is that there is this beautiful utopian version, or, sorry, vision of Daos that's being advanced. Obviously a lot of what you shared in your presentation. How do you deal with frictions protecting against bad actors? Like what are the edge cases? Or what are the guardrails that we have in place to protect against the bad things or the bad people that might enter the system?
00:50:54.214 - 00:51:23.340, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the first thing I'll say is that people will do bad things always. And that's okay. Going back to biology, DNA does mutate sometimes. It's actually part of the system. What you want is a system that's robust enough that it can accommodate all these different types of actors. And that's part of what we're learning how to do. You know, the traditional governance, the legacy governments use, jails, daos.
00:51:23.340 - 00:52:06.688, Speaker B: I think we can do a lot better. Claire Graves work on spiral dynamics. He looked at post apartheid South Africa, and how do you create a system of governance for this diverse group of people and realize that there's people? And this is true across the board, and very much so in Defi. You've got people from all different worldviews coming together to coordinate. And when we're on Twitter or on telegram or discord, you don't know necessarily that one person's a 13 year old from India, one person's a 70 year old banker in America, one person's a spiritual guru, another person punches his friends. Everyone's coming from different places. The goal is not to make everyone become a guru.
00:52:06.688 - 00:52:38.704, Speaker B: The goal is to create a robust enough structure that can accommodate both adversarial environments and collaborative, high trust environments that has things, that has levers, that people that are children can push to make a contribution. I think of it as, like. I call it a party bike. Like a party bike, you can have ten people all sitting around a table, pedaling, and anyone can pedal as much or as little as they want. One person steers, and you kind of get somewhere good. The nature of that structure harvests everybody's sovereign work activity and coheres it into a. A direction.
00:52:38.704 - 00:52:57.824, Speaker B: Daos have the potential to create structures that can accommodate all these different types of people, the entire ship. And bad actors are a part of that. But there will be hacks. That's part of how we grow, right? We're forged in the fire of this stuff, and every day we're learning how to do it better.
00:52:59.164 - 00:53:30.580, Speaker A: I guess it would be bad if there were no bad actors, right? You have no one hardening the system, nobody actually improving it. It. So one of the other things I had was, you have such a great grasp of everything happening within a dao. Your vision. For me, it's so complicated for new people to a dao, it's so confusing, right? When do we get to a point where somebody shows up and it's just easy, right? It's just simple because, frankly, everything you shared is incredible. But I highly doubt that most are going to understand that that exists. But it will power, obviously, the next hours.
00:53:30.580 - 00:53:30.976, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:53:31.000 - 00:53:56.864, Speaker B: So most of my talk is not like a newcomer user manual. It's more of, like, a designer's handbook for, like, thinking about how to make Daos and how to make governance systems. There's a lot of people doing great work on onboarding people into daos, like, forefront and tons of other oxx. There's so much. But it's hard. It's really hard. And it might be hard for a while.
00:53:56.864 - 00:54:11.730, Speaker B: And a lot of. A lot of people want to, like, let's get there already. People, you know, like, let's deploy this into some underprivileged community and have them use it. And it's like, yes, I see where your heart's at. I love that. And we're not there yet. I mean, go ahead, try it.
00:54:11.730 - 00:54:28.580, Speaker B: But, like, maybe. Maybe it'll work. But. But there's a lot to learn first, and that doesn't mean that we have to do it ourselves. Everybody's welcome to work on this, but we can't expect it to be ready for some of these higher, challenging environments that soon. So soon. It'll take some time.
00:54:28.580 - 00:54:29.744, Speaker B: It's very confusing.
00:54:31.084 - 00:54:38.188, Speaker A: Do you think urine is at a place right now where Bantag Andre, you can leave and it would persist and move forward?
00:54:38.236 - 00:54:38.524, Speaker B: Oh, yeah.
00:54:38.564 - 00:54:40.132, Speaker A: What do you think the impact would be?
00:54:40.308 - 00:55:07.448, Speaker B: Absolutely. I mean, Andre hasn't contributed to urine much in a long time. And I stepped away for a quarter, and, you know, I'm not one of the most important people at urine by a long shot. There are tons of people. We've got a team now of, like, 50 core contributors that are incredible. Tons of redundancy. So a lot of what we've worked on is creating more and more robust decentralization.
00:55:07.448 - 00:55:33.494, Speaker B: Like, we're very committed to this and to redundancy and to make sure that information doesn't accrue in one place. And our systems are robust and secure. That's what we work on all the time. So, yeah, if I left, sad to say, me leaving probably wouldn't change too much. There's a lot of stuff I want to do. I think somebody else would do it differently. Maybe not as well, but they'd be fine.
00:55:34.474 - 00:55:51.758, Speaker A: Do you think that's a pretty big difference versus the corporate structure? I mean, in a corporation, in a general business, if one of the leads leaves or is fired or takes a vacation, stuff kind of comes to a standstill. Right. But the way you're describing urine is where you can leave for three months and come back and you're still moving forward in the interim.
00:55:51.846 - 00:56:19.946, Speaker B: Yeah, because I'm not the leader of yearn. I never have been. I am one of many leaders. It's a leaderful organization. We've got 50 leads at yearn, and I'm in the middle of them. You don't know a lot of their names because not all of them love to talk about stuff like this, like I do, but it is different. We're in a corporation that's part of the brittleness of a corporate structure where you have these people on top that are responsible for making all the decisions at year end.
00:56:19.946 - 00:56:34.482, Speaker B: We all make the decisions, and there's some that are gated, but those are also decentralized. Like, I'm not even a voter on any of the Y teams. There's different people that do different things. So it's super different and way more robust than a corporation.
00:56:34.658 - 00:56:51.956, Speaker A: Makes a lot of sense. Yeah, it's definitely a different feel. Another question we had from Avi, who's a venture associate. Venture side is what tools and infrastructure will enable daos to make a stepwise improvement in their efficiency or coordination, I guess. What are the tools that are infra that's most important to you, or that you see as the most valuable?
00:56:52.100 - 00:57:20.568, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a lot. There's been a huge explosion of dao tooling. I've said pods before, but it's orca protocol. I love what they're doing. They're doing kind of wrapped multisig consensus mechanisms with NFT gating as a way to do delegated decision making, very much in the model of governance, too. There's also gnosis, Zodiac, which is a infrastructure for putting together different modules within a governance architecture. It's also kind of inspired by governance.
00:57:20.568 - 00:57:52.928, Speaker B: Two, certainly on other things as well. And so there's a lot of work being done on decision making with better. There's things like boardroom and tally, too, that help you see different governance processes. And then there's coordinate, which is a way to do decentralized compensation. There's so many. There's this whole space of dao tooling, which will make the dao more and more efficient, and there's a lot of them. And not all the tools are great.
00:57:52.928 - 00:58:16.604, Speaker B: And a lot of the tools are basically just taking legacy corporate models and putting it on chain with sign in with Ethereum, and integration with a wallet. That's fine, but we need to get to the space of down native tooling. The clarity is a project I love. It's kind of like a down native notion or a task tracker that's doing amazing stuff. So we're getting there. Yeah.
00:58:18.344 - 00:58:42.314, Speaker A: Last question for me, unless others post, but one comparison I really liked during your presentation was the idea of the biology example. Right? You have all these cells within a human body, all these building blocks. They're all doing exactly what they need to do at the right time with a dao. The comparison for me breaks down a little. Right. Because you have people, but they can do many things. They're not constricted by their DNA or what they're built from.
00:58:42.314 - 00:58:49.914, Speaker A: Do you envision there being guardrails for what people can and can't do to kind of fit into this biology example? Or is there more flexibility and freedom there?
00:58:49.994 - 00:59:16.934, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good point. And I have to say that there are some problems with using these biological models. I was talking to Daniel Schmachtenberger about this in Denver, talking about Dave Snowden's work on anthro complexity. Basically saying like look like human beings are at a level of complexity and development that we do not have any other examples for. And trying to say that we're like a yeast growing is like is ridiculous. It's different level. You can't apply logic from one to another.
00:59:16.934 - 00:59:43.594, Speaker B: I disagree in some ways and agree in some ways. I think that, like I said, the logic of development does have a pattern to it and we can learn from some of these different phases. But. But you're right, people are not tRNA. They are not just there to bind to one amino acid. They are doing many, many different things. I think we can look at it inspirationally or metaphorically or metonymically.
00:59:43.594 - 01:00:08.544, Speaker B: The people in a dao in the future there will be rails. But what we need to make is the minimal viable structure. We need to create structures that are robust but have the greatest access for permissionlessness and that are as clear as possible. And the idea is that these structures are good enough. It's like the party bike. People can just flow in. They can do something and flow out.
01:00:08.544 - 01:00:41.604, Speaker B: The future of work, which is what coordinate is developed for, is one in which I hint at a bit in the presentation. I forgot to even say this part, actually. Corporations. The coase article from 37 the nature of the firm. Like, why do corporations create mass? Why do they have vertical integration? It's because of the logic of overhead and the friction of the technologies that supported large scale work. But that has changed so much and that friction is no longer there. So the workgroups become smaller and smaller.
01:00:41.604 - 01:01:07.814, Speaker B: And you don't need to have this protective layer, like the corporation in the same way anymore. And what we see actually working in daos is that they're extremely collaborative. Right. We're all kind of on the same team. That's the amazing thing. And because of composability, because one person can make the data layer and then different teams can put their data into it and share it out of that, that makes everybody stronger. So it feels like often when meeting with other teams that actually, like, we're in this, it's like we're different divisions of the same company.
01:01:07.814 - 01:01:23.666, Speaker B: We're different divisions of Apple or something. We've never met before. Totally separate financial models, but we're working together. And I actually lost my train of thought there. But can you remind me of the question, did I get it?
01:01:23.730 - 01:02:09.516, Speaker A: What you were sharing was awesome. I totally got it from where you were going there. Yeah. I guess the other thing for me would be, I asked you earlier on, when people show up and they're a part of a Dao in this new world and how it works, there are a lot of teams out there that aren't going to do what you're describing, that aren't going to follow this vision, that will have a corporate hierarchy, they'll have a CEO, they'll have a founder, not have a multist. Right. Do you think people will start to, like, subconsciously move toward the daos that are actually trustless, that do compensation on coordinate, that are decentralized by working groups because they'll just be put off by the traditional copy paste corporate model used in fake daos? I'm trying to get a sense of if people are just going to pay. This is what I was used to.
01:02:09.516 - 01:02:11.116, Speaker A: I'm actually going to go to the new world here.
01:02:11.220 - 01:02:33.098, Speaker B: Well, I think there's a few ways to think about that. One is like, there are people on the planet today that think the best use of their time is to go get into a tank and shoot a ukrainian building. Right. So there are people of all different perspectives on the planet, and that will still be the case. And some of those people will want to start a corporation. Daos don't replace the things that come before they transcend and include them. Right.
01:02:33.098 - 01:03:37.174, Speaker B: So, but in order for. So they're going to attract, by their nature, people at specific developmental levels that communities that want to form with other people of like minds, and they're going to want to operate in a certain way, people with more sovereignty, with more of a desire for being sovereign agents among other sovereign agents, without wanting to tell people what to do. That don't need to protect themselves from harm, that they are available emotionally and cognitively and more integrated and want to work in this kind of new way. The people that are unhappy with the, the work masks of normal corporate life and want to be their whole being with their magic in the Tao. They want to express their femininity, their masculinity, whatever, in the way that they work together. So it's going to be attractive for people like that. And we can look back to postmodernism, we can look to the counterculture revolution in the sixties, and you can see that that emerged from a change in global consciousness after a certain amount of people have reached new levels of consciousness.
01:03:37.174 - 01:04:11.916, Speaker B: This kind of sensitive egalitarian view, it creates entire new political movements. And we're kind of at another phase now, this kind of integral tier, or teal consciousness or whatever you want to call it, where people are gravitating towards these kind of self sovereign modes of interacting and relating with each other. And the Tao is the only place like these types of real, true deep daos, that's the only place for people like this. But not just that. The other piece is that they have to out compete, they have to create better products, right? Or else people aren't gonna like them. And they do and they can and.
01:04:11.940 - 01:05:04.268, Speaker A: They will trick, I guess, throwing my VC hat on. It sounds like we need to be positioned in projects that are leaning into everything you're describing, right? Founders that are okay firing themselves and giving up control, projects that allow people to come and go, you know, all of everything you're describing, it sounds like if that's going to be the new way, in a big way, we need to look for projects as VC's. But also individual stakeholders have to position themselves in projects where they can grow in such a way like that you're describing, right? So when you get to the edge of the petri dish, there are the resources there to grow in the way that you want to do you think that, you know, not to throw an investor head on you, but would you be more or less, I'm assuming you'd be more bullish. The projects that are leaning into everything you're describing versus those that are trying to maintain some type of strict hierarchy or constraints within their projects, 100%.
01:05:04.356 - 01:06:01.088, Speaker B: So I think you still need product market fit. You still need to have a smart team that's capable with a great product that's needed in the world. But then my investment thesis is really the ones that are communities, teams that are pushing the limits of interconnectedness of sovereignty and trust of daos. If they're pushing the spectrum of Daos further, they're going to out compete the other ones, because it's going to be the defi native, the crypto native people that are working. Like I said before, you can take the old models, the rigid corporate control structures, and you can take those tools. The ways that we've had to handle because we've developed this is something I see a lot in Daos and a lot at yearn, and in myself too, is that we are at the beginning of this thing. It's very formless and it's confusing.
01:06:01.088 - 01:06:34.734, Speaker B: So we fall back on what we know, and so we take, we project our experiences onto this new space when it really doesn't necessarily need them. And so we try and do KPI's, and we try and do payroll management and report, direct reports and all these things that work in corporation. We try and do it in Dao. You can make it work in Daos, but Daos can do even better. And I'm not saying anything's wrong with any of those pieces, some of them can really work, but it's the teams that are creating the DAo native ways of working that are going to out compete. So that's from an investor perspective, that's what I'd look for.
01:06:35.834 - 01:06:40.946, Speaker A: I couldn't agree more. Definitely more of a near term lift, but definitely well worth it on the long term.
01:06:41.010 - 01:06:45.756, Speaker B: Yeah, a lot of volatility. Volatility near term probably too, because we're still figuring it out long term.
01:06:45.780 - 01:07:03.788, Speaker A: Yeah, agreed. So, last question for you from Rob Saro on our ventures team is, I guess, transparent compensation and Daos are net positive, but it forces the conversation about how we should value the work that was performed by an individual agent. Do you think that these decisions should be localized early on, like by the early contributors, or totally permissionless from the get go?
01:07:03.916 - 01:07:54.908, Speaker B: You know, it's a good question. So I think you can go in different ways. And the truth is that we don't have enough decentralized, permissionless compensation tools available yet. We're building that with coordinate, and it's good for some things and it's not good for everything. So at yearn, for instance, right now, today we're at the end of a massive experiment in decentralized compensation, where all of the doers, the kind of core team, are self setting, their salary, their compensation, through this iterative process of feedback. And man, it's painful because we're having all these conversations of what's valuable to us and giving each other feedback that we haven't given before. And it's been stressful for me and for other people, too.
01:07:54.908 - 01:08:28.964, Speaker B: And so the first thing I say is, it's not easy, but it's worth it. Like, the trust that it builds. Those conversations are important to have, but there's a lot of conflict. You know, I've been in conflict with a few different people over the past few days, and there's probably more. But healthy conflict processing is important. I'm sorry, I'm going on a bit of a tangent, but to the specific question, I think it's okay if you do it in a simple way. You don't, like, look, what are you trying to do? Don't spend all your energy trying to reinvent every wheel at the beginning.
01:08:28.964 - 01:08:51.500, Speaker B: Figure out a simple compensation thing. Don't worry about it and just work. Let yourself work. Then, like, figure out how to do it better as you grow and be thinking about, like, use coordinate from the beginning or tools like it, so that you start playing with these decentralized systems and then finding, you know, we don't have the best system. There's no system available yet that does all this stuff. So once it's there, use it.
01:08:51.692 - 01:09:08.618, Speaker A: Do you, as a follow up question, do you run into a lot of issues where people will, instead of building what they want and what they think is valuable, build the thing that they think they will get most compensated for within the DAO? Like, would that cause issues between what people wanna build versus what you actually need?
01:09:08.706 - 01:09:42.884, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think if that's what's going on, that's not the problem. The problem is the culture. Right? So you can have an adversarial environment where people are gaming each other, and then, you know, that's a cultural issue in the Dow. And, you know, you can't fix that with a tool. You know, you fix that in conversation with each other and by leaving or by starting something new, leading by example or forgiving, there will be bad actors. There will be people that game the system. There will be adversarial environments.
01:09:42.884 - 01:10:15.604, Speaker B: But, you know, what I've seen at yearn is that almost like everyone is trying to make the thing that they think is best for yearn. And there's almost no, if any, I can't think of any gaming that's happened. But that's the culture that we have. We have an incredible culture, and it's not alone. There's other daos like this, too. So, yeah, basically that stuff can happen and it will just like any corporation there's good ones and there's ones that are harder.
01:10:16.864 - 01:10:28.234, Speaker A: To your point, though, to protect and mitigate that, you have to have a large focus on actually scaling the culture and embedding that in every new entrant that joins. And that has to get hard as you start to grow, right?
01:10:28.274 - 01:10:47.186, Speaker B: Oh, absolutely. This is another thing we're thinking about a lot at year end right now. It's like we don't think that our way of working right now can scale a lot more in terms of the team size because it goes back to that kind of social physics. Like, you bring more people in there, there's more conflict, less trust. Like, we have extremely high trust group right now. And I don't mean with user funds. That was all part of a different security envelope.
01:10:47.186 - 01:11:07.274, Speaker B: I mean, just in like trusting each other that we're doing good work and etcetera. So figuring out how to scale that is a super active topic. There's the idea of subdaos and different work groups and how that fits into compensation and work and et cetera, et cetera, very much actively under evolution.
01:11:08.774 - 01:11:34.154, Speaker A: Tarik, if somebody is starting a project today and believes in your vision, but understands that not all of the tools are there to pull it off yet, and there's a lot of education and learning that has to take place to get there, what would you recommend to them as a step one to implement what your vision is? But while understanding that they obviously can't do all this from the get go, how do they set the right foundation, I guess is my question.
01:11:34.494 - 01:11:37.874, Speaker B: You're talking about people that are trying to create a new DAO or new project.
01:11:39.214 - 01:11:45.442, Speaker A: Exactly, yeah, because it gets really hard to fix this after they implement a foundation or a culture. Culture a couple months or years down the line.
01:11:45.458 - 01:12:33.886, Speaker B: Yeah, it's tricky. I think the first thing I'd say is spend some time in other daos and learn from them. You don't want to just come into it and try and do it all from scratch, contribute to daos, and even as you're building your new dao, contribute to other daos. Because I think that's another key piece to the future of work, is that we're working on multiple different projects, all of us, and moving between them. You'll learn from that way. And import draft, like cloning a bread, yeast, or whatever, grab a little bit of it, or cut a piece of a plant and plant it in a new place, import the culture from a place that is really working and draft off of that. But then beyond that, find the tools.
01:12:33.886 - 01:12:46.394, Speaker B: Be as transparent as you can. Do as much in public as you can. Try to avoid the accrual of power in back rooms. It's natural. It's easier to work that way. And I'm not saying don't have private conversations. Do.
01:12:46.394 - 01:13:04.806, Speaker B: It's essential. But constantly. I think as a leader in particular, the job is to constantly give away power. Because if you don't, if you're not careful, it'll just keep accruing onto you. People will. They will see you as the leader, they'll see you as the boss. They'll project all their shit on you, and if that's what you want, you'll get that.
01:13:04.806 - 01:13:21.074, Speaker B: And then all of a sudden, you'll have a corporation. You need to give away power. Let other people fail. Let other people succeed and create a culture of support. The servant leader model, where you are helping other people do their jobs.
01:13:22.254 - 01:13:44.178, Speaker A: Trake, I couldn't agree more. My thesis is to fire yourself as soon as you can. Trick. This was an incredible presentation. And you just sharing all of your wisdom on everything you learned from, urn, from daos, your definitions of what we should have, the comparisons and metaphors to biology. We really appreciate your time, and thanks so much for being a guest, man.
01:13:44.226 - 01:13:45.114, Speaker B: My pleasure. Thank you.
