00:00:27.360 - 00:00:28.312, Speaker A: And we're back.
00:00:28.496 - 00:01:04.900, Speaker B: Welcome to episode four of the Frontier, where we chat about next generation blockchains, meme coins, crazy, crazy stuff going on in the industry, and try to share some of the best insights and alpha we can gather. So today we're joined by, of course, one of our co hosts, Kevin, formerly CMS Intern, and as well as JMO. So everyone already kind of knows Kevin, but if you want to just say a quick intro on yourself, Kevin, and then we'll pass it to Jamo.
00:01:05.920 - 00:01:27.320, Speaker C: Yeah, Kevin. I worked at CMS for the last two and a half or three or so years and joined Monad to lead up the ecosystem growth initiative and help out on some marketing and memes on that front. And yeah, now doing the show with Logan and ledger.
00:01:29.300 - 00:01:50.240, Speaker D: Awesome. Great to be here. JMO. I'm an investor at TCG. We created a crypto fund within the broader churning group. We've been in market for around three years now and like to focus specifically on like consumer applications that are kind of uniquely enabled by blockchain. So excited to have.
00:01:51.660 - 00:02:46.834, Speaker B: It's a very interesting area and I think just being at the Stanford blockchain week, we're here right now on campus, and it's a very, very exciting time in crypto. I mean, it feels a little bit like a repeat of last year's topics, but that's because the core infrastructure kind of problems are still being solved and the foundation is still being set for some of those consumer apps that can have global or widespread mass adoption. So really just with that, wanted to hear some of your guys takes on kind of the debate around infrastructure and applications. I was just in Paris as well for Ecc. A lot of people were looking left and right for an application to back, to no avail. They're seeing infrastructure everywhere. And picks and shovels for your picks and shovels.
00:02:46.834 - 00:02:58.270, Speaker B: So we'd love to hear from you, Jmo. You know, you've been an investor for a while, very plugged in, strong research angle as well. We'd love to hear your take on this particular topic.
00:02:58.890 - 00:04:01.498, Speaker D: Most definitely. I think it's pretty sad, the level of groupthink in crypto right now, especially around infrastructure solutions. And what I like, what I typically find the more I like double click when speaking with people, is the level of assumptions that are baked in to what infrastructure solutions will actually onboard new consumers. And so I know obviously Solana legend in the name. Solana is an area I've spent a lot of time in recently because as our fund launched a lot of our thesis around like gaming and music resulted in investments that were built on the Ethereum network. And I think infrastructure solutions on Ethereum are clearly taking a lot of the discourse today. But we've seen a fall off and I think applications that continue to realize Ethereum just, it will be an interesting and like a more difficult and nuanced place to build for a while.
00:04:01.498 - 00:04:59.672, Speaker D: And so for me, I really, really excited about people that are thinking more critically around what infrastructure solutions they actually need to provide consumer experiences. And I think that means being really honest around what you need for scaling and throughput and viable unit costs for an application. And so we're really excited still about things like games, but we've kind of revised our thesis where instead of thinking about a lot of Web 2.5 stuff, we're really thinking more so on the edges where it's like, what are fully on chain games looking like, or just like Web 2.1 games, where it's literally just people who were legacy game builders who want to use crypto for like a stronger peer to peer marketplace. So we're just trying to like, I think, avoid a lot of stuff in the middle, across verticals, but it is difficult because there's just so much groupthink. And so it's been, I think it's been an interesting, like, place to navigate, but continues to evolve.
00:04:59.672 - 00:05:06.380, Speaker D: And I think there's a lot of alpha and being like more intellectually honest around what infrastructure solutions you actually need for consumer apps.
00:05:07.760 - 00:06:11.960, Speaker A: Yeah, and to that point, I mean, it has been interesting legend denier here at the Stanford blockchain week. And I mean, probably a lot of the similar conversations that were happening around Paris just about core infrastructure. And I think, I mean, Stanford particularly I would say, is much more focused on modularity and kind of separating the data availability layers and execution. And it's interesting once you kind of do that, what problems can potentially arise. So I think all of this to be said is that there are still lots of problems, and whether that's on the core infrastructure side or the application layer, it is still very early. And I think in terms of adoption, in terms of kind of scale, the industry is young and there's a lot of growth ahead. And I think now just being in the depths of the bear market price capitulation, time capitulation, it's all painful, but we're chugging along together.
00:06:15.660 - 00:07:10.336, Speaker C: I think there's a pretty interesting relationship that goes on between the infrastructure and the Dapps as well. Think about Ethereum, very high unit cost. You can have things like very high value transactions and cents for a niche group of wealthy individuals. And then you think about, like, Fredtech, for example, one of the hot dapps that has captured a lot of mind share, at least on crypto Twitter recently. Their unit cost is that of like an l two, right? It's on base. Much more feasible to have a high number of transactions for a lot more individuals. I think that that will scale, right? Like the amount of scale that you can reach based on the unit cost.
00:07:10.336 - 00:07:53.994, Speaker C: Like, you price out a large number of people depending on how high the cost is per transaction and depending on how many transactions are needed to make the DAP work. So I think that we always talk about, or crypto in general, always talks about how do you get the next billion users? I think it's probably a little bit far fetched. We need to get a million real users first. But you can't get to that point where you have a dapp that has millions of users transacting each day without extremely low. You're competing with web two dapps that it's zero on the front end. They don't see anything, it's free. So you need to get as close to that as possible to be able to compete, in my mind, absolutely.
00:07:54.042 - 00:09:04.724, Speaker B: And also, one other thing we've been noticing is people kind of slowly coming to the realization that perhaps a super large degree of vertical backwards and forward vertical integration is maybe not the best idea. Like, if you're a ZK project, maybe you don't want to build your own blockchain as well. Or maybe you can integrate with an SDK with ten lines of code instead of building your own Dex. And I think some of the social complexity of managing all these different pieces and the technical complexity as well, is just really starting to catch up. I've spoken to a few builders that are just much more honest about it and just saying, look, there's a lot of stuff that it's helpful that it is on chain, but there's also a lot of stuff that doesn't have to be on chain at all. And we can just post proofs or do some sort of flag or some other kind of signal that verifies a certain state transition has happened, or finality or whatever, and just a little more pragmatic in that sense, which I think is pretty bullish. But I would love to hear, Jaime, your take on that and kind of like what you're seeing in the market, for sure.
00:09:04.812 - 00:09:54.432, Speaker D: I think my take on that is like, as an industry, a lot of, because our bags are so closely tied to these projects that are still very, very early. And like, you know, I think someone recently was talking about it, but typically when people are engaging with technology, it's already been baked. A lot of stuff has been like figured out. But because this is like all very nascent, I think a lot of us don't do like really deep research or like people are struggling to fully understand what is the true north. And so I think we as an industry, we focus on means instead of in states a lot. And a prime example, I think is like decentralization, where it's like why people pound the table, especially as builders, where I think their feedback is like the target market that still exists. They care a lot about decentralization, but people fair to ask.
00:09:54.432 - 00:10:24.918, Speaker D: It's like, why do you care about that? And you want something, I think to be decentralized because it's censorship resistant. It gives you some guarantees that are actually very useful, but you just get caught up in the noise of just all these means. For me, like the stuff as a result I'm seeing in the market that's getting me excited is taking that next step. Like you mentioned, legend around what's a more pragmatic use case of the tech. Everything doesn't need to be on chain. I think some of the stuff that we've looked at recently, especially around social. Kevin, you brought up friend tech.
00:10:24.918 - 00:10:49.020, Speaker D: It's like what actually needs to be on chain for an application that has so much data, like a social network. Right. And for us, we're getting excited about things that are able to use the chain where it's needed and leave it when it's not, you know, and I think that is, that's the balance that hopefully will onboard more people without them having to, you know, set up metamask wallets or go through a bunch of friction.
00:10:50.640 - 00:10:53.220, Speaker A: Someone say it would need to be frictionless.
00:10:55.360 - 00:10:57.020, Speaker D: I took that out of you.
00:10:58.120 - 00:11:59.700, Speaker B: Yeah, it's an interesting, like, point of the cycle. I think we're squarely between in kind of a transitionary period. And VC's that don't really have very strong convictions on the tech are kind of like looking to their left and to the right of what should I be looking at? What should I be investing in? I think there's some hot areas like RWA, some of the AI adjacent crypto DPin as well. It looks to be pretty promising, but generally there's no unifying theme or narrative that kind of non technical investors and users can hold onto. And in the absence of that, we're seeing a lot of back to basics in terms of speculative layers, shit coins, gambling, social and decentralized onlyfans and all kinds of stuff. But anyways, on that front, it's pretty exciting overall. It's always great that people are engaged.
00:11:59.700 - 00:12:49.070, Speaker B: Would love to hear guys take on kind of new methods of capital formation. So traditionally, what kicks off a new bull market is massive inflows into the space, but not only just because people are demanding risk asset, that's kind of further out the risk curve. But also there's an activity typically right in 2017 it was ICos 2020, DeFi summer liquidity mining yield farming in 2021, arguably nfts to a lesser extent, with some of the primary sales and secondary activity and kind of looking forward to 24 25 timeframe. How are you guys feeling about that new capital formation window, what it's going to be? And kind of like, yeah. Your general thoughts on it?
00:12:51.050 - 00:13:23.024, Speaker D: Yeah, I can share some initially that I'll pass to you, Kevin, if you want. I think first off, it's difficult to see exactly right now what the use case is going to be that specifically will onboard more people. That is the net new behavior. I completely agree. I think NFTs were revolutionary in 2021, especially for people who are like creators. And because it solved a really specific issue around provenance. And that is something that people have been complaining about online since the start.
00:13:23.024 - 00:14:19.030, Speaker D: And so I think the next wave, some of what you're seeing right now is kind of like now that rates are so high and structurally so many people have left, there's more of a sense of like, you know, how can we grow the pie and how can you give people upside and ownership and like, as a result of their behavior? And I think stuff like Unibot, Rolebit, DMT, like these are all projects that are right now are like pretty early. They're a part of this on chain meta. But I, they're introducing revenue share and more, I think transparent forms, burn mechanisms that try to give people more upside to reward them for their participation. And so I think whatever the next meta will be, hopefully it's directly tied to really cool new behavior that is uniquely enabled by the tech. But I think there will be a role of spreading the pie and giving people more upside.
00:14:20.850 - 00:15:33.800, Speaker C: Yeah, I feel like we thought about this is like the golden question of crypto for, you know, really since inception, but like has kind of become super prominent over the last three years. Honestly, that's like, what is, what is the killer use case for crypto? And I think there are a few right now, as they stand, right, like, you obviously have kind of bitcoins mission of becoming like a global reserve currency or like a super, like a hard asset that can't be diluted. And then I think you like stablecoins is like an objectively, they have like an objective advantage over current payment rails in the traditional financial system where you can send a billion dollars for like $10 on eth, right. And you just can't do that anywhere. I think that there have been some very cool projects that essentially the idea of it is you are holding a stable coin. The people who minted you the stable coin are taking the dollars, putting them in t bills, and you're getting yield. It's essentially a liquid t bill that you can use as payment.
00:15:33.800 - 00:16:24.946, Speaker C: I think that's a really cool use case that you can't do in the traditional financial world that is enabled by crypto. I think that that's a really cool use case that stands out of. If you had a user app that was just Venmo and no one knew it was crypto, but you're just getting 4%, 5%, whatever the T bill rate is in your account, it's objectively better than Venmo. So people would probably use it, especially if you could integrate it and still send to people in Venmo. I think that, and then there are a couple more moonshot type thing where you need to get to that inflection point. I think those are probably the low hanging fruit of where crypto actually has product market fit and you could build. I think that you see gaming, I still believe has very good, it's a very good fit on paper.
00:16:24.946 - 00:16:53.590, Speaker C: We haven't seen it implemented to the point that I think a lot of us hoped for yet. But I still believe that that has a lot of potential to be very successful. And then I think Frontec, honestly, like the week after it dropped, it initially drops. All right, this is some random crypto thing. I'm not really going to pay attention to it. And then a couple of days go by and you think about it and you see the revenue sharing. This is the first true way to be able to speculate on creators.
00:16:53.590 - 00:17:27.640, Speaker C: And they have their own host of problems that are like, potentially, the incentives aren't aligned correctly, et cetera. It was the first product that came out that really made you stop and think and go. There's no reason that, like, these massive celebrities wouldn't come onto the platform. It's like a competitor to Onlyfans, right? Like you saw that entire wave of e girls, come on. So, like, I think that there are, there are some low hanging fruit that we can get as an industry. I think like the Venmo payments thing, like, I'm very, I think that that, like, should work. There's no reason that it shouldn't.
00:17:27.640 - 00:18:04.850, Speaker C: And then if you see like a social fi type app or like gaming type app, that really starts to get users and onboard people. So, yeah, I mean, I see those as areas that are very interesting. There's also like a few other, right. Like sports betting just makes complete sense that it should be on chain. It's a better experience. You can guarantee payouts, et cetera. The problem is the crossover of people who like trading Internet money, like trading crypto, and are very into sports is not that large.
00:18:04.850 - 00:18:20.096, Speaker C: But if you could get it to a point where it's completely abstracted away, I think that that has a lot of potential to, like, there's, there are a few things where you can throw spaghetti at the wall and see what sticks. So, yeah, I think those are like a few. If you were, I think, like the next generation.
00:18:20.168 - 00:19:06.940, Speaker A: On the fintech topic, briefly, Im very curious. Long term, everybody kind of loves when their number goes up, especially like, as you, as an individual, youre saying, like, I have a brand, Im capitalizing on that brand and my number is going up. But as we found in the last bull market, and I would say all previous bull markets, number doesnt go up forever. Even though as much as wed like to believe. What are both of your thoughts really around when that trend reverses? You have the ability to ultimately short people see their numbers go down, their brand is kind of becoming less valuable. Do you think that matters in the long term or is it just something that people will ultimately have to get used to?
00:19:09.040 - 00:20:25.230, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I personally think, uh, the second order effects of a more transparent marketplace that is like real time, 24/7 will, is like inevitable, but it will increase, I think, the quality of content and participation. Like, if, I would love to see, like, I didn't, haven't checked the chart yet, but yesterday when Fintech announced, right, that they were going to penalize people who are using applications outside of like, you know, their specific ecosystem when it comes to the reward points, I would love to just see, like real time people who are on chain who are like, all right, I gotta sell like racer right now, or just see like, the immediate reaction. And the reason I'm really bullish on it specifically is I think we underestimate the consistent experience we all have of feeling early to someone online. I think every single person has been, like, I saw this before, like, I was listening to Ghana in 2016. Like, I wish I could have, like, done something like that. And now that we have a marketplace to do it with the infrastructure that could, like, enable it right at mass, I think it's just gonna. I think it's, like, net positive for increasing participation in the quality of content around.
00:20:25.230 - 00:20:33.390, Speaker D: It's. It just feels for me just too, like, too consistent around experiences we all have.
00:20:34.690 - 00:21:08.460, Speaker C: Yeah. And I think it's a really good point, Jabov, to add to it too. Right? Like, there's a, there's a larger question across, like, all social media platforms right now of, like, how do we incentivize creators to use our platform? And, like, Elon's trying to solve it by doing ad revenue share. Most of them. Most creators end up, like, selling t shirts or something to try to monetize their brand. I think that they're. I don't know what the actual alignment for the incentive should be, but I think crypto is a very.
00:21:08.460 - 00:21:51.630, Speaker C: Crypto could be a very good solution to helping content creators monetize or, like, getting influencers in there. Right? Like, NFTs were kind of the first, like, oh, well, I can just sell NFTs. Then hopefully if I grow, they'll go up. And we kind of saw that, like, spike up and then die on the vine a bit. But I think just because that first iteration of trying to help the creators monetize didn't work, I think that the idea is strong enough that once someone actually does create it the proper way, that crypto could be the solution for helping these people monetize their platforms. And I don't think web two companies have the ability to do it the same way.
00:21:52.130 - 00:21:52.578, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:21:52.634 - 00:22:16.210, Speaker D: One extra point I have on this I think is super interesting. Kevin, that's a plus. One is just how crypto is a digitally native, like a form of commerce, a digitally native way for you to interact. And everything we're doing is digital. I'm not sure. Like, if you guys have seen, there's this platform I recently came across. It's called unlonely, but essentially it was a way for someone, it was like a dating.
00:22:16.210 - 00:23:08.278, Speaker D: It's also a progressive web app similar to fintech, but it was like a similar way someone could set up a date virtually and through crypto, like, people in the audience could pay money to have them ask questions to this day. And it was, like, super awkward. This girl is, like, asking this guy all these questions that are like, like, really tough around, like, his life and dating history, and. But I think it shows, like, there's a. An audience for this, but people want more immersive experience. And at TCG, we're investors in cameo and barstool, like, a ton of creator driven brands and experiences. And the largest takeaway is that super fans are really driving and providing a lot of this creator economy, and they want a tighter relationship between the people that are making content and consuming it.
00:23:08.278 - 00:23:14.530, Speaker D: And so I think crypto is structurally has such a big advantage and enabling that relationship.
00:23:15.150 - 00:23:46.186, Speaker B: Absolutely. I couldn't agree more. And I. I ran into a buddy of mine from college, we went to Cornell together, and he's building essentially autonomous agents that are able to create content on TikTok for brands. So they've signed a deal L'Oreal, and they also are able to stream onto live streams on Twitch or kik, which is kind of crazy when you think about it, because it's kind of what you describe. Jmo. People are no longer going to just watch a live stream.
00:23:46.186 - 00:24:59.770, Speaker B: They're going to be entering trades with a trader live, or inversing the trader because they think he's wrong, or maybe joining a trade and hitting a w together or taking a loss together. And I think this kind of cross play, cross betting immersiveness is what's going to take things to the next level, particularly with real time wagers. Like in esports, for example, you know, you're watching Dota or League of Legends, like, is this guy gonna get a pentakill this round? Or whatever, like odds or whatever, 50 to one. These sort of, like, more immersive experiences are very likely going to be powered by crypto. And I think when you start thinking about the amount of people in the world that have been terminally, terminally online, like Ansem says, like, basically their entire lives, it seems like a very natural fit to build out these generative layers of experience outwards, like, around social. And I think Twitter is also pretty well positioned, or x.com to be kind of that town square for payments and trading and social and short form video content and those sort of things.
00:25:00.750 - 00:25:28.576, Speaker C: Yeah, I want to add to Jamie. Well, you mentioned earlier, right? It's like you saw Ghana in 2016, and you're like, damn. Like, I wish that I could. I wish I could capture some of that upside, right? Like, if I think a company is really good, I can bet on the upside and I can profit on it. There's no way to do it with Ghana, right? You just tell your boys then you farm cloud. Like, there's a very open door. And I don't think, like, I don't think Frontech would necessarily be, like, the best way to do this, right.
00:25:28.576 - 00:26:47.380, Speaker C: But you could see a future where, say, Gano is going to sell his album or his Spotify. I guess you need a different platform from Spotify. But say all of his sales were coming in through this platform and you could prove that 40% of the revenue share would go back into buying his token or whatever. So, like, instead of just speculating on him, like pumping his shares, you're actually speculating on the success of his album sales, which again, is a different way to cut the pie, right? And if that doesn't add to actually increase monetary value, then it doesn't actually go anywhere, right? You're just like, then it's pure speculation. But if you have 10,000 people who are sharing the upside and they all are promoting the album on that, on that platform, maybe it does get like two or five times more purchases. You have all these superfans who have their incentives aligned with you, and then you actually create more upside for the artist and benefits the shareholders. So I think that there are so many different ways to cut it, right? I think we just need to try a bunch of different ones and see who really nails the incentive element, and then that's going to open the door.
00:26:47.870 - 00:27:42.220, Speaker D: I love that example so much, man. It brings up a point that Jared Decker, my partner on the fund break, talks about a lot of how can we make crypto better to get in than to get out? Because structurally, every time you're holding the bag for a lot of stuff, the best feeling is, how can I sell this for ten x? When really we should be wanting to incentivize people to stay and participate as long as possible. And I think that's why fintech is a really interesting model and why historically, a lot of stuff like social tokens, we've really struggled to find projects we were excited to invest in. Because even when you talk about royalty plays, where it's like, if I ever go to a concert, I really have a concert being like, I wish I had some of that money, I typically leave being like, I would pay even more for that experience. That was so much fun. Me and my boys are going crazy. Something to that effect.
00:27:42.220 - 00:28:04.630, Speaker D: The, I think, like continued manipulation and just like, getting creative around how we can spread that pie show provenance and reward people who are actually, like, growing. It is just, I just had really strong part of marketplace with crypto and I think it'll be like a big unlock to logan. Your point to start. We're just so early, so we have to see how we progress there.
00:28:05.210 - 00:29:12.812, Speaker B: I fully agree. And honestly, when you look at existing web, two platforms, and how little they share with users, it's actually quite crazy. Like even like a mapping app, like Waze, right? They got acquired, and I think they're like star drivers, guys who had spent literally years on the road, like tens of thousands of man hours, got like a t shirt or something. You know, like insane to think about, just, you know, just high level. Like, if AI is about intelligence, crypto is about coordination and incentivizing the right behavior. And I think even something like Reddit, like the creators of Wall street bets, imagine they had a reflink, programmatically taking a portion of fees on every options trade that people were placing on Nvidia or Tesla during COVID Why can't we get better incentive alignment schemes? And I think that's kind of where a lot of this stuff will emerge, particularly as it relates to AI. A lot of the data sets are getting pretty depleted at this point.
00:29:12.812 - 00:29:40.770, Speaker B: The Internet's been scraped countless times, and unless you have some sort of pristine, well of data, you're going to need to incentivize acquisition of new data with tokens. Most likely, this is where crypto is going to come in. So we're kind of looking at that space as well. But we love to hear, like, how you guys think about, I guess it's a conversation around coordination and then incentivizing behavior.
00:29:42.910 - 00:31:04.750, Speaker A: I mean, I think to that point, on a high level, I mean, we kind of started a little bit of the conversation around capital formation. And it has been interesting just going back and kind of, like, thinking about that a little bit more and what will ultimately get us out of the bear market. I think we all kind of agree, like, the infrastructure problems need to get solved and then you need to build, like, more novel applications. But as Diego kind of pointed out earlier on, like, really in 2017, I think one of the interesting things that ultimately kicked off the bull market was just being able to coordinate the capital for really, icos at that time. Liquidity mining ultimately kind of double clicked on that in 2020, where compound was really, like, unlocked a new way to coordinate a large pool of capital to really bring forward the supply side and then also only try to drive increased demand. And I think going forward, one category that a lot of people are uniquely kind of sleeping on is like, the decentralized physical infrastructure networks and really having that token be the supply side to coordinate capital in the real world and then ultimately being able to utilize that token as well for the demand side. It's going to be very fascinating.
00:31:04.750 - 00:31:57.160, Speaker A: I think the early iterations like helium and Hivemapper show what is possible, but there's also kind of digital resources in terms of compute and bandwidth and ultimately storage as well, that I think are unexplored or less unexplored. And those will be kind of fascinating. We're here at Stanford and talking with many different builders. A lot of them are focused purely on the infrastructure side and solving and creating more infrastructure problems. I think there are kind of teams looking to solve that. Monad specifically on kind of the high throughput for EVM, others kind of the integrated chains. Slanas, we say aptos also only building high throughput integrated chains as well.
00:31:57.160 - 00:32:05.760, Speaker A: I'm curious just to see like where all the chips land. It's been an interesting conference here, but still a lot of unanswered questions.
00:32:07.460 - 00:32:36.640, Speaker C: Yeah, I'd love to add to that. Logan. I think that no matter what the app ends up being, the more frictionless plug that the l one can be in. Providing that is like massively important. I know, like listening to the Bankless podcast, they recently put one out called the super chain. There's essentially like you have ethereum as the tree trunk, and then the branches are the l two s. Then you can have the leaves, which are the tabs.
00:32:36.640 - 00:33:37.684, Speaker C: I think just the general scaling limitations. Will you have a built in maximum cap of the amount of people that can use any given application based on throughput and cost? Until we have settlement layers that can handle high throughput, you can't have dapps that have high throughput. Obviously. I think Solana has done an incredible job pioneering that space. I think everyone, the first time you go on and use Solana, you have this aha moment where you're like, holy shit, this is not like any other crypto. It's instant, it's free, and you need that to be the user experience to enable these dapps. I think a lot of people talk about the chicken and egg problem, but I think testing a bunch of dapps to see which gets product market fit and grabs attention can happen in like days sometimes.
00:33:37.684 - 00:34:01.290, Speaker C: Like Friendtech happened in literally an afternoon, whereas the infrastructure side takes years. So I think you need to start at that end and say, this will have applications that are very important. Let's focus a lot of time, energy, resources, and build this out and then keep testing the waters on the daps. Like, I think that that just has to be, has to be the way forward.
00:34:03.310 - 00:35:03.988, Speaker D: Yeah, I 100% agree with everything you guys both mentioned to me. It's just interesting. More energy doesn't go into the Dapps, because when I think you look at every other, like, historical technological revolution, people assume, like, value based on utility. And so I think things like Deepin and obviously what you're seeing with, like, friend text and decentralized social, they're like, to me, so, like, so much more important than people talk about, because if we, like, there, like, at the end of the last bull market, there are like 30 million monthly active users on Metamask. That's the size of like a small, like, reward program for a makeup brand. Like, we were in such an echo chamber and we spend so much time debating, I think, marginal improvements on infrastructure. When we have things, you know, like Solana, where you.
00:35:03.988 - 00:35:48.432, Speaker D: It actually feels like a web two experience. And I think when more people and builders realize, like, that is the, like, that's the minimum for someone to, like, accept for mass adoption. Like, they're not gonna go back and just assume things are going to take a really long time to process. Like you, I think it's hopefully right. It should be a good indication that not as many people are using the Dapps as we expect. It's a smaller community, and that leading through just quality of product is hopefully going to cut out a lot of noise and friction. I think the friend tech example was so transformative because it was, most importantly mobile first, the ability to really connect with a platform and, like, hardware device that everyone in the world uses is so much more important than I think a lot of people discuss.
00:35:48.432 - 00:36:00.140, Speaker D: And maybe that's an organic transition into how we think about the Solana mobile stack and how important it is. But it just seems there is. For me, it's just surprising the lack of attention on getting this technology in the hands of the most people.
00:36:00.880 - 00:36:42.944, Speaker B: Yeah. Mobile is fascinating in how underrated it is. Like, the most prevalent and used operating system today in the world as Android by far. So there's one camp where people live in the US, and they all have iPhones and $5,000 gaming computers. And then there's the rest of the world where people interact with the Internet daily on their smartphones and overwhelmingly Android. I saw stat the other day, iPhone has less than 1% market share in Africa. So these sort of things that are a massive echo chamber here in the US are just such a no brainer, enabling mobile first applications.
00:36:42.944 - 00:37:16.270, Speaker B: And this is where a lot of the emergent user behavior came from in web two as well. Like when you put a GPS sensor and a camera on a phone, suddenly you can take photos and upload them directly from your camera roll to Instagram, or you can call a ride sharing car on Uber because it has GPS. Or you can pull up maps. Right. And this is like the emergent behavior that's coming. And it's going to have to be different this time. It's going to have to be crypto oriented, but it's going to have to be mobile centric.
00:37:16.730 - 00:37:55.050, Speaker A: I guess one question that I have to both Jamo and Kevin is obviously Apple has kind of taken a little bit of a anti crypto stance. Progressive web apps have been around for some amounts of time, but haven't really gotten a lot of adoption. And now we've kind of seen at least one example of a more breakout kind of progressive web app that kind of sidesteps Apple's walled garden. Do you think progressive web apps are going to be the new frontier in crypto, really driving this mobile adoption?
00:37:57.790 - 00:38:44.750, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I think that it's definitely worth trying out. Right. Like, that was the first time that I think in a large number of users in crypto, we're interacting with an app in that fashion. The hard part is that it makes the user experience a lot worse, or at least the UI is a lot worse. You're truly on a web page, whereas I know you can integrate a lot of things directly into the way that an app's built. It makes it very clean and has the Apple feel. I think for something like this to exist, a large dapp that people are interacting with, Mobiley, it has to be built that way.
00:38:44.750 - 00:39:00.960, Speaker C: Yeah. Anyone who's building a mobile app on that front, or anyone who's building something that's mobile centric, I think that it's a great solution. Fronttech kind of like tested the waters and saw that people are willing to add a webpage to their home screen.
00:39:02.820 - 00:39:41.502, Speaker D: Yeah, I'd agree. I think it's helpful just to zoom out and think about the timeline. For the last decade, we've seen just how transformative it is for a company like Apple just to get, or Android to get these phones and these devices in the hands of more people. And we've seen just like, how much of a zero to one that is for new applications, new businesses. And I think right now, the most obvious issue and why people have to use web apps is because they don't want to pay that non starter rake on the app store. Right. It just kills the economics for a lot of companies.
00:39:41.502 - 00:40:36.210, Speaker D: And so the only thing in my mind that will change that, it's like, what's Apple's incentive to onboard people and be more crypto, like, friendly? It's only when we have use cases that are strong enough that they're like, hey, we want to pay attention to this. And so I think just like web apps and some people might talk about, like, the Sega phone, I think these are really great, like, moment in time, but hopefully they're just platforms that allow us to show the strength of community and crypto native use cases. I think it kind of goes back to the thesis I have around crypto just needing to be more like additive than like, isolated, where hopefully once we're doing enough stuff and fintech is going crazy and Kevin's key is a five e floor, there's more of an obvious use case for these legacy members to really buy in and be more like, open to this emerging technology.
00:40:36.830 - 00:41:05.698, Speaker B: Definitely. I mean, we need to give them a reason to care. Like right now, everyone sees crypto as kind of like this wild 24/7 casino where, you know, life changing money is made and lost. And I think it's not a totally unfair assessment, but the groundwork is kind of laid. I mean, there's a secure hardware enclave on your phone right now. It's just not activated for crypto. Like that can hold your private keys right there.
00:41:05.698 - 00:41:36.960, Speaker B: And you start to imagine, what does this space look like when Apple has a wallet, when JP Morgan has a wallet and people are using these cryptocurrencies every single day and these interacting with tokens and smart contracts. And I think that's an end state. That's not as far as we think. But I completely agree. Without better applications, no one is paying attention because they don't have to pay attention. They're not missing out on anything.
00:41:38.620 - 00:42:12.336, Speaker C: I would say to build on that a bit too. Just understanding where we are in this bear market. It's different from, every bull market is different from the one before it, and every bear market is different. The bear market seemed to feel the same for some reason. Reason. But I think this one crypto was very much in the public eye. If you ask anyone age 18 to 50 if they know anything about crypto, it's in the public thought sphere.
00:42:12.336 - 00:42:59.760, Speaker C: And I think when prices are ripping, everyone's paying attention, they're wondering how to get involved, et cetera. And I think now that prices are down, like, we spend so much time looking at this chart that's just going down, that we get beat down about it. I think the public understanding of it for your everyday person in the workforce right now is like, yeah, it seems pretty exciting. I don't really know what to do right now. Prices aren't really going up, so I'm not paying attention. But if you get that one app that everyone's using and suddenly it's exciting again, like, there is a massive amount of people that are at the helm that are ready to come in. I don't think it has this massive negative connotation that we love to harp on, on crypto Twitter.
00:42:59.760 - 00:43:08.480, Speaker C: I think there's a lot of people that are just generally know about it and think it could be cool and are waiting for a reason to come in.
00:43:08.820 - 00:43:56.360, Speaker A: I agree. And maybe kind of wrapping up this segment of. Of the frontier, the new name for this show, I guess people want Alpha. People want kind of the next trade. People want to know what ecosystem to really focus on. Maybe as we're kind of wrapping up the show, JmO and Kevin, can you impart on the listeners and the people that will ultimately replay this either on the timeline or on YouTube? What is your piece of alpha for the audience? What are you uniquely excited about or think that will be a big catalyst for either adoption or just number go up as we've seen as some of the best marketing?
00:43:57.900 - 00:45:03.440, Speaker D: Yeah, I think there's a few more obvious plays right now just around paying attention to where people are nothing and being patient. I think those just really go hand in hand if you want to survive. I started using a trade journal when I used to work at Citigroup, doing distress credit trading for my own personal account. And my largest learning was how often I didn't give myself enough time or patience to work through a trade. I think the point we're at in the market right now, it's so much alpha to, like, be patient and not over trade like that is because these markets are so reflexive and you can be down so much so quickly or up so much so quickly. I think we have a tendency to be impatient, so that's one. And then when it comes to areas I think are pretty cool, I think gaming is one people talk about a lot and there's so much negative scrutiny in it, but I think there are projects, specifically ones like parallel and midnight society.
00:45:03.440 - 00:46:03.700, Speaker D: And like, some of the on chain stuff, I don't want to talk my book, so I'll avoid some names, but I think some of the on chain stuff, that's really, really compelling because these are real teams that have not stopped building, and a lot of these folks have left. And so I think there's like, you only have a chance to, like, everyone wanted to buy $100 ethereum after it was like, it was down for so long, but to still be paying attention after a year and a half bear markethood is like, that's crazy. Everyone would think you're just ridiculous. And so I think a lot of games are approaching that space where the sentiment is so negative. But if you pay attention, you have a chance to receive upside in these ecosystems, as they do airdrops, and continue to, like, participate and engage. And then I think, like, Solana again, like, if we're about distribution, there's so many applications on Solana and Defi, some in gaming, some around reward assets that are really worth digging into thoroughly. So, yeah, that's, that's maybe a little bit of helpful for you.
00:46:05.400 - 00:46:05.840, Speaker C: Awesome.
00:46:05.880 - 00:46:06.056, Speaker D: Thanks.
00:46:06.088 - 00:46:57.884, Speaker C: Jam out and, yeah, mine, I would say direct piece. I would talk my book for a second and join the Monad community. It's one really fun, too. We should have some, some cool stuff coming down the line. But I think generally finding Alpha in crypto right now, I think there's a very clear rule of thumb that you can spread across the ecosystem for a lot of these new dapps that pop up, and it's just use the products that are coming out. You can look at the Uniboc graph and people made so much money on it, and the app is doing super well, and the tokens way up and everyone's like, oh, I can't believe I missed it. The second a new app with a potentially novel feature comes out, just go test it.
00:46:57.884 - 00:47:28.810, Speaker C: It takes 510 minutes, maybe. And the first time you use Unibot, you'd probably see and be like, wow, this is exactly what people on crypto Twitter would use. I could definitely see this taking off, and then you capture that upside. But once it's already up and you're like, oh, shoot, I missed it. How could I miss it? And I think just using the stuff that's being built in crypto, like Friendtech, you see people are talking about actually going in and using it. Make an account. Go actually test these products.
00:47:28.810 - 00:48:05.950, Speaker C: Because when you test new products that come out, if it's clear that it's a good product, it will probably slap you in the face and then you can capture your upside in whatever manner, like, but I think so many people, like, sit, do, like, fundamental analysis on coins and try to figure everything out. And I think the true alpha is just in being an actual user right now, because when that use case comes along that, like we're talking about where it does capture a lot of users, it will be very obvious the first time you use the app, you're like, this is it, and then you can ride with it. So, yeah, get in there, use the products.
00:48:06.650 - 00:49:37.798, Speaker A: And I would definitely echo the sentiments of both Jamo and Kevin. I think JMo touching upon really being okay with not only kind of being contrarian, but being able to have a longer time horizon than others. And that is like, if you can have a longer time horizon and not have to make something happen immediately, there's a lot of alpha and just being able to think longer term than other people. And especially what Kevin said, like being actually to go in touch the applications, play with them, actually get your hands on them, and see, like, do you like the experience? Would you recommend this experience to your friends, your family, to your loved ones? I think that is great advice. I mean, really what Diego and I have been uniquely focused on is kind of that zero to one moment where we can no longer really focus on base infrastructure and really allow the application engineers to focus on applications. And I think as evident here at Stanford, infrastructure is still very popular and applications are not, but we'll kind of continuously be in this trend of infrastructure for the sake of infrastructure until we actually start focusing on applications. Frontech, I think, is one example of trying something different and a little bit more novel.
00:49:37.798 - 00:50:11.350, Speaker A: I think not as sexy, but perhaps just as useful is the deep end category, specifically the digital resources side. I think in general, people are largely sleeping on the category as a whole, but generally deepen, and there's exciting things to come. I know the bear market's rough, but to Kevin and Jamo's point, use the products, think longer term than anybody else, and stay in the market. There's lots to learn and build applications. I think that's going to be the thing that gets us out of the bar.
00:50:12.250 - 00:51:18.472, Speaker B: Absolutely. No, I couldn't agree more. And honestly, when you look at crypto more broadly today, it's really a tale of two cities, folks that essentially are, you know, using legacy architectures and kind of living within the confines of this world, where there's a few million users and four or 500 wallets drive most of the liquidity and profit in the space. And then there's another completely different camp that's saying, look, maybe we can graduate out of this kind of dial up phase and expand performance with different architectures and actually have an unbounded kind of no limits, no compromise performance situation where these much more rich and expressive apps can be built. And I think if we've learned anything from the Internet, it's that infrastructure itself doesn't. Onboard people, UDP packets and TCP IP didn't get users excited. It was novel applications like email and commerce and even social that really got billions of people on the Internet.
00:51:18.472 - 00:51:52.440, Speaker B: And I think if we kind of look at the past as any guide for the future, I think a similar thing will play out here. But there's huge, huge Alpha and just being contrarian. And every winning trade was fudded right. So Facebook in 2011, Tesla in 2016, the FUD truly creates the alpha. And I think that's what a lot of people are missing. They're taking a crowded trade, and they're following the herd, which is always going to result in average returns at best.
00:51:53.780 - 00:52:10.710, Speaker A: Perfect. Well, we'll end it there for this episode. Jmo, thank you so much for joining us. We are all in the bear market together and so appreciate the wisdom that you, you shared. And, Kevin, again, thank you so much.
00:52:12.170 - 00:52:15.390, Speaker D: Awesome. Appreciate it. Let's keep it frictionless.
00:52:18.450 - 00:52:18.850, Speaker C: Thank you.
