00:00:02.430 - 00:00:51.978, Speaker A: You. Thank you very much. Right, so the long topic of the conversation or of my speech, I don't remember what was there. But the point is that I know you guys are here not to read, not to listen for the boring stuff. So I actually wanted to make it a little bit more fun. And I wanted to start with just one simple statement that I think is pretty bold and aggressive, maybe to most of us here, because the only reason why you're here today is because you're already in crypto. So the statement is, I believe that we are all working on a very big sandbox so we can do amazing things, like in three years, in four years since the inception of real DFI there or DFI 1.0,
00:00:51.978 - 00:01:34.650, Speaker A: we've replicated almost every single existing traditional financial primitive. And now people are going even beyond that. But how do you even use this? How do you guys even move your money from crypto to into crypto? Isn't that really, I don't know, stupid in a sense? Have you ever thought about. It's really all just about exchanging asset a to fiat b or fiat b to asset c, or whatever it is. It's just literally that plain simple. You can have the most sophisticated Mav strategy. You can have this really CVX, CRV, like, fracs, people on tree crypto, whatever it is, on your chain.
00:01:34.650 - 00:02:13.526, Speaker A: But how do you actually use this? How do you pay rent? How do you pay for your gas in the gas station? How do you even buy coffee? All of that is pretty stupid. I keep repeating this word, but I really want it to get in your head, because let's just take a look at how the typical on ramping looks. And even this term on ramping, it feels like there is some sort of obstacle that we have to on ramp onto it to get into it. In our mindset, we're actually thinking that we are some sort of isolated from the rest of the world. So let's take a look. What do you have? You have a bank account? Maybe you even have, like, a credit card, a debit card. So you have some euros.
00:02:13.526 - 00:02:57.478, Speaker A: I would assume most of you guys are locally based. Some are not. But ultimately, let's say you have some fiat. So what do you do next? Well, then you open an account on a crypto exchange, and then you have to wire your euros to that crypto exchange. A funny thing is, I opened my Twitter today, and I got probably, like, with a geolocation, obviously, targeted ad, and it was, like, in polish, but I translated it, and it was something like when the next bull market starts, make sure that you can have some USDTs to buy some those shitcoins. And then I was like, all right, let's take a look. And then it's like a telegram chat with, like, an OTC desk that tells me, like, okay, we can onboard you, and then you wire funds to us, and then we'll give you.
00:02:57.478 - 00:03:46.610, Speaker A: I'm like, jesus, that's exactly the perfect use case for me here. So you wire your funds, and then what do you do? Well, an exchange has a number of assets, right? So it's practically impossible for a large exchange to support long tail assets. So they support only a few or handful or maybe a bit more. Say hello to binance innovation zone, right? But once you get some tokens, then what do you do? Well, I want to get into defi, like that promised land. I want to do something with my money because, well, what can you do on exchange? You want to trade? All right, what if I want to gamble? But I want to gamble something with more sophisticated. Well, then I will have to wire my tokens to my non custodial wallet. One more thing, right? Well, I have a wallet, but now I need this thing gas.
00:03:46.610 - 00:04:36.886, Speaker A: Like, jesus, how easy it is that you are making it for me. So I also have to remember that, all right, I want to have some gas as well. If the token is not native on that network, then I need to wire all of that to my noncustodial wallet. Then I connect that noncustodial wallet to the actual dap that I want to use, and then whatever the dap actually allows me to do, then I need to execute that into my wallet. So that is just like, all of that is just for me to have easier access, for me to lose my money on whatever I want to lose it on. How does the off ramping look like? Well, it looks exactly the same, but in reverse. You have to use multiple platforms, you have to use multiple services just to use that money on and off.
00:04:36.886 - 00:05:41.420, Speaker A: And that's why I believe that DeFi is mostly a sandbox. And it doesn't mean that DeFi is bad. It's just that the rails, the connection, even the terms that we use are really primitive, and that is pun intended, right? Like, how do we use those primitives in the real world? Well, what if I could tell you? Is that, what if you could remove all of that middle connection? What if you could just say, you know what? What if the wallet that allows me to have all of this composability and lose my money really easy across all of the crypto what if can be connected to my bank account? What if it could actually control my bank account? What if, for me, as the user, there'll be really no difference between moving money in and out? Is it really possible? I think it is, obviously. But if we look into. Let's imagine. Let's just imagine that one day this is possible. Somehow your wallet, your noncustodial wallet, can actually control your bank account.
00:05:41.420 - 00:06:34.218, Speaker A: What kind of things would you do? Because this is the problem with the crypto, right? We're building infrastructure for billions and billions of users to come in, and somehow they never come. And then we ask ourselves, well, it's not that they're stupid, right? Something's definitely not right. But then you figure out, well, it's because we haven't actually built the applications for other people to use it, something that, well, they would want to use it for. So there has to be some sort of benefit when we're talking about financial stuff. Well, what kind of things would be beneficial for the users? Here's just one example. And arbitrary names. But ultimately, what if you could easily have that over collateralized loan to take a pay off your car lease as easy as a couple of clicks? Because that's something that, in this case, Alchemix as a platform allows me to do.
00:06:34.218 - 00:07:18.874, Speaker A: But then again, I still have to follow all the steps that we've walked through in order for me to actually pay for that car lease. But then what if you could do that right away? What if you could have your true defi savings account? So there's something that pays off yield doesn't matter if it's real or not. You don't really care, right? What you care for is that when that Netflix capture comes in on your card, it doesn't bounce, so that the next time the new series is up, you're like, oh, damn, I have to top up my card to sort of pay for it. What if there was a. A programmatic way for that yield to pay for that transaction on the card and not the principal? So you never really touch the principal. It always yields, you pay off the yield, and that's that. Oh, this is cool.
00:07:18.874 - 00:07:54.850, Speaker A: Yeah. Liquidity. Liquidity is amazing. What if you could actually pay with your eth for your rent without spending your eth? Take a look at liquidity from a reverse perspective. What if it's not really the Lusd that you're looking for, but it's what LUSd unlocks? What if you want to keep an exposure in ETh, but you don't want to sell it, but you still need to pay for your bills. And that's just one of the ways. Well, why not take a loan, mint Lusd, pay with that for your monthly rent or whatever it is, and still keep an exposure in ETH.
00:07:54.850 - 00:08:24.322, Speaker A: So if you close the trove again, all these different terms, but ultimately you can still have access back to your Eth. If you pay back the loan, there's many more things. What if you could buy now, pay later on the card? So same thing, same concept, right? You can have some sort of asset, you can borrow against it. You immediately pay that when it comes to some sort of payment bill, et cetera, and then you can repay back that debt. Now, that is a primitive, that is existing in traditional finance. That's a market on its own. It's called like BPNL, buy now, pay later.
00:08:24.322 - 00:08:41.190, Speaker A: Same concept. And here's a point. It's not in a decentralized matter, but it's in a non custodial matter. And there's a big difference in that. We can expand all of that. I just took these logos. Maybe you figure out some of them.
00:08:41.190 - 00:09:00.602, Speaker A: Some of them are pretty dead now, so sorry about that. But ultimately what it means is that there shouldn't be exclusivity. There shouldn't be that. Well, this is the protocol that is allowed to do that. This is the protocol that is not allowed to do that. There has to be the generalized solution. The problem with that is that while we encrypted, we love one thing.
00:09:00.602 - 00:09:42.220, Speaker A: We love building standards. It's like, today I'm going to build a new standard to manage all of the other 18 standards. And then you are yet creating the 19th standard to do something so that when the 20th guy comes in, he's like, no, that was all wrong. I'm going to do it the right way. This is something actually slowing down our momentum when it comes to the money Lego that we've all been advertising. But nevertheless, the future that I see is something that would actually allow you, for you as a user, to pick and choose the service providers who can allow you to do something with your money. And depending on what exactly you're trying to do, it could be different things at this point.
00:09:42.220 - 00:10:19.750, Speaker A: I lied in the first slide, right? You're not reading it, but ultimately, I'll have to make you read this something, but you're wondering, like, how does it work? Or that I see, I don't remember my own slides, but now here comes the boring part. Let's take a look and let's run through this quickly. What if you could connect all of that? Already spoke about that. There still has to be some sort of interconnection or there still has to be some sort of service. Well, the previous speaker already told about that. Well, there's a company that has to do something of that. The company has to have the necessary licenses because you connect actually to the traditional existing financial marketplace.
00:10:19.750 - 00:10:40.406, Speaker A: And there has to be some sort of infrastructure on chain. All of that complicated, boring stuff. There we go. Thank you very much. That was all that I wanted to tell you about. But no, let's actually touch on the first part. So we're not going to get into the existing traditional financial ecosystem.
00:10:40.406 - 00:11:21.766, Speaker A: Why back in 2016 and 17, has anybody been in crypto in that era at that time? Like 20, 16, 17? Quite a few. So you guys remember that at that time, we had this big idea, what if every coffee shop on the planet would accept my bitcoins natively and we would all transact. We would all live in this utopia. Somehow it never happened. The problem with that is that the coffee shop owner never really wants to accept your crypto. Why? Because while they are corner parties, they want fiat. They have to pay salaries in fiat, they have to pay their taxes in fiat, they have to pay for those products in fiat, et cetera, et cetera.
00:11:21.766 - 00:11:55.054, Speaker A: So what it means is that in those five years or six years, we started slowly shifting the momentum to, okay, what if I, as a user, want to pay in crypto? But then the merchant, that coffee shop owner, will accept fiat. So this is where you have this intermediaries, the layers that on the fly, convert crypto to fiat, et cetera, et cetera. Oh, no, guys, stay in, please. No, I'm kidding. Blacklisted. We're not going to get the airdrop. Guys, I'm kidding.
00:11:55.054 - 00:12:44.670, Speaker A: Well, but the cool part about this is that what you can really do is that you can actually tap into that ecosystem. So you can work by its own rules, licenses, regulators, but you can do cool stuff on chain. So, for example, this is the approach that we're taking to make sure that it can actually be accessible by all other contracts, other chains, other networks. One thing that traditional finance does really, really well is called locking the users. Locking the users means that you lock your customer into your service, into your app, into your wallet, and it makes it really hard for the user to switch to something else. Now, regulators, everybody doesn't like them, but they actually made one really cool thing about Europe. So they started in the UK.
00:12:44.670 - 00:13:22.446, Speaker A: Now it's happening in Europe. It's basically open banking. So, for example, you can bank with one bank, but then if you open an account with another one, you can still have access to your previous account. That's not the case that is in crypto. But this approach, and this is where the unintended chill comes in. What we allow you, anybody, to connect in any of those six parts, and we can quickly touch base on that, that will allow you to actually work on one of the possible ways on that on chain settlement, or one of the possible legs of that on chain settlement. Let's take a look at a quick example.
00:13:22.446 - 00:14:18.130, Speaker A: Let's say you have, as we already spoke, on the centralized exchanges, right? So you have some fiat, you have some euros, you want to get into some new shiny token. Well, the exchange would not be able to support that. So you need to go to Dexes, and then you need to swap into that, Dex, the token, whatever is available. What if you could do that on the fly? So what if the long tail asset can actually be swapped in an atomic transaction into the asset that you want to keep on the balance sheet, which is most likely something stable. So stablecoin, something that can be settled, something that can be accepted on the balance sheet, that's that. What if you have to be able to prove that specific transactions can only occur with specific customers or specific counterparties. This is where we're getting into this gatekeeper stuff, right? Meaning that, well, users in EU, they have one set of regulations, users outside, elsewhere, they have different set of regulations, et cetera.
00:14:18.130 - 00:15:18.470, Speaker A: Now, the third part, which is where how does the actual settlement happens? Have you guys ever thought about this magic word settlement? Right? So you have some crypto and there's some fiat there that will land on your card account, et cetera. What does really happen? How does it really work? Well, it's actually plain dumb and simple. There's a company that either has some processor involved or does it on its own, but basically it accepts the token in a balance sheet and then it spits out fiat. That's it back from probably 90s or even 2000s. Do you guys remember those pawn shops, like, exchange things, right? So, like, small boxes, they would have those USD, euro, like USD, JPY, whatever exchange rates, and they would have, like, I don't know, 5% markup. Well, everything else in finance works exactly that way. Literally, you have some assets, like on one side, you have the other asset there, and you're just literally arbitraging between two things.
00:15:18.470 - 00:16:05.666, Speaker A: So one person comes in to buy dollars, the other person comes in to sell euros. That's it. That's basically your working capital that you work with exactly the same way. Every single trade desk, OTC desk, credit card or crypto debit card provider works exactly the same way. The second part is that the settlement forwarder contract, this is where, again, you may need to involve multiple quarter parties. This is where we get into example. Have you guys ever tried to exchange that large sums of money through those pawn shops, like exchanges, so that the guy in the box calls someone and then the guy with a little suitcase comes into that box because they don't have enough money to give you? Right? Well, this is exactly the same thing.
00:16:05.666 - 00:16:38.800, Speaker A: What if you want to settle large sums of money? That's where, again, you may not have enough liquidity. So that's exactly that. This is where different corner parties come in the breach contract. Here's a question. Have you guys ever bridged from one network to another network? Like, how many of you guys have ever tried it? Fantastic. Have you guys ever thought, why does it take so long? It's never instant, right? There's always the delay. And depending on the network, there's like a different delay time.
00:16:38.800 - 00:17:40.046, Speaker A: How many of you guys have actually bridged from Polygon, for example? Quite a few. Have you ever wondered why it takes like up to 15 minutes for exchanges, for even circle, to recognize its own token to be bridged to circle? Well, that's basically something that's called finality time. What it means is that you're not sure that something has actually happened or not. And that's not the case with, oh, I guess I'm done. Sorry about that. Yeah, I guess that was too boring, right? Anyhow, what I mean by that is that we will never reach the point of being able to use those primitives truly, natively in the real world. If we have all this, I would say independent actors, right? All the l two s, l ones, layer threes, layer fours, whatever it is, on different networks.
00:17:40.046 - 00:18:21.534, Speaker A: So there has to be something, a unified system that could accept that risk or that could work with different parties to make sure that we as users, we can always transact on the network that we want to. And then you as a service, as a company, then you figure out how the hell you can get my money off that network. That is damn complicated. That is them hard. And that is why right now there's actually no single crypto debit card live that would allow you for that just in time funding. Right? So from the money on your smart wallet or crypto wallet to your card instantly without locking you on their own network. And that's an important part.
00:18:21.534 - 00:18:54.074, Speaker A: So we, as an industry at this point, still failed to make sure that there is a generalized solution for you to be able to do that. So, yes, you can bridge now to my specific app chain, and then your transactions can be settled instantly. But then, isn't that the whole point? I don't want to use your app chain. I just want to use my assets on the network where I am, and then I still want to be able to use them. So this is still a big problem. That's where I really don't want to talk about. Holy health.
00:18:54.074 - 00:19:46.810, Speaker A: The point is that what we believe in is that the only way we in crypto can actually break through this sandbox and then allow us, ourselves as users, to use our own crypto money in a more efficient way. So just give you, like, four examples of that. And the only way it is possible is through, well, generalized solutions where you do not force me to lock me into your smart wallet, which is noncustodial, if you say, but ultimately, well, I can only use it with you. You do not need to bridge to your network where my funds only work with your network. It has to be generalized. And until somebody is able to come up with that thing, well, none of it makes sense, even my speech today. But this is the least boring part.
00:19:46.810 - 00:20:53.818, Speaker A: What I wanted to say is what we are working on is to make sure that what you as a user can do is you can have your finance controlled by your self custody wallet. And with that, you're starting, right? It's just like a small dent. I saw a dent somewhere on the name there, and we are that dent, and the entire name there is like the entire crypto. We're making the dent to make sure that at some point of time, what you will be able to do is you will be able to control, 100% of the time, the assets that you hold in your self custody wallet while making every single transaction at the point of sale. So shop, gas station wire to make sure that it actually works. Just in time. With that being said, everything has been said, but what I wanted to finalize my conversation or my talk with you guys today, and I would say, hopefully it wasn't boring.
00:20:53.818 - 00:22:14.586, Speaker A: Is that what we really need to think about and rethink the approach that we're taking? What I mean is, it's a message to you guys, as participants of the industry, as builders, I would assume most of you work with crypto companies and crypto projects. Is that for the hundred people or thousand people that remain in defi today, bear market, everything else, let's stop so called like pvping, right? So let's stop fighting each other. Who's right? Who's wrong? Let's stop fighting over those thousand users that are still there for some reason, maybe because they're stuck or they lost their key so they cannot get out and actually start thinking about how can we utilize what we've built together collectively, how all of that can work together to make sure that the people that have never heard about your new network, new token, new protocol, new contract, how we can get to those users to be able to let them use their money freely. Because ultimately, in the end, that's the only thing that matters. With that being said, thank you very much, guys. And if you have any questions, let me know. Any questions before the lunch break? Hey, great talk.
00:22:14.586 - 00:23:06.954, Speaker A: Do you think we can do better by skipping the card providers? Which means, I know you mentioned that in the past, we think we're going to transact natively on the blockchains or lightning networks or anything like that. No, the reason, very simple, is they have such a big influence already. If you go into the rurest possible village in Africa, visa, Mastercard is most likely going to be accepted. So the problem with crypto is the distribution. And that's why when we started making this approach to can the shop accept crypto natively? It failed. Just because who's going to use crypto if I can only pay with crypto in, like, one shop somewhere in a different country, in a different city, it has to be universally accepted. And then this is where the status quo comes in.
00:23:06.954 - 00:24:25.426, Speaker A: Why would existing incumbents allow you to do something that would compete with them? Well, this is why, if you think, if you look from the card payment processors, well, Visa, Mastercard, Amex is probably the unique one, but everything else is state endorsed, controlled, built union pay, China, russian one, Mir, right, whatever it is, it's state enforced because they have the authority to say, well, if you want to sell stuff in my country, you have to use this. And that's basically how it works. So the problem is, unless somebody comes up with enormous, immense amount of capital to have such a big infrastructure to be able to support it universally, it's always going to be this egg and chicken problem, like, okay, well, we don't have enough points of sale, so nobody's going to use it. So my approach is, let's not fight it, let's work with it. And, well, then you can still provide the benefits to those that do want to use crypto, but for them, without even having a notice or dents, right? In that sense, we're just literally getting started. But I have my Apple Pay, so I can pay whatever I want to. But that Apple Pay is funded with my hot wallet, right? That's there on the phone and with the USDC that sits there.
00:24:25.426 - 00:25:17.250, Speaker A: And that is just the base part, and it's still boring. What's going to be really exciting is cool is that when that USDC on my hot wallet is actually going to do something with some other protocol, some other network, and then it's more exciting because I'll give you just one example. Maybe it's a topic, right? But you've guys all heard about this thing like treasury bills, right? Tea bills. How many of you guys heard about this stuff? Quite a few, right? How many of you guys own t bills? One. Right? One. Two. Right? How easy was that process? So me, as just like a retail customer, I maybe have, like, I don't know, n 26, revolute, whatever it is, right? Well, they now started offering me some interest on my dollars, right? But then it's pretty damn complicated.
00:25:17.250 - 00:25:54.100, Speaker A: And then in crypto, I should be able to just swap it in. It may not be redeemable because Kyc, et cetera, all of that. That's a different part. But then it should be able just like one click, I have it. And when that happens, that's where I would like to switch to crypto, right, as just general user, because I just want my money grow. But it has to be stable, it has to be secure so that we're not getting into another Luna terra thing. But anyhow, no, because we record.
00:25:59.030 - 00:26:48.606, Speaker B: You mentioned about banking unbanked recently, I've been in Argentina, and I've been a little bit shocked by two things. First, there is a discount between physical dollars that they really like and dollars on chain. So for me, if there is this price difference, it should be another way around because I cannot get any yield on physical dollars. And I can do a lot of things with dollars on chain, but they don't trust them. Second, all those guys who are exchanging crypto, they use Tron. So you cannot do a lot. They don't.
00:26:48.606 - 00:26:53.810, Speaker B: Using l two or like another more sophisticated chains, they're using Tron.
00:26:55.290 - 00:27:40.274, Speaker A: I'll give you another example. Quite often, and Ukraine is just like, literally next by for you to redeem USDT Tron to local fiat currency like Grivna, they pay, you know, typically to off ramp to fiat, you have to pay the fee, it's natural right there. They pay you. Why? The question is that, well, because people want to flee the capital out of the country, so they lack that liquidity. And the good example here is Argentina is going through a very volatile period. And then it comes to the clash of two things. One is, well, cash is, again, it's just mentally, it's the best thing.
00:27:40.274 - 00:28:06.874, Speaker A: If I have us dollar here in my pocket, it's worth way more mentally than whatever digital stuff there is. So there's still this huge gap in mentality. That's just one part of it. The second part of it, again, is just how the economy works there. Who can get dollars into the country and out. Exactly. Well, you have to have connections, right? Yeah, but that's where this arbitrage comes in.
00:28:06.874 - 00:28:36.194, Speaker A: And you see this very obvious, clear arbitrage. And then you think, well, why? Nobody has arbitraged it. Well, because it's not an open market, and that's basically why it's being created. So I'll give you another thing. I was thinking the same way back in the days, and I wanted to have this huge mission, let's bank the unbanked. But then what I realized very quickly is that, well, majority of the people don't want that. They're just not ready.
00:28:36.194 - 00:29:09.886, Speaker A: You come in, you're this cool guy, and says, look, guys, we develop the thing that we think that you want. Go ahead and use it. And the people out there are just like, why? Right? And then you are stumbling with that thing. Okay, well, sit down, right? Let's have a talk. This is why you want this. And this is why I tried to switch the mentality from what if we start servicing the people that already need this or need this, as in, you already have crypto. So you already understand this for some reason, you already do this.
00:29:09.886 - 00:29:37.010, Speaker A: So why I don't make your life better or easier because you already use it. So for me, as a company, it's cheaper, right? I don't have to sit down and talk to you. This is why it's cool, right? You're already onboarded. And then as we progress, as we go, that's how you can expand. And, you know, my friend, now use Tron USDT. Like, why? Actually, I have no idea. Know, a lot of it is like money laundering, et cetera, et cetera.
00:29:37.010 - 00:30:32.682, Speaker A: But ultimately, you see, it's like that conviction point. How many of you guys hate metamask? Like, deep in your heart? And how many of you guys still use it? All right, so that's that conviction point, right? Once you start using it, it's really hard to get off it. Even though there's like other competitors, there may be better wallets, but because it works, you're still stuck with it. And that's why it takes so much time to shift some sort of mentality. And most crypto startups are not long enough to even have a dent in that mentality shift. So everybody who has big goals, ambitions to change something, they have to realize it's going to take like years, years to build and then are you going to be in those years? Well, that's a question, right? So that's why step by step. Sorry for taking so much of your time, guys.
00:30:32.682 - 00:31:07.520, Speaker A: I know it's food time. Let's go get some food. You had a question, one more question. Okay, yeah. Majority of users, one of the biggest countries is Poland, Europe. So we are live in EEA, so called european economic Area and that's to do with, again, licenses, right?
