00:00:08.800 - 00:00:55.680, Speaker A: I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the future of finance as it relates to AI and how I got into this field a little bit. So, beyond what John said, I recently led the venture capital arm, the CME Group. Some people may be more familiar with our products, I suppose, than the CME, but whether it's gold or oil or interest rates, now, very soon, bitcoin futures, that's traded on one of the exchanges, whether it's Nimex or the Chicago Board of Trade, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, so on and so forth. A few years back, the board of directors there said, what is that next disruption that's going to happen for industry, and how do we get ahead of that? So I was tasked with a great team to lead the thoughts and the investments.
00:00:57.140 - 00:01:24.204, Speaker B: Consider AI as basically just big data. There's like huge libraries that are there, and we've all been contributing this data voluntarily. How many people have a Facebook account? Okay, and keep your hand up, please. How many of you have a Google account? Right? So each hand represents about $75 a month. Now, that's an average spread. In some cases, it's fractions of a penny per account. But really, that's money that you guys should be getting.
00:01:24.204 - 00:01:40.000, Speaker B: Mark Zuckerberg pockets out and goes home to buy fancy houses. That doesn't really make sense to me. Living in San Francisco, I see this massive economic displacement that's occurring. And whether it's Google or Facebook or other companies that aren't recognizing the end user values.
00:01:42.340 - 00:02:28.250, Speaker C: Because of these management systems, which are from top down approach. So you're trying to manage so much data and you're trying to correlate so much data that it's a mess. What these models need to do is actually work from bottom up. When you access that healthcare data, you are accessing through various systems. What needs to happen is you need to have, as a person, a health agent. Now, the health agent could connect to all these data sets and actually deliver you the results of the queries rather than trying to integrate these systems. And we're closely working with some of the service providers for NHS, and the biggest problem they have is how do you make one system report and interact with the other system? Well, in our case, you don't have to.
