00:00:01.360 - 00:00:38.780, Speaker A: Hey everyone, what's up? So let's get it started. So let's go back a sec. Let's begin by first of all, contextualizing what gives a currency legitimacy, because it's going to be important in this talk. So the way I see it, you got trust, acceptance and value, and all those things need to be present. And in this case, we assume that we have trust and that comes through the blockchain in a digital currency, acceptance, that's another type of consensus. I'm not going to talk about that. Assume you're designing a currency, you've marketed it, people want to use it.
00:00:38.780 - 00:01:34.964, Speaker A: So really I'm going to talk about value, and I'm going to talk about how engineering design drives the value of your currency. So what's necessary to do that? There is another component which I'll mention right at the end, but that's what this talk's gonna be about. So specifically, we're gonna talk about the burn and mint tokenomics scheme. And to give a little bit of an overview of what that is in the burn and mint model, basically you have contributors and consumers and the platform in between the contributors, they provide a service to the platform, the platform provides a service to the consumer, and there's some tokens involved. The way these tokens work is the contributors are paid in these tokens and these tokens get generated out of nothingness, basically. And the consumers, they are paying with these tokens, and when they pay, these tokens get burned. So conceptually that's what's happening here.
00:01:34.964 - 00:02:51.914, Speaker A: But let's focus on the consumer part first. What does a consumer, how do they think this is important? Well, consumer is looking at just the service, right? Trying to figure out what does it cost to me and how much am I willing to pay for it. Does this provide value to me? And they can be, these services can be priced in any currency, but typically services are going to be priced in the consumer's unit of account, which is fiat in most experiences that I know of, and protocols, in order to price the services in fiat, what they do is they use like a pricing oracle in order to invert the price and then give you the token price. So basically the price can fluctuate in the token, but in fiat it stays pretty consistent, right? So let's fill out the picture. So on top of the schematic that I just showed, you've also got this exchange. So the exchange is a place where tokens are bought and sold. You have this new category of participant called a speculator.
00:02:51.914 - 00:03:35.154, Speaker A: Speculators in this case, as someone, some people we can probably forget about, speculators are there. I think about them as arbitrageurs, trying to actually trying to find the true price of the token. But realistically, the consumers and the contributors, they can be speculators, but that's a separate component of their identity. What's important is that price oracle. So that price oracle is a determinant of what the price of that service will be. And the price is the inverse price of whatever the price of token is on that exchange. But before we go into more detail, let me just give you a little bit about history, about Burnamint and burn mint equilibrium.
00:03:35.154 - 00:04:42.408, Speaker A: And right after that, we can start with the meat of this presentation. Basically, the genesis or invention of Burnham Mint was done by a project called Factum, formerly known as factum, and they introduced this back in 2016, I believe. And later it was popularized through an article by Carl Samani of Multicoin in new models for utility tokens. It was later further refined with the proposal of Hip 20, which was a helium improvement proposal, in which they introduced a deflationary burn and mint. The community introduced this, basically not minting the same amount of tokens, but to decrease the amount of tokens as time goes on in terms of rewards to miners, or as I've called them, contributors. Finally, we get to today, which is analysis, right? So, Onikoi, we at Onikoi have provided some analysis. We're the scientists that are sort of like taking credit for all the work that has been done before us.
00:04:42.408 - 00:06:12.854, Speaker A: You know, Allah, Isaac Newton and Leibniz. But basically, this work that we have done is, it's a so like a peer reviewed paper that has been published, I think, at this point, on IEEE Explorer, but it's called, you can see there, burn and mint tokenomics, deflation and strategic incentives. So basically, we've analyzed burn and mint from a strategic standpoint, like a game theoretic standpoint. So what's the strategy of token holders? What's the optimal strategy of token holders? And why is that important? Well, it's important because if you're a token holder, you can have a lot of questions in your head about what gives tokens value. And being part of Onikoi for a while now, I see our community speculating on this, and I see all sorts of questions, many of them irrational, perhaps, or certainly rational to somebody, but not necessarily strategic, not necessarily thinking about how should I strategically behave as a token holder? And when is this token overpriced, and when is it underpriced? And that's why it's important to do this sort of work, even though it may look a little bit esoteric. And to start really getting into this, let's think about what is rational. What's the first component of this rational scheme? Well, it's firstly, consumers don't care about the token price.
00:06:12.854 - 00:06:40.306, Speaker A: I mean, like I said, they could be speculators and consumers. Speculation is a different part of their identity. But as a consumer, you're looking to buy this thing, and if it costs $50 or whatever the service is, the price is 50. It's $50, and the token price doesn't matter to you. It could be $0.01, it could be $1. You're still going to pay dollar 50 for this, perhaps a little more, because you got to buy that token, spend a little bit of your time.
00:06:40.306 - 00:07:23.506, Speaker A: Maybe there's a service that does that for you, a value added service that, like, takes 3%. I don't know. But point is, you're paying about $50 for this thing as advertised. So what that means is that if you think about it, like, let's say the exchange were just, there was just one participant in the exchange. Let's say the platform itself were setting the price, like through, let's say, like a centralized economy or something like that, or a fully planned economy. And let's say the fiat price is five, right? Well, if the token price is also five, that means it's going to be worth one token. And then when you sell that service, you just, again, inverse.
00:07:23.506 - 00:07:51.656, Speaker A: Your value capture of the platform side is going to be five. So the price is five, the value capture is five. Same thing with, again, price is five. But then let's say as the only participant on the exchange, you set the price to whatever you want it to be, and you say it's 250. Well, now it's worth two tokens. And again, your value capture is five. My point with this slide is that it doesn't matter.
00:07:51.656 - 00:08:15.874, Speaker A: You can play with this token price all day. As a platform, you are also valued in fiat, and you can be valued in fiat. You can choose to be valued in whatever you want. But if we analyze this from being valued in fiat, the price is five. Consumer doesn't care. Your value capture is five in fiat. So if anybody's measuring you in fiat, it's just going to be five.
00:08:15.874 - 00:09:15.802, Speaker A: The token price doesn't matter there either. But when does it matter? It matters when it's not monopolistic, when there are multiple players on the exchange, and in this case it starts to become interesting because you can have player a saying, okay, I got this pile of tokens. And player b also having this pile of tokens, how many tokens am I willing to put up on the exchange to sell? And the way to think about it is, well, look, you have this forced revenue going into the exchange, or, sorry, forced cash going into this exchange. And it's being forced because that consumer needs to buy this service, right? And you know that it's coming. So you can be the one to get some of this money, or you could not be. It's up to you. So the question is, how many of your tokens should you be willing to give up to get that, knowing that those tokens will be taken by that consumer and burned.
00:09:15.802 - 00:10:08.662, Speaker A: Right? So player a and b, they put in a and b, respectively, amount of tokens in and the amount of value that they're going to capture from the incoming fiat revenue here, it's going to be proportional to the amount of tokens that they put in. So it's just me explaining how this works. And in that sense, burn and mint is a proportional revenue sharing mechanism. And so now we can really start to analyze and see how this game should be played. So moving forward, if you take a look at this at any player, they are probably thinking, okay, so I have this incoming fiat or expected incoming fiat, and I have to determine my expected outgoing burn. So the value of all that fiat we could call v. The value of all the burn that's going to go out.
00:10:08.662 - 00:10:51.542, Speaker A: So that's basically your pile that you're holding of tokens. That's going to be called q. The first result that I'm going to mention here, which is quite cool and important, it's that the ratio of the current burn to your pile of tokens should be equal to the incoming revenue at that time divided by the entire value, expected value of the fiat. And I could. This will take a very long time. Not out of scope for this presentation to explain why this is and go into details about mathematics, but intuitively it makes sense. And you can think about it kind of like a no arb type of arg through a no arb type of argument.
00:10:51.542 - 00:11:51.220, Speaker A: Because let's say the ratios are off, there's always an opportunity for a speculator to come in and make a little bit of money. So the ratio of those two piles, one the fiat pile and the token pile, and the amounts that you take off the top should be about the same. And what this means is that the value of a burner mint economy is equal to the net present value of the cash flow. So basically, the value of cash that's going to be coming in. And that's really how you should think about this, about burning mint when you're trying to value it. Anyway, before going on, I'm going to get to this Goldilocks stuff pretty soon, but before going on, what's the effect of mint? Minting is basically future tokens that haven't come to you yet. So I was talking about piles of tokens.
00:11:51.220 - 00:12:52.388, Speaker A: Well, you could have a pile right now, but you could also have addition, in addition to that pile, an expected amount that's going to be coming in. And for that reason, you should probably be more willing to burn more tokens in the current time because you have an expectation of more tokens coming into the future. For the same reason that, let's say, a young person may be more ready to take on risk than an older person, just because they have more time and more economic opportunities ahead of themselves. And some math. Now, if before you didn't think that was math, but basically you've got these two sketches here. One is that there's economic value, right? It's driven by the revenue coming in and it decreases with the amount of mint rewards priced in fiat. The token supply similar, it increases with amount of mint and decreases with amount of burn.
00:12:52.388 - 00:13:40.704, Speaker A: And you get these two dynamic equations. And the first one is again a net present value type of equation, where rho is your discount rate. So that's the discount rate, the prevailing discount rate of the people share within an economy. And mu is the token price. So mu M is the amount of payment going to your contributors, right? And y is the amount of payment coming into the platform from consumers. But you get into this Goldilocks problem. So if you look at the value equation and you look at the price dynamics, so the price dynamics here, because it's a deflationary economy, because of the discount rate, is positive, the price is always going up.
00:13:40.704 - 00:14:19.424, Speaker A: But the problem here is it's not enough for the price to go up because mu times M needs to be a certain amount. If mu M is large, what you're doing is you're paying contributors too much from the perspective of token holders. So token holders will abandon your economy because they'll be like, I'm not getting enough of enough value. If it's too small, then you're not paying your contributors enough. Although your token holders might seemingly like it at first. No one's going to like it when you are getting zero contributions to your platform. And in that case, your economy will also collapse.
00:14:19.424 - 00:14:57.782, Speaker A: So. But the main thing now to think about is, what does this depend on? And if we start to think about. Okay, so deflationary mint should fix this, right? Like hip 20? Well, the deflationary mint, yes, it. It does help things. It decreases the amount given to contributors as time goes on at a rate of what is called here rho d, the deflation rate. But the reward dynamics, if you take the derivative of mu m, you get that it equals to rho minus rho d times mu m. So if you think about it, the sign there is important.
00:14:57.782 - 00:15:32.666, Speaker A: If it's positive, it means you have an exponential rise, at least locally speaking. If it's negative, you've got this exponential fall. So again, too large and too little. So how do you get the Goldilocks? And if equations are not your thing, here's some graphs. Purple shows the situation where the contributors don't receive enough, right. So there, the value seemingly stays pretty flat. It seemingly is an economy that's going to be, let's say, providing the value that token holders are looking for.
00:15:32.666 - 00:16:14.244, Speaker A: However, the rewards are going down exponentially. So at some point, given that contributors do work for positive amounts of money, it's going to reach a threshold where you just do not have enough contributors. And in all fairness to hip 20, by the way, there is a net emissions in that that's supposed to fix that, as far as I understand, not have been implemented yet. The blue line shows the situation where you're providing, let's say, too much to the contributors. So you can see there an exponential rise. Eventually, your token holders will abandon you and the value of your economy will collapse. And so this is just simulating those equations, those very same equations that I showed you.
00:16:14.244 - 00:17:03.856, Speaker A: So, again, what do you need to do? You need to set the deflation rate to be equal to the discount rate, and you're done, right? But that's not possible, right? How are we going to know the discount rate? Like, I can't get into every single person's mind in the world and determine that. We can guess at it. We can make, like, our own Federal reserve of Onikoi, I suppose, and guess at that. But the point is, it's just a fairy tale, right, to be able to do something like that. The good news is we do have a solution, and that is basically to extend that price oracle from the burn side also to the mint side. And in that way, what you get is a Goldilocks economy. So before I moved on to the next slide, let me repeat that.
00:17:03.856 - 00:17:33.248, Speaker A: Basically what you should do is price the mint rewards in fiat to contributors. So don't say, look, I'm going to give you a certain amount of tokens on a deflationary schedule. And one year you get this, next year you get that, etc, etcetera. Having period, you know, very bitcoiny. I suppose yours is going to get $5 a day. That's what I'm going to give you. And if you do the math, and so here, z is the.
00:17:33.248 - 00:17:59.496, Speaker A: That $5 that you're getting. And so the mint should be z divided by mu, which is the price, right? And if you do that and you just take the derivative of m, in that case you get that m dot equals minus rho m, which is exactly what we wanted. And that's how we got Goldilocks. And it's just. Right. So if you do the simulation there, you'll see the rewards are flat. Obviously that's by design.
00:17:59.496 - 00:18:37.324, Speaker A: And the value also stays pretty high. So everyone's happy. Contributors and token holders. But to finish, let me go back to what's necessary here. And this is a point that wasn't really made in our work, but it's something that I'd like to mention here. And that is that there's no free lunch, right? Like we as designers and engineers, tokenomics engineers, let's say all we can do is ensure that this economy works, right? We can make mistakes that cause it to collapse. But we can't just create money out of thin air.
00:18:37.324 - 00:18:52.664, Speaker A: The value has to come from something and that is revenue. So focus on the revenue as a project and just make sure you don't make any mistakes with the tokenomics and you'll be fine. That's it. Thank you so much.
