00:00:00.570 - 00:00:35.862, Speaker A: Hi everyone. My name is Tim Roughgarden and I want to welcome you to this video lecture series on the foundations of blockchains. So in this lecture and lecture number one of the series, I want to do two things. So first of all in this video and the next video, I want to give you a sense of what to expect from all of these lectures. So how the course is going to be organized, the intended audience and so on. The second thing I want to do in the third and fourth videos of lecture one is do some of the setup that we're going to need in order to discuss consensus protocols in earnest beginning in lecture number two. So without further ado, let's get started.
00:00:35.862 - 00:01:51.950, Speaker A: So first of all, who are these lectures for? Who should be watching these videos? Well, I put them all up on YouTube for free for a reason, which was so that anybody who wants to watch these videos was free to do so. That said, I still think it's probably helpful for you to understand when I write these lectures, who do I have in mind as a sort of canonical viewer? And so I'm thinking primarily of someone who probably has some type of computer science training, possibly kind of formally through a university degree program or possibly mostly self taught and just sort of picked up from working in the trenches. Either way is totally fine. So what do I mean by sort of some computer science training? Well, for example, I'd expect a typical viewer to be somewhat comfortable with programming, not necessarily in blockchain specific programming languages, but maybe just some general purpose languages like say, Python, Java, et cetera. Ideally you have the level of mathematical maturity that you're sort of forced to acquire when you study computer science. For example, if you want to understand how and why various algorithms work. That said, if you hate math, or if you're feeling sort of very shaky on the math, the videos which are on mathematical proofs, you should be able to skip without much loss of continuity.
00:01:51.950 - 00:02:33.194, Speaker A: Finally, there's certain sort of recurring concepts that come up over and over again in computer science and if you study it, you tend to start thinking in a certain way. So for example, thinking in terms of abstractions. So for example, you might have some functionality that you care about and then you separate the functionality you're exporting to the outside world versus the details of how you actually implement that functionality. The ideas of modularity and composability. So the idea that, for example, different objects or different functions can call on each other in complicated ways and also just kind of specific tools that come up over and over again. Like maybe you've come across hash functions in some context in the past. So that's the type of canonical viewer that I have in mind.
00:02:33.194 - 00:03:09.558, Speaker A: But if you don't fit this profile, don't worry about it. If you want to watch these videos, watch these videos. If I've done my job properly, anyone sort of enthusiastic about blockchains and wants to understand them at a deep level should find watching these videos a good use of their time. Now, if I had to summarize kind of the main focus of this lecture series in just one sentence, I'd say our focus is going to be on the science and technology of blockchain protocols as well as some of the applications that are built on top of them. And it's worth emphasizing what these lectures are not about. So there's going to be basically no hype in these lectures. Okay, maybe like a couple of minutes in this video, but that'll be it.
00:03:09.558 - 00:03:53.874, Speaker A: So I'm going to assume that by virtue of you watching this video, rather than the million other things you could be doing with your time, I'm going to be assuming that you're already excited about the potential of blockchain technologies and that you're ready to put in the time and effort to understand them in some depth. We're also not going to be talking about investment. There will be no financial advice in this lecture series. We won't be talking about whether the price of Bitcoin is going to go up or down in the future. Totally not the point of what we're going to be discussing. We're not going to talk about entrepreneurship, starting blockchain startups, and that sort of thing. And while we will learn a fair amount about how certain blockchain protocols like Bitcoin and Ethereum, how they work, we're going to stop short of sort of really nitty gritty engineering details.
00:03:53.874 - 00:05:02.262, Speaker A: Like we'll never, for example, examine line by line some smart contract. We will not get down to that level of detail that would just be outside the scope of this lecture series. Rather, our focus will be on fundamental principles, both in terms of blockchain design and in terms of the analysis of properties of blockchain protocols, or at least such as they are at the time of this recording in late 2021. It's very early days in Blockchains, and not least in terms of our academic understanding of Blockchains, but what we do know I will tell you a fair amount about in this lecture series. And my goal here is to equip you with a collection of tools and concepts that will allow you to, first of all, look at blockchain technologies and applications as they exist today and to intelligently evaluate and compare them. To really cut through all of the marketing crap that you see everywhere and have a sort of educated assessment of the pros and cons of the different existing technologies. Secondly, I want you to understand that there are fundamental trade offs in solving problems, like, for example, consensus.
00:05:02.262 - 00:05:36.578, Speaker A: There's no perfect solution. There's no silver bullet. Any working system is going to have to make some compromises. And I want you to be able to understand today's technologies in terms of choosing different points on a trade off curve. And finally, I'm really hoping it would really be awesome if the tools and concepts you learned from this lecture series help you build something new and exciting in the upcoming years. As I said, it's super early days with Blockchains and our understanding of their power and limitations. There's certainly a lot of high impact work that needs to be done over the next decade.
00:05:36.578 - 00:06:26.898, Speaker A: Maybe this lecture series will give you a little edge in pulling that off. So let me conclude this video just with a few comments before we move on to talking about how the material is going to be organized. And this is maybe the couple of minutes of hype that I promised you earlier in the video. I think it's really good to be cognizant that I believe right now we're in a very particular moment in time and actually that future generations of programmers and computer scientists and entrepreneurs will be jealous that you were where you are when you are. Specifically, I believe that we're witnessing the emergence of a fundamentally new area of computer science. Blockchains, of course, draw on well understood parts of computer science, for example, cryptography and distributed systems. It also draws on well understood theories from outside computer science, for example, game theory and finance.
00:06:26.898 - 00:07:09.122, Speaker A: But the interdisciplinary synthesis, plus the sort of extra sort of ideas that people are coming up with, in my view, really signal that we're watching a fundamentally new area of science and engineering come into being and future generations. Of students, programmers, entrepreneurs, et cetera. They will be very jealous when you tell them that you were learning this stuff. Really? That you got to get in on the ground floor. I really believe it's sort of like getting into the internet and the World Wide Web in the early 1990s. That's what a moment in time it feels like right now. And in fact, I really can't overstate the opportunities that would be available to anybody who masters the material that I'm going to talk about in this lecture series.
00:07:09.122 - 00:08:09.970, Speaker A: The current demand for this kind of expertise is much, much bigger than the current supply. Maybe a sort of tangential goal of this lecture series is perhaps it can serve as a partial corrective for what I think is the very misleading and misguided coverage of Blockchain technologies you often see in mainstream media and elsewhere. I mean, Odly just lots of people's vision of Blockchain seems just kind of stuck in 2013. Like really overly focused on Bitcoin, overly focused on the Use case of payments, haunted by the specter of Silk Road, focused on the environmental impacts. All of that stuff was super relevant when Bitcoin was the only game in town back in 2013. But that is no longer the case, and it'll be even less the case as we move forward through this coming decade, through the I'm continually stunned by sort of how many people, including, frankly, a ton of computer science academics, seem to have sort of utterly failed to grok the modern vision for where blockchains are going. The point is not just bitcoin and payments.
00:08:09.970 - 00:08:49.606, Speaker A: The point is really to invent the next generation of the Internet and the web and hey, maybe other stuff, as well as a final comment, even though maybe this is self evident. I mean, this lecture series is really not optimized for the person who wants a sort of quick and dirty superficial understanding of some aspect of blockchains. And I say superficial without judgment because, believe me, there are like a zillion topics where I just watch a ten minute YouTube video and then call it a day. I'm happy with that sort of limited understanding. Now, I've chopped each of the lectures into reasonably bite sized pieces, videos of manageable length. And so if you want to interact with the playlist just by kind of poking around, watching a little bit here, a little bit there, that's fine. I encourage you to do that.
00:08:49.606 - 00:09:21.530, Speaker A: But just be aware that I really think this video lecture series, it's hopefully optimal for the subset of you that are already kind of willing and excited to spend a number of hours digging deep, thinking hard, learning some tough material, but in exchange being rewarded with a depth of understanding that few others have. All right, so that sort of wraps up where I'm coming from and the themes you should expect from this course. Now let's move to the next video where I'll tell you in more detail how all of the material is going to be organized throughout the video playlist.
