00:00:00.320 - 00:00:47.223, Speaker A: Efficacious and cost and time effective. But of course, with such complexity as we here know, that's where math and computational analysis becomes really handy. And that's what I do at Simulations plus as a quantitative systems pharmacologist. So more generally we work across the drug development pipeline in applying computational techniques to aid in the, in the whole process, from drug discovery, clinical trial design, down to regulatory filings. What I'm talking about today is our work, some of our work. In quantitative systems pharmacology and in QSP modeling, we generally have two main goals. One is to predict efficacy of a given compound in a given treatment, and the other is to predict adverse events.
00:00:47.223 - 00:01:23.831, Speaker A: And in these QSP models, we generally break it down into three facets of modeling. The first being pathophysiology, in which we. Sorry, we are displaying the world could call. Good. Okay, good catch. Thank you. So the first facet of QSP modeling that we include is pathophysiology.
00:01:23.831 - 00:02:23.427, Speaker A: So this is to have a quantitative representation of the disease. So this is going to include what is a healthy state patient, what is a disease state patient, and what does progression look like? How do we get from A to B? We'll combine this with modeling of drug exposure. So this can often be done independently from your QSP model and simply fed in. This will take the form of pop, PK modeling, PPPK modeling, and then we'll connect these two using modeling of pharmacodynamics and mechanisms of action and connect the effect of the drug and its exposure to the pathophysiology, modulating the disease itself and the patient more broadly, to get an understanding of how the drugs are affecting the patient and then lead to predictions of clinical endpoints of efficacy and safety. These models get pretty big. And so naturally we have a good degree of optimization. And so what we typically do in these situations is use all the data we possibly can in our fitting.
00:02:23.427 - 00:03:46.015, Speaker A: And what this typically means is that if we're modeling a particular disease indication, we include data from every available phase 2 and 3 clinical trial. And just as a selection here of kind of what this entails, scope wise for some of our selection of our more mature models here, this means fitting to a number of trials in the dozens and a number of target fitting constraints in the hundreds of thousands. Rheumatoid arthritis is one of our most mature models that we work with which has close to 6,000 fitting constraints. And so this can get quite intensive from a fitting perspective. In oncology, this gets even worse because in oncology, clinical Trials, it becomes extra important to get a good representation of the complexity of the clinical trials itself. And why it's worse in oncology is because very often it's the case that you work with basket trials and companies are interested, they might have a compound and they're not exactly sure which indication it's going to be most effective in. So for example, if you are a company that has a, let's say a PD L1 inhibitor, PD L1 pathway is implicated in many cancers, and so your compound has potential application, potential efficacy in several indications.
00:03:46.015 - 00:04:50.615, Speaker A: Running clinical trials, you know, in a basket sense, where you want to identify whether you have some degree of efficacy in many indications, is super expensive. And of course, that's where modeling can come in and be helpful. But it can only really come in and be helpful if your models are ready to go and can be able to keep up with clinical trial timelines, which is much, much easier said than done. And so for us, we use our modeling platform called Thales. I won't go into all the details about it other than to say it is a modeling platform designed specifically to make models which are for modeling clinical trials. It includes a high level coding language to encode the biology we want to get in. It includes generation of virtual patients from the outset of model design because this is a key part of modeling of clinical trials, and then has explicit software objects to model pieces of clinical trial protocols which would otherwise be quite challenging to get in.
00:04:50.615 - 00:05:58.401, Speaker A: So this standardization modeling approach is great and speeds up our timelines quite a bit in modeling, but frankly, it's often not quick enough because clinical trial timelines and decision making for clinical teams at companies is often really fast. And so you got to be on the ball with these things. And so in the solid tumor space particularly, we've come up with a way to speed this up to try to match clinical timelines as best we can. And this is by creating what we call a core solid tumor model. So this core solid tumor model is a model which contains the processes, cell types, mechanisms that are common across a wide ray of solid tumor indications, such that we don't need to model a bunch of things twice. We'll put into this solid tumor, general solid tumor model things that we don't expect to change indication to indication. And then we treat this as essentially a software library which we import into our more specific models and then specify down to the indication of interest to meet the needs that we are faced with diving in a little bit more.
00:05:58.401 - 00:06:53.359, Speaker A: What does this actually mean? It's a giant ODE model which includes stuff like this. So we have split it into three compartments where we model different things. The tumor, for example, the lymph node and the serum all have processes within them. And then within this we'll include things that are common across most solid tumor indications. So for example, proliferation of cancer cells, it's pretty standard in all cancer types. Regulation of the immune system, innate adapt mechanisms, T cell infiltration, natural killer cells are all going to be implicated and to various degrees of importance in all sorts of solitary medications. So we include that, we'll include the effects of the most notable cytokines, the three of them listed here, both tumor supportive and suppressive, because these are going to be important in most cases.
00:06:53.359 - 00:07:45.069, Speaker A: And that out of the box will include therapies that are commonly applied across as well. So chemotherapies, immune checkpoint inhibitors, antiangiogenics, things like that. Then key part here is that we will also include in all of our models modeling of the specific endpoints that are going to be reported in a clinical trial for solid tumors. This is usually World Health Organization grade classifications, resist criteria, overall survival, progression free survival, things of that nature. We'll make direct predictions of those quantities. Additionally we will in these models, because solid tumors as a disease is not about a tumor, it's often multiple lesions. We'll split up to have primary lesions and a number of metastatic lesions.
00:07:45.069 - 00:09:08.225, Speaker A: And then within each of those lesions we'll split down further to model different microenvironments within each tumor, which could represent different zones, like necrotic zones, like we were talking about in some of the previous presentations, but also like clonal subpopulations within a tumor, which behave differently and are important to capture to really get a sense of how a tumor is going to respond to a drug. So as an example here I'm going to specify down from our general solid tumor model and take a look at how this would actually work. And I'm going to look at a specific example here which is metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. And so we take our general framework of this core solid tumor model and start adding mechanisms, adding parameterizations to specify it. And so for prostate cancer, key thing is prostate specific antigen, which is reported in basically all clinical trials for prostate cancer to use as a diagnostic and efficacy biomarker. And so we add essentially a sub module onto our larger model or our more general model, I should say, which includes the species, the mechanisms, the dynamics of processes, to include PSA within the model. And then we'll make predictions based on this about how it feeds back into the model, how it's going to be outputted as clinical trial endpoints.
00:09:08.225 - 00:09:55.273, Speaker A: Additionally, when we specify down, we're also going to overwrite many of the parameters that exist in our larger framework. And so we'll do this for the most of the biological processes that of interest. We wouldn't do that for the number of T cells you're going to see produced in the whole system, that's probably unlikely to change, but the infiltration of those T cells into the various tissues, that is going to change depending on where you are in the body, for example. But we'll also do this for drug effects. So two here just to show I have Enzalutamide, which is an androgen receptor inhibitor commonly applied in prostate cancer. It Olaparib, which is a PARP inhibitor. And then we will take these, search the literature for any information we can have to help us parameterize these things specific to our population of interest.
00:09:55.273 - 00:11:06.125, Speaker A: Not just the disease, but the population which in this case is metastatic castration resistant patients. So we have to specify to certain cell lines which are going to be representative of that population. And so we do that and we can run simple fits and get ideas of how do we quantitatively parameterize these things to make it as reasonable as possible to get a sense of how these drugs are gonna affect not only this disease, but the patients that enter this trial. Additionally, we'll model, as I said before, the specific endpoints that are reported in clinical trials. And these will be derived from the underlying measures. And so in prostate cancer, these are most notably the resist criteria endpoints, which will split into four categories, complete response, partial response, stable disease and progressive disease, based on basically the tumor size and how that tumor size has changed from the beginning to the end of treatment. With that you can derive what's called a best overall response that a patient has achieved during that trial and an overall response rate so whether or not the patient responds.
00:11:06.125 - 00:11:39.295, Speaker A: And then look at that as a proportion of the population that entered the trial. And then we'll also make predictions of how well how many patients in our population achieve 50 and 90% decreases in their level of PSA from baseline at the start of the trial. From these we make time based estimates as well. So time to response and duration of response. And then we'll do survival as well. So we have machine learning models that take that are trained to predict survival based on model outputs. And from this we can have predictions of overall survival and progression free survival.
00:11:39.295 - 00:12:18.599, Speaker A: Excuse me. And so just some examples of what, what this ends up looking like. So key thing here is that when we fit our models, we fit a population. It's not so much a model, it's not parameters, it's a population. We have a model which we say models prostate cancer, for example, and then we fit a population to it. And so this global population is assumed to apply to all clinical trials that we've included. And so, for example, here all the dots on these plots, or the x's, I should say, are ones that are reported from clinical trials that have taken place in the last several decades.
00:12:18.599 - 00:12:46.965, Speaker A: And then the bars are our model predictions with associated confidence intervals. So on the top left we have cabazitaxel, which is a chemotherapy commonly applied in prostate cancer. Abiraterone's androgen receptor inhibitor. Bottom left we have a nivolumab ipilimumab combination therapy, which are a PDL1 and CTLA4 inhibitor, respectively. And then bottom right is cabazitax, again at a different dose. And now use that validation. And so all of these are going to be trained simultaneously.
00:12:46.965 - 00:13:45.921, Speaker A: And the predictions here are done using a single population, which is important. And you can see we're pretty good on all these, including the abiraterone one, which has those two data points are actually used as placebo in two separate trials. And turns out they were quite different for whatever reason, which one of them was a pretty low end, which is why we think it's different. But we're in the middle of that, which is nice. Similarly, we can take a look at how we do on overall response rate predictions. So again, just looking at taking our global population feeding into the model and saying, all right, what do we expect for how many patients are responders to each of these therapies? And then finally, we can also look at predictions of how many patients will achieve sufficient decreases in their level of prostate specific antigen, which in prostate cancer is what is a huge important biomarker. And we're pretty good.
00:13:45.921 - 00:14:43.405, Speaker A: And zolutamide on the top, we had that one before. He's an anti receptor inhibitor. And then it might have again here. And so to sum up here, solid tumor modeling, solid tumor clinical trial modeling is an interesting space because therapies are similar enough that pharmaceutical companies will often believe that they have potential efficacy in many indications, and they might, but they're different enough that they don't usually have efficacy in many indications and that you need to model them differently. And so these clinical timelines can be pretty quick. And so with a standardized modeling framework, it's often still not fast enough. And so we've created this method to quickly branch into disease indications that we need to try to model clinical trials directly and make predictions in that respect.
00:14:43.405 - 00:15:08.545, Speaker A: And this has been helpful and has allowed us to get involved in several clinical trials with numerous companies with potential candidates in the solid tumor space, which ideally helps to speed up those timelines and get those drugs out there to help people. So it's fun and fast paced work and happy to answer any questions, brother. Thank you.
