00:00:00.480 - 00:00:23.702, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 1 March 2021. Alright, everyone, brand new month ahead of us. So today I'll be going over the kind of news from the weekend, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. There's a fair bit that happened so we can get right into it. But before I did that, I guess, you know, a bit of comments on the price action. Right.
00:00:23.702 - 00:00:37.986, Speaker A: It seems that we had a bit of, a bit of craziness over the weekend. Right. I think Ethan dropped down to almost $1,300. You know, Bitcoin was about 43k or something like that. It's pretty brutal. It was definitely not fun. But I posted this kind of chart to Twitter.
00:00:37.986 - 00:01:28.846, Speaker A: I don't usually post charts on there, but basically what this shows is bitcoin's last cycle. So its last market cycle from 2014, I think, kind of like its last all time high when it went to about $1200, which was end of 2013 up until, you know, I guess the beginning of 2017 when it broke through its all time high with kind of conviction there. And you can kind of see on the, on the right hand side, we have ETH from its last all time high, which was obviously the beginning of 2018 when it went to $1,400, to kind of today when it's just broken out and kind of gone up, but then came back down and, and kind of, I drawn, I've drawn some lines here and it's kind of showing that these patterns look very similar. Right. I'm not, you know, much of a chart guy. I don't really do any technical analysis or stuff like that, actively trade. But I do like zooming out and looking at the kind of macro picture.
00:01:28.846 - 00:02:17.084, Speaker A: Now, I've been a firm believer in the thesis that if, in terms of its market cycle, is just repeating bitcoins kind of last market cycle, and it seems that that's kind of what's happening here. And, you know, it lines up pretty well because I guess this was posted about 24 hours ago now. And since then, we've kind of bounced off that line that I drew on ETH and we're back up to over $1,500, which is exactly what happened, I guess, on, you know, on the left hand side chart there. And these are weekly charts. So kind of gives you a nice little, little picture there. But yeah, I just thought this was very interesting. And I also thought it was interesting to compare the two in terms of the bear market, they look pretty similar, right? Except, like the bear market this time, I guess at the beginning of 2020, ETH had, was part of the black swan COVID kind of dump.
00:02:17.084 - 00:02:48.848, Speaker A: But you see, it was trending up before that. So if we didn't have the black swan kind of COVID dump, I think we would have just kept trending up and it would have looked even more similar to the chart on the left for BTC. So, yeah, I guess that's just something to keep in mind. I'm not going to say that, you know, this is going to play out exactly as it is or whatever, but the market generally, on a long enough time frame, especially within crypto, seems to play out like this. I think it's got a lot to do with kind of the network effects of these kind of things. Right. Because if you think about it, bitcoin is, I think it's double Ethereum's age.
00:02:48.848 - 00:03:27.442, Speaker A: So, you know, bitcoin came out in 2019. And I guess you can say 2010 was really when, you know, people started getting at least a little bit interested in it. 2019 was very bare bones. So if you say 2010, you know, that means bitcoin's been out for 1011 years, right? Ethereum has been out since 2015, so about five, six years there. So, you know, if we take that into account, then really, if Ethereum keeps growing like bitcoin did, in terms of awareness, in terms of, like, new addresses on the network, in terms of, like, usage, which has already surpassed bitcoin, and in terms of, like, people buying ETH, right. I think we're going to see that play out. And, you know, it's just a bonus that the prices are pretty much, like, very similar as well.
00:03:27.442 - 00:03:59.826, Speaker A: If, you know, the unit prices, at least the market caps obviously are wildly different, but the unit prices are very similar, too. So that plays into this narrative, which I thought was pretty, pretty interesting. But, yeah, we'll see how it goes from here. Maybe we do kind of, like, trend up really quickly from here, like BTC did at the beginning of 2017 there. I don't know, usually march during a bull market is pretty good for ETH. You know, I don't know if we're going to have, like, a really bad march like we did last year, because last year was a black swan, as I said, and where, you know, kind of like everything dumped at once worldwide. It wasn't just crypto.
00:03:59.826 - 00:04:38.464, Speaker A: It was like stocks and, you know, bonds and everything, like the equities, like everything. And on top of that, I think as I said, like, march is really good for Ethan, for other coins, not particularly good for BTC. I think BTC kind of goes sideways or trends down a little bit usually in March, but we'll have to see, have to see how it plays out, you know, fresh month. We'll have to see over the next kind of 30 or so days how we go from here. Speaking of March, I put out this tweet, I guess a couple days ago, saying I have a feeling that March is going to be a very good month for Ethereum and ETH. And then I followed it up with the reasons why. Now, I dived a bit deeper into this in the Delegate newsletter today, but basically I'll go over what I said.
00:04:38.464 - 00:05:22.408, Speaker A: So basically the first point is that optimism is going live. So as I explained on last week's refuel, optimism announced that optimistic, their optimistic Ethereum network, which is a layer to scaling network, is going live on Ethereum mainnet in March, I think mid March from what I've seen as well. And I think this is going to help a lot with the quote unquote Ethereum can't scale narrative, right? Because that's been very prevalent over the last few months, especially with the high gas fees and everything like that. And people are acting like the high gas fees are saying that's going to be around forever, which is just bizarre to me. You know, people saying, you know, how can ETH, you know, can continue growing when the fees are high, it can't scale, blah, blah. And they're just completely ignoring the fact that we are working on solutions for this. So I think, you know, optimistic ethereum going live is going to help with that.
00:05:22.408 - 00:06:02.852, Speaker A: There are other scaling solutions as well. Going live. You know, obviously I'm an advisor to Polygon, which used to be called matic. They're doing a lot of good stuff. They're getting a lot more kind of apps on their platform as well and things like that, and they're building more technology there. There's other solutions like I think immutable x from immutable is launching soon, not sure exactly when, but pretty soon, I think, which is going to be really cool as well. On the kind of price side, you know, ETH consolidating around its old all time high price is actually pretty bullish, right? Setting a nice little floor there, you know, above 1400 and then continuing up from there after testing it is, you know, based on the technical indicators, based on kind of market action is pretty bullish.
00:06:02.852 - 00:06:34.284, Speaker A: This month we're going to have hard forks for the Berlin. Sorry. We're going to have test nets for the Berlin hard fork and then hopefully the Berlin hard fork in April, which is the next ethereum network upgrade. And then we will most likely get the all clear for EIP 1559 to be included in the London hard fork, which is scheduled for July. Now, there was the EIP 155 in the nine community call that happened on Friday that I will go over at the end of the episode. I've got it scheduled for them because it's going to be a bit of a lengthy discussion there. But yeah, these are all very bullish catalysts in March kind of bleeding into April.
00:06:34.284 - 00:07:13.964, Speaker A: And obviously, you know, 1559 going live in July is going to be huge. So. And this isn't even to mention, like, all the other stuff happening, right, the NFT craziness bringing all these new people in, you know, Defi apps going live seemingly every day now, you know, major upgrades coming to different Defi apps, Defi apps getting on L2 so they can scale better. I mean, there's so much to be bullish about right now with Ethereum in general that this price action, I mean, I saw it, I'm like, you know, it's normal for Easter fall, you, you know, know, or ETH or BTC to fall like 35% during bull markets. That's completely normal. You know, BTSC did it many times in 2017. You know, ETH at one point fell 70% from 420 to like 120.
00:07:13.964 - 00:07:48.014, Speaker A: So completely normal to see these kind of things. I know people get scared because it's like, you know, was that it, is the bull market over? I've been saying obviously, for the past, you know, week since the crash happened that I don't think the bull market's over. And it's nice to see a bit of a recovery happening right now. But yeah, it's always hard to tell with the price, but I think, you know, it's always good to look at the fundamentals, step away from the charts, listen to some podcasts. What really helps me, actually, is listening to podcasts because they're very positive, right? You get to hear from the builders and you get really excited about things. I mean, the other day I told you guys that I was listening to the. The scaling podcast on the bankless.
00:07:48.014 - 00:08:19.014, Speaker A: On the Bankless podcast, the one with synthetix, loop, ring and immutable. And, you know, that was just getting me really, really bullish. And this was during the massive crash when it was coming down from 2008 was like, it 1500 again. And I was like, ah, like, what you know, it was kind of like, I mean, you know, crappy to see that happen, right. But then, you know, you step away and you remember why you're so bullish based on the fundamentals, not based on like, the day to day price movement. So always good to keep that in mind as well. But yeah, March is shaping up to be a really, really awesome month for Ethereum, I think.
00:08:19.014 - 00:08:48.094, Speaker A: Speaking of its value, I did want to talk about this tweet that I put out about its value accrual pillars. Now, I think I've spoken about it on the refill before, but basically ETH has these three main value accrual pillars, the first one being staking in ETH two, which will just be called ethereum eventually, of course. So I guess just staking ETH in general. Right. There's currently 3.3 million ETH staked, which is about $5 billion, I think at current prices, maybe a bit less than that. And that's earning an ETH denominated return.
00:08:48.094 - 00:09:15.114, Speaker A: Right. I think demand for staking is just going to be persistent. I think we're always going to have millions of ETH staked. I think it's going to settle around a certain amount because of the APY that gets paid. I don't think that'll get. That might get to a point where it's too low for people to kind of stake, but there'll always be like this perpetual kind of like ETH staked, and then the existing stakers are probably just going to restake or just take the ETH and use it as collateral in Defi. Which brings me to my second point, that ETH is trustless collateral in Defi.
00:09:15.114 - 00:09:34.186, Speaker A: It is, you know, highly liquid collateral, right. It is accepted everywhere as collateral. It is completely decentralized because it's the native token of the Ethereum network. And you don't have to trust anyone. Like, you know, there's a lot of custodial kind of collateral solutions like WBTC, where you have to trust that they're not going to freeze your WBTC. Right. With ETH, you don't have to trust anyone.
00:09:34.186 - 00:09:48.140, Speaker A: And there's currently 8.4 million ETH locked in DeFi right now. A lot of it's in maker, right, supporting a lot of DAi, which is really cool. I think that's just going to keep growing. You know, the fact that we already have 8.4 million in there is really, really bullish. That's like, I think.
00:09:48.140 - 00:10:31.596, Speaker A: How much of a supply is that? I think it's like five or 6% of the total supply or something like that. So it's a lot, right? And then the third bit here for its, for its value accrual pillars, is that it's used to pay fees on the network. And this is going to be constant demand forever. As long as the Ethereum network is used, ETH will be used to pay fees. And this, of course, is supercharged with EIP 1559, not only because of the fee burning, but also because it cements ETH as the only token that can be used to pay the base fee. Right? Because the ERP 1559 comes with the base fee and the tip. And as I've explained on the refill before, right now, miners can actually go completely around this and then just like put whatever transactions they want into blocks and accept transaction fees out of bounds.
00:10:31.596 - 00:11:18.060, Speaker A: So I can go to a miner or a mining pool and kind of say, hey, can you put this transaction in? Instead of paying you, you know, $10 in ETH, I'm going to pay you $10 in USDC. And if they take that, then they completely bypass the need to pay ETH for fees. Right? Now, obviously, the coordination efforts and everything like this means that this probably wouldn't take off in a big way. But what 1559 does with the base fees, it basically cements that the base fee always has to be paid in ETH, which is then burned. So that's a kind of a double whammy there for ETH value accrual. And the reason why these are value accrual pillars is because staking brings demand for ETH, right? Because people want to stake their ETH to get more ETH, using it as trust collateral. And Defi is obviously a huge use case because you want to be able to put up collateral, borrow stable coins, do yield farming, you know, whatever, and then use the pay fees.
00:11:18.060 - 00:12:08.148, Speaker A: Of course, everyone has to have ETH to pay fees at the end of the day, even if it's abstracted away where the person themselves doesn't have to have ETH, the app that's abstracting it away has to have ETH, and ETH will have to be paid somewhere. So even if, you know, you're not buying ETH to pay fees yourself, because you're able to pay in another token if it will have to be paid somewhere. And that's, you know, especially true with 1559 now, on top of these value accrual pillars, ETH is also used as a store of value, right? There are many, many people who are holding ETH, not just be holding it in cold storage, doing nothing with it, because they believe having exposure to just the asset itself will give them exposure to the growth of the network, which is proving to be very true. I mean, you know, ETH has gone 15 times in the last kind of year, right. That's just an incredible amount of appreciation. It's beaten bitcoin. It's, I think it's doubled bitcoin's appreciation in terms of like, return there.
00:12:08.148 - 00:12:34.678, Speaker A: So that's really, really great to see that. On top of that, it's providing security to Ethereum not only with proof of stake, but also with proof of work without ETH being valuable. Right. We wouldn't have as many kind of like miners on the network, right? And we wouldn't have as much hash rate. We wouldn't have as many people staking all this kind of good stuff. And it's powering the NFT economy as money, which I think is an underrated use case here because NFTs are all priced in ETH for now. I mean, maybe this changes in the future.
00:12:34.678 - 00:13:23.610, Speaker A: I kind of expect it will because pricing things in ETH is not really, I guess, friendly because of the fluctuations in ETH price. But we'll have to see, we'll have to see what happens there. But in general, ETH is being used as money regardless of if in the NFT economy or anywhere else, it is being used as money. So, yeah, I think these kind of things are good to keep in mind as well when you see these day to day price movements. And also on top of that, I mean, Justin Drake put out a really cool tweet just before where he's got this meme that ETH is ultrasound money because it potentially will have a decreasing supply due to ERP 1559, which I actually really like. And if you see here, he's kind of got a nice little chart here that shows that there's like an ultrasound barrier where fee burn would exceed proof of stake inflation or proof of stake issuance. The assumption here is that 20 million ETH is staked and there is 70% of a fee burn.
00:13:23.610 - 00:13:51.460, Speaker A: Now, we only have 3.3 million ETH staked, so the inflation impos is much lower than it would be at 20 million. And we don't have like ERP 1559. So there's no fee burn. But this is showing what the potential is. And he's got like Ultra mark one and Ultra mark two here, which I thought was pretty funny. But basically, based on the fees paying paid today, we're potentially already at a point where ETH will become deflationary, net deflationary, right after paying out the issuance in ETH two as well.
00:13:51.460 - 00:14:57.054, Speaker A: So, I mean, again, looking at all these fundamental things, reminding yourself about them, reminding yourself about why you bought ethan the first place, is always a good way to go about it. And I mean, I put a tweet out before saying that during these dumps, right, these really heavy dumps, I kind of, like, think to myself, like, I remind myself about all these things, and I'm like, okay, why aren't I buying more ETH right now? If I, if I truly believe these things, if I truly believe that these things are going to lead to eats, value accrual, why am I not buying ETH? And I do. I go ahead and buy more ETH with whatever money I can, whether that's trading other tokens for ETH or whether that's using yield, farming gains, which I usually do, right, to buy more ETH. And I think that's just a good way to play it, always reminding yourself about things. But also, you know, there is a risk there. Like, for example, if ETH went to $10,000 and then dumped down to 7000, I'd probably be reanalyzing it there. Be like, yes, I'm bullish on things right now, but, like, is the market, like, super hot, right? Have we just gone through, like, a massive bull market? Is this kind of like the top for a while, and then you kind of have to reevaluate it there? But in certain scenarios, for me, I still think ETH is incredibly undervalued for what it is and how much utility it has right now as an asset.
00:14:57.054 - 00:15:30.496, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, I keep buying and going to keep buying for a while. I mean, I have a permanent ETH bag that I'm going to keep, that I just want to keep there in stake with it and use it as collateral, never want to kind of let go of it. And I think that's a really cool thing to strive for if you, you know, if you can do it. And obviously, not everyone's in the same position, you have to kind of think about your own position here. And obviously, none of anything that I say here is investment advice, but always good to keep yourself kind of on your toes about the fundamentals of things I think is really important. So gas was really cheap over the weekend. We had, I think, the far, like, fast.
00:15:30.496 - 00:15:51.886, Speaker A: I mean, I've got this extension here. It's gone up a little bit since then. And actually there's an extension from gasnow.org, comma, a new chrome extension that I thought was really cool that shows you gas prices. There's a few of these now, which is really cool. But anyway, gas over the weekend dropped down to, I think, like the sixties for fast, which is the lowest it's been in quite a while. And then I put a kind of tweet out about it.
00:15:51.886 - 00:16:26.210, Speaker A: I mean, here you go, like it was 73 on fast, but I think it dropped down to sixties. I put a tweet out saying, you know, nature is healing for now and then. Things to do while gas is cheap, I think it's always good to keep a list of things to do when gas is kind of like, you know, under 100 at least. And these things consist of getting on L2s, right? Because onboarding onto L2s does cost gas on layer one. And, you know, once you get on there, it's kind of like, you know, you're free to do whatever you want on there, but getting on there can be expensive. Harvesting any of the yields that you've been waiting to harvest, always a good thing to do. Swapping some of your I said shit coins here for ETH.
00:16:26.210 - 00:17:03.756, Speaker A: What I meant by that was basically just anything in your portfolio that you've been wanting to get rid of that is like just a couple hundred dollars or something, right? And that, like, sometimes doesn't make sense to trade because of the, the transaction fees. Um, you know, this is a good time to do it as well. And you can check all the balances using zappify. I mean, I love using Zapify to find things I didn't even know existed in some of my addresses. And most importantly, I think is revoking contract approval. So for those who don't know what this is, there are multiple tools to do this. But basically you can search your address here in this search box and on the other tools, and it'll show you all the contracts that you've approved to spend your assets.
00:17:03.756 - 00:18:00.714, Speaker A: Now, the reason why you want to revoke the contracts from, especially ones that you don't use anymore, is because a lot of them do what's called infinite approval. Now, what this means is that if you've approved a transaction to spend your USDC, for example, right? And you've given them the infinite ability to spend, sorry, you've given them the ability to spend infinite amount of your USDC, say you have 10,000 USDC in your wallet, right? And then you've given them the kind of approval to spend this. If the contract becomes malicious, or if it was malicious, they could withdraw 10,000 USDC from your address without your approval because you've already given them approval. Right? So that's scary. And, you know, that's why you always have to be on top of these things. And I think they're trying to work like the ETH core developers are working on a way to kind of get rid of this, this flow here, because it's not very friendly. And there are DeFi teams that are working that have options to just do single approves, where, I mean, I think one inch and curve have this where you just approve the amount that you're using as part of your transaction.
00:18:00.714 - 00:18:34.058, Speaker A: You don't do infinite approve, but, you know, we all went through defi summer, right? We all foam it into stuff, and a lot of that stuff turned it out, turned out to be scams. So it's always good to just go through the contracts that you've approved and just kind of unapprove them, which obviously costs gas to do. That's why I say it's good to do while gas is cheap, right? So yeah, there's just a list of things to do. You've probably got things that you want to do as well that are too expensive normally. Definitely just get a list ready and then when you say gas is cheap, just. Just go for it, I think. And on the note of gas being cheap, there was a bit of fearing theory theories going on over the weekend about why.
00:18:34.058 - 00:19:20.924, Speaker A: So Vitalik actually proposed something to the Ethereum GitHub to remove the gas refunds tied to the self destruct method on Ethereum in the London upgrade. Now, in normal people terms, what this means is that Vitalik basically said we should remove the ability to mint gas tokens. Now, for those who don't know what gas tokens are, they basically allow you to kind of mint thing like mint gain, I guess, at a cheaper price, if that's probably maybe the best way to explain it. And then you can kind of like use it when it's more expensive. So say you mint the gas token at like 70. 70, right? You can use that gas at like 100 grand, and it's like you're spending it on 70 Gwei. Now, this actually, if you think about it, this actually is not really great, right, from multiple perspectives.
00:19:20.924 - 00:19:58.704, Speaker A: One, it increases state bloat, because to do this, you have to kind of like destroy a contract to get like a gas refund on the network you. So that's not good. But secondly, you can imagine that as soon as gas gets cheap, enough people have an incentive to mint these tokens because they're worth real money, right? So if gas gets to 70, all these people come in and mint these tokens, it pushes the gas price up. Right. So by removing it, we might, we may remove the kind of incentive to do that. Well, we will remove the incentive to do that, and we're already seeing it play out where the gas token price is actually dumped just on this proposal. It hasn't gone through yet, but I think it's a quite a popular proposal among the researchers, and we'll have to kind of see how that goes.
00:19:58.704 - 00:20:30.646, Speaker A: But the gas tokens dumped in price by about 30 or 40%, I think, and the gas prices have been quite low. But I did some analysis on this, asked a few people. Apparently the gas prices are also low because a lot of the bot activity has calmed down lately. You know how I've spoken about the arbitrage bot activity and things like that. And I also think there's not much leverage in the system right now, or at least risky leverage. So people aren't like scared and kind of trying to cover their positions whenever there's some market volatility right now. So, yeah, enjoy the low gas while it lasts.
00:20:30.646 - 00:21:13.516, Speaker A: I don't know if it's going to, it's going to last like this for very much longer. But Nick Chong here had a really great thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description about this removal of the gas refund, the technical details, kind of how it works, you know, all that sort of stuff. So definitely go give this a read if you want the full details. So DC investor had a really great thread over the weekend where he went through kind of like the different Ethereum Altus to watch coming in March and April. He said the top two are obviously optimistic, Ethereum and immutable X, but there's a bunch of other ones down here as well that are already out, I guess, and kind of live. He mentions like loop ring, diversify, you know, polygon, all that sort of stuff, and, and starkware. There was a bunch of different discussions in the comments as well.
00:21:13.516 - 00:21:46.934, Speaker A: So actually go. I actually highly recommend going and reading this and reading through kind of like the comments as well, because you'll learn a lot from this through. I think it's, it's a really great way to kind of just get a quick overview of the L2 ecosystem right now on Ethereum and to get up to speed on it. So, yeah, kudos to DC for putting this thread out there. So, you know, a bit of fun over the weekend, actually, you might have sawn that I, you know, you might have seen, sorry that I on Twitter was kind of like, I guess, bashing Cardano a little bit. And I don't mean to pick on, you know, Cardano specifically. I just, I think it's just like an easy target for me.
00:21:46.934 - 00:22:22.256, Speaker A: But antiprosynthesis had a really great, great tweet here where he basically kind of like, said, this is what ETH fud was like in 1995. And he goes on to say, and I quote, the Internet is too complicated and the many websites being built could contain bugs and scammed. We much. We must stick to gopher. And then he says, dial up Internet is too slow and expensive. Although broad broadband is coming, we should invest in another dial up Internet without users. And this is what it would be like to hear, like, ETH fight in 1995, right? And I've used this example in the past where I said that Ethereum today is at like the dial up stage or maybe even the 56k modem stage where, you know, it's very slow.
00:22:22.256 - 00:22:58.760, Speaker A: Not, not many people can access it because it's expensive. It's not really rolled out in any big way yet, right? It has some network effects, but I think, you know, with L2 coming, with ETH two coming, that's our, like, broadband moment, right? That's our fiber Internet moment. That's when we get like this mass kind of network effects going. And I think it's short sighted to say stuff like, you know, Ethereum can't scale. Ethereum's dead. Ethereum's like, not going to make it and stuff like this. And actually this is why I was picking on the Cardano kind of community is because like, they were just coming at me with all these weird kind of talking points saying, you know, Cardano is going to be, you know, going to be ethereum for this, this and this.
00:22:58.760 - 00:23:25.320, Speaker A: And then having a go at me saying, you know, I'm a toxic ETH maxi for calling that out when it's just, it was just so hypocritical to me. I was like, what? Like, you guys are saying that ETH is crap. It's going to die, it can't scale. And then you're having a go at me because I'm just hitting and saying, you know, Cardano doesn't have smart contracts and, and it's overvalued, whatever. I mean, it's just, it's just funny when I see this playing out. So, I mean, this kind of like fighting in drama is so, like, useless. I don't even know why I get caught up in it sometimes.
00:23:25.320 - 00:24:00.396, Speaker A: But I think it's important to educate people as well and to kind of, like, get the conversation started on these things because so many of them, these other layer ones are so, so overvalued for what they are. And I just. Because it's a bull market, I think that's the case. But in general, I just, like, think that just because you made money on a token, right, doesn't mean that the platform is good. That applies to everything, you know, including, you know, I guess, like, even to some extent, bitcoin and ethereum, right. But it applies to, like, all these kind of what I like to call promise projects, right? Not just layer one chains, but, like, projects in general. They have all the promises in the world.
00:24:00.396 - 00:24:35.202, Speaker A: They're always talking about stuff's coming, right? Stuff's coming here, stuff's coming in, they're promising all these things, and they kind of never deliver anything right. And then when they do deliver, the problem is, is that they actually don't want to deliver on purpose. Because if you think about, and I've spoken about it before, the whole space runs on narratives. So if you have the narrative that, you know, your chain is going to kill Ethereum when it delivers x, y, and z, and then you deliver x, y, and z and nothing happens, then that's not good because people will say the emperor has no clothes. They're like, oh, wow, you said that was going to kill Ethereum as soon as this came along. And, you know, you released all this stuff, and Ethereum is growing and growing, and we're doing nothing. Right.
00:24:35.202 - 00:25:03.758, Speaker A: So I think the narrative, the story is much more powerful than the reality. And that goes for things in Ethereum, too. I mean, there's plenty of defi apps that hype up things all the time, right? You know, Ethereum suffered from this in 2017, where the narrative was very strong, that ETH two was, like, just around the corner in 2017. And if you kind of, like, were in the weeds, you knew ETH two wasn't around the corner. But the narrative was strong. And it's very hard to kind of break through a strong narrative. And it takes, I think, like, markets going through a bear market to break through it.
00:25:03.758 - 00:25:36.108, Speaker A: But that happened then, and I'm seeing the same thing happen now where all these kind of, like, promise projects promising the world because it's a bull market, you know, they're getting caught up in the hype, you know, the prices going up. They think they're invincible. And then eventually, when we have another down market, you know, this stuff's going to get washed out. People are going to see that, you know, this was all just like a massive mass hysteria, basically. So I think, always good to keep that in mind. It's going to be interesting. I mean, it's always very interesting to see the psychology of this place, of the space kind of play out, especially among new entrants.
00:25:36.108 - 00:26:22.842, Speaker A: Because, I mean, we all started off as noobs, right? I mean, my first foray into crypto was 2013 when I first got into bitcoin. I fell for so many scams, like, I'll be honest, like, so many pump and dumps. I mean, I was very young as well. I was in my early twenties. And then, you know, I got, I kind of, like, left the space then and kind of, like, ignored it until I came back in 2017, in early 2017, discovered Ethereum and all that. But even in 2017, I was falling for some of the kind of narratives where, you know, I participated in the Polkadot ICO in September of 2017 because I believed that, you know, this kind of, like, thing was going to, you know, I believe all the stories that were telling, it's multi chain world, right? Polkadot's going to be additive to Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, all this sort of stuff. And turns out, you know, Polkadot, you know, is not additive to Ethereum.
00:26:22.842 - 00:26:53.486, Speaker A: You know, its creators waged war on Ethereum and want, and wants to replace Ethereum. And also my biggest kind of, I guess, miss, in 2017 was a platform called Aon. Now, this was hyped up beyond belief, right? You will not believe. I mean, I actually see parallels in the Cardano community today with what happened with Aon. And I got caught up in it because I had a large bag of aon and they had, like this, this program where they were paying you bonus tokens for locking up your tokens and all this sort of stuff. And, and they had a really good salesman in their CEO. And I actually think Charles Hodgkinson is a really good salesman as well.
00:26:53.486 - 00:27:21.064, Speaker A: That's why, you know, Cardano is the way it is. And again, I'm not trying to pick on it, but I think it's a perfect example. But, you know, I've suffered from this with a on. And I actually said in December of 2017, basically the peak of the, the bull market, almost the peak. I put out a post on, on Facebook back when I was using Facebook, and I said, I truly believe Aon is the next etherium now, you know, obviously, like, that was just, like, so off brand for me. If you. If you've just been following me over the last few months, you know, I would never say that about any of the other platforms today.
00:27:21.064 - 00:27:40.580, Speaker A: Today. But back then, I was just new, a noob, right? And then I stuck through the bear market, and I. And I realized, you know, the truth behind all of this and all the. All the crappy narratives. So I think that's what has to happen for all the new entrants. They have to experience their own down market because they're just caught up in the hysteria in the bull market gains. And I feel that.
00:27:40.580 - 00:28:00.556, Speaker A: I sympathize with that. But, you know, I went on a blocking spree because I just couldn't deal with the attacks. I was getting attacked left, right, and center. And I get that. I kind of, you know, brought it upon myself a little bit by putting out some kind of, like, tweets where I provoked them. I get that. But at the same time, I mean, I don't have time to, like, wade through all the replies and all the attacks, and I don't want my followers to kind of have to be exposed to that, either.
00:28:00.556 - 00:28:20.160, Speaker A: So, yeah. Anyway, I digress for now, obviously. You know, I have a lot of. A lot of comments on that, but I think it's. It's. It's pretty important to talk about because of the fact that there's a lot of new people in the ecosystem. So there are now over 100,000 active validators staking on ETH two, and they're staking over 3 million ETH, which is really, really cool to see.
00:28:20.160 - 00:29:04.068, Speaker A: I mean, you know, this just speaks to, I guess, like, how easy it is to run validators and how user friendly it is and the decentralization of the network here. Now, I've been through, kind of, like, what the distribution of these validators looks like, and I think the biggest whale is cracking with about 14% of the total validators. So that's actually really good, because the biggest whale on Ethereum right now, proof of stock, proof of work, mining, I think. I think the two biggest actually own, like, almost 50% in terms of the pools. Now, pools don't equal kind of users, so it's not that huge of a threat, but it's still, like, less than ideal. So to say that there's over 100,000 validators with only, I think, kraken owning the most at 14 or 15% or something like that, I think binance is second, like, 8% or something. It seems very decentralized here.
00:29:04.068 - 00:29:27.784, Speaker A: And that's, that's credit to, I guess, the researchers and the developers making it so that you can run these validators on very lightweight hardware, which I thought was really, really cool and like getting set up. Staking isn't actually that hard. I've written in a daily way about it. You can look up, there's plenty of guides out there right now about how to do it on your own. Obviously, the barrier to entry is now pretty high because it's a 32 ETH minimum. But as I've spoken about before. Right.
00:29:27.784 - 00:29:49.484, Speaker A: I mean, there's going to be decentralized solutions coming out like rocket pool and things like that, hopefully soon. And then, you know, you can always stake on an exchange if you want. Obviously that doesn't help with decentralization. But if you've only got like a few ETH, then I totally don't blame you for, for wanting to stake, but not being able to do so because you don't have the minimum. Right. So you can stake on a centralized exchange. That's all.
00:29:49.484 - 00:30:19.564, Speaker A: That's all fine there. But yeah, really great achievement for the ETH two network here. So Alchemyx, I spoke about this protocol, I think, a couple of times over the last couple of weeks. They officially went live. So you can go to app Alchemyx Phi and then you can go on there and basically put your stable coins in there and yield farm. Essentially they're paying out their AlCx token in yield farming right now. There's like a pool too, so you can put like Al Cx and Ethan to sushi swap and earn kind of rewards there.
00:30:19.564 - 00:30:44.624, Speaker A: And you can also put your stable coins into their farms to, to earn it. And I think they hit like, you know, a couple hundred million dollars of TVL or something like that, or with just Dai. And they're using urine vaults for this as well. So they kind of like beating value into yearn, which I thought was really cool. So definitely go check out, check out the project. I think it's really interesting and there's some really great APY right now, given that the token price went pretty nuts, actually. So definitely worth checking out.
00:30:44.624 - 00:31:14.358, Speaker A: So. Okay, this is the EIP 1559 section. I'll go into Hasu's blog post in a sec. But basically on Friday, I think it was like a couple of hours after the last refuel came out, we had the EIP 1559 community call. And this was a call to bring together, I guess, a bunch of stakeholders within the community. Right, the community members, developers, you know, core developers, researchers and miners to discuss 1559. Really, the heart of it was to just get miners concerns out in the open, right.
00:31:14.358 - 00:31:51.494, Speaker A: And hear their arguments. Now, I'm obviously, I've obviously gone on about this, like, for the past couple weeks and about how, you know, I don't think miners have any kind of sway in 1559 going in or not. I think all their threats are bluffs. I don't think anything bad is going to happen. And after watching this call, I kind of just think that even more because, I mean, you can read this thread because Tim put together really great thread here of all the arguments. But I watched the whole kind of thing, and the Tl doctor of the minor arguments was just that they were going to take a pay cut and they wanted something to make up for that. Whether that be increasing the block rewards or kind of like getting rid of the fee burn, both of those things are not going to happen.
00:31:51.494 - 00:32:19.498, Speaker A: I mean, the community would not want that to happen at all because we don't need to. We're already overpaying miners. And they had arguments like, you know, the network's going to become less secure because the miners are going to lose, I think, like 30 or 40% of their revenue or their fee revenue and all this sort of stuff. And, you know, it was just very unconvincing because there have been periods in time where miners have lost 90% of their revenue because of the bear market, right. And they've been fine. The network has not been attacked. Right.
00:32:19.498 - 00:33:06.428, Speaker A: The hash rate goes down, as it should, because the difficulty adjusts as more miners drop off because it becomes unprofitable and all this sort of stuff. Right? Um, so from that perspective, I don't think that that argument was sound where, like, cutting the rewards would increase the, the likelihood of an attack and things like that. So that was basically the, I mean, it's pretty obvious what their arguments were, right? They don't want to pay cut. But at the end of the day, the ethereum network belongs to its users, right? Belongs to its kind of like, um, its builders. It does not belong to miners. I've argued this many times, miners are service providers, right? And not all the miners on this call were against 1559. There were two that were with it, right? But in terms of, I guess, like the Ethereum network itself, as I've explained before, miners are service providers.
00:33:06.428 - 00:33:55.144, Speaker A: They get paid for their service and that's it, right? The Ethereum community and the Ethereum developers and researchers and the ecosystem kind of stakeholders, all determine whether the Ethereum kind of chain gets an upgrade or not. And this specific, specific upgrade is, I guess you could call it a monetary policy upgrade because it does touch on, I guess, like burning fees. So I guess like the, the issuance can kind of go down because of that. But at the heart of it is a usability upgrade, right? That, that's going to bring much better usability to Ethereum and for the get, for the gas market and for fees in general. It's not going to bring down fees, but it's going to smoothen it out, make the process a lot, a lot better. And Ethereum's monetary policy basically is minimum viable issuance or minimum necessary issuance. That basically means that we will pay issuance as is necessary to secure the network and no more.
00:33:55.144 - 00:34:40.375, Speaker A: And if we think we are overpaying for that, we will reduce the block reward or we will introduce other things like ERP 1559 to make up for that. And I don't think anyone that is not a miner can argue right now that we are not paying miners enough in fees, we are overpaying them in fees. And it's about time that that fee revenue went back to the ETH holders and the community and the ecosystem as a whole. And that's what 1559 does with the, with the burn mechanism. But again, the heart of 1559 was always the usability upgrade, which trumps minor concerns about a pay cut because I don't think it's going to pose any threat to the network. There's been modeling done here, you know, much more deep research and modeling done on this, and I don't think anything like that has come up before. So yeah, that was kind of the gist of it, but definitely read the thread to get a more detailed overview here.
00:34:40.375 - 00:35:22.988, Speaker A: And I just wanted to quickly talk about a post that was published by, by Hasu and Georgios before the call. They were both on the call and they published this just before it. And they basically, their blog post is called establishing bounds for minor revenue in 1559. So they basically did a deep analysis on how much miner revenue would be cut by in 1559, making a bunch of different kind of assumptions based on MeV as well. So basically, I think that what they said is that at most, I mean, the range is 20% to 35% fees will be burned. So that's a 20% to 35% pay cut, which is basically the numbers that I've been quoting for quite a while and the numbers that I've been seeing thrown around. But it was good that this deeper analysis was done by these two guys.
00:35:22.988 - 00:35:39.524, Speaker A: So yeah, definitely go read this as well. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you, but I think that is it for today. I've gone over time, so yes. Thank you again, everyone, for listening and watching. If you haven't done so, be sure to subscribe to the channel, give the video a thumbs up, join the Daily Gray Discord channel, subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
