00:00:01.080 - 00:01:25.186, Speaker A: Afternoon, I noticed an interesting article in the paper recently about science, but I just read a bit of it. Excerpts in 1997, the hungarian biochemist Kathleen Kaurikow met another struggling researcher, the american immunologist Drew Weissman, as they cued to photocopy scientific papers at the University of Pennsylvania. Everyone know where the University of Pennsylvania is? Sorry? Oh, good. Okay. You know it's in Pennsylvania. Okay, well, there's, I think that the Kansas State University, or maybe it's University of Kansas, is not in Kansas. Okay.
00:01:25.186 - 00:02:49.074, Speaker A: All right. But anyway, a lot of things to keep track of. After commiserating about the lack of funding for their work, the two scientists found a common scientific interest, the genetic molecule rna, and decided to collaborate this week. Well, a week or two ago, their partnership achieved the apex of scientific recognition. Gary Cole, 68, and Weissman, or Weisman, 64, jointly won the $1 million Nobel Prize in medicine for discoveries leading to the messenger rna vaccines that stemmed the growing tide of coronavirus infections during the pandemic, saving many millions of lives and yielding sales worth $117 million for the manufacturers Bion tech, Pfizer and Moderna. Okay, thank you. Over more than a decade of joint effort, the pair worked out how to manipulate mRNA, the molecule that translates genes into proteins, into a stable form that can be used in pharmaceutical and vaccine development.
00:02:49.074 - 00:03:49.184, Speaker A: But while both scientists endured years of professional struggle on the way to the huge acclaim greeted the excess of mRNA vaccines against Covid-19, Carico had to overcome greater setbacks than Weisman. In 2012, Weisman was promoted to full professor at Penn. The following year, Kariko was kicked out from Penn, forced to retire, as she told the Nobel organization. After the prize was announced on Monday, the university told her that her work was not a faculty quality, she said in the 2020 interview. Okay. Yet the scientist's commitment to her work did not falter, so she somehow managed. She became vice president of research at Bio and Tech.
00:03:49.184 - 00:05:07.634, Speaker A: They also had trouble publishing the work because it was so. The idea was so new. Eventually, the tide turned in favor of the mRNA approach pioneered by the duo in time for the rapid production of COVID vaccines in 2020, though not in time to save Carico's academic career, today she has a position as an adjunct professor, and university's leadership lavished praise on her when she attended Nobel celebration there. In her Nobel interview, Kareko told female researchers, you don't have to choose between having a family and science. Your child will watch you and follow the example you present. Recovery Ko's most frequently repeated message for scientists is about enjoying their work, regardless of any difficulties they may encounter. As the fizz flowed at Penn Nobel party, she told her colleagues, I wish all of you to persevere and have fun, do great things, and don't give up that easy.
00:05:07.634 - 00:08:18.744, Speaker A: Okay, so one thing that one sort of unifying theme for the course, I think you could say, is af algebra, the limits of finite dimensional algebra, some a one, a two, and if you have another sequence, b one, b two. And then the idea is if the, if the k groups of the inductive limit are isomorphic as ordered groups, then this implies that the algebra is rice more and this shows that for the class of af algebras, for the category of af algebra, k zero is a what like to think of as a classification function. You can't say it's just, it's not labeling the isomorphism classes by a nice parameter. And certainly the isomorphism classes aren't countable. Or you could just count them one, two, three and so on. Or now, if you look at the UHF algebras we, we have, I think some of you may be studying, I hope all of you take a look at it. The idea that not only are the algebras themselves, not only is there a canonical construction of UHF algebra, infinite tensor products of matrix algebra, which he called uniformly hyperfinite, not only is there a canonical construction which has parameter points in the canterset, because the supernatural numbers form a counter set in a natural way, not only are they, not only is the data for constructing the algebras, so you have a one parameter family of these algebra parameterized by the counter set.
00:08:18.744 - 00:09:10.484, Speaker A: Not only that, but they're all non isomorphic. Okay, so you have a, they form a representative, they form representatives. These canonically constructed algebras form representatives for the isomorphism classes. So they, just, by automatically, because of that, the isomorphism classes are parameterized by this nice point in the counter set, which is a compact metric space. But in general, even for simple unital af algebra, so the UHF algebra are simple and unital. But that's not why, that's not why the isomorphism classes are nicely parameterized. That's just sort of a fact of nature, if you like.
00:09:10.484 - 00:11:13.504, Speaker A: So even for simple unitil af algebra, the, there isn't any nice parameter to describe the, well, even the, even the algebras themselves, I don't think you can say there's a nice parameter to describe the algebras. Like the super, you have the supernatural number with QHF algebras you had, the category is super net supernatural numbers mapping to UHF, right? Not a canonical construction but there isn't any analogous thing known for any other class of Af algebra. But, but it just happens. If you look at the category of Af algebra, and then you look at it, there exists another category. Now, if we look at, say we look at stable Af algebras, AF tensor to compact operators, or the free flow, or the free, in terms of the algebraic construction of free floaters, it's free floaters, and you don't have to keep track of the unit because there's no unit. Okay, so you just get ordered groups, certain ordered groups, and these very special class of ordered groups are called dimension groups, countable ordered groups. And there's a theorem.
00:11:13.504 - 00:12:31.964, Speaker A: Every totally ordered group is included. Every countable, totally ordered group is, arises from some af algebra. And there's a, there's a nice calculation of when the ordered group does arise from an Af algebra. Of course, since k zero preserves inductive limits not only at the purely algebraic level, which is quite easy to prove with the idempotent definition, but also for Easter algebra too, because some calculations, so that work there. Okay, but let's look at the purely algebraic setting. And then you have k zero, a one, mapped into a zero, a two, because it's a functor, just keep on going. And because it preserves inductive limits, then it's, that means the inductive limits are isomorphic.
00:12:31.964 - 00:14:54.262, Speaker A: And so the, you can go to work on the, you can go to work on the isomorphism in the k zero groups. So they're not, they're not equal. It doesn't make sense to say they're equal, right? They're just, you have two algebras, and inside each one, you look at the idempotence and also in matrix algebra, and you look at this notion of equivalence, just maybe a little easier to understand for star item potence, for self adjoint items, it could work perfectly well in that context. And then, well, and then you take the isomorphism classes, the equivalence classes, so called Murray von Neumann equivalents, which apparently has a Toronto connection, because an early graduate of this university was present from the beginning in the, in some of the discussions between Marie and von es, a graduate student. Well, you have two abstract fractions for two completely different algebra, okay? And so you get two semi groups and you get two, so you get two abelian groups and, which are ordered because of the semi groups, the image of the fossils coming from the semi group in the developing group, okay, but these are just two groups just sitting in different rooms. Maybe you did one, you did one construction in one room. And the other construction in the other room, and then someone just told you over zoom that they were isomorphic as or a group.
00:14:54.262 - 00:15:43.634, Speaker A: Okay, then somehow you're supposed to prove that the algebras are isomorphic, but it's not as if they're the same algebra. It's not as if the k zero groups are actually equal in some natural sense. And as in the case of UHF algebras, it makes sense to say the subgroups of q are actually equal. So subgroups of q contain the natural numbers in the unit of case, and you assume that the, they're equal. Okay, that's, that's what the invariant is. And then you show that the supernatural numbers are equal and therefore the algebras are equal because they're constructed from supernatural numbers. At least, um, you don't, uh, well, you up to isomorphism.
00:15:43.634 - 00:17:45.194, Speaker A: But anyway, um, it's a very, very, very concrete, um, but in the general af algebra situation, all you can do is just look at maps. Well, okay, and just happens because of what the finite stage k zero groups are, it just happens that because the limits are isomorphic, you can intertwine the two sequences, okay? And that's slightly, takes just a little work to trace that, right? But, so if this is just a single, suppose a one is just a single full matrix algebra, then this group is z, right? It's with the proposal cone z plus z plus. Okay, and so what's the, in general, it's a finite direct sum or ordered group direct sum. So what does intertwining mean? Well, intertwining means you want to map this group to, ideally, you'd like to map them just zigzag like this, okay. In a way that's commutative and in a way that's commutative, okay. And it's compatible with the isomorphisms in the room because that's how you would get them, okay? But in fact, you can't do it quite such a simple way. You have to do it step by step, and you take the generator of z, positive generator, and you follow that through to the limit.
00:17:45.194 - 00:18:26.974, Speaker A: Then you look at it. What happens to it down here in the other abstract group, ordered group, it's going to be some positive element in k zero b. But what's the inductive limit? Inductive limit, roughly speaking, it's things that come from finite stages, right? But you don't know which finite stage. So you get. So this one goes somewhere to here that's called G prime. And then eventually it comes down here to, well, call it g and eventually comes down here to G prime. Okay, so.
00:18:26.974 - 00:18:52.442, Speaker A: And G prime is the image of some G double prime at the finite stage. Okay? And you can. The first G prime that it's an image of may not even be positive. The first G double prime that the G prime is an image of may not even be positive. But if you follow it out by. If you look at what. How inductive limits behave, if you follow.
00:18:52.442 - 00:19:17.430, Speaker A: If we go out farther than you, then the. You can choose the G double prime to be positive. Okay? All right, so we can. Let's assume that it's positive and at some suitable finite state. Okay. That you can choose it to be positive. Yvonne, is that okay? Okay, Grace, does that seem okay so far? More or less okay.
00:19:17.430 - 00:19:52.254, Speaker A: Charlie, is that more or less okay? Sorry. Well, it's an group. Okay, so, yeah, we're looking at certain order groups and what they. One abstract description of them, one characterization of which order groups you get if you look at finite direct sums. Order group direct sums, or copies of Zen. Okay, and then you took it. A sequence of such things with maps in that category, positive maps, positive additive maps.
00:19:52.254 - 00:20:21.634, Speaker A: And then you take the inductive limit, and that will be. That will be. That will come from some af algebra. That's part of the proof, okay? That the follows from the ideas and the proof. But that means then that in one. That's one way of describing exactly which order groups you get. There are order group inductive limits of finite direct sums, of copies of that.
00:20:21.634 - 00:20:55.426, Speaker A: But then the F. Ross Hanuman Shen characterization is completely different. Okay? It's just general properties of a ordered group. Well, okay, so. But this z group, z, it's generated by. It has a single generator, and it's free. It's a free group.
00:20:55.426 - 00:21:31.528, Speaker A: Free abelian group, right? So just as a group, there's a group map. Taking Z into k zero, b two. It takes the generator one into G double prime. Okay? So we can take this one we can take down here, but then it extends well, and we want that. We want it to go to G double prime, but then it carries the whole dead along with it, because there are no relations. Okay, there's no. Nothing to say that if you map one down to here, then for any n, n maps into n times one, maps in two n times g double prime for n positive or negative number.
00:21:31.528 - 00:21:44.168, Speaker A: Right? So that's a. That's a maP. So we have this. We have this map. Geez. There's a. I just broke the only long piece of chalk.
00:21:44.168 - 00:22:04.264, Speaker A: Oh, well, it's two pieces that are adequate. Okay. Okay. So just have to be careful not to do it again. All right. So that's, and then the next step is just the same. Okay.
00:22:04.264 - 00:22:44.096, Speaker A: You have to, again, you don't have to go from a single direct, a single Copy of that to Finitely many, but that's, you just, it's a free group. And you put the finite number of generators of each of the two of the direct elements, and those have no relation. So you can map those into anything you want. It's like have a Vector space and you have a basis. Then you have any other vector space and any family of vectors with the same labels as the basis vectors. In the first space, there's a linear transformation which takes the basis vectors into the new vectors with the same labels. Right.
00:22:44.096 - 00:22:57.644, Speaker A: There's linear transformation. It's unique. They exist. So that's, yeah, that's the universal property of a free object. Free constructor. Okay. But that's how you get the intertwining.
00:22:57.644 - 00:23:38.364, Speaker A: Okay. And the diagram is commutative because, by construction, because at every stage, let's try and show that going down and up is the same as going across. Uh, well, um. Okay, actually we have, it's a slightly, this is a slightly subtle point. We're going to have to go farther out again. We're going to have to go farther out again because going down and, and going across all the way to infinity and going down, that's the same as going down and going across to infinity by construction. Okay.
00:23:38.364 - 00:24:36.504, Speaker A: And, but, and then also going up here, the next stage, that's the, what we know is that, and going out to infinity is the same as going first to infinity and then up. Okay, so if we go down and then up, at least if we then go all the way to infinity, then that's the same as going, uh, down and then across two fingernails. Okay, but then going down was the same as, as going, um. Okay, you can, you can see, you can see that I've got some work cut out for me. Okay. To actually show that this, because this diagram won't be exactly commutative, we have to, we have to pass further out. Okay.
00:24:36.504 - 00:25:16.972, Speaker A: We have to go farther out. This is a good exercise. This is, this is, this is how I explain things. Okay? I, it's like Samuel Beckett, try, fail, try again. Fail better. Okay, so, and maybe I'll pass the try again stage to you. Okay, so, but don't worry, we're always going to come back to this.
00:25:16.972 - 00:26:29.958, Speaker A: We'll come back to it until everyone, until everyone is, well, maybe, maybe. I hope they won't be tired of it, but I'm offering to come back to it often enough that everyone will be completely familiar with it. Okay? Because this is one of the things that has been a central idea in the subject for 50 years. Okay, how is my arithmetic? It is 50 years, 1974, I announced this submitted talk in at the ICM in Vancouver. That's okay. So, but the, and that's step, that's step one. Remember the mnemonic for the proof you have the, we've just discussed the first zigzag argument, okay? Then there's the second zigzag argument, and that's this.
00:26:29.958 - 00:27:35.722, Speaker A: The first zigzag argument between the k zero groups is what we're talking about. Find the finite direct sums of copies of z. And the second, um, the second, um, you know, just to here, in case people can't see the blackboard. Okay? So the second step is you can take each map individually and you lift it to a map between the algebra, okay? And these algebras are, we could take them to be the free floating algebras over finite dimensional algebra. And we don't have to worry about units. But definitely, if it's a free floating algebra over a single full matrix algebra, then any map at the k zero level between two such algebras comes from a map between the algebra. Okay? So you don't have to worry about subsequences, don't have to worry about going farther out to do the second step, then the trouble is, it may still not be communicated.
00:27:35.722 - 00:28:52.424, Speaker A: It'll be. So we didn't go far enough out. We had to go to subsequent to get the first zigzag, actually commutative at the level of order group, okay? And then, so we can, but if that's commutative at level of order groups, we could hope that the liftings to the algebra give you a commutative diagram that would be compatible, right? That would make sense. But of course, you can't do it because you're, they're not unique. The lifting is not unique. Any inner automorphism composed with a particular map will inner automorphism is not trivially on k zero, okay? If invertible element, and you conjugate by, that's an automorphism of the algorithm that will act trivially on k zero because any item potent will get taken into an equivalent one. There's a great, there's a good exercise, okay? So it would be, you know, if it just happened, if it happened, that whenever you chose these maps, the algebra maps, lifting the k zero maps.
00:28:52.424 - 00:30:23.898, Speaker A: If it happened that the map, that the, it just happened that the algebra map diagram was commutative, well, you'd have to pinch yourself, okay? Because you'd be asleep, you'd be dreaming, okay, so, um, and you would, you would be able to tell, you'd be able to tell, this is the middle, I'm in the middle of a dream, okay? That, that sometimes happens, I think that you catch yourself, fortunately, before it's too late. Okay, well, so in other words, you have to modify all these individual up down maps. Unfortunately, even though it's, even though the lifting isn't unique and an inner automorphism, if you follow it by an inner automorphism, then you get them. If instead of this map, you compose it with an inner automorphism, then that's going to be another lifting. If you just carefully replace each map, maybe you don't have to do it for the first one, but you change the second one and then the third one and so on. You change each map once by composing it with an inner automorphism. Then you still have a, that makes sense.
00:30:23.898 - 00:31:38.188, Speaker A: You still have a bunch of algebra maps which still lift the k zero situation, which, I mean, at the end, I guess you want to have a strong isomorphism term, but to give an isomorphism between the k zero group actually arises from an isomorphism between the outs. But the main purpose of, the main purpose of making everything compatible with k zero is just so it, so that you can apply the uniqueness theorem when you go down and up and you go down and up, and at the level of k zero, it's the same as going across. That means going down and up. You can put in an inner automorphism after get the same as going across, and then the first triangle is commutative. Then you do the same for the second triangle up and down. You change that up down by inner automorphism to get the same as going across. And you notice that your purpose is to change the whole up down.
00:31:38.188 - 00:32:09.110, Speaker A: But in fact, you're only changing the down. That means you're not changing the up. The up is still the same. Well, if you hadn't just changed it twice, that would be okay, I guess. But fortunately the important thing is you only have to change each one finite number of times, I guess. All right, but that's okay. So that's how you got the third there is zigzag picture.
00:32:09.110 - 00:33:43.844, Speaker A: It's just making the, making the diagram of algebra, maps, communities, and then you're in business. Okay, so, you know, this would be a good essay topic, just to sort of sit down, some scratches, scratch and work up the proof, in your own words, called the Eliot intertwining argument, okay? Which is a misnomer, because Ole Bradley, as I noticed much later, Ola Bradley, had exactly the same argument when he worked not with the k zero group of the algebra, but with the Bradley diagram of the algebra, okay? And he had a notion of isomorphism. It was a functor. Well, he didn't do that. He didn't look at that systematically, but he had a complete proof that if you had two different af algebras and if the Bradley diagrams were equivalent in a certain way, then the algebra is risingorphic. And of course, the proof was this intertwining argument. Okay, word for word, you know, I'm not going to object if you put that into the essay instead or put in a comparison.
00:33:43.844 - 00:35:23.494, Speaker A: A comparison, okay? And as a bonus, you could even take the category of Bradley diagrams and show that it's equivalent to the category of dimension groups, if you like. You like the idea of doing elementary category three. And what, let me just outline, let me just review what is meant by equivalent of categories. Has everyone run into that notion? Okay, now there's a, usually you talk about functions in both directions such that when you go forwards and backwards, and in some sense it's like the identity function, not equal to it necessarily, but naturally isomorphic to. It's called naturally isomorphic to it, naturally equivalent to it, and actually isometric to it. That's a technical, certainly technical term, but. And then also the backwards and forwards should be like the identity functor in the second category up to a natural transformation.
00:35:23.494 - 00:36:20.564, Speaker A: But there's an accepted notion of equivalence of categories, which only involves the map in one direction. And that's what is easiest to show in the case of battery diagrams going to order groups. The functor is quite, very simple. You have a, you have a particle diagram. Did people. Okay, thank you. Did people look up what, how many countries, often called Pascal's triangle, popped up in over the millennium? Okay.
00:36:20.564 - 00:36:56.508, Speaker A: I don't know if it came in. I don't know if it came up in India, but it wouldn't be surprised. Good. Yeah. It's the most commonly known. There's an IBM chart of historic history of mathematics which takes about the whole wall, about the size of two of these blackboards. And that's where I found out about this extended history of Pascal triangle.
00:36:56.508 - 00:37:53.996, Speaker A: They mentioned chinese origin, which was quite a few hundreds of years earlier than Pascal. Okay, so if you have a valid diagram that's just a diagram. It's a schematic diagram, right? The information that has is for each row you have a certain number of points. Then for two adjacent rows, you have a bunch of edges, okay? And if there's a question of multiplicity, then you put a number on the edge. This is, if it's multiplicity one, you don't have to put a number. If it's multiplicity two, you can just draw two lines, or you can write a two. But if it's 106, then, and then you want to write the number.
00:37:53.996 - 00:39:07.124, Speaker A: Okay? Instead of the 106th line drawing, drawing 106 lines. And of course, if it's a Googleplex and you don't even want to put, write down the number. Right? Well, you could just say Google play. Yeah. I think that's how the well known computer company, whatever kind of company it is, chose his name. Okay, so this is just a diagram, okay? A bit like a circuit diagram, a certain rule, and that you can, if you have a diagram like that, you can put in finite dimensional algebras at the different stages, one single full matrix algebra for each point. And then you can put in maps, which at least if you look at the free floating algebra, put in maps.
00:39:07.124 - 00:39:49.612, Speaker A: Otherwise you have to worry about the unit going into the unit or something that's too large to be the unit in the next place. The modal 50 is 106. You can't write one by one matrices going into two by two matrices without modal 5100, six. But the free folding algebra, you can do that. But, okay, so that's one thing you can do with a Bradley diagram. You can turn it into a sequence of finite stage algebra, a one to a two, a three, and so on. Inductive limit with some inductive limit, which is an Af algebra, and it'll be a general af algebra.
00:39:49.612 - 00:41:07.020, Speaker A: Conversely, if you have the, you have the algebra, the finite stage algebra, then you can pull off a schematic diagram from it. Okay, so far so good. Suppose you want to just forget about algebras and look at the two categories of barley diagrams and order groups. How do you go from one to the other? Well, to go from the battery diagram to the, to go from the order group to the Bradley diagram, you have to make a choice. Okay, so that's, um. But, um, but if you have the barely diagram and to go from there to the, um, to the, um, order group, it's, it's a, it's a place, it's a function. You just put a z everywhere, okay? And then you notice that these numbers are all positive, the multiplicities either single or zero edges or some finite number of edges, those are all natural numbers.
00:41:07.020 - 00:42:08.272, Speaker A: Okay? And so that gives you positive maps from z into z. A single, well, any integer will give you a map from z to z, okay? But not necessarily taking positive numbers into positive numbers. But it just happens that the battle diagram with the positive numbers automatically gives you a map of finite drug sums of copies of the order group z, which we just agreed a while ago, is an arbitrary dimension group. And so this is a, this is a functor. Well, you have to check that. It takes maps between the Bradley diagrams in the sense of Bradley. So this, this could all go into a really lengthy essay, or you could edit it, you could edit the essay just to cover certain aspects of the theory.
00:42:08.272 - 00:43:11.534, Speaker A: Okay? But that's also what makes it equivalent of, what makes this functor an equivalent of categories. Well, so you have two categories and you have a map from one to the other functor. Well, two objects, then the functor takes them into two objects on the other side. And what you want, and what you have is a whole lot of arrows in the upstairs in the left hand category. Well, you want the functor to be a bijection on the arrows. You want it to, exactly, you want arrows on the right hand side to correspond exactly to the arrows on the left. Okay, well, that's, that happens.
00:43:11.534 - 00:43:59.454, Speaker A: And if every, if every object arises at least up to isomorphism, then that's, that's one, that's one definition of equivalence of category. And that's why it's just an exercise to show that. If you talk about the inductive limit of a barely diagram, I think that's a good way to do it. I mean, once you get the finite, once you put the z in at all the finite stages, then you take the limit. Okay? That's a canonical construction. So that's the function you have to check that. It takes arrows into arrows composition.
00:43:59.454 - 00:45:01.774, Speaker A: And then if you have that every two objects in the right hand side, every, every arrow between them comes from two objects that come from objects on the left. After isomorphism, they have to, so you have two objects that actually come are the inductive limits of them of two different boundary diagrams. And look at the maps between the ordered groups. You want to show that they're in one to one correspondence with the maps between, with the maps between the variety diagrams. This requires some homework, right, because I haven't really gone into much detail what Bradley meant by a homomorphism between two Bradley diagrams. Right? He didn't even call it that. In fact, he just looked at the isomorphism case and he called it.
00:45:01.774 - 00:45:27.574, Speaker A: Oh, okay. Well, no one objects to homework. I guess that's supposed to be a joke. All right, well, any any questions?
