00:00:16.400 - 00:00:42.120, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, the podcast where we explore next gen blockchains. I'm joined by my co host Dave, and today we have Neil Somani, founder and CEO of Eclipse. Neil has had previous stints to Sigma, Airbnb and Citadel before deciding that he wanted to build Ethereum's fastest L2 powered by the Solana virtual machine. So super excited to have you here with us today, Neil. How's it going?
00:00:42.312 - 00:00:44.004, Speaker B: Going well. Thanks for having me.
00:00:44.624 - 00:01:23.784, Speaker A: Awesome, awesome. So I think it's a really interesting topic. A lot more people are talking about l two s these days. The SVM broadly is getting more, I guess, mainstream interest amongst the Ethereum mindshare, and I would want to start off with the journey because you guys didn't initially decide to do this on Solana. I think you wrote a blog post actually this past summer where you said roll ups as a service are going to zero, but that seems to be kind of that initial vision, and I hear Ras, that acronym thrown around a lot, so maybe we should start there. How did you get to this point where the SVM is the clear approach to do an l two?
00:01:24.614 - 00:02:15.856, Speaker B: So we were always using the SVM, but the question was whether it was one big chain or a shared chain, where we'd expect all the apps to deploy versus app chants or app specific roll ups. So we started with app specific roll ups, and we're supporting teams like Injective, a handful of games such as worlds, some polychain backed company, a handful of deep ends. And then ultimately we found that a lot of the reasons why people wanted their own app chains just didn't really make that much sense. And they weren't the real benefits of app chains. The benefits of app chains, to us is a lot about ownership and sovereignty, being able to fork as a community and being able to evade a lot of the restrictions that a shared chain might impose on you, given that the shared chain's governance is likely different than your app's governance. So aligning those two communities is sometimes helpful. That's what we're seeing with Makerdao wanting their own SVM chain and a handful of other bigger apps.
00:02:15.856 - 00:02:54.894, Speaker B: But it's not really about economics. For the most part, there are some edge cases where it's hard to recapture that value unless you're the owner of the app chain. So that does happen. But in general, that's not the biggest concern for most apps, unless you're something like Coinbase, where you're able to drive millions of dollars of revenue to the chain and the other reason why people often cite using an app chain is customizability, and that's not really needed for most of the cases either. So I was actually pretty sympathetic to Kyle Somani's piece where he wrote something about how app chains aren't needed for a lot of these cases. And I think it's largely true. There are obviously big exceptions, and I don't think that it's right to point at those such as Dydx.
00:02:54.894 - 00:03:09.642, Speaker B: Dydx most likely needs their own chain. Same with base, same with a lot of the other ones that have been popularized. But I'm just saying the vision of having a thousand small little apps on their own chain, that doesn't make nearly as much sense as a single composable shard.
00:03:09.838 - 00:03:35.670, Speaker A: Got it. So a lot of things to unpack there, and I think that's a great way to frame this conversation. So how about, let's think about it this way. What is the business case and who are the stakeholders that are interfacing with, theoretically eclipse? Right. You have end users that are doing something on the Internet that touches blockchain. Then you have the application developer that decided to build there. They have some motive why they chose eclipse over building on an l one.
00:03:35.670 - 00:03:41.114, Speaker A: Walk us through the psychology of these different stakeholders and how this approach makes sense for them.
00:03:41.534 - 00:04:21.636, Speaker B: Yeah, so there's the retail users. So folks that are interacting with apps and that's primarily targeted toward the Ethereum community and folks that are being onboarded onto Ethereum, given that everything in our ecosystem is going to be denominated in ETH. So this is likely someone who has a metamask wallet they're bridging over, they're going to buy their nfts in ETH, maybe they'll bridge them back. Maybe they'll stay on the chain and keep doing other stuff. So that's the reasoning behind the retail or the user experience, which is that we want to minimize the friction between being an Ethereum user and using eclipse. So that's the first part. The second is, I'd make it a little more broad than just developers, because maybe you're an NFT creator, maybe you're some other kind of builder.
00:04:21.636 - 00:05:09.516, Speaker B: But folks that are building things on the chain that people will interact with, and for them, it's largely that they want to tap into that former audience mentioned. So they want to tap into the Ethereum community, or maybe they just want to access the benefits of the SVM. As the Solana community has seen firsthand, there's a lot of them which is parallelism local fee markets, all that stuff. So that's the reasoning as a developer, why you would build on a chain like this. And then there's the last community, which is like all these other modules that are surrounding eclipse, such as RisC, zero, Celestia, whatever other modular modules are involved in this kind of blockchain architecture. And all of those are technically stakeholders as well. They don't necessarily have a say in terms of what the community's governance will decide for the chain, given that they're a module that the blockchain at this point is using.
00:05:09.516 - 00:05:21.984, Speaker B: But theoretically, eclipse governance could vote and remove one of these modules and swap it out for something else. And that's essentially the purpose behind making it into modules, which is that you can swap out pieces if the community decides to do so.
00:05:23.194 - 00:06:00.474, Speaker A: Understood. I think that makes a lot of sense. You want to tap into the existing capital in the eth ecosystem and take advantage of the easy bridging experience there. That makes total sense to me. And then on the other side, the SVM side, obviously there's performance benefits to using that. Help us understand what is the trade off we're making there, though. What is the performance, if you can quantify compared to if someone were to build on eth or an l two, that's different, like base or something, or building on Solana? And then what are, I guess, the risks, if there are any, for an asset that's bridged over to eclipse?
00:06:00.934 - 00:06:42.838, Speaker B: Yeah, maybe the meaningful way to frame that is in terms of the theoretical chief benefit for a user is really about verifiability with this kind of setup, meaning that eclipse is built in such a way where if you want to verify that the blocks are not being withheld, that's something you can directly verify. Theoretically, we'll have fault proofs starting next quarter is the target for that. And then you could actually verify that there was no malicious behavior by the operators of the chain. You can directly verify things in your browser by running a light client or a light node in your browser or something. So that's the benefit for the user. And then the downside is there's a price to pay for that verifiability. So, for example, you could imagine a modular blockchain where we set it up exactly like Solana.
00:06:42.838 - 00:07:20.390, Speaker B: We could use Solana's turbine for DA or data propagation. You could have used something like the SVM without any modifications. You could remove the canonical bridge and just use a bridge like hyperlin or layer zero or something. And that's exactly what Solana is and there's no performance hit if you architecture blockchain that way. But when you want to add in fault proofs, then there's additional information that you have to commit to when you want to add in data availability sampling. The way that Celestia is constructed, the erasure encoding is actually different than turbines. And that's why there's that fundamental tension between high data propagation bandwidth versus high verifiability.
00:07:20.390 - 00:07:53.988, Speaker B: And you might have seen that chart by frictionless, where it shows the different bandwidths for each of these different chains. And that's largely because of those additional bits that are being propagated to facilitate das. But if you remove Das, then Celestia is basically on par with turbine. It's just that it would somewhat defeat the value proposition of celestia. There would be no need for it to exist. So that's how I would think about it. Meaning that concretely, what's the difference? Likely the theoretical throughput of the chain should be lower, given that there are more bits being propagated, and given that their razor encoding on celestia could end up being the bottleneck.
00:07:53.988 - 00:08:28.754, Speaker B: So Solana, I think in its current form, could probably blow to maybe tens of thousands of transactions. And under optimistic conditions, obviously, you can probably even get past that. Whereas under optimistic conditions for eclipse, you can expect to shave off a percent or two off of that. And there's versions of eclipse where it could actually go beyond Solana's throughput. For example, if we upgraded all of our flow notes to fire dancer and Solana emphasizes client diversity, then of course eclipse would end up being a little bit faster. But that's not really. I would say that eclipse's concern isn't let's boost the performance beyond Solana.
00:08:28.754 - 00:08:37.034, Speaker B: It's more about let's hold Solana's performance constant, or as constant as possible and add in verifiability without damaging that performance too much.
00:08:37.734 - 00:09:13.784, Speaker C: I feel like we've slightly jumped ahead in terms of talking about Celestia as a DA layer, but I think it'd be interesting just to look at maybe the state of these roll ups as a service, as they currently are on Ethereum. And I would say the biggest proponent of that is probably optimism with its super chain. And as I understand that would be using Ethereum l one as the DA layer. So it'd just be interesting to go a bit more into how they're going about that, what they're achieving, and then also the economics around that. How cheaply can they get their fees, and what are the fixed costs associated.
00:09:16.364 - 00:10:01.464, Speaker B: So I think the reasoning behind something like optimism or scroll is that they want to make it so. If your app is written for Ethereum, then it is guaranteed to also run on optimism or scroll with very few additional trust assumptions, meaning that they want to use Ethereum for everything. That's Ethereum da ethereum settlement. So they'll define the chain by that bridge, rather than defining it by the full nodes, which is effectively the social consensus difference between being a sovereign roll up versus being a smart contract roll up. So that's basically want to be an l two, as it was originally defined. They want to use the EVM, they want to just scale. Ethereum is effectively the goal for what they're building, but the issue is that the EVM itself is not very scalable.
00:10:01.464 - 00:10:48.282, Speaker B: I think there are some efforts, like paradigms building ret, and I think that could actually substantially boost the throughput of the EVM, given it's a single thread still, but they're just putting as much horsepower as possible into that. Maybe you could even do some parallelism in the execution, assuming that transactions don't overlap, and you could maybe even get competitive with Solana. But at the same time, Solana also has its own clients being bailed like fire dancer. So I have no doubt that specifying the access list upfront means that you're going to be able to optimize that more effectively. So I don't think that there's a limit to how optimized the EVM can get. So that's basically the constraint that scroll and optimism are hitting. Optimism in particular, given that they're live, they're actually seeing it where op mainnet can have fee spikes and it can get congested.
00:10:48.282 - 00:11:31.452, Speaker B: So their solution to solving that noisy neighbor problem is just by spinning up another instance of optimism. And that's what they're offering for folks on Ethereum, whereas that's somewhat what Solana was built to solve for. And that's why to us it makes a lot of sense to just take Solana itself and turn it into an l two. But the cost implication is that as an l two, you have this economic structure where you're paying other parties, so you're paying celestia, for example, for DA, or optimism paying Ethereum for DA. And in general, that's the biggest cost that any roll up is going to face. So if you're using Ethereum for DA, then let's say you post 200 bytes, there's pretty much a fixed cost of about fifteen cents. And if you notice on arbitrum or optimism, it never really gets cheaper than that.
00:11:31.452 - 00:11:56.110, Speaker B: That's because that's the cost. It's 16 gas per byte of call data, of non zero call data that you post to Ethereum. So they're just writing those bytes, and then that's the cost that's being passed on to the user via some oracle. So that's the way that optimism calculates its prices. Whereas something like an l, one can basically set that price however they want. That's why solon is able to set it arbitrarily low. And the only downside is validators might complain.
00:11:56.110 - 00:12:06.594, Speaker B: They might say, we're just not making enough money. At which point you can use inflation, you can use other mechanisms to make sure that everyone's happy, and then eventually you can grow that transaction volume so that the system is sustainable.
00:12:06.894 - 00:12:33.732, Speaker C: And then in one of your blog posts, you talked about that, you referenced that 15 cent fee, and you said maybe after EIP 4844 proto dank sharding those costs, maybe they reduced by ten x. So rather than being $0.15 for that DA cost, it becomes 1.5 cents. But then you said they'll also need to take a bit of profit to pay themselves. So then maybe they'll take a couple of cents per transaction. So you're getting up to maybe three transaction.
00:12:33.732 - 00:12:43.694, Speaker C: And then you estimated that basically any app chain, am I correct in thinking this, any app chain would then need to achieve like 50,000 tps just in order to be profitable?
00:12:43.774 - 00:13:09.568, Speaker B: Yeah, it's total napkin math. I just kind of made up some numbers. We don't know what the AIP 48, 44 impact will actually be. So I just am making some assumptions here, just for people to be able to play around with that general model and they can plug in their own numbers on whatever they think is a reasonable assumption, but it's just fairy dust. I just pulled this out of thin air. But yeah, basically you need a lot of transaction volume for an app roll up to make sense if you're using Ethereum for DA. And we'll see what celestial DA ends up costing.
00:13:09.568 - 00:13:25.844, Speaker B: It might end up costing the same thing we don't know. And that would be if Celestia is totally saturated, because it's also a fee market. But it seems unlikely, just given that there's more block space on Celestia than there is on Ethereum. So you'd figure the price should be lower, but it's supply and demand at the end of the day.
00:13:26.304 - 00:13:51.506, Speaker C: Yeah, it's just crazy. I think von Spencer was the one who's famously recently said, there are so many teams building l two s on eth right now, and most of them are starting with op stack. There will likely be 100 to 1000 roll ups in the next year or so. And then conversely, you've done some napkin maths, and each one of those would need to be achieving 50,000 tps just to roughly become profitable. It's not adding up, right?
00:13:51.570 - 00:13:58.574, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there'll be a lot of testnet op stack roll ups. As far as mainnet op stack roll ups, I don't know how many we're actually going to see.
00:14:03.244 - 00:14:18.984, Speaker A: Can we do maybe a bit of a compare and contrast with the different pieces of a roll up or an l two? Like, maybe just compare it to an obstac rollup versus eclipse to help us understand what actually is fundamentally different?
00:14:20.044 - 00:15:04.010, Speaker B: Yeah, the best way to break it down is probably the way that celestia does. So they say there's a few functions of a blockchain. You have execution, which is the virtual machine, and virtual machine. I was having this chat with Greg, who is the technical co founder of Solana, and it's like, unclear exactly what virtual machine means in this context, whether it's just the byte code and we're referring to a single threaded execution of that bytecode, or whether it's referring to the surrounding transaction format and even the parallelism that's built into c level, which is a term that might even be deprecated soon. So it's unclear exactly what we mean, but at a high level, we all somewhat understand what execution is. So whether it's EvM, SVM, move something else. So what's computing the state transition? So that's the first part.
00:15:04.010 - 00:15:41.428, Speaker B: And optimism obviously uses the EVM, and eclipse uses Solana's VM. So that's the first difference. And to me, that's really the biggest difference between optimism and eclipse, and that's really the end goal of eclipse, which is that we just want to make the SVM into an l two by whatever means necessary. And that that's why we have to make these other changes, which I'll get into. But if we could have built eclipse in the same exact way as optimism, or if we could have even used op stack, we likely would have, because it just saves us effort. Right. But the problem is that op stack, because it's using the EVM, it's actually written in such a way that it makes all these assumptions that you're okay with doing this intermediate state serialization.
00:15:41.428 - 00:16:09.120, Speaker B: So having a global merkle tree that's updated after every transaction, and that's just completely prohibited for us. And there's a reason why Solana removed that, because that's pretty much the biggest bottleneck for blockchains for execution at least. So anyway, so that's execution. Then you have settlement. And settlement is a contested term as to what it even means, but it's effectively a bridge. And optimism and eclipse both have a bridge on ethereum. The difference is how that bridge works.
00:16:09.120 - 00:16:48.332, Speaker B: So optimism in general, if you want to have a fault proof or any kind of proof of execution, you need to say, what are the inputs for the transaction? And then you have to say, this is the transaction that I'm disputing. And then you have to have some way of proving the execution of that on the l one on chain. So that could be by giving a ZK proof, and that's these hybrid ZK optimistic roll ups, which is what we're doing. I think there's some other teams that are doing something similar. It could be something where it just literally replays the transaction on chain. And that was optimism's v one design, which is sometimes called the replay method. And that's difficult because you're going to hit these limits in terms of like, what's the maximum gas limit? It might take multiple transactions to get it through.
00:16:48.332 - 00:17:27.276, Speaker B: There are some things, such as precompiles, which might be very difficult to execute on chain just because they're very expensive. And then there's interactive fault provers, which is a whole different way of doing it. You prove the state of the VM, then you prove what a single instruction at the VMS level did to change the state of the VM. So these are all different ways of proving execution, but that's what settlement is. And why do we want to prove execution? Because this way we can make sure that the bridge hasn't been compromised. And if someone wants to move money out of the chain, then we know that that was a legitimate transaction, it was executed properly, and that execution can be proven on Ethereum, and you can safely remove your funds or add funds to the chain. So that's the purpose of settlement.
00:17:27.276 - 00:18:15.688, Speaker B: And the difference between optimism and eclipse is in order to prove those inputs, optimism has a benefit of the global Merkle tree. So they can just give a Merkle witness, they can give some branch, they can say, here's the root of the merkle tree, here's some input, here's a bunch of intermediate roots. And, and this is proof that this is the correct that this input did indeed belong to the state tree at this time. And then here's a transaction which you can get by giving a merkle witness to the block, to the state, to the root of the block. So we don't get that benefit because we don't have a global merkle tree. So we just did a design that's similar to what Anatoly was specking out, similar to what John Adler spec'd out for fuel. And there actually are some like, there's some small issues that have to be worked around, including system programs, system variables, bunch of other surrounding stuff.
00:18:15.688 - 00:18:47.096, Speaker B: But that is effectively the direction that we're building in. That's how we're going to be building our fault proofs. So, and then the other difference, that we don't want to actually execute it on chain, because the way that Toli wrote it out, you would have the benefit of executing this in a browser or in some arbitrary piece of software that's running on your computer. But for us, we have to execute it on chain, on Ethereum. So instead we just generate a ck proof of that execution and we post that. And that part we've actually made a lot of progress then it's just the surrounding details. Proving execution is more than just proving the execution of the bytecode.
00:18:47.096 - 00:19:22.280, Speaker B: You have to also prove like all the other surrounding stuff that's loaded into the VM. So yeah, so that's settlement. And then there's DA. And DA is just, where are you publishing those blocks or those transactions that someone can replay them? And the purpose of replaying is so that someone can call for a fall proof, so that other full nodes can keep up, so that you don't end up just unilaterally running the chain by yourself and no one knows what you're doing. So we're using celestia largely because it's cheaper. Also it adds that benefit of being able to cheaply verify that the blocks have not been withheld. But optimism is using Ethereum.
00:19:22.280 - 00:19:27.724, Speaker B: And the reason to use Ethereum is that now you don't have to prove that the celestia validators are not colluding.
00:19:29.064 - 00:20:20.488, Speaker A: But that comes at a cost, right? Which we alluded to earlier, which is like the floor seems to be about 1015 cents to theoretically to do that and might come down maybe, maybe ten x with proto dank sharding. How do you think about the trade offs you're making with all those decisions, though? Which is to say, for instance, Monad's thesis is that ETH has a ton of infra on the research side as well. And people that write smart contracts and solidity can just write them on Monad pretty easily. And I think that's the bet that a lot of these l two s are making when they choose EVM for execution. By choosing the SVM now you have to, if you want to do something really custom, use rust and rely on the Solana ecosystem infrastructure. But the way you architected it seems to benefit also from economic value. Parked and east.
00:20:20.488 - 00:20:25.604, Speaker A: So how do you just think about, these are the trade offs. I want to make that make sense for this approach.
00:20:26.424 - 00:21:01.066, Speaker B: I think the biggest network effect that we lose, as you were mentioning, is we don't get the EVM network effects anymore. But I think that they're largely overrated at this point, because if you look at this Lana community, there's a lot of great code samples, there's Solana cookbook. There's sufficient surrounding infra at this point, especially given Seahorse Lang. And we have some guys on my team who are, they wrote some solidity smart contracts. They compile it for EVM just using standard tooling. They're running that on opstack, and then they use Solang and compile it to SVM bytecode. And then this gives us an apples to apples comparison between these two systems.
00:21:01.066 - 00:21:42.216, Speaker B: So I think it's not as easy as just taking a standard solidity smart contract and just running it with Solang, because there's all this stuff in the EVM that's allowed for that. Solang would not. So it's like a subset of what would be allowed for if you're writing for an EVM smart contract, but it's still pretty. It gets you halfway there and you don't have to totally rewrite everything in Ross is my point. So anyway, yeah, I think basically we're losing EVM network effects, but what we're gaining is all the network effects of the Ethereum community. That the money on Ethereum, all that unique assets that live there, we can port those into eclipse really easily. So that's the trade off.
00:21:42.216 - 00:22:14.334, Speaker B: Whereas Monad, the trade off is they're losing the Ethereum assets in some sense. They're not so tightly coupled to Ethereum. And I don't know if they're going to be able to tap into the Ethereum community as effectively as oddly. Like, oddly, I think they actually have a better time tapping into the Solana community, given that Solana community has already parallel maxis. I think they've shown pretty decent support from Monad or Monad, whatever the correct. Whereas I think they're not quite, they haven't quite gained mind share in the Ethereum community yet. So I think that's the.
00:22:14.334 - 00:22:21.614, Speaker B: It's almost like Monad's the opposite of eclipse in some sense. They keep the EVM but throw away the rest of Ethereum.
00:22:22.834 - 00:22:36.374, Speaker C: One thing we haven't mentioned with the SVM is obviously you will then be introducing local fee markets for the first time, I think, into the L2 ecosystem. How important do you think that is to allow Ethereum to scale?
00:22:37.114 - 00:23:09.450, Speaker B: I think it's critical. Look at Arbitrum where they had these massive fee spikes when there was a bunch of activity on GMX. Look at massive NFT drops that have historically caused congestion on evms. I think right now we're not appreciating it because we're in a bear market too. So while it does happen, like, it's not that, it's not like it's happening every day, but during a bull market, I think we're going to see serious congestion on these EVM chains. And that's going to be when eclipse is very clearly the most scalable l two. And people maybe won't appreciate it fully in a bear market because it's also theoretical.
00:23:09.450 - 00:23:15.134, Speaker B: But in practice, I think is when proof's in the pudding on who actually scales under those conditions.
00:23:15.434 - 00:23:40.784, Speaker C: And do you think there is a future? I mean, it'd be interesting actually to see what you think the long game is for l two s. Who's going to win? And do you think that EvM l two s will still be able to contest and will be able to take a large part of the market? Or do you think SVM l two s will start to dominate predominantly because of their ability to offer local fee markets.
00:23:42.084 - 00:24:20.114, Speaker B: So Vitalik has this post called endgame, and there's these different paths that Ethereum can go on, and they have one path where it's mini roll ups, like a thousand roll ups, and they all have to interoperate in some way. There's some way to manage Mev across all of them. And then he has the other path, which is one roll up scales and dominates. So eclipse is very much betting on the ladder, and I don't even think it needs to be a lot of SVML two s. I think you just need one in the same let you only need one Solana, and it's just providing the one execution layer that is actually scalable for Ethereum. So maybe it's a little bit self congratulatory for us to say but that is definitely the direction that we're building in.
00:24:21.884 - 00:24:57.794, Speaker A: How do you position eclipse, or rather what's been kind of the community response to this initiative? Because it seems like in a way, the endgame, you're competing directly with Solana at that point because you want to have some tethering to ETH and the EVM. But then at the same time, you guys are using an approach that I guess now is increasingly being supported by Ethereum people. But historically they fought pretty hard against Solana. I mean, what's that like? Because crypto is such almost a religious kind of zeitgeist amongst all these adopters. How has that been so far?
00:24:58.334 - 00:25:58.530, Speaker B: It depends on the community for sure. I think that we've been most warmly welcomed by the Ethereum community, and a lot of the big Ethereum researchers have reached out and they're really interested in the specifics of what we're doing. I'd say the Solana community, and that's why I'm glad that we get to do a podcast like this. And I think that's the one thing that tolle and folks like yourselves have been really good at, which is like showing exactly what are the technical differences. Why would someone build this? Why is it positive sum for the Solana community rather than taking the zero sum view on it? So the Solana community is definitely the most conflicted, I think, where some folks have been really excited about it and they think it's an opportunity for them to tap into Ethereum, which I think a lot of folks have tried to do. I think that's the reason why we've started seeing these metamask snaps pop up, such as with soulflare or drift belt, because they effectively feel that that's a big barrier to getting Ethereum users to using drift or other Solana apps, which is that they have to switch wallets, they have to download another wallet, and it doesn't conveniently prompt them. I don't know if you guys have tried out these metamask snaps, but it's pretty easy.
00:25:58.530 - 00:26:37.778, Speaker B: You just add it into your dapp, you import whatever react library it is, and then, and then it prompts the user. If you try to connect your wallet, it'll say, do you want to use metamask? Then you click it, you can install it. So it is pretty frictionless compared to installing an entirely new wallet. So yeah, that's one side of the camp. And the other side is thinking, is this competitive with Solana? Why does it need to exist? It seems like a vampire attack, and I think that's the side that I'm not as. I guess I don't really understand the vampire attack part of it because developers can go multi chain, right? So you can deploy to bug. And I honestly don't think that there's enough liquid.
00:26:37.778 - 00:26:58.776, Speaker B: Like, think about it from our perspective. We're looking at Ethereum, which has hundreds of billions of dollars. It has tons and tons of money on it, versus Solana. There's no reason for us to go after Solana liquidity. Like it would be like missing the forest for the trees. So that's our attitude. And that's why in general, when we're going after users or going after folks who deploy capital, it's all coming from Ethereum.
00:26:58.776 - 00:27:15.644, Speaker B: And also the native token is in ETH as well. So we're going after folks who have a lot of ETH already. So that's the way that we think about it. And it's also like the most interesting assets right now happen to be in Ethereum. I think Solana is getting there, but that's kind of how we think about it internally.
00:27:17.224 - 00:28:07.412, Speaker A: For sure. For sure. And kind of a quick follow up on that actually is, and you're alluding to it a bit here, but one view I always have is how are people going to onboard into crypto or on chain applications, self custodial applications in the next, I guess, bull market or adoption cycle? One of the interesting things was Solana timed it really well where they already had a wallet that was working months before people started getting obsessed with NFTs in the middle of 2021. And then very quickly, NFT marketplace emerged in the form of Magic Eden to kind of capture that liquidity. No, the flywheel spins and now there's a whole thriving ecosystem and there's incentives for developers to build multisigs and things like that. So I guess is the bet you're making that this will still happen mostly in Ethereum. I get that there's a lot of capital there today, which is great in a bear market.
00:28:07.412 - 00:28:46.264, Speaker A: And I think it's one of the reasons why arbitrum has done so well and so much interesting stuff has been built there. It's just easy to bridge money over with the existing whales. But now we're getting towards a paradigm where there's all these outside of Solana, even new l one s new approaches to scaling. Do you take the view that maybe like one killer app could just drive a lot of interest in a completely different ecosystem and then just capture users there where the UX is just fundamentally different or better because they're not tethered to EVM? Or are you still pretty confident that those network effects of either the capital or the existing technology available on the EVM side is just too big to overcome?
00:28:47.084 - 00:29:38.204, Speaker B: I view it as more of a probability distribution where these newer l one s that are popping up are effectively trying to build a highly scalable l one from the ground up. But I feel that that's what Solana was doing from day one, and I think Solana has done it pretty close to optimally. So I don't know how an Alt l one could really be more competitive than Solana when it comes to a developer building today. If they're trying to pick which alt l one they're going to build on, they're very likely going to pick what's the de facto standard, which is Solana, whereas the majority of developers in general are on ethereum. So if you had to just throw a dart at a wall and guess here's a random app, it's going to go viral. Which ecosystem does it likely belong to? There's a non trivial chance it's from Solana, but if you had to make a bet, then it'd likely be on ethereum. Such as what we saw with friendtech.
00:29:38.204 - 00:30:05.100, Speaker B: I think friendtech maybe could have even been run more smoothly on an SVM, but ultimately we saw that they chose base. And I think Racer was really thoughtful about how he did that. Actually talked with every ecosystem. So. And to get this hilarious tweet, which is, I don't know if you saw the avalanche guys got into a bit of a back and forth with them. Yeah. And they said something like, racer, do I have to remind you that you were literally asking us about the benefits of avalanche just a few months ago? He said, yeah, I did.
00:30:05.100 - 00:30:09.314, Speaker B: I talked to every ecosystem. That's why I can say with confidence that avalanche is the worse.
00:30:11.454 - 00:30:12.710, Speaker A: That's amazing.
00:30:12.902 - 00:30:46.494, Speaker B: Yeah, he did talk with every ecosystem, including eclipse and everyone else, and I think he ultimately moved toward Altoos and then he picked a base just because they probably did offer like, a decent amount of support, and that's just not where eclipse was even at that point. So. Yeah, so that's how I think about where a viral app would pop up. So I think while it could theoretically pop up in some movie ecosystem, it just seems highly unlikely, given that that's not where developers are building by default. They're not considered a default option for developers, for sure.
00:30:51.394 - 00:32:05.856, Speaker C: I think I've got a slightly interesting take on all of this, which is that I think a large part of the reason why you're settling on Ethereum is because ETH is worth so much, and as you say, there's so much capital in that ecosystem. But if the future of ETH is that the execution is going to occur at the L2 levels, that means that the execution income will by and large not be accruing to ETH. If l two s start adopting the same route as you and start using things like Celestia for their DA layers, then suddenly the DA income isn't going to go to ETH. So ETH is just sort of ending up then with these sort of de minimis settlement costs. And I think in one of your blog posts you said that optimism are paying about $5 a day, I think, for settlement to ETh. So really it's not big numbers that we're talking about. And then also, if the future of l two s is as you envisage it, and personally I think it's highly plausible that there's just going to be one or a couple based on power laws of winning l two s, then I remember Vanek doing a valuation report recently on Ethereum, and they said that that would be like the most bearish future for Ethereum because there would be a huge amount of purchasing power within those l two s.
00:32:05.856 - 00:32:23.544, Speaker C: They can basically say, we're not going to pay you very much eth to settle on you. So really the question here is, if your future pans out, where is eth going to get its money from, and how is it going to maintain this highly liquid ethereum ecosystem?
00:32:24.844 - 00:33:06.570, Speaker B: I guess the way that I think about it is, do people buy eth because of the money being paid to ethereum in the form of settlement or execution, or do they just buy eth? I feel like it's more the latter, such as I have a ton of ethereum, but I don't think about staking yields or anything like that. In fact, most of it is not staked because it's just liquidity preference. If I want to spend that eth, I don't have to unstake it and do all that. I want to have the eth ready in my wallet so that I can buy something. So I think ETH has achieved money ness in a way that very few other cryptocurrencies have. And obviously USDC gets free money ness because they're piggybacking off the money ness of USD. And bitcoin obviously is the OG.
00:33:06.570 - 00:33:39.604, Speaker B: But beyond that, I don't think there's really too many things that are really treated as money in the same way. And I think in the solana ecosystem, people treat sol as money. I think I have some soul staked with cheetos, but for the most part, most of my soul is just liquid. So I think that's the desired effect for a settlement layer, which is that people just buy the token because they want to go onto these altos and start buying a bunch of other stuff that's denominated in that token. So I don't know, if the revenues, quote unquote, flowing into ethereum, are so relevant.
00:33:41.554 - 00:34:08.934, Speaker C: Then maybe related to that. So if eclipse were to become this sort of dominant l two and say you released a token, would it not be rational to at some point in the future, try and use that token as the payment token within the eclipse ecosystem and then maybe to roll off and become your own l one if you're completely dominating the eth ecosystem? Just wondering how you think about those futures.
00:34:09.514 - 00:34:44.574, Speaker B: So I don't commit to too many things, but I think eclipse would never do that. Like, I think that's like, that's like way out of the wheelhouse for eclipse's ambitions. So that, yeah, we would, we would never use our token as the, try to turn it into money and we wouldn't. Well, here's the thing. Like, once eclipse go, at some point we'll have eclipse governance, and that community could theoretically vote to do whatever it wants. So I don't, I'm not gonna. It's not like we can control it, but I find it really unlikely that given the point of eclipse, which is as an ethereum scaling solution, it's in the tagline, it's like a very essential part of what we're doing.
00:34:44.574 - 00:34:47.454, Speaker B: I don't think that we would be in l one.
00:34:49.914 - 00:35:29.234, Speaker A: Let's actually stay on that point, which is this point of governance and the role of tokens and what they should be or shouldn't be or what behaviors you're trying to incentivize. Maddie Tokenomics, who's written a really good guide on this on the pod a few weeks ago, would love to just get your thoughts on how do you think about what the role of a token for an l two should be? I mean, obviously base took this view that they're just going to let people use existing assets like ETh or USDC, even to pay gas, and other l two s are taking a different approach. It seems like you're alluding to this point that maybe governance seems like a natural fit. But broadly, how do you think about having a token for an l two?
00:35:30.134 - 00:35:59.360, Speaker B: Yeah. Well, what's cool about an l two is that you don't even need a token, at least in these early stages. At some point you would want to harden, bridge upgradability and all that stuff. So I see that there is a need for governance, but maybe the governance doesn't require a token. The governance is a discussion that's constantly evolving, and if we can avoid a token, I don't think that there's anything wrong with that. So right now, basically, we haven't even thought about tokens because we're just focused on the mainnet launch, but that's probably something that we'd want. There's go to market advantages of having a token.
00:35:59.360 - 00:36:32.522, Speaker B: You can give incentives and stuff like that. But then again, if you have an successful bootstrapped ecosystem, then you have eth flowing into the system. You can use that as your incentive. You can direct traffic. There's other kinds of incentives you can give to people other than just straight cash, the way that l one's did in the last cycle. So, yeah, we haven't thought enough about it, basically, for me to give you a great answer on that. But I think governance is tricky because I think that it often does end up being tyranny of the richest.
00:36:32.522 - 00:36:45.186, Speaker B: Like, whoever buys all the token gets to basically control the governance. And it seems like that's kind of what we were trying to avoid with crypto, at least, like, parts of that. So I don't know if that's the direction we want to necessarily go in either.
00:36:45.330 - 00:37:22.874, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. Well, how about. Let's think of it this way. How do you see people onboarding into the eclipse ecosystem specifically? Like, what types of things do you think are really natural fit for this execution environment? I know with Solana it ended up being nfts, even though I don't think Anatolia or any of those guys predicted that that would be the thing. They always pitched as defi Nasdaq on blockchain, basically. But how are you envisioning people using this? I think Arbitrum had an interesting model where teasing out an airdrop and people end up trying out all this really cool defi stuff seems to be like a niche that they hit pretty well, but love to hear your perspective.
00:37:23.414 - 00:38:07.600, Speaker B: So I feel like Ethereum defi ecosystem is still thriving, so I could see this, realizing that original vision of Solana, especially with on chain clubs, it's something that Ethereum is desperately lacking. And there is some good debate on Twitter about the value of being fully on chain as a club, and it's really about internalizing all the information and making sure that it's fair for all participants. And it also mitigates some attack vectors. So I think that's something that Solana's, like, had the privilege of enjoying from the beginning, whereas now ethereum can finally get this as well. I think that'll be interesting. NFTs, I think, is a very natural fit just because of those congestion issues that I was talking about. There have been NFT mints, such as those by Yugalabs, which just completely threw up.
00:38:07.600 - 00:38:42.482, Speaker B: They were not functional on the EVM. So if we could capture some of those, that'd be interesting. I think we'll be focusing on. I don't know whether it's a launchpad or marketplace, but we should get Vijay on here at some point, our chief business officer. But yeah, that's going to be one of the initial levers as well. And then the last part is a handful of consumer apps, which these are consumer apps always take a while to develop, but they'll be coming out in the weeks following mainnet beta. And I think those could potentially be a lever to hopefully attract virality and get folks that are not even in crypto to be onboarded and try out some of this stuff.
00:38:42.482 - 00:39:10.242, Speaker B: So that'd be interesting to me. So, yeah, those are the three things. And I think we see Solana moving toward consumer lately and deepens. I don't know if Solana is really betting the future of the chain on that stuff, but it's almost like a call option. If those things work out, then they'll likely manifest on SVM chains, especially deepens, just because of these guys typically don't come from super sophisticated crypto backgrounds. They often come from the physical side. And that's interesting to me, just given my background.
00:39:10.242 - 00:39:43.794, Speaker B: I used to do commodities, so being able to just use the blockchain, naively not think about too much optimization and cost cutting, and just blast the chain with transactions, I can see a lot of value of that. And it's something that I'm interested in. It's not something that eclipse is necessarily focusing on at this point, just because it is a little bit too much of a bet for us. We're just focusing on the tried and true, which is Defi and nfts to start, just because people are going to be looking for those base primitives on the chain. And then we have a handful of consumer things that hopefully should attract a little bit more of that orthogonal attention.
00:39:44.614 - 00:40:12.124, Speaker C: Yeah, I think bringing a club to eth would be absolutely incredible. So definitely be routing for you guys once you can deploy that. If you become a sort of a major trading venue within Ethereum, firstly, I'm assuming you currently using a centralized or single sequencer. Do you think to become a major trading venue, does that need to be decentralized, or do you think it's less of an issue that it's sometimes made out to be?
00:40:13.584 - 00:40:44.738, Speaker B: I think we'd want to commit to a first in, first out strategy for now, which is not too far off from what Solana effectively does. We could delegate to a builder market, at which point this sequencer doesn't even get control over the ordering, and it would be the builder market that determines that, and then they would commit to it. The sequencer. All they really get to do is just make sure that that block is valid. So there's variations of this that could work. And that builder market, in l two terms, is effectively a shared sequencer network. So we could do that.
00:40:44.738 - 00:41:29.980, Speaker B: But in the short term, assuming it's eclipse and a few of these other entities that we're chatting with, such as RisC zero, some folks not in the US, such as Celestia, they could all run maybe one sequencer. So we have a proof of authority rotation that as long as they commit to the first in, first out, it seems like that would. I mean, I don't think any of us are really in the business of MeV or front running or anything like that, so I think that that's probably fine. And you might actually experience lower latency just having a single sequencer. Like, for example, our block times are. This is just a funny comparison, because, like you mentioned, it's just a single node, but it ends up being. It's consistently 350 milliseconds, which is what a Solana validator, like a single cluster, gets by default.
00:41:29.980 - 00:42:07.524, Speaker B: And it's only because of the fact that there are so many validators that ends up deviating from that. So, yeah, I could see arguments on both sides, and I could see the argument for if the single sequencer were, for example, operated by, like, flashbots or something, then I think that's a very dangerous situation, because I think flashbots has a lot of reason to possibly front run that information or do something else that'd be undesirable for users. But given that it's not really a trading venue, or it's not really someone in the business of Mev that's running it, I think it's less of a concern.
00:42:09.704 - 00:42:24.284, Speaker A: How are sequencer failures handled for. Because I know for some of these l two s, you can force transactions back to the l one with a delay. But how would that work for this paradigm that we're talking about?
00:42:24.744 - 00:42:51.640, Speaker B: So the first is redundancy. So we have helios running one. And then for the proof of authority, we can have, obviously, other folks, like risk, zero, celestial, and those guys. And if Helios goes down for the start, I'm just talking about the v one of it. Then we're chatting with other node providers. And I don't want to commit to any name because we haven't quite signed anything with anyone, but we're chatting with. You could even guess the names, because there's only a handful in the salon ecosystem.
00:42:51.640 - 00:43:10.014, Speaker B: So it's guys who have run Solana validators before. Let's say the sequencer does completely go down. Then I have to build a sequencer reelection scheme. And like you mentioned, yeah, there'd have to be forced inclusion, some, like, scheme for determining who gets to be the sequencer if no one's sequenced after k blocks or something like that.
00:43:15.714 - 00:43:39.554, Speaker C: Just wondering how you see the future of the l one markets going. Really? Do you think that by bringing things like SVM to Ethereum, do you think that maybe that can bring a lot of the use cases which currently sit on Solana? Do you think that app chains will. Will congregate there or congregate elsewhere? Yeah. Just wondering how you're seeing it all playing out.
00:43:41.054 - 00:44:22.334, Speaker B: My hope is that we can replicate what people are getting with their own EVM roll ups on a single SVM chain. And that's why I'm really interested in roam protocol, which is the shared sequencer network using Solana, because that same architecture can be used. Assuming that they can support different versions of the EVM and stuff like that, what they're building could essentially be a better version of what Opstack is building toward, which is that you get your own isolated block space. Isolated. But it's really just a local fee market. You get to set the gas token however you want. You can customize it in many ways, but ultimately, it's all leveraging the same shard, and that means you get better interoperability between these different neon EVM instances.
00:44:22.334 - 00:44:49.354, Speaker B: That's what I'm hoping for. That's the way that I'm thinking about it right now. I don't know if something else could pop up, and then we could totally change that thesis on EVM roll ups. But basically, I don't think that they should all be roll ups. They should consolidate to scalable single shards. And then in the l one landscape, I don't see how there could be more than just a few. And, I mean, if I had to pick those few, I think Ethereum will play a role.
00:44:49.354 - 00:45:13.930, Speaker B: And I don't know if we're even, like, counting bitcoin in this discussion, but obviously. Bitcoin. Yeah, that's it. Right? It seems a little bit, because it doesn't even have. Now they're actually getting smart contract execution on bitcoin with BitVM and all this stuff. But, yeah, and Babylon's doing some interesting stuff, too, where you can run arbitrary stuff and then slash on bitcoin if it was not executed correctly. So that's a project in the bitcoin ecosystem that could bring that.
00:45:13.930 - 00:45:58.182, Speaker B: But beyond that, Solana has a very good shot, I think, and I think it's maintained relevance even through the bear market. And beyond that, I wouldn't place any bets. Meaning that these are three highly unique, different l one s that are providing orthogonal value. But outside of that, I'm not seeing other l one s that have that same unique positioning in the same way that Solana, in some sense, is kind of like Southwest Airlines. There is a Harvard business case study on Southwest Airlines where they talk about how everything's optimized in Southwest, where it's all a 747, it's all the same plane model. They have not really great service on the plane. It's not like they're serving you first class food or anything.
00:45:58.182 - 00:46:24.958, Speaker B: But that's the point. To compete with, or even better today, would be the example of Spirit airlines, where they've taken that to the extreme. But to compete with Spirit, you can't just say, all right, we're going to try to cut our costs as low as possible. You'd have to do everything from the ground up. In the same way. Spirit kind of what I see Solana has been doing, which is everything's in the service of performance latency. I will say that that's come a little bit at the cost of verifiability, meaning that we lost, like, clients in the Solana community.
00:46:24.958 - 00:46:40.254, Speaker B: That's a critical feature of Ethereum that we're trying to bring back to the SVM. But at the same time, that's the positioning. Right? Someone else would have to also give up like, clients if they wanted to compete with Solana where it is today. So I think that's very compelling to me.
00:46:41.834 - 00:47:41.414, Speaker A: I want to actually bring up something that we touched on a bit with earlier conversation with friendtech and base, kind of like why they chose to build there. It's something I just see a lot generally, which is developers or deciding where to build an application, what makes sense based on their users. What are you bullish on in terms of how people will use crypto products? I think one view I have is we're going to skate away from this era of doing everything. In Chrome browser extensions and experiments like Friendtech demonstrated the value of embedded NPC wallets, for instance. There's a lot of excitement in Ethereum on account abstraction generally, and just being able to have smart contract wallets and pay gas in whatever token you want and have some customization there and social recovery and things like that. On the Solana side, we're hearing a lot of rumors about passkeys to unlock to replace seed phrases, and maybe they'll announce something at breakpoint. But how do you think about this user experience? Experience and how people actually interface with crypto going forward?
00:47:42.794 - 00:48:20.796, Speaker B: Yeah, Ux is tricky. Hard to say where that'll land, but I like to take that. The killer apps of crypto likely bear some semblance to the apps that we see in crypto today, in the same way that the early apps of the Internet were somewhat. You could draw parallels to the apps that we see today. And there actually used to be some way of coming up with startup ideas. It's like take one of the early command line tools and just make that your whole startup, just build it with the Internet. So examples would be like, I don't know what, there's like basic chat apps or streaming, things like that.
00:48:20.796 - 00:49:15.728, Speaker B: And you just take streaming, generalize it, you get Netflix. So maybe that's a little bit of a stretch, but that's the premise of that form of ideation. And I think that's not like a bad way to think about crypto, too, because I think people discount exactly what an interesting phenomenon crypto is, which is that we have a lot of people that are using. Yeah, it's not like every american is using it, but we have a lot of people interested in these apps. Even phenomena like friend Tac, where suddenly we all download the app, we go through jumping through hoops to use this app, which is, it's smooth by crypto terms, but it's not very smooth by most traditional definitions. So that's interesting to me. And I think the fact that we're willing to do that tells you that there's something that's like, striking deep in the human psyche about crypto apps and about financializing things that maybe God didn't intend us to financialize.
00:49:15.728 - 00:49:20.044, Speaker B: So I think it'll be some extension of what we've seen today, basically.
00:49:20.704 - 00:49:28.204, Speaker C: Are there any particular sectors or verticals which you're particularly bullish on for the next cycle? Do you think it will be social or any other areas?
00:49:29.204 - 00:50:01.138, Speaker B: I hope it's deepen. I think that deep ends awesome just because it's also easier to understand, explain to your parents. I think that means that has more retail potential. Some of these guys are doing such interesting things that help stabilize the power grid. They can help finance things like giant power plants. I don't know why I mostly look at power plants or power type things. So yeah, but even outside of that, what helium is doing, they're able to provide a cell network which is cheaper than a regular cell network.
00:50:01.138 - 00:50:37.452, Speaker B: That's pretty phenomenal. And I think that should be getting more attention. So that I think has really good potential. I don't know if Defi will necessarily strike the masses. I don't see my parents trading stuff or buying stocks on uniswap or something like that, but I think that that'll continue to enjoy good support from the crypto native folks. And as far, I think we basically have to talk about smaller sectors. Right? I'm not a gamer myself, so I personally don't fully grok a lot of the gaming stuff, but I know that there's a lot of work being done there.
00:50:37.452 - 00:51:13.364, Speaker B: I just don't really see the value. Because the problem with the gaming part is there needs to be a mechanic that you just straight up can't replicate unless you're on chain. And one of the arguments that I find pretty interesting is like what happened with Runescape, where the community fork of Runescape is more popular than the official version. That's compelling to me. And the fact that the community could have forked state as well, and they could have facilitated that more easily. I think that has actual value to the game. I think that using it as somewhat of a shared API and being able to compose with other apps or other games more seamlessly, that makes sense to me.
00:51:13.364 - 00:52:09.404, Speaker B: But things like micro payments, I think are possibly overrated just because I don't know what apps really necessitate that degree of precision. Because how is that different from I have an in game, like some sort of counter, and then when I want to withdraw, then it just tallies up how much I earned, and then I can withdraw that in bulk. I don't know if that mechanic is substantially different from micropayments and if that's such a great mechanic, then why don't we see it more frequently? So that, that's why I'm not super bullish on on some of the other mechanics that people talk about with games, or vrfs for example. I just don't know if that's a compelling enough reason why people need to be fully on chain. And this is just to be clear, I'm talking about fully on chain games. I could see value of a game using the blockchain in a more arm's length way, maybe just for the assets or something like that, but. But I don't know if I see the value in having every single action there.
00:52:09.754 - 00:52:56.034, Speaker A: So I totally agree with you. And that's kind of a space I've studied a lot. And we actually just talked with the star Atlas guys earlier this week, which is. I agree, games don't need to put everything on chain. They shouldn't because it's not efficient to do that. Games need to be run separately and maybe put something like assets or your progress, which Runescape is a great example where if you could just take your provenance of all your skills and things you've acquired and somehow bring, bring it to a different forked version, it saves you all that time, and then maybe some new feature could be enabled or maybe they just keep it running and the original company stopped operating. It's a point I made in this report I put out a while ago, which is these servers, they stopped paying for them at some point, but there's a lot of nostalgic people that want to play Call of Duty four with other people.
00:52:56.034 - 00:53:51.434, Speaker A: The company doesn't want to run it, but if I could just keep my progress and just hop into it, and maybe some community effort to run the servers pops up. That's a beautiful use case of blockchain where only your character and the progress is on chain, and provably you can prove that you went through all the hoops to get the 10th prestige or whatever. Actually that is a good transition to another quick topic I wanted to touch on, which is I'm hearing a lot of hype around this idea of just putting things on chain and almost streaming data and having timestamps and just having provable provenance for things that you do on the Internet. It seems like we're getting to a point where there's a lot of hype around AI crypto intersection and people are positioning that even as the next l one trade apps that combine both elements of AI applications and what you can do with blockchains do you have any views on that, how those two worlds intersect?
00:53:52.174 - 00:54:34.602, Speaker B: I think it could be interesting because at least for me, I use chat GPT a lot. I use it for things that you shouldn't use chat GPT for, asking it to give me advice on. How do I respond to my parents asking for this? I think it definitely censors quite a bit. It self censors and being able to use versions of chat GPT that are actually, I guess, jailbroken, that could be very useful for me, at least, and I would pay for that. So, yeah, that's like a simple example, but I do think that. And then there's ethical questions, right? Whether because the reason why OpenAI has those restrictions is not because they're bad people, it's actually, I'd say, argue. It's the opposite.
00:54:34.602 - 00:55:15.362, Speaker B: They're trying to be thoughtful about, like how this tech is used and they don't want it to be used to start planning horrible things or doing stuff that society as a whole would condemn. So, you know, to some degree, that's kind of what decentralization does, which is there's the dark underbelly of it, and the same way there was a dark underbelly of this, like tor and Silk road and all that stuff. But there was also immense value in being able to. Now I get access to WikiLeaks. That's pretty cool. Like, now I actually know what our government's doing. So I don't know if we can stop or halt progress just because we're concerned about things like that.
00:55:15.362 - 00:55:30.310, Speaker B: I think it might actually be good to lean into it. Just say, hey, let's let the users self govern. And we can have ethical filters on top that users opt into. But if you want to remove some of those controls, I don't think that's such a bad idea either.
00:55:30.462 - 00:55:36.754, Speaker C: I just finished the techno optimist manifesto from a 16 z today. I'm not sure if you've read that.
00:55:37.454 - 00:55:38.422, Speaker B: Yeah. Andrew.
00:55:38.558 - 00:55:48.544, Speaker C: Yeah. But I absolutely loved it. And I wholeheartedly agree when you say that I don't think we should be holding back on progress, on pushing AI as far as it will go.
00:55:49.004 - 00:56:11.784, Speaker A: So kind of to wrap things up, I think we've touched on a lot of interesting topics and very topical, as l two s are clearly where eth is indexing in terms of scaling, what are you looking forward to? What's the roadmap look like for you guys over the next year? Two years? And yeah, when do you think adoption comes? How are you thinking about the future.
00:56:12.424 - 00:56:49.672, Speaker B: So after this main net beta launch, which is going to happen this quarter, it's happening in the slated for assuming audits go through. So I never want to commit to a hard day because there might be changes that have to be made in the worst case. So yeah, it's slated to come out pretty soon. So that's the first launch. Q one, we'd want to enable fault proofs and make sure that that methodology is completely finalized and then we'd want to work on some of those, some of those things like decentralizing the sequencer, sequencer reelection. There's a bunch of surrounding engineering work that must be done. That's the engineering side.
00:56:49.672 - 00:57:29.564, Speaker B: And ideally end of next year, I could see a world where eclipse is considered as decentralized as one could imagine it. I don't want to. It's hard to anticipate. Also, there's new forms of governance being, being postulated and it's hard to imagine exactly what that governance would look like because we haven't put in those cycles to think about it and think through the different iterations. But that's the vision for it over the next couple of years. And then on the bd side, yeah, I'd want to see a killer app emerge on eclipse I think would be really interesting. And I think there's a lot of interesting stuff that folks have committed to building on eclipse now.
00:57:29.564 - 00:58:03.034, Speaker B: I want to see those in practice, we want to drive activity to them, make sure that developers are properly supported in the ecosystem and also expanding beyond the US where like for example, just as a simple point, our cap table is entirely us. Most of the developers that we've chatted with have been largely based in the US. Now we want to start tapping into India more. We actually have a developer who's based out there. We're going to be hosting some events in India in the coming few months, tapping into things like Turkey, more Asia regions. So that's going to be the emphasis too.
00:58:03.814 - 00:58:17.994, Speaker A: Awesome. So definitely a lot to look forward to. Love the vision and the approach you guys are taking. It's very unique and I think has a very good shot of achieving a mass adoption. So props to you and keep doing it, man. Keep grinding away. We're really excited to see what comes out.
00:58:19.174 - 00:58:20.794, Speaker B: Thanks guys, I appreciate that.
00:58:27.214 - 00:58:35.334, Speaker C: Thanks for listening to unlayered. If you like this podcast and want to help us grow, then please click the follow button and be sure to leave us a review.
