00:00:00.480 - 00:00:40.494, Speaker A: And now it's my pleasure to introduce the next speaker. So, as I told embarrassing, Hannah is currently a carver. She's a freight power. She's on her way to Berkeley, which is sometimes true, and, you know, so young, but to me, it feels like she's been around forever, which must mean the only preparation I have is that. So I'm very excited about her talk, which is rational towering the modulated point of success.
00:00:40.954 - 00:01:18.468, Speaker B: Great. Thank you, Renzo, for the very nice introduction. And thank you so much to the organizers for putting together this event. I've been looking forward to it for a long time, so I'm really glad to be here all together. So I'm going to tell you about some work which is joint with smear canning. And I want to start by telling you what you need to know about chao rings. So, the chow ring of a smooth variety, x, is given to be denoted a star of x.
00:01:18.468 - 00:02:38.024, Speaker B: And it captures information about the sub varieties of x and how they intersect each other. So, this is formed by taking the free abelian group on the closed sub varieties of x. And then we quotient out by an equivalence relation called rational equivalence, which just says that two sub varieties should be equivalent to each other if we can move one into the other along a family parameterized by p one. So here's the picture I have in mind for that. This is x cross p one over p one. And if I have some family of sub varieties. Oh, can people see the picture now? Okay, so we have this family of sub varieties, and we declare that any two fibers are rationally equivalent.
00:02:38.024 - 00:03:48.154, Speaker B: So this turns a star of x into an abelian group, where the addition corresponds to taking unions of sub varieties. But we can actually turn it into a graded ring, where the grading is given by the co dimension of our sub varieties, and the intersection, the multiplication is given by intersection. So, there are two facts that I want you to know about chao rings. And the first is that the chao ring of affine space is as simple as it gets. There's only, uh, the fundamental class in degree zero. And I realize I forgot to say I'm going to be working with rational coefficients. So I'm going to take this here and tensor with q.
00:03:48.154 - 00:05:41.944, Speaker B: So I'm going to write that the charring of affine space is just q. And the other important tool for computing is excision. So this says, if I have a closed sub variety of x, and let's say that u is the open complement, then if I have a sub variety of x, I can always restrict it to u, and this induces a map on chao rings which is surjective. And furthermore the kernel of this surjection is generated by the cycles supported on delta. So I'll write this here and this map, just given a sub variety of delta, you consider it as a sub variety of x, and you just need to shift the grading by the co dimension of delta. So using this we can compute for example, the charring of projective space by writing productive space as the disjoint union of a bunch of copies of affine space. So the first part tells us that there's no classes besides the fundamental class on each of these pieces, and then the second one tells us how to put them together.
00:05:41.944 - 00:07:34.724, Speaker B: So there'll be one non zero class in each co dimension up to n, and it's generated as a ring by the class of a hyperpoint. So, are there any questions on this background about chao rings? All right, so now let's talk about hyper elliptic curves. So a hyperelliptic curve is a curve that admits a degree two map to p one. And if you give me a hyperelliptic curve genus g, then there will be 2g plus two ramification points in this degree two map. And we can consider the image of these points on p one. And that will give us a map from the space of hyperelliptic curves of genus g to the space of 2g plus two distinct points on p one. And this is up to automorphisms of our target p one.
00:07:34.724 - 00:10:14.034, Speaker B: And this map is actually a bijection because, um, if you give me this collection of, uh, distinct points on p one, there's a unique double cover that's branched over them, which is y squared equals f of x, where f is the polynomial vanishing at those points. Now another description of, of this space is the collection of degree 2g plus two polynomials on p one, up to scaling that have no multiple roots, and that in turn we recognize as an open subset of a projective space. So this is a projective space of dimension two, g minus two minus a hypersurface of the polynomials with repeated roots, and then modulo the automorphism group of p one, which is pgl two. So this is a very concrete description of the modulized space of hyperelliptic curves, and it's very useful for computing the chao ring. You can basically use those two tools I told you about, um, together with some equivariant techniques to find that the chao ring of hg is again as simple as it gets, just its fundamental class in degree zero. So I'm interested in extending this story to the moduli spaces of hyperelliptic curves with marked points. So I'm going to write hgn for the moduli space of genus g hyperelliptic curves, together with nice marked points.
00:10:14.034 - 00:11:49.144, Speaker B: So this is a closed sub variety of the moduli space of genus g curves with unmarked points. And one of the ways that marked points come up naturally is when we try to compactify the modulized space of curves. So one of the reasons why you might care about this moduli space is to help us understand what classes are supported on the boundary of mg bar. And this is indeed an application of the work I'm going to tell you about today. So let's look now at the case of n equals one. So here's my hyperelliptic curve, and I've got on it now a marked point. And this curve has an automorphism over p one where you send each point to the other point that has the same image on p one.
00:11:49.144 - 00:13:20.004, Speaker B: And because of this automorphism, the hyper elliptic curve C with marked point p is isomorphic to c with marked point p bar. So they're the same point in the coarse moduli space. And so this means that hg one is also quite simple to describe. So you just need to tell me the 2g plus two distinct points on p one, which is the image of the ramification points, and this one distinguished point. And so this turns into what we had before. Cross a p one that's keeping track of just the image of the marked point. And then again there's this pGL two action.
00:13:20.004 - 00:15:01.234, Speaker B: And again, this really concrete description of the moduli space allows you to calculate its chao ring. So the chao ring of hg one is generated by one class in co dimension one that sort of corresponds to the class on this p one whose square is zero. But now if we try to run the same sort of argument with more marked points, you'll see that this is not going to work. So maybe I take some other marked point here. The problem is, it's not enough to just keep track of the images of the marked points on p one anymore, because C with marked point p and q is not the same as c with marked points p bar and q in general. And you can imagine, as you add more and more marked points, this moduli space should become more and more difficult to describe. And there's a theorem of Schwerz that makes this idea a bit more precise, which says that when n is at least 4g plus seven, Hgn is general type.
00:15:01.234 - 00:17:10.694, Speaker B: So this means that it's actually not possible to describe it in the ways that I've been describing hg and Hg one. But there is some good news in the form of a theorem of cosnodi which says that if n is less than or equal to 2g plus eight, then Hgn is rational. And this means that we should be able to describe a dense open of it explicitly so we can. So it's natural to hope that we should be able to calculate the chao ring of Hgn when n is sufficiently small compared to g. And this is what we found. This is joint with Samir canine. So if n is less than or equal to 2g plus six, then the chao ring of Hgn is generated by n classes in co dimension one, and it has no classes in co dimension two or higher.
00:17:10.694 - 00:18:17.020, Speaker B: And furthermore, using our techniques for studying Hgn, we're able to improve upon cosnodes bound. So Hgn is rational, where n less than or equal to 3g plus six. So let me end by saying that there really is a leap to go from knowing a space is rational to being able to compute its chao ring. So in the examples at the beginning with Hg and Hg one, we actually had a presentation for the entire space as a quotient of an open subset of projective space. But in general, you're only going to know about some dense open. And if you want to know the chow ring, you're going to have to understand its complement. Maybe you can understand a dense open of the complement, but then you have to worry about the complement of that.
00:18:17.020 - 00:18:27.564, Speaker B: And so you're led to trying to understand a whole stratification of HGN. And so that's what goes into this work. And I'll be happy to take questions.
