00:00:00.090 - 00:00:27.382, Speaker A: Alright everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co hosts today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. It all right, everyone.
00:00:27.382 - 00:00:41.870, Speaker A: Welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. You're joined by Michaels one and Two and Miles. We got both Vance and Yano out, and I think we're also going to be joined by Ron DeSantis. He's announcing his candidacy on Bell Curve.
00:00:41.890 - 00:00:42.460, Speaker B: Pot.
00:00:44.910 - 00:00:54.206, Speaker A: Man'S everywhere these days. I actually tuned into the spaces. I didn't think it was bad, but the media didn't have kind things to say about it.
00:00:54.228 - 00:00:57.920, Speaker B: But I don't know. That is definitely true.
00:00:58.850 - 00:01:30.970, Speaker A: Yeah, that is a joke. Ron DeSantis will not be showing. He will not be going on this project. No, he will not. Well, guys, it's been a bit of a slow week in crypto because kind of our leading story here is actually AI related. So Nvidia had maybe one of the largest relative and absolute percent moves in a stock I've ever seen. So they announced earnings yesterday and the stock was up almost 30% overnight.
00:01:30.970 - 00:01:46.480, Speaker A: Basically an enormous revenue beat, kind of on the back of anticipated demand from AI. I don't know, I mean, Michael, I feel like this is a little bit more of your wheelhouse here, but I'd be very curious what your sort of takeaways were.
00:01:46.930 - 00:02:23.658, Speaker B: I really think it's as simple as you can kind of assume. They had a revenue beat, they had a guidance beat. A lot of the conversation that they had after on the earnings call was really around artificial intelligence and where they see these changes stemming from which is AI. And so, frankly, I think the basic understanding here is Nvidia. The stock itself is broadly looked at now as a way to invest in AI where you have the downside protection of a core business. Being able to subsidize downside risk with the upside potential of AI. Really? Kind of.
00:02:23.658 - 00:03:42.594, Speaker B: Taking. You know, historically we've looked at Nvidia in particular, and Nvidia actually is featured in a number of different blockchain ETFs because of the GPUs that they create, which are the core components of any sort of mining operation. And so Nvidia has been looked at historically as a way to get exposure to industries where you can't directly invest through a stock or you don't want to have the specific risk of a stock that is only focused on that space and web. Three crypto in the 20 17, 20, 18, 20 19 era was that opportunity for Nvidia. And it looks like people are taking that same playbook and potentially running it back here with AI. So it'll be interesting to see. And one thing that we were talking about before we started reporting is are they taking the exact same components that they've been selling the GPUs that would go into gaming rigs or be used on kind of very high speed computers and leveraging those for AI, or are they going to start building their own AI specific components? If they're able to move in the direction they never built specific components for crypto mining, but if they move in the direction of having specific components that are dedicated for AI, this could be a great opportunity for people to potentially get exposure to it.
00:03:42.594 - 00:03:44.978, Speaker B: But we'll be interesting to see how that plays out.
00:03:45.064 - 00:04:50.182, Speaker A: So I'm just reading sort of a couple of the highlights from their notes from their earnings release and they really leaned into the whole adoption of AI, right? They're really positioning themselves to Wall Street as being in the center of the adoption of AI based tools. I'm just reading directly from the Wall Street Journal article here, but the adoption of Chat GBT is already translating into a surge in orders of chips that is, know, almost unimaginable. That's coming from basically, you know, people are saying that this is a new gold rush and this is a picks and shovels business and investors love picks and shovels, for sure. I would say, like, Nvidia is a great company, for sure. I think probably some mini AI bubble post Chat GBT was always inevitable. I think there was always going to be a lot of the strong investor sentiment here. Obviously, I'm not an analyst and I haven't deeply studied Nvidia's business, but I do think I've been thinking for some time there was going to be a little bit of an overreaction to AI in general.
00:04:50.182 - 00:05:16.160, Speaker A: So this is kind of the inverse of Chegg, which you saw a couple of weeks ago. But Chegg, they mentioned AI in their earnings call in a negative way and the stock fell 30%. And this is Nvidia wrapping their positive earnings around AI. And surprise, surprise, it's up 30%. And we were talking about before on this call, nvidia is not a small company. Nvidia. Now their market cap sits just under a trillion dollars.
00:05:16.160 - 00:05:40.506, Speaker A: I don't know how much more room they really have to run here. They've already doubled so far this year, so they're on a tear and they've got a 215 price to earnings ratio. So I think this is people are extremely bullish and they might be a great company, but I would also say you're in rarefied air at over a trillion dollar market cap. So that's the only thing that I might put out.
00:05:40.528 - 00:06:28.978, Speaker B: There two things to add there. Just to piggyback. I think it's 25% up today, but a 25% increase on that size of an asset, they literally added an entire ethereum in 24 hours. And that size of movement is not uncommon for, obviously a crypto asset or a smaller medium sized equity company. But adding that amount of size to this large of a corporation is a real noticeable. Yeah, I think broadly it'll be interesting to see what happens with AI kind of where it trends over the next six months. A lot of the people that are very closely entrenched in the industry, like the Adam D'Angelo's of Quora.
00:06:28.978 - 00:06:59.954, Speaker B: Obviously, the Sam Altman's of the know a lot of what they talk about is that this isn't going to be sort of a flash in the pan type effect, and that every single week, every month, every quarter, there's going to be new improvements, new advancements, new features, new products that come out. If that trend can continue, I think you're going to see a sustained cycle here. But I agree there is a lot of potential here that this is something that slows down at least in intermediate and isn't something where it meets up to expectations or demand as fast as everybody expects it will.
00:06:59.992 - 00:07:56.580, Speaker C: And it's also just the easiest, most accessible way to bet on AI right now that does not require you to be a participant of private markets and even if you were, it doesn't require you to pick the winners higher up in the stack. Right? So when you combine those dynamics with extremely hot investment area anyway, plus a fundamental story behind the investment, I think you get a move of this size and it'll be interesting to see if some of this capital eventually does trickle into more of the application winners at some point. Similar in the crypto markets where you bet on the laziest possible version of Thesis and then eventually we'll take those profits and then find Altcoins or smaller projects to invest in. You can see a parallel situation playing out here.
00:07:57.510 - 00:08:02.082, Speaker A: Yeah, just because we occasionally discuss crypto on this macron AI podcast.
00:08:02.146 - 00:08:03.080, Speaker C: Just to draw.
00:08:06.250 - 00:09:11.566, Speaker A: I was listening to the all in podcast, one of their guys Friedberg talking about the trouble of regulating something like AI because Sam Altman already got hauled up in front of Congress and had to answer a bunch of questions and testimony that he gave was pretty interesting. I think there were a couple of different possible interpretations. He very much so was on the pro regulatory camp and maybe you could interpret that as being an incumbent pulling up the ladder behind you. The slightly more charitable interpretation of that is hey, this is a really hard thing to regulate. And I do think one of the there's a comparison between regulating crypto and regulating something like AI. These models are actually something that can be run with relatively small amounts of computation, kind of on the fringe. And our algorithm is already so incorporated into our world and the technology that we use that it does when you actually get down to Brass Tax and you try to write legislation around this, it's very difficult to regulate something like this in a sort of similar way that it is to regulate something like crypto as well.
00:09:11.566 - 00:09:31.314, Speaker A: And the whole regulatory apparatus is sort of based around you regulate these large intermediary sort of entities, these institutions and both AI and crypto just fly directly in the face of that. So I do think there are going to be some interesting there's just a parallel to draw between the challenges regulating AI and crypto, I think.
00:09:31.352 - 00:10:26.578, Speaker B: So I was literally thinking about this not in relation to the all in podcast, I haven't listened to that one. But I do think there's some really interesting corollaries between what Sam was talking about and I totally agree. I don't think he's like pulling up the ladder behind him. I think that he's basically trying to curry favor with politicians to say hey yeah sure, regulate us. Absolutely and maybe we're the ones that gets the license, maybe we're not the one that gets the license and there is no licensing program. But as soon as this technology to your point, and we've seen this with a number of investment opportunities that we've been looking at of just disintermediating decentralizing the process of taking a model, training the model, using the model and having people pay for it in completely decentralized network path. This stuff is going to move to the edges very rapidly in the exact same way.
00:10:26.578 - 00:11:14.098, Speaker B: And kind of what we were thinking about internally at framework was in the exact same way as being a validator node and proof of stake network has moved to the edges of the network. You can be an at home staker with a small computer, small computing device and be one of the nodes that's participating in the ethereum network if you have 32 e. But I think that same thing will happen right now. It's not the case where OpenAI has Chat GPT and that's a closed source model. Google has Bard. I think there's Llama is open source but all of these are kind of varying degrees of open source, closed source. But really the training aspect is something that happens at the core kind of compute engines that you would expect the Google's, the Facebook's, the Microsoft's of the world open AI now but as this stuff moves to the edges you're not going to be able to put the.
00:11:14.104 - 00:11:15.086, Speaker A: Genie back in the bottle.
00:11:15.118 - 00:11:54.102, Speaker B: And I think Sam knows that and in the exact same way that know there's been so many attempts to try and say oh validators now fall under this regulatory regime, you can't put that genie back in the bottle. There's too many tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of node operators that are running software on their own private devices and that's not going to be something that you can just go back and say okay, let's take that back. So I do think that the coral area that we were thinking about is running the training or running the models themselves at the edges with validating proof of state networks or proof of work networks as well, but validating networks or mining networks, that's just something that I think is going to be at the edges permanently.
00:11:54.186 - 00:12:33.834, Speaker C: I think maybe the one interesting difference here, and I'm not sure how it's going to play off, is that play out is that my limited understanding is that open source in AI is a little bit different than, say, open source on the crypto side because the source code can be open source, but the neural net weights, the NMWs, are proprietary. And so I think that they need to come around some standards for licensing on that side as well. Otherwise you don't really know what's getting going into this model. Even if the source code itself is completely open source.
00:12:33.882 - 00:13:09.894, Speaker B: I would imagine that the training of the models that exist right now is in the tens to potentially hundreds of millions of dollars. So it's at a price point that's not attainable for any individual at home trainer. But you can assume over the increases in efficiency and potentially decreases in cost, therefore and also not the very open and large surface area models that we've seen today. But if you go after very specific models that are trained on very specific problems, I would imagine that cost goes down quite a bit. That's kind of what I'm thinking about.
00:13:09.932 - 00:14:08.294, Speaker A: So I want to transition. Michael, I want to ask you in a minute about just like the state of the sort of private markets and sort of cap raising crypto, which seems about as apathetic as I've ever seen it, I think it is. Just to maybe bookend the discussion of AI, I did see a headline from the block that Paradigm is actually broadening its crypto only focus to areas including AI, following along the trend of several entrepreneurs who recently have probably dropped out of crypto and are focusing on something AI related. So just kind of interesting. It was a good article. They did some digging. They basically changed it's not confirmed, obviously, but Paradigm did change some language on their website back on May 3 according to the Wayback Machine, basically to scrub discussions of crypto or investing in Web three protocols, to being a research driven technology investment firm.
00:14:08.294 - 00:14:18.590, Speaker A: So I think the idea is not that they're like pulling out of crypto, but they certainly are broadening their approach or their sort of investment strategy. Curious what you think.
00:14:18.660 - 00:14:58.394, Speaker B: Man yeah, on that particular subject, and this happened like 20 minutes before we hopped on. So I don't have too much context other than what you just said. I would say there's a couple of things going on right now. The first is with any venture fund or investment fund, your fund size and your fund structure dictates your entire business model, your entire investment strategy. And so our most recent fund that we raised almost a year ago or a little over a year ago was a 400 million dollar fund. I think what was reported on Paradigm with their most recent fund, was a two and a half billion dollar fund. And there's a couple of ways that you can look at that.
00:14:58.394 - 00:16:06.066, Speaker B: You can say, okay, the investors that are putting money into that fund generally have the same expectations, which is historically you want to have over a three X to be successful, to be really successful between a five and a ten X fund, anything over that is like uber successful. And so to get to a three X net distribution means that you have to return assets in excess of $7.5 billion, which doesn't even factor in the fees that they will charge, whether it be management or performance fees. You're probably looking at somewhere between eight and a half, nine and a half billion dollars of gross returns to be able to get to that three X return fund. And that's just really hard, I think, and not just in the markets that we've seen historically over the last three years. That would be hard as well, but it's even harder, especially with what we've seen in the last twelve months. And so just doing a little bit of the fun math, you kind of sit back and think, okay, well, how do we go after opportunities where we can justifiably underwrite these investments to say they have the potential of returning one X the fund or 0.5
00:16:06.066 - 00:16:46.782, Speaker B: X the fund? And the other aspect here too is I'm not exactly sure the size of their investment team or the size of their entire team. Each investment that you make isn't just like, okay, we made the investment, and give us a call when you want to return capital. You are working at least the way that we do it, hand in glove with the portfolio of companies that you bring in, with the founding teams that you bring into the fold. And that's so much of the value add that we have. But also I think they think of it the same way. And that's really kind of how you get to not only just pick the right winners, but also help make them the best that they can be. And that dictates success as well.
00:16:46.782 - 00:17:02.098, Speaker B: And so there's only so many hours in the day and there's only so many people that you can have on the team that if you're looking at something that's ten times or six to eight times larger, it just means that you're going to have six to eight times more people.
00:17:02.184 - 00:17:02.820, Speaker A: Maybe.
00:17:06.150 - 00:18:12.730, Speaker B: The fun math starts to stretch a little bit and that's just not even counting the size of price potential of what crypto has shown us in the last twelve months. So not, frankly, not surprised. I would say though, that the best time to do that probably was like two years ago. It does feel, as we just talked about, we're hitting sort of a fever pitch in AI maybe, and maybe this is just like the start, who knows? And it's just going to continue upwards. But there is potential that this is the fever pitch, and by switching strategies, you do get the question of, like, are you really bought into this industry or are you just kind of looking at this as an industry that you cover? And the advantage of us. Framework being a Web three only fund versus any other generalist venture firm that we would potentially compete with is we know the space way better than they do because we live and breathe based twenty four seven, and that's all that we think about and do. So I find it hard to think that someone who is more generalist in nature is going to be as competitive in one specific discipline versus multiple at the same time.
00:18:12.800 - 00:18:36.970, Speaker A: What I found myself thinking about when I was listening to that description, Michael, is there are some mistakes that got made in crypto generally is like, you don't want to make the mistake of getting too greedy. And that applies maybe to a temptation right. To accumulate management fees, I'm sure is probably pretty high. Right. But you don't want to do that as a VC. You don't want to do it as a founder in terms of valuation. There are some horror stories.
00:18:36.970 - 00:19:22.318, Speaker A: Not horror, but there are some cautionary tales that, frankly, are playing out right now in this industry of yeah, it sounds great when you get a huge valuation as a founder, but you better make sure that you don't need to raise capital at a lower valuation or something like that, because then your life is going to be hell. Same thing down to if you're an employee. And look, there were some crazy salaries that were thrown around in crypto the last couple of years, and you might have thought that was a great move, but when things turn around, guess what? Comp structure is one of the first things that gets analyzed. And if you are a gigantic outlier, guess what? You're just vulnerable. So there obviously is like, look, you got to push for things and try to advocate for yourself. Get more salary, get a higher valuation, raise a big fund, but you can do too much.
00:19:22.404 - 00:20:18.258, Speaker B: I would say one of the biggest things that has been happening or starting to happen in the venture industry broadly, is you're not starting to see subsequent funds raised at smaller size. But I think that that's going to happen in the next 18 months. The first one that we saw so far was Founders Fund, and I think that they were targeting a $2 billion fundraise for, I think, their 9th fund. I can't remember these details might be slightly off, but instead of doing a $2 billion raise, they decided to do a $1 billion raise and say that that's fund number nine, and then their 10th fund will be another fund, another $1 billion fund. So they effectively cut their fund size in half by doing that. And not to say that the $2 billion in commitment isn't going to be committed, it's just going to be called and actually utilized and invested at different periods of time. And think about it in the way that you just talked about it.
00:20:18.258 - 00:21:00.958, Speaker B: Mike so typically you have a 2% management fee. If you have a $2.5 billion fund, that means that you're taking in $50 million a year in just fees. And that goes towards keeping the lights on, hiring the staff, paying for office space travel, all things that go with the process of operating a firm. And if you increase the size of your firm because you think that you're going to have and it's a recurring revenue model, you have that 2%. Usually it's for the first five to seven years of the fund lifecycle. When you raise your subsequent fund, maybe it drops down a bit, but you've got a recurring revenue model where you can keep everybody employed and on staff of the firm for a fairly long period of time.
00:21:00.958 - 00:21:14.946, Speaker B: But what it does require is that you raise the same amount or more the next time. And it's a really difficult process to go through cuts on an investment firm side because as soon as that starts happening, it's sort of a question of.
00:21:14.968 - 00:21:15.974, Speaker A: Like, well, what's wrong?
00:21:16.092 - 00:21:46.990, Speaker B: And then that reputational potential hit gets out. So I do kind of see this as an effort to expand into an adjacent industry that is obviously doing very well right now with a Hype cycle happening and potentially they can pull it off to its band. But I don't know if next time they were to come to market to fundraise whether or not 2.5 would be justifiable for a crypto only fund. And so you kind of have one of those two paths that you can choose.
00:21:47.140 - 00:23:21.434, Speaker C: I think that makes a lot of sense. Maybe this is kind of more transitioning to what we'll talk about next is just the general market thoughts. But you have these mega funds raised at the top of the cycle and now they know are looking for ways to deploy those funds and their options are paying up at a much higher price to these very crowded consensus bets. Michael, you probably see it too, but the hottest, larger, I would say B series, even A series deals are still getting priced up to kind of peak cycle multiples. Or you could look to the liquid market, right? So looking for undervalued liquid tokens that actually have some liquidity and then after that it becomes a question of, okay, do we expand the mandate? And I think the ultra mega funds that have the ability to go get those resources in house that can allow them to be value add in other non web three sectors could do that, but it's very limited and you're obviously kind of losing some focus as it relates to fund size. I think first thing I thought of was benchmark strategy of just having a winning formula with a fund size and an investment strategy and just running that back again and again with the same size team, essentially. And it's one of those things.
00:23:21.434 - 00:23:29.086, Speaker C: To your point, Mike, in terms of being greedy or just sticking to what you do best, I think that that's where you see that kind of shine through.
00:23:29.188 - 00:23:45.730, Speaker A: Totally agree with that. Greed is just got to be the number one thing that just takes people down. Crypto. It is tough. The incentives are right there and you just got to have a somewhat longer term mindset on it because just look at the people that got carted out this last cycle in crypto.
00:23:47.530 - 00:24:35.974, Speaker B: Yeah, and Miles, on that point in particular, there's a great book called Eboys, which is on the starting and sort of the growth of benchmark. And they had the exact same thing happen where in the 98, I think they started, raised a small fund, then raised maybe like a 300 or 400 million dollar fund and then they ballooned and did like an Israel fund, a Europe fund, and maybe even Asia fund, like AUM. Massively ballooned, totally cratered in the.com crash. And they had to take like three to four years to rebuild themselves to get back to this model and they decided never again, we're always going to stick to 450 and that's it. So there's a lot of interesting storylines that you can see with the progression of these different firms from previous generations. I think we're going to see a lot of that stuff play out for Web Three funds as well.
00:24:36.172 - 00:24:37.800, Speaker C: Yeah, couldn't agree more.
00:24:40.970 - 00:25:22.850, Speaker A: I would love to get sort of a sentiment gauge on. I was actually at a dinner with some VCs this week and kind of echoed actually Miles, what you were just describing there, which is basically overall there's way less opportunities, but the good ones are kind of like almost immediately right. Everyone kind of swoops in and bids the deal up and then it gets closed. So I guess the good news in there is that if you're a skilled founder, maybe with a track record or a great idea or whatever, you can probably still get your idea funded. But it does look like overall there's been a barbelling in terms of funding and then there are just less projects overall. I'd be curious if that kind of lines up with both of your perceptions as well.
00:25:22.920 - 00:26:21.542, Speaker C: Well, 100%, I think it's tough out there. You're seeing much more reasonable valuations for the first check in a lot of times these days. But when you have a billion dollar fund, you don't have the time or resources to write 50 to 100 of those seed checks because they all take a lot of time to develop those relationships and to win the deals right. And then so you're just kind of hoping that some of your previous funds investments have large follow on rounds where you already have pro out of share at a decent price or you're forced to take much higher prices and sacrifice your returns on that. Which is okay if you're a huge fund, but that also prices out a lot of these players that would not be willing to take those prices on because it's a much larger chunk of their fund size.
00:26:21.596 - 00:27:36.320, Speaker B: Right? So, totally, totally agree. The first time fundraisers. So whether this is like a seed or a precede or sometimes even it might be an a size investment round, the reasonable expectations on valuation, on the amount raised, on milestone based agreement for the next fundraise, and very clear ideas around what they need now versus what they're going to need in the future. It feels like that is a very kind of sober and realistic perspective that we haven't seen in that area of the venture market for the last two years. I would say maybe even three, actually. But I would say anyone who is coming back, who hasn't been to market to fundraise in the last 14 months is not seeing success and is not seeing, frankly, what they're ready for, what they want. And that's, I'd say, the hardest part of the market, where expectations on the $50 million seed round that they did last time, now it's going to be a 25 because there hasn't been enough progress or there hasn't been enough movement or change, or frankly, like, the market is just not there.
00:27:36.320 - 00:28:43.074, Speaker B: And so I think that is probably the hardest subset of the market right now. And then there are some deals happening, although I would condition to say that a lot of the series B Plus deals that have been announced recently were actually funded like 6912 months ago. It is sort of like a misnomer right now to have the expectation that some of these massive multi hundred million dollar deals were done recently. It's like, well, no, those deals were negotiated in March of 2022 and then funded in May of 2022 or April of 2022, and then now they're just getting around to the announcement. So there is some misdirection on that, I would say. But really, anything that's B Plus right now is not happening. And if these are companies, if these are protocols, whatever, they may be really the benchmark for success at this point is how much money are you making if you're a company? And it's anywhere from a 20 to 35 X arr multiple for where you currently are.
00:28:43.074 - 00:29:56.940, Speaker B: So if you are making, on average, as of May 25, 2023, your average annual run rate is a million dollars, your valuation is somewhere in the $25 to $35 million range. And that's kind of how most of these companies that are selling services are being valued. If there are protocols and the potential for protocols to become layer twos or base layers, and you're going after a decentralized network, that valuation. Could change, but you have to have a justifiable way of getting there and a justifiable reason for existing. And yeah, I think the other aspect here, which is also extremely difficult, is a lot of the products and categories that were started in 2021 and early 22, frankly, the market has just moved away from them and that is another kind of subset. And we have a couple of portfolio companies that are going through this process right now of just the big pivot and moving away from the concept that they were thinking about into something that now may have a chance of working. Whereas everybody's in agreement, what you were previously building just not going to go work, at least for the foreseeable future.
00:29:56.940 - 00:30:01.680, Speaker B: So there is kind of a lot of conversations that are being had around that as well.
00:30:02.450 - 00:30:05.760, Speaker A: So you're saying you're not bullish on Metaverse Land, basically?
00:30:08.530 - 00:30:12.240, Speaker B: I don't know if we ever made any investments in Metaverse Land, but no, I'm not.
00:30:13.570 - 00:31:09.886, Speaker A: Who knows? That'll probably work next cycle. But yeah, I do think one of the cooler things I've sort of gone down this rabbit hole on, I'm a big fan of listening to old podcasts. I love to sort of get a sense of the arguments that people are making in different periods of time and you can go back and there are these chains that didn't necessarily work or sort of these projects that I have in my head where it's like, oh, yeah, that wasn't a great project, but it's like, oh, the founder of this person who was working at this old project that didn't work is now the founder of Curve or something like that. And there are actually lots of examples like that in crypto where maybe a chain like Kanto would be a good example of one that may or may not deserve its valuation. But there are some kind of cool innovations that happen there that might work in Kanto or they might get copied on another chain. So I do think it's one of the cool things about to. This is kind of a meaty topic here, so I want to make sure we've got enough time to talk about it.
00:31:09.886 - 00:32:31.354, Speaker A: But Vitalik wrote a piece this week that I think got a lot of people talking, which the title of it was don't overlook load Ethereum's Consensus. And the basic point of the chain was highlighting the importance of ethereum to basically be able to come to consensus and the sort of dangers of co opting ethereum's either validator set or perhaps more dangerously, social consensus for other aims. So the three sort of examples that he gave here kind of like the ultimate oracle, right? So that would be something where basically incorporating the concept of an oracle into efaldators as an example. The other two examples that he gave were restaking. So basically being able to hypothecate your stake and use it to secure another protocol that's sort of the Eigen layer thing or L one driven recovery of L two projects. So the idea being if there was some sort of like let's just fast forward two, three years into the future and say something like Arbitram or optimism had $20 billion of TBL locked up there and there was some catastrophic hack or bug or code failure and all of that, TBL got vaporized. Would there be political pressure to roll back Ethereum the chain to recover users funds? And he goes into a whole bunch of different, more benign examples, basically.
00:32:31.354 - 00:32:44.066, Speaker A: But that's the idea that he was trying to warn against. And there's been some pretty lively debate off of this. I don't know where you guys want to start or maybe we could just start with your kind of high level reactions to the piece.
00:32:44.168 - 00:33:36.894, Speaker C: Yeah, I think the two buckets that I reacted to the most were kind of the general thoughts on the restaking component and also what I kind of took away as things that are too big to fail within ethereum and whether it's a layer two or something like lido or even USDC. What could actually be so impactful that ethereum would hard fork and then that kind of gets into well, which of these things should ethereum maybe consider built enshrining into the protocol so that it's less of an external dependency that they're worried about and something that they would have more control over? But yeah, I don't know if there's one area you want to start maybe on the Eigen layer if we have some thoughts there.
00:33:36.932 - 00:34:38.934, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't think it's any surprise or it's definitely not subtle that this is a direct shot at Eigen layer. I think Eigen layer is set to at least launch their testnet, I think fairly soon for their data availability network. And Trom, the founder of Idenlayer had a post afterwards talking about this. I do think, like my Visceral takeaway here is where we got in trouble before, Mike. We've literally been talking about this is like greed takes over and what happens next. And this is a situation where restaking, I think, will have an asymmetric understanding of the risk versus reward potential where risk is actually much higher relative to the incremental reward that you could be earning. And we have yet to see what the networks are that will be leveraging the solution of item layer or any restaking solution in general.
00:34:38.934 - 00:35:23.954, Speaker B: I would imagine that it'll be highest risk to begin with but it'll still also be a lot of additional risk. And the slashing element isn't just like you lose part of your rewards, it's really like you lose your capital at stake in a way that is very real. And I'm not sure that most people who will want the incremental five to seven to 8% will quite understand that. So that's kind of where I draw most of the risk. With restaking in general, we just have yet to see what that looks like. The part that I thought was the most interesting is the social layer thinking about these things get too big to fail and therefore we just roll it back. And that's like the bailout moment that we live through.
00:35:23.954 - 00:35:58.640, Speaker B: Again. I just don't ever see that happening as a potential option going forward. The industry is too big. We're too established. Even if something as big as like an Arbitrum, which is talked about in the article, were to get hurt with something with some malicious attack, the amount of value that's in there, which is about $10 billion currently that's small in comparison to the rest of the entire ecosystem. And maybe it gets to be large enough to where it really matters and it's an existential threat. But I don't even think Arbitrarium is close to that right now.
00:35:59.410 - 00:37:07.110, Speaker A: I think he's really digging into something interesting here because Miles, you and I have been actually asking ourselves, I've actually a very similar question last couple of weeks of what would happen something in the event, like there was a hack on a big L two. And Vitalik actually uses the example of if there was a consensus that if there were to be a hack on a large L Two, the ETH main chain would be rolled back versus a much smaller L two, then it wouldn't. That creates a lot of the same moral hazard that frankly has been highlighted in the banking system for the last couple of months. It's the exact same thing. Right? Then everyone's going to deposit at Morgan instead of a regional bank and not everyone has the same footing. I do think, however, the counterpoint to that is ETH's explicit roadmap is to move people and TVL and activity up to the layer two's roll ups. And if there isn't some that's almost like the analogy that I think of in my head is kind of like a regulator or government kind of prodding and saying this is what we want you to do.
00:37:07.110 - 00:37:48.718, Speaker A: I think to do that and then not give guarantees about moving funds and activity up to the roll up layer, then probably the result is that TVL and activity is going to be stickier on main chain than you might think and the roll ups aren't going to get the level of adoption that you would think. And this might be a little unpopular, but I think in order for roll ups to get the level of adoption that they're going to think I don't know. I don't want to say it because I could be totally wrong about this, but yeah, I kind of think you it is hard for me to imagine people doing that without some sort of guarantee.
00:37:48.814 - 00:39:16.880, Speaker C: I think it might have been Hayden that tweeted this this week. But I think there's some interesting choices Ethereum could consider in terms of enshrining standards or ways of doing things at the L Two level. So whether it's like approving standard or something else so that at least the risks are somewhat controlled because everybody some of these main attack vectors would be kind of enshrined at the l one level so that everybody would follow them and there would be all the eyes that could be looking at this would be looking at the same standard. I think that's something that could be an interesting middle ground there. And yeah, I do think on the restaking component will be very interesting because I think so. First of all, Eigen Layer's governance, which will be a committee to begin with, will control which LSDs or LSTs we're calling them now, are whitelisted for restaking and which projects like roll Ups, like Oracles, like Bridges can integrate on the other side to be eligible for restaking. And then there's a third component in that if there is a slashing event, this council will, with human eyes, actually review what happened.
00:39:16.880 - 00:39:52.394, Speaker C: And if it's deemed to be unfair, then they will basically be able to veto the slash. And what's interesting about it connects kind of to Alex's piece is that that's why he's stressing that any of the jobs that are being economically secured by restaked ETH should be extremely quantifiable and straightforward and not subjective. To this needing to go to this council of elders, which, just in general, doesn't feel like it's, in the spirit of what we're trying to do here. Right.
00:39:52.512 - 00:40:37.810, Speaker B: Longer term, that's exactly the point. That a better articulated way of saying what I was trying to say, which is the fact that you just even have the council that you go to as a point of standard or a point of infrastructure suggests that there's going to be a fair number of these situations that arise. And it calls into question kind of whether or not this is even worth it. Right, but not saying the council itself. But just like that's exactly what Batalk is saying, right, is that the social consensus layer is built around arbitrating whether or not these things are real or should happen. And you've got human society. And on one end, is this fair? Is this not? Is there a standard for that? It has to be quantifiable.
00:40:37.810 - 00:40:53.590, Speaker B: Whereas if that existed, imagine if that existed at the early onset of ethereum and for all the different bugs or issues that people ran into, there's a council that existed to decide whether or not we were going to roll back the chain. There'd be a thousand classics at this point, right?
00:40:53.760 - 00:41:58.850, Speaker C: Exactly. And I guess the other component here is even if Eigen Layer is even if they were run as like an extension of the ethereum foundation in the spirit of what the ethereum foundation would do themselves, right? So doing this as responsibly as possible, you do face the risk of a fork coming along that just decides to maybe be a little bit more relaxed about some of these things in order to go after some sort of middleware that wants to juice yields even further or do lots of different things, right? And so I think that's kind of going to be very interesting to see how it all plays out. And not to mention by the way, the protocols that are building on top of Eigen Layer on the other side that say, okay, you're taking your LSD and you've restaked it. Now let's make a derivative of your restaked LSD and create like a tranche of miles.
00:41:59.190 - 00:42:15.558, Speaker A: Sorry, would you mind actually, just because Eigenlear is one of those things, I'm sure people know what it is at a high level. But could you just give an overview of what restaking the primitive actually is? And you had those three models we were just talking on the phone last night, could you just go through those three different models actually for how it.
00:42:15.564 - 00:43:37.854, Speaker C: Could work, just kind of run through the user flow as fast as I can. I guess maybe we'll start with who is Eigen Layer's customers? They are protocols like roll ups, like Oracles, like bridges that today are either centralized in the way that they do critical functions or maybe secured by their own governance token. And the idea is these could be improved a lot and there is a market for this of people that would choose to restake their ETH so that they could then be economically secured by an asset like ETH, which is a huge market cap, it's less volatile. And so you wouldn't have the security budgets of these protocols going being as volatile as the tokens themselves or controlled by a central party. So that's the demand side. Now the supply side can look like a lot of different ways, but from the perspective of a user, let's say I hold Steeth and I want to get additional yield on that Steeth. Well, I can then take it and look at a number of opportunities of all these protocols on the other side that have opted in and say I can go restake to an Eigen layer operator that is running the sequencer for arbitram for 10% extra yield.
00:43:37.854 - 00:44:42.200, Speaker C: Or I can restake to the bridge operator role of wormhole, right? For maybe an additional 15%, but it's more risky. And so I will basically then take my LSD, choose which protocol I want to restake or rehypothecate that capital to. And now I'm getting basically the yield of theorem L one, plus the yield of whatever the protocol is offering, which I restaked to, but I take on double the slashing risks. So if I delegate to an Eigen Layer operator who is running a sequencer for Arbitram and they do something malicious and it's provable and they get slashed, that's my collateral being slashed, right? And it gets slashed in both places because I've given basically the Eigen Layer contract the ability to withdraw my stake and slash it, essentially. And so the problem is this is good. You can do more with your capital. Yes.
00:44:42.200 - 00:45:22.926, Speaker C: And these protocols are hopefully more secure than they would be or more decentralized than they would be or both that are using it. But I guess my point on the other side is if I take my liquid staked ETH and restake it, it's non fungible anymore, but that doesn't stop a third party protocol from coming in and allowing me to create a derivative or a token that represents my restaked ETH. And so you could then see all of the kind of risks that people have talked about with liquid staking kind of being exacerbated or compounded by adding another layer of yield.
00:45:23.038 - 00:46:21.698, Speaker A: Yeah. And to give one of the other interesting parts about Eigen layer is that it enables different sort of risk and yield profiles. So let's say, just in this example, let's say you had Steeth and you wanted to get a little bit of extra yield deposit, that you could imagine a world where there are certain ETH validators that maybe only do sort of more safe things, right? Like maybe they only run a sequencer for something like arbitram or optimism that's relatively safe. So probably the yield on that would be a little bit lower. Then you could imagine a world where some of the validators do much more risky things, right, they start rehypothecating their stake to very sort of unknown chains that have much higher APRs, but they pay in the native token. And so you could imagine sort of a risk curve being built in terms of ETH. The problem is one of the big problems of liquid staking in general is sort of a principal agent problem where you as the principal, the holder of ETH and the delegator.
00:46:21.698 - 00:46:29.320, Speaker A: There's an information asymmetry between even just like how node operations work for something like lido. But then if you layer on.
00:46:31.450 - 00:46:31.814, Speaker B: This.
00:46:31.852 - 00:47:05.730, Speaker A: Additional layer of risk, right, which is I don't know how the Eigen layer sort of trusted middleware works and let alone I don't know how this other chain that they're securing is. All I know is the yield that I'm getting, it just is worrisome. And really what Eigen layer is, if you think about it, we started with one sort of bearer asset like ETH. Then you have Steeth, which is sort of another claim on that asset, and then you have another claim of a claim, in my opinion. I think this is a way to introduce leverage into the system. That's what this looks like to me, more claims on one underlying asset.
00:47:05.810 - 00:48:31.438, Speaker B: And just to further that point, I agree with the leverage analogy and I agree with a fully efficient and fully developed market. Maybe you've got some components of a sequencer that's running on optimism, on Arbitrum, but that's not going to be the case from the outset. And so I think you also are going to have a bit of a selection bias as to which protocols are using this service to begin with versus which ones are going to be using the service eventually. And you're going to have sort of in the analogy, the higher yielding, lower well established protocols as the first entrance into the market because they don't necessarily have a governance token that's traded and liquid and available for all as you would have with the arbitrums and the optimisms of the world. And it's going to be a lot easier for them to get started with an eigen layer staking solution versus something that they've already built up over the last few years. So it's really only I think not only, but it's largely going to be net new opportunities to begin with or these double staking, these leveraged staking opportunities and maybe they've got some partnerships where they're going to announce, but we'll see. My guess is it's going to start with a bunch of new which means that the risk is going to be that much higher to begin with.
00:48:31.438 - 00:48:42.020, Speaker B: So that I think is a major component as well where the potential for issues with earlier stage protocols is that much higher than something that's been on chain for years.
00:48:42.390 - 00:49:49.122, Speaker C: Yeah, that's interesting actually I didn't think about that in that way and that it has like an adverse selection on the demand side. I definitely thought about that from the perspective of liquid staking protocols that are trying to become more competitive with each other and they just decide that their validator set, they're all going to go do another job too, right, so that they yields in lido. Yeah, I think that's interesting. I actually thought about it from the standpoint of if you think about the distribution schedule, the emission schedule of say Op, right, they've got a huge bucket for liquidity mining incentives and all these incentives to come use apps on optimism. They did not budget out a cost for decentralizing their sequencer and what they would necessarily need to pay eigen layer operators. But that's something you see with app chains like Standard, right. You have a bucket that you're paying your validators because they're securing your chain.
00:49:49.122 - 00:50:16.260, Speaker C: So it'll be interesting to see this distribution like what the pie charts look like of, say, like StarkNet or another ZK sync that wants to use Eigen layer from day one. And they'll say, okay, we got this for liquidity intensity, but we need to look at this to pay these costs because just using a sequencer revenue share is not going to be enough yield to make it worth it for anybody.
00:50:20.630 - 00:51:10.180, Speaker B: That's definitely what I was also going to say, that you just peaked in my head. Where does this yield come from? Is it going to be yield that is generated by transaction revenue flowing through this protocol from day one or is it going to be yield that's denominated in the native token that they're used to distribute to anyone who's staking or sequencing in this network? Obviously it's going to be the latter. The example here is like oh yeah, the yield may be very high but that is token denominated yield and that's inflationary token denominated yield even more. So there are fundamental risks with a lot of this and I really hope that it can work and it becomes a mainstay and it's very successful. But I do think that the initial bootstrapping is going to be very difficult to break through.
00:51:11.910 - 00:52:32.506, Speaker A: Just to present the counterpoint here because I think we've all been pretty good at citing the risks of something like Eigen layer. I do think there's sort of an inevitability that people are going to do what they're going to do. And what I mean by that is if you look at something like the decision to not have delegated proof of stake in something like Ethereum, the reason why that wasn't implemented in the beginning was because they didn't want 150 validators with all the stake or whatever it was going to be. And what did we get initially? We got exchanges, right? And they're like hey, actually we are okay, we already are custodying for you so we might as well stake for you as well. And then everyone said oh my gosh, we need to come up with some sort of solution and we came up with something like Lido which is basically facilitated delegated proof of stake on something like Ethereum. And what you had there was very good intentions, right, in terms of the designers of the Ethereum protocol but you were fighting up against human psychology and human interests which is most people want the yield but they don't want to do the work. And I do think when it comes to, when you talk to people from Wall Street they all have a very strong belief that anyone should be able to do.
00:52:32.506 - 00:52:56.086, Speaker A: If you can create a contract and make an agreement you should basically be able to do that thing. So I think something like restaking, whether it's Eigen layer or some other middleware primitive or whatever it ends up being, this is going to happen no matter what. So at the end of the day people are going to do what they're going to do and I think it's probably just good to highlight some of the risks and try to do it in the smartest way that we possibly can.
00:52:56.188 - 00:54:04.154, Speaker C: Ethereum has a tendency to push a lot of complexity or decisions to the market instead of doing it in protocol. This is not a perfect technology but like an in protocol version of Eigen layer is kind of like polkadot where you already have all these staked dot and then you're basically loaning it out to these different parachains. And obviously Ethereum has a million reasons why they didn't want to do that along with not wanting to do delegated proof of stake. But you just have to be wary of what the market is going to build it then and it's going to be maybe not in your control of perfection that you want it to be. We see that with Mev, we see it with liquid staking and then eventually they come and push back. When you start to see a winner take all sort of market with an actor that's out of their control. I'm sure they would much prefer Lido to have thousands and thousands of validators at this point, but that's just not the way it played out.
00:54:04.154 - 00:54:28.722, Speaker C: Right, yeah. I do get kind of like especially coming from Cosmos working in there a lot where building things into the chain is part of the value prop that they have and they lean into it. Versus ethereum, which is value prop is very different. So they make sense. They do these things, but then don't get mad at the market. This is what's going to happen.
00:54:28.776 - 00:55:06.206, Speaker A: I understand that viewpoint too, though. The difference between ethereum and Cosmos is that ethereum is securing hundreds of billions of dollars worth of that's the. That's the pros and cons of it. That's why Cosmos is allowed to do so much in the way of exploration. Which is why I think some of the coolest experimentations going on there. But ethereum has this enormous sort of privilege but also heavy on the shoulder or heavy lies the crown sort of thing because they have to be very careful for what they put in the protocol. And there was actually a I haven't gotten to reading it yet, otherwise I would have asked you guys opinions about it.
00:55:06.206 - 00:55:46.282, Speaker A: But there was a I'm blanking on his last name. Mike Neuter wrote a great post about sort of his version of how enshrined PBS is going to work, which I think is still a decent ways away. But this was a helpful, like, hey, this is how basically I think that it should work. Even the decision to enshrine proposer builder separation was very well deeply researched and sort of thought out and they allowed a lot of infrastructure to come up like either mev boosts or whatever to be off chain for a while.
00:55:46.416 - 00:56:23.138, Speaker C: This is the perfect example of the rationale behind this approach is okay, let the market experiment a lot off chain or say on L two S and eventually we'll coalesce around some standards that we feel comfortable enough to bring back into the protocol. It's interesting. We're seeing that we have not seen that with liquid staking, but we have seen it with mev and it'll be interesting to see which way they go with restaking and just generally this idea of being able to extend ethereum security or sell this economic security to other protocols.
00:56:23.314 - 00:57:08.390, Speaker A: Last question for you guys on all this. The sort of elephant in the room, even on top of something like restaking or some catastrophic bug in a layer two is the fork choice rule right now is heavily dependent on something like right. And where USDC withdrawals initiate to and honestly, something like Lido. Right. So I guess my question to you is the fork choice rule is something that's very important, it's very kind of critical to how blockchains are supposed to work, the ability to fork the code. Do you think it's the inevitable destiny for base layers to lose full sovereignty as apps take off on their chains and become larger and more significant?
00:57:08.890 - 00:57:42.430, Speaker B: Losing full sovereignty? Not we haven't seen it yet because what it comes down to is whether or not there's a contentious fork and contentious what? I mean, there isn't contentious between different factions within the base layer. I mean base layer versus application. And so long as everything is humming along, I'd say that that is fine. I do think that the apps have exerted enough power to be able to dictate which one becomes the canonical chain.
00:57:43.510 - 00:58:02.198, Speaker C: I totally agree. I forget where I saw it, but there's something it was like fork choice on ETH is a call between Jeremy Paolo from Tether and Lido, which is like tongue in cheek but at the same time there is an ounce of truth to mean.
00:58:02.284 - 00:58:31.006, Speaker B: But it's also a choice between what Brian Armstrong thinks at Coinbase. Yeah. It's not just the decentralized applications, it's the centralized ones as well and which assets they support, which ones they don't. I remember when we went through the know that was a big question as to whether or not you were going to be able to get that AirDrop token and then Coinbase wasn't going to support it and I can't remember which. Kind of like out there poloniax. Right? Yeah, exactly. Poloniax supported it.
00:58:31.006 - 00:58:43.378, Speaker B: Right. But nobody else you know, if you don't have a market for your asset, your asset is obviously going to die. It's not going to be worth anything. So I don't think it's just the DApps, the decentralized applications, but it's broadly everybody.
00:58:43.544 - 00:58:49.560, Speaker A: Interesting thing to ponder for sure. So I'm sure we'll sort of fleece this out.
00:58:50.170 - 00:59:39.126, Speaker B: Maybe one question just as an orthogonal point, and this is something that we talk about at Framework every once in a while is like is there the concept of a protocol being done and finished and frankly not having to go through this type of stuff anymore? Obviously the merge was a huge component change for Ethereum that brought about a hard fork that created ostensibly a new asset. How many more of those probably less than a handful will have left before you can kind of in a sense say that Ethereum is done. Maybe, but is there the concept of a base layer protocol being done and therefore being able to say, hey, we don't have to make these decisions anymore. Now it really is just there isn't really any contention for contentious conversation because we're not changing things.
00:59:39.228 - 01:00:19.860, Speaker C: Yeah, even things like less technical, just like monetary policy. Even if Ethereum roadmap was complete at this point, people would still be talking about should. We burn the mev, right, to accrue more value to the token itself. So for base layers, you could see maybe like a base layer eventually taking away formal token weighted governance, if that's where it started with Cosmos, actually have traditional token weighting, and then it moves over to some sort of social consensus, which is harder to.
01:00:21.750 - 01:00:22.066, Speaker B: Mean.
01:00:22.088 - 01:00:59.374, Speaker C: And then at the application layer, lido has talked about ossifying parts of the protocol. So basically making the contracts completely immutable. But they can do that with critical components of their protocol, but they're still going to need to oversee how deposits are allocated across these different validator sets, right. Oversee the fee structure. So, yeah, I think there's ways to you can be completely done and immutable from maybe a technical standpoint, but there's still some sort of oversight that's the periphery economics and other stuff that makes.
01:00:59.412 - 01:01:13.310, Speaker B: Me think probably not, it's more of a hypothetical versus how do you apply this to existing protocols. I'd say the closest to being there is maybe Ethereum and that's still know Ostensible years away, but it's more of a thought exercise.
01:01:13.390 - 01:01:17.590, Speaker A: I have a response question to you, Michael. Do you think companies are ever done?
01:01:17.660 - 01:02:12.054, Speaker B: No, because companies are inherently a people conversation and I'd say maybe, well, I guess it depends on how you look at done. Right. Because people need to show up every day, sell the product, build the product. That is a very different proposition than having a protocol that exists as an intermediary, a technical protocol that exists as an intermediary between validators and users. It is a very different equation. You could probably look at some companies like, I was having a conversation, this sort of a funny conversation, I was having a conversation with a friend who is friends with the family that owns the Tabasco company, or the company that owns Tabasco Products. And they have had flatline revenue has unchanged since 1990.
01:02:12.054 - 01:03:03.782, Speaker B: And it's just like every single year, it just has how much revenue it's going to have. The biggest innovation that they had recently, or actually, sorry, in 1990, the biggest revenue source differentiation is they slightly widened the hole of the bottles that they had, so then more tabasco would come out and that increased revenue by 10%. But that is the type of changes that they're making in the last 40, 50 years. Maybe that company is kind of done, but there's still a bunch of people that are building and making the product and I do know that they've come out with new flavors, but it hasn't generally changed too much. But there are companies that you can kind of say are done. But I'd say most companies that we're looking at and thinking about probably not done in the same bit of protocol could actually be done.
01:03:03.916 - 01:03:26.422, Speaker C: Yeah, well, you could argue the opposite end of the spectrum is like maybe open source protocols that we use, like email protocol or Https, those are done and they're done because they're non monetizable, right? That's kind of like the whole thing around it and they're used to the point where chain is feasible.
01:03:26.566 - 01:04:01.542, Speaker B: I mean, HTML Five came out in the 2010th and I believe so, I mean I could be wrong with that, but that was a major kind of like web development standard change. SMTP hasn't changed that much. I mean, I agree those are perfect examples of how a protocol could very much be done. I agree the non monetization element is a major component as to why you can consider those to be done. That being said, if you have a perfectly balanced economic ecosystem, maybe you could have monetization factored into that and still have it be done.
01:04:01.596 - 01:04:45.590, Speaker A: I don't know, I think I thought about this a good amount. I know Vance is on the train of definitely something can be done and then you leave it. Actually, Dan, Elitor had a pretty good thread today on something about this and maybe there's a distinction between a protocol and a primitive or something like that. But I don't know. I think one of the reasons why equities are far and away the best performing asset class is this concept of compounding. So once you start to win and drive excess profits and returns, you can invest that into the business and then if you're good at doing your job, you allocate that capital. Effectively those early wins can, over a period of time, compound into much larger wins and that's why equity does so well as an asset class.
01:04:45.590 - 01:05:30.854, Speaker A: I think if you take the concept of a protocol being done and you take humans out of the equations, I think that's pretty bearish for token prices, to be honest with you, because I think you lose a lot of that compounding value because here is XYZ thing and it's a protocol and it's done. And the whole point of crypto and disintermediation is to eliminate rent seeking. So it doesn't seek that much rent, doesn't reinvest or compound those profits. So it's kind of like a low yielding annuity in that instance. And I think if you take that approach, I don't know, at this moment in time, I hadn't really thought that much about it, but at this moment in time I'm not inclined to think.
01:05:30.892 - 01:06:25.106, Speaker B: That mean the vast majority of economic gains in corporate equities comes from some sort of distribution back to shareholders. And yes, I agree there is an element of investing into new adjacent business categories. Apple being able to take their imac ipod earnings and pump those back into the creation of the iPhone, the iPad, iwatch everything else that they build. But the vast majority of their economic gains for the Apple share itself started when Carl ICANN and Tim Cook had that dinner and Carl convinced Tim to start buying back the shares. So I do think that you're right in that you want to build the base of economic viability with the businesses that you have within the protocol or the company, whatever it may be. But the vast majority of economic returns comes from delivering value back to shareholders.
01:06:25.138 - 01:07:09.538, Speaker A: From an equity perspective, I agree, but there's the life cycle of a company, right. And I'm sure that it differs. I don't have these numbers off the top of my head. I'm sure it probably differs based on the era of the United States or whatever. But in general, I feel like that lifecycle ends up being around for successful companies anywhere from like 40 to 90 years, something like that. And generally in sort of the first half, to drastically oversimplify of that company's lifecycle, you're building an asset and then in the second half you're kind of returning capital to shareholders and harvesting it. So the reason I would push back a little bit strongly, just given that timeline, is that I just don't think we have time in crypto for anything to be done.
01:07:09.538 - 01:07:32.782, Speaker A: And frankly, just to call spade a spade, a lot of the stuff that's like an Immutable contract, there's a lot of people involved and there's a lot of BD work that gets done. It's not just like, hey, we built this contract and tons of stuff flocks to it. There's a lot of stuff that happens behind the scenes that makes that stuff go. It's not like you put these contracts out and they just all start doing amazing things. There's people behind them.
01:07:32.916 - 01:08:14.410, Speaker C: Yeah, I think maybe the one nuance or third option is that at some point the focus becomes building companies, building products on these protocols, like maybe swap v five, v six, v ten at some point, right. We're already starting to see the majority of real investment going towards the equity company that is trying to get this protocol's product into the hands of lots more people so that it becomes very valuable over time. But that's one way where you could maybe see the protocol being done, but innovation on top of it is still in earlier stages.
01:08:15.470 - 01:08:20.460, Speaker B: 100% agree? Yeah. Uniswap labs and uniswap protocol. Perfect example.
01:08:22.290 - 01:08:29.520, Speaker A: What do you guys think about last question for you guys. What do you think about companies that have both a token and equity in the company?
01:08:32.950 - 01:08:34.130, Speaker B: It depends.
01:08:34.470 - 01:10:30.242, Speaker C: Yeah, it really does, because I see the challenge of even if your goal is to maximize the long term value of the token, not building anything that accrues to the equity company on top basically just leaves you with the option of becoming a service provider to the Dow longer term. And frankly, in the case of Uniswap, if Uniswap Labs team was being paid by the Dow at this point, I would say that that is a worse long term outcome for Uniswap than if they go build something on top that actually results in significant ten to 100 X adoption of people using the protocol. On the other hand, it presents some unfortunate conflicts of interest where there's no proving just how much of the value of uni wallet success trickles down to uniswap itself. And potentially maybe they don't want it to yet because that gets them in regulatory hot water. So that's just one example. I think maybe another one is like Ave, where they've got pretty much all of the resources focused on the protocol and building things for the Dow and Ave Labs still had to go back to the Dow and say, can we get like $16 million for V? Three we have is it BRG or BLG? I can't remember the team, the core protocol maintenance team that's now like a service provider. I think it's complicated, but to just say it's probably net bad overall.
01:10:30.242 - 01:10:42.410, Speaker C: But there's definitely some nuances there where I can sympathize with even just for the sake of the token building things on top at the company level. But yeah, we'll see.
01:10:42.480 - 01:11:45.022, Speaker B: Yeah, I would say there's a lot of variables that go into this. Number one, what you're building and is what you're building something that should be truthfully, should be decentralized? If that's the case, it also depends on where you are. Are you based know, in the case of Abe, are you based in Europe? Are you based know Asia? Are you based in the you know, all of them come with different flavors of kind of like current best in class way of doing whatever it is that you're doing. I would say typically the way that an investment works is you're putting money investors are putting money into corporate equity and that corporate equity can be called labs or can be called something. That's where all the employment relationships are, that's where the technology is developed. And then there's also an equivalent token warrant that happens. And in whatever cases, the token can relate to the network that is developed by the company.
01:11:45.022 - 01:12:46.462, Speaker B: And the company distributes or transfers that IP of the open source network to a foundation and that foundation proliferates the network. Then that company, whether it's called Labs or anything, transitions exactly to what Miles said into a service provider where they're contributing services in addition to other participants or other companies that are also contributing services and getting paid for those services from the decentralized network. And we're now just starting to see what happens if the protocol is generally done or there's a diversification and a decentralization of ownership and contributions to that network. So the proliferation of it is complete. Maybe not the protocol is complete, but at least the Labs concept or the originator of the protocol can take a step back. And that's what Uniswap Labs is now doing. So they're now transitioning into a product company that builds on top of the uniswap protocol in the form of their wallet.
01:12:46.462 - 01:13:30.986, Speaker B: And that may be the playbook going forward for a lot of these companies that produce protocols that then build products on top of those protocols. So it really depends on kind of what you're building, what stage you're at, and frankly, where you see kind of the long term incentive model. But one thing that is just never going to fly is having a protocol and then doing a company. And you can't have both at the same time because you get into real big issues with conflict when the value pool mechanism is something that gets changed halfway through. And it's tried to happen a couple of times from what we've seen and never really works. And so you have to make sure that you're aligned for the different stages and with your investors at those stages.
01:13:31.098 - 01:14:46.662, Speaker C: Could not agree more. And there is something to be said for building a product on top of the protocol that allows you to keep funding yourself because otherwise you become a burden on the Dow. It's interesting to see just which protocols at this point have actually transitioned to the Ops company under the umbrella of the Dow's budget versus which ones are still working off of their VC funded runway. And even the Dows that look profitable today may not be like super profitable if you were to actually bring all those costs in, but, like, Lido is one that they now have like 70 or 80 heads under the budget of the Dow, but there's very few like that. I think it'll be interesting. Maybe last point is there are just things that can be executed better if they weren't under the purview of formal governance. And so I wonder if there is a hybrid middle ground where you spin up a company that is owned in some capacity by the Dow or at least has ability to directly accrue value from a wallet product built on top.
01:14:46.662 - 01:14:57.366, Speaker C: But that wallet team doesn't need to go through a governance vote for everything they do right? And they can go acquire customers more, et cetera, et cetera.
01:14:57.478 - 01:15:58.526, Speaker A: The Lido, I feel like, is the example that makes the most sense to me when we're talking about a product being done. And I do also think oftentimes we've talked about on this show before, but being in a Dow can feel antithetical to working efficiently. And in this case, I do think the ethos and ideal of decentralization and the value proposition of Lido are actually one and the same. In this instance, you want something to be like Lido, to be completely transparent, 100% as decentralized as is humanly possible, and you want the surface level of what Lido does and therefore the governance to be very thin. You don't want it to be broad. You probably don't want Lido to be doing 100 million things and reinvesting in yada yada XYZ. I think you probably want them to.
01:15:58.548 - 01:16:03.566, Speaker B: Be relatively yeah, I agree at the end state.
01:16:03.668 - 01:16:16.942, Speaker C: But I think it's also if you were to look back at Lido on day one, if they had tried to be as decentralized as possible, then they wouldn't have been in this position where they're now competing with the exchanges.
01:16:17.086 - 01:16:18.146, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with you.
01:16:18.248 - 01:16:42.560, Speaker C: You're in the middle stage where they say, okay, we need to do the staking router, we need to do the dual governance. This is what's going to eventually let us become a super thin layer, but it still requires a lot of work today. But I could not agree more. That end state for them with the biggest possible market share probably comes with a very thin layer of governance to get people comfortable with their market share.
01:16:43.090 - 01:16:43.840, Speaker B: Cool.
01:16:44.210 - 01:16:46.940, Speaker A: All right, guys, I think we've got to wrap it up. This is a fun one.
