00:00:00.480 - 00:00:37.206, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Guy refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 22 April 2021. Alright, everyone, all time high day for ETH. Very, very exciting time. Of course, you know, I guess, like, not much more above our old all time high. You know, the old all time high was 25 50 and we went to about, I think almost 2600 just before, but still very, very cool to see such a strong recovery from ETH, I guess. You know, we went down to what, 1990, I think, like just a couple of days ago, a few days ago, and then we've bounced back up.
00:00:37.206 - 00:01:06.458, Speaker A: And not only has ETH bounced back up against USD, it has also bounced back up against the ratio here. So the ETH BTC ratio, and the last time the ratio was at this price was August of 2018. That's a long time ago. It's almost three years ago now. When you, when you kind of look at it like that and you're like, wow, you know, it's crazy how long, you know, kind of like eats. Valuation against bitcoin has been, I guess, like down in, this is one, in this one range. And if I had a chart here, I could show you.
00:01:06.458 - 00:01:54.864, Speaker A: But essentially this range goes all the way back to August of 2018, which is, which is quite insane there. So, you know, that's very positive. People getting really excited about that. And, you know, there's a lot of people who ask me, you know, why are we excited about its valuation against bitcoin? Well, I mean, it's just from a pure market structure perspective where when, when you look at bitcoin and, you know, everyone looks at bitcoin as like the top dog or whatever, and they think you look at that, you're like, okay, well, bitcoin's worth a trillion dollars, but all this stuff's happening on ETH, right? And all these stuff's happening with Ethereum. Why is Ethereum valued so, so low compared to BTC? And that's kind of like what I look at it for. And, you know, there's always like, people just poking fun at others about, you know, I said, yeah, thanks, BTC Maxis. Because, you know, no matter what kind of direction the ratio is going in, like, one group of people is like, annoyed about it, right? If the ratio is going up, the BTC Max's are annoyed about it.
00:01:54.864 - 00:02:29.022, Speaker A: If it's going down, the quote unquote ETH Maxis, you know, are annoyed about it. So it's always fun, just a little bit of fun to kind of watch that. But yeah, I think that's kind of like the main reason people just like to watch the ratio here. And, you know, I'm one of the people who believe in the flippening. I believe Ethereum should be worth more than bitcoin. I don't think that the Tam or the total addressable market for bitcoin is very large. You know, if it does become like a replacement for gold, yeah, okay, it could be worth $10 trillion, right? But as I explained in yesterday's daily way refuel video and in my newsletter, I believe ETH can also be worth $10 trillion or more.
00:02:29.022 - 00:03:06.460, Speaker A: Probably. Probably more. Because Ethereum, I mean, I believe Ethereum is going to be the backbone of the new world economy, right? New world financial system and incredibly neutral one at that, where everyone in the world is going to be building on it, and then ETH is going to stay, or be and stay at the heart of that whole entire ecosystem. And I put out a tweet today saying, you know, in case you haven't been paying attention, Ethereum's fundamentals are stronger than ever, and the market is now pricing that in. That's another reason why you look at the e BTC ratio, because you kind of look at if the market's actually pricing in Ethereum's fundamentals or not. I think it's just started to, I don't think it's anywhere near done. You know, I don't think it, I don't think anything's ever priced in.
00:03:06.460 - 00:03:55.822, Speaker A: But if you kind of look at the fundamentals of Ethereum, and I wrote about this in the Daily Gray newsletter today, they are literally stronger than ever. All of them are pretty much at all time highs. And, you know, I explained in the newsletter, like, what do we mean by fundamentals? I mean it, I think, like if you, if you kind of look at it at a high level, it basically includes everything that, right? It includes like things like ETH locked in Defi. It includes like, ETH locked in staking. It includes protocol work, you know, what kind of protocol upgrades are coming, like EIP 1559 and ETH two and the merger, all that good stuff, right? The NFT growth, the growth of enterprise, Ethereum adoption, the growth of ethereum's metrics, like active addresses and, you know, total transactions on the network, total fees paid. And all of that feeds back into itself to increase the fundamental value of Ethereum, which increases the fundamental value of ETH. And I explained why in yesterday's refill.
00:03:55.822 - 00:04:48.298, Speaker A: I won't go on about that again. Actually, quick shout there to everyone who contacted me and said, thank you for putting that together. I'm glad it was very helpful because I'd be meaning to go through, I guess, like the fundamental bullish case for Ethereum and ETH for quite a while. And, you know, I've been meaning to make a standalone video about it, but I guess, like yesterday I just got into, got into a bit of a mood and decided, you know, screw it, I'll just, I'll just leak all the alpha now. But those kind of things aren't new, right? If you've been watching the refuel, if you've been reading my newsletter, if you've been following me on Twitter for years, these are the same things that I've been talking about for years. And not just myself, but a lot of people in the Ethereum community, even on the Ethub podcast with Eric, like him and I have been talking about this stuff since, since we started the podcast in early 2019, actually, we started, sorry, started at kind of late 2019 there, I think, or am I losing my mind? My, my mind, I think late 2018. Wow, it's been a while.
00:04:48.298 - 00:05:26.060, Speaker A: So, so, you know, that was like the bear market, right? The middle of the bear market sort of thing. So, you know, that that is where kind of, like, the real alpha comes from, is you kind of, like, follow these long term thinkers who basically base their investments on the fundamental side of things over the long term. That's why I think you should kind of, like, follow and listen to. But again, like, you know, nothing I say is investment advice. Nothing anyone else says is investment advice. But if you just kind of, like, follow along and, you know, I guess, like, do your own research by following along, I think that's, that's the healthiest way to go about it, for sure. So, yeah, fundamentals are just stupidly strong.
00:05:26.060 - 00:06:01.290, Speaker A: I mean, I haven't been this bullish on ETH ever. Like, I say this every kind of, like, few months, but just like all the bullish catalysts coming for ETH right now, it's so hard not to be bullish. I mean, I explained it yesterday, but again, just to reiterate, 1559 and the, the merger are two of the most bullish things that are ever going to happen for Ethereum. And they're not just a one time thing. They keep feeding value into each other in what I like to call the ETH super cycle, 1559 because it keeps burning fees in perpetuity, which I'm actually going to tweet here. Maybe I should talk about that now. You know, I should talk, actually, I'll talk about this in a sec, after I.
00:06:01.290 - 00:06:42.990, Speaker A: And we're staking, right? And with the merger coming through, we reduce the block rewards by 90% once the merger happens. And, and then ETH just keeps getting staked because the APR is going to be high due to the fees that aren't burnt being paid to stakers instead of miners. And on top of that, stakers don't have to sell the ETH because they don't have, like, ginormous costs to cover, like, hardware, maintenance and electricity. But back on 1559 here, I put out this tweet today, and it seemed to be very popular. I just think this is not something that people really think about. And the tweet reads, once EIP 1559 is implemented, every single transaction on ethereum will burn ETH. Every liquidation, every ETH transfer, every layer, two proof, every Dex trade, and even every rug pool.
00:06:42.990 - 00:07:10.688, Speaker A: It doesn't matter what the transaction is. ETH will continue being burned forever. Now, I used some like, kind of like, hopium language language here. Forever doesn't literally mean forever. It just means as long as the ethereum network runs and, you know, there is the non zero chance that for some reason we remove 1559 in the future. I mean, I highly doubt that's going to happen, but, like, it's not like it's 100% not going to happen. I like to think about, think of it like bitcoin's 21 million kind of hard cap.
00:07:10.688 - 00:08:02.074, Speaker A: You know, they're saying it's never going to be changed, right? And that, like, that's what it's going to be forever, and that's fine, but there is still that non zero chance that it could be. But anyway, why I said this is something that people don't think about is because when you hear, you know, ETH are going to be burned, you don't really think, from what I've noticed, maybe not. You guys, I'd like to think that the refuel viewers are, I kind of, like, more switched on, but in general, kind of like, when you think about it, you don't think, like, about, like, the nitty gritty stuff, right? Like, I mean, I don't even do it. Like, I just thought of this, like, I think a couple of days ago maybe I was just kind of thinking about this. I'm like, wow. Like, when you really look at this and you really think about it, every single transaction on Ethereum doesn't matter what it is, right? It can be literally anything. Contract deployments, token transfers, whatever, like the same stuff that I've kind of like outlined here, it will burn ETH, it won't burn the whole transaction.
00:08:02.074 - 00:08:35.072, Speaker A: Fee estimations put it at like 70% or something like that. So most of it. But we won't know until it goes live, of course. But that's going to go on every single block, right? Because a block contains all the transactions, every single block, as long as the Ethereum network exists, or until we are. Until a time when 1559 is removed, which obviously I don't think is going to happen. I put it like a pretty much 0% chance of it happening, but I guess as a qualifier, I'll put that there. But if we just kind of like, ignore that and focus on it being implemented and, you know, everything's running smoothly and everything's fine, then forever.
00:08:35.072 - 00:09:01.722, Speaker A: And the Ethereum network runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, and it has had a 100% uptime. So no matter the amount of activity that happens on the Ethereum network, no matter the amount of fees paid, there will always be ETH being burned. Doesn't matter if it's a bull market, doesn't matter if it's a bear market. Doesn't matter. It doesn't matter at all. ETH is always going to be burned, no matter what's happening on the network. And if you go back, obviously during bear markets, transactional activity drops.
00:09:01.722 - 00:09:28.234, Speaker A: But I actually don't think that's going to happen during down markets at this time in such a big way. Because when you actually look at it, you know, DeFi is a real use case for bull and bear markets. It's not like people are like, you know, it's not like people are going to exit the ecosystem. Everyone that I know that's cashing out right now and just taking profits is going to stable coins and he's yield farming. They're not going to fiat. I mean, I've talked about this before where I've said that, you know, no one's going to fiat. Why would you go to fiat? 0.5%
00:09:28.234 - 00:09:49.778, Speaker A: in your bank account. Who cares about that? Let's get some 10%, you know, at least stable yields in defi, baby, let's go. Right. So from that perspective, that increases network activity too, right? So it doesn't matter if it's a bull or bear market. I think people are just going to stay in the ecosystem. People are going to keep using Ethereum, the transactional kind of like demand for Ethereum is going to keep growing exponentially. It already is.
00:09:49.778 - 00:10:42.792, Speaker A: And the fact that people are willing to pay, you know, the high fees still right on Ethereum is such an amazing kind of vote of confidence. And then we have L2 coming, right? And the L2 operators are not going to care how high the fees are. They're going to pay the really high fees and we're going to potentially one day, as I've said before, get to billions of dollars a day in fee revenue for the ethereum network, which is potential potentially billions of dollars a day of ETH being burned. So, I mean, a little, I guess that's a little follow on from yesterday's kind of like bullish case. But I mean, when you really think about it and really understand the implications and really kind of understand how this translates into exponential growth, very hard to not realize the power here. Anyway, I will move on from that for now. Justin Drake had a really great tweet here pointing out that $10 billion is now staking in ETH two, as he likes to call it, economic security because there's almost 4 million ETH staked.
00:10:42.792 - 00:11:15.284, Speaker A: And obviously the ETH price went up here. So really cool to see that. He says 100 billion next, which, I mean, we can get to, right. We don't even need the ETH price to ten times from here to get to that. We can have like an ETH price rise and the ETH in staking increase. And you know, as Coinbase staking is now coming online slowly, I expect this number to go up more staking services are becoming more popular, more people are buying ETH to stake it. You know, I can see this number going to maybe not 10 million before the merger happens, but it's still going up, like maybe another one to two, maybe 3 million or something like that.
00:11:15.284 - 00:11:49.260, Speaker A: But then once the merger happens, right, and everything's a holistic ethereum, and you don't have to worry about that one way bridge anymore. And the APR goes way up because of the fee revenue. I do think that we're going to get to 10 million plus estate, which would be an enormous amount of ETH. And, you know, depending on what the price is, right. The price could be like $5,000, which, which would, which would, which would translate to like a $50 billion kind of like, you know, economic security. So really, really great to see that here. And, you know, kudos to Justin for pushing this along and pushing this kind of meme of economic security and ultrasound money along.
00:11:49.260 - 00:12:19.578, Speaker A: I I'm fully on board with all of that. So Nethermind and Taeku, or Taekoo's kind of like client, another client, sorry, I should say nevermind and take. You are both kind of a theorem one and 2.0 clients here. They have been running together the rayon ism merge spec, which I've spoken about before. This is the. The kind of project that's being worked on by a bunch of ETH one and ETH two researchers to spec out and build the merger, right, on a testnet, or as they call it here, a Devnet.
00:12:19.578 - 00:12:49.838, Speaker A: So they basically got this, this up and running and it's now ready for the Devnet here, ready for the ETH one to ETH two Devnet, which is really cool to see. And obviously, you know, a lot of this kind of stuff on this screen is not going to mean much to most of us. But still, there's progress being made, like, at a lightning fast pace on the merger. And as I've said before, expect it early next year. I don't think it's going to happen late this year. I mean, as much as I would love it to, I just think that's too ambitious at this point in time. I think early next year is going to happen and that's fine.
00:12:49.838 - 00:13:05.860, Speaker A: I mean, like, honestly, I just. I mean, I'm patient. Right. We can wait. I mean, we've waited this long. Like, we can wait a bit longer, and then once that happens, we have sharding to look forward to after that as well. But in the meantime, I mean, it's not like we're waiting for this merge to happen for, like, a theorem to keep growing.
00:13:05.860 - 00:13:31.612, Speaker A: I mean, ethereum is growing, as I explained, like, fundamentally across, like, everything right now. So it doesn't even matter. But still. Good to see this from these two awesome teams here. So the first real world assets in Makerdao went live, and basically this is the first real world asset based loan. So I spoke about this when it was released, and it was called, these are these assets that were called, like, silver series or something when. When they kind of, like, released.
00:13:31.612 - 00:13:49.264, Speaker A: And it's not actually silver. I said it on the refill at the time that it was. That it was silver, but that the names of misnomer here, it's actually something else. And I can't remember what it is now. Man, I should have, like, read this before making the refuel, but it's definitely not silver. It's some. Some kind of other real world asset here.
00:13:49.264 - 00:14:27.276, Speaker A: And what that means is basically an asset that's not native to etherium. It's a tokenized version of an asset that exists in like, the physical kind of meat space here. So I think what it is, is basically, I mean, obviously allowing people to take out maker loans using these real world, real world assets. And that's what happened here. And this is what's being tweeted about here, basically depositing the, depositing this new silver kind of thing here into makerdao and drawing stable coins against it, which is really, really awesome to see. I mean, and I mean, I don't know if you guys have seen lately, but, but maker is finally getting the love it deserves. The MKR token is increasing in value rapidly.
00:14:27.276 - 00:15:09.022, Speaker A: I don't own any. I should have maybe bought some when I saw it. The other, you know, I mean, everyone that in the, in the kind of defi ecosystem has been saying that MKR has been undervalued for a very long time. And I made a silly comment on Twitter where I basically said, you know, I don't want to buy it because the price action has been so bad for so long against both USD and ETH. But at the same time, the, the, the fundamentals of maker had never been better, which makes, which makes MKR one of the most undervalued assets in Defi. And that, you know, that tweet got like a bit of confusion from people. They're like, you know, how can you be saying that you don't want to buy it because of its bad price action if you're, you think it's the most undervalued thing and that doesn't make sense, right? But that's just like kind of what a lot of people thought about it.
00:15:09.022 - 00:15:44.128, Speaker A: They're like, I'm not going to touch this because it's not a great asset, even though it's like super undervalued or it hasn't had great performance, mind you, that's what a lot of people think about a lot of assets. And honestly, I love buying those assets. I've spoken about it before where I, I usually buy assets that no one's looking at. But for me, even though I was bullish on MKR, for me, I look at Maker as like a core Ethereum protocol. And if MKR or if maker is doing well, ETH is doing well. So I may as well just hold ETH. Plus, I had some other assets that I was looking at that were kind of like higher risk, but, you know, potentially higher rewards.
00:15:44.128 - 00:16:20.114, Speaker A: So I just went with them. But for me, MKR is another kind of asset that you can just sit on for a while and just like, forget about it. Same with ETH, right? I feel like Ethereum and Maker are extremely symbiotic. Maker allows people to take on cheap debt to buy more ETH and that allows them to do, to do that with their ETH, right. And 50% of maker is still ETH. So from that perspective, you know, I think that MKR is a great portfolio, kind of like allocation non investment advice, of course. But you know, I think just that the previous kind of like price action over the last few years has turned a lot of people off, which is fair enough.
00:16:20.114 - 00:16:52.268, Speaker A: I mean, its price action was like really bad for quite a while. But now, I guess the markets finally waking up and seeing that maker has been growing, its fundamentals are at all time highs. Dai has been growing like it's at all time highs as well. And now they're doing like really exotic stuff like real world assets in maker here. So yeah, really cool to see that coming out of maker and centrifuge for enabling this. So the immutable X rollout is continuing. This is the L2 NFT exchange from immutable based on star Quest technology.
00:16:52.268 - 00:17:39.124, Speaker A: They're onto stage three now where minting has been reactivated for trial of the gods cards. So if you want to mint these cards, you can now do so on L2, which is really cool. And there's three more phases left of this kind of main rollout with Genesis minting, which is, I think like the Genesis set for gods unchained will finally be minted on L2 core minting, which is the, I think the core set, and forge, which is a feature for the, for the kind of game here, will reopen and then beyond here. So as I've described before, immutable X isn't just the L2 exchange for gods unchained. It is a L2 platform for all types of nfts and it enables up to 9000 transactions per second. So really cool to see them progressing through this rollout. I've said it before, I'll say it again at L2 is here.
00:17:39.124 - 00:18:05.344, Speaker A: It's just not evenly distributed yet and we're getting to the evenly distributed stage. I mean, you know, next month we have Uniswap v three to look forward to. And they did tease a L2 implementation coming out on optimism. If we say that next month things are going to get real crazy, people. I don't think people are expecting it, honestly, and I'm just making an assumption. Uniswap didn't confirm that it's coming out next month or whatever, but they did say shortly after v three goes live, which is May 5. And we're, you know, we're on April 22 here, so only about less than two weeks out.
00:18:05.344 - 00:18:27.640, Speaker A: So I think that's going to be a game changer. I wrote about that in the newsletter the other day. And then of course, we have optimism's main, main, you know, launch targeted for, for July. We have arbitrum launching soon as well. You know, we have ZK sync teasing stuff. Starkware still rolling out over the next few months is when the evenly distributed happens, and it's going to happen much faster than people think. So, yeah.
00:18:27.640 - 00:19:18.506, Speaker A: Really, really, really bullish to see this here. So the graph announced after nearly two years of research and development on state channels, they have unveiled something called Scala, which is a microtransaction solution built on connects networks vector for fast and cheap query fee transactions in the graph network. Now this is really awesome to see. Like, I think state channels were one of the original kind of like L2 scalability technologies ever since the Lightning network. The lightning network is like, I guess like a form of state channels, but ever since that, you know, it's been worked on by different projects like Raiden and, and kind of like Connextr and a bunch of others. It has been kind of like, I guess, relegated to a kind of, I guess, the niche use case compared to a generalized use case, like what roll ups are. But that doesn't mean that that's a bad solution or a bad kind of technology.
00:19:18.506 - 00:19:56.878, Speaker A: It's actually going to be used a lot by, I mean, it's been, it's being used by Kinect as part of their core, kind of, kind of core infrastructure there. And then it's also going to be used by the graph here as well. So this is really, really fun to see. The graph, for those who don't know, is a massive, I guess, like back end protocol, like middleware protocol for Ethereum apps and things like that. You know, you might have seen that sometimes the graph will go offline briefly because they get overloaded with the amount of activity on Ethereum and some of the defi apps that you interact with. The front ends at least will, will act weird or not show the correct information and everything like that. And that's because they're getting the information from the graph.
00:19:56.878 - 00:20:23.070, Speaker A: And the graph creates theories, different kind of archive and full nodes on Ethereum to serve up that data so that it's nicely kind of displayed on different defi front ends. So the graph is a core middleware protocol, like Chainlink, right. With oracles. I believe K'nex is going to become an awesome kind of middleware protocol as well here. Basically going between L2s and bridging between other chains with Ethereum and stuff like that. So really awesome to see this partnership here. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
00:20:23.070 - 00:20:56.648, Speaker A: You can go read more if you want more details on that one. So Zappa yesterday announced Zappa Learn, which is basically a new section of their kind of website here where you can learn all about different kind of like, defi things, like different defi basics, tutorials and even alpha leaks here. Now, I had the honor of writing one of the first pieces here describing how you can earn 38% APY farming with the metaverse index from the index cop. So you can go read this if you want to check that out. But there's going to be so many. So much more stuff happening here. I'm pretty sure defy dad's running it.
00:20:56.648 - 00:21:20.938, Speaker A: I mean, he's been doing such great defi education for quite a while now on YouTube, on. On Twitter, and now he's kind of, I guess, working at Zappa. So he's kind of leading this effort here. But, yeah, I can't wait to see, like, all these articles come together. I mean, they already have, like, a bunch here. You can see, right, like, such as, what is a bridge, right, from. From Alan Nader here, who's another person that works at Zappa.
00:21:20.938 - 00:22:03.098, Speaker A: And they want to do guest posts. Like, obviously, I'm the first guest, but they want to do more guest posts here and become basically an educational hub for people, which I think is really smart because it actually means that they can drive users to use Zappa as well, which I consider to be an awesome tool and dashboard that everyone should be using. And I guess the disclosure that I'm an investor in Zappa, but I invested in Zappa because, like, all throughout DeFi summer, I was using Zappa every single day. And now I use Zappa every single day to keep track of my portfolio, zap in and out of opportunities. I mean, yeah, I won't show Zappa too much here, but their learn section is awesome and should definitely go check it out, if you haven't already. So, bittersweet day, I guess. Announcement here from Hudson Jameson.
00:22:03.098 - 00:22:49.882, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know, Hudson Jameson has been a longtime Ethereum community member since the early days, and he's been a steward, particularly as part of the ETH one core devs, the old core devs, as they're known for quite a while now. And he announced on Twitter yesterday that he was having his last day at the Ethereum foundation. So he put a thread together here, basically thanking everyone and was very grateful for all of the support over the years. And, you know, there's an embedded tweet here where he actually joined the Ethereum foundation back in June of 2016. So he's been there for almost five years, which is a, which is a massive effort here from Hudson. And I mean, this picture just makes him look so young, right? If you've seen Hudson before, you can see he's got like a longer beard now and looks up, looks a bit older here. Maybe that was all the stress he went through with Ethereum because he experienced all this stuff.
00:22:49.882 - 00:23:30.574, Speaker A: Right, the Dow, right, because the Dow happened around this time, the Shanghai dos attacks, right? All the other core dev related kind of drama that had to be dealt with through the years and obviously the market kind of movements and stuff. So, I mean, you know, I think the Ethereum community has aged us all a little bit. But it's just funny to see like I wanted to, you know, I actually thought of doing like a before and after photo, like before, kind of like the down after, after the Dow. Um, but yeah, anyway, I'm going off on a little, little bit of a tangent there, but Hudson's a good friend of mine. I mean, he is one of the most caring people in the Ethereum community. He's not leaving the Ethereum community. He's just kind of like leaving the Ethereum foundation to pursue it, pursue other things he wants to do.
00:23:30.574 - 00:24:12.454, Speaker A: He also helps out zcash as well. So, I mean, you know, I said here, like, I thanked him for all his kind of like tireless work. Over the years, he's been instrumental in kind of like Ethereum in the Ethereum community and doing so much within it for and touching, like, you know, literally thousands of people's lives with his work, which is really awesome. So, yeah, I guess, like, it's bittersweet, but, you know, people, people move on, right? People move on from roles. They want to try something new. I mean, I, it was, it was very kind of like hard for me to leave kind of full time work at, at set. You know, I'm still an advisor to them, but I left because, not because I didn't want to work there anymore, but because I felt it was time to kind of like move on to, to doing other things, such as the Daily Gwei.
00:24:12.454 - 00:24:54.544, Speaker A: Right. Like, I was finding it hard to kind of balance full time work and the stuff that I was doing with the Daily Gwei and all the other projects that I'm helping out and kind of like the, you know, everything else that I'm trying to do. So that's kind of like why I kind of left full time work there. But, you know, I think the same is for Hudson here. I think he's just, like, at another stage in his life, another stage of his journey, where he wants to basically move on from what he was doing, right, and maybe do something, do something else here. So, yeah, I guess congrats to Hudson on kind of like moving on to this new stage in his life, and I wish him all the best. So Starkware put out this blog post detailing how their, how chain links oracles work on their L2 solution called Stark X.
00:24:54.544 - 00:25:26.278, Speaker A: Now, this is really cool to see them using Chainlink. I think a lot of people in the, not a lot, but like some people within the kind of crypto space, like to reinvent the wheel when it comes to oracles. And, and I actually think that's incredibly misguided because it represents a very big security risk. I think that Chainlink is the most secure oracle on Ethereum, besides maybe the maker dare oracles. And I think they have been battle tested for quite a while now. The team, you know, is always doing great work. I spoke about the other day how chain Link released their 2.0
00:25:26.278 - 00:25:47.682, Speaker A: white paper and things like that. So they've, you know, they've, they're working hard. They're doing a lot of good stuff. So I'm glad to see star quit using, using chain link here. And in this post, they basically detail how they do that and how it kind of all works on their stark x L2 solution here. So, yeah, definitely go read this post if you want to get more details about that. I'm not going to go over it on the, on, on the refill, of course.
00:25:47.682 - 00:26:42.712, Speaker A: But, yeah, I just thought it was really positive to see starkware supporting such an awesome oracle solution in chain link here. So Alpha Finance yesterday announced that they are relaunching Alpha Homora v two on Ethereum, and this is one of their milestones towards their mission to build and incubate an innovative alpha ecosystem in defi. So the details are in this blog post here and basically goes through what's included in, in the v two launch. So essentially, for yield farmers, there's more leveraged pools included, like balancer curve, sushiswap and Uniswap more assets available to borrow ETH, USDC, USDT and more. You can use LP tokens as collateral from all your favorite amms. And then for lenders there's many more I interest bearing tokens, like they're famous for their ETH interest bearing token which was paying over, I think 10%, might still be paying over 10%. Haven't checked it lately.
00:26:42.712 - 00:27:08.490, Speaker A: Earn high yields on your, on these kind of like IB tokens, as I was just describing opportunities to earn more yield on top of those tokens. And a new Oracle solution here. I think they're using chain link, maybe, maybe. Let me have a look. Oracle Oracle aggregated contract aggregating prices for multiple trusted Oracle providers. Okay, maybe they're using like chain link and a bunch of others here. So I'm curious actually to see, see what they, what they have there.
00:27:08.490 - 00:27:33.762, Speaker A: They're saying here. Stay tuned for, for more details, of course, as well. So yeah, really, really bullish on Alpha. Of course, I, I hold Alpha tokens, just disclaimer there, but you know, I've held them for quite a while. They're one of the best projects within, within a theorem and within Defi and they're doing a lot of innovative work here. So really cool to see them kind of relaunch v two on Ethereum and kind of like add a lot more value to the ecosystem here. All right, everyone, that's it for today's episode.
00:27:33.762 - 00:27:43.034, Speaker A: Thank you again for watching and listening. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
