00:00:00.090 - 00:00:49.942, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap galaxy drops Bico acquisition Bico to sue Galaxy On Monday, Galaxy Digital announced the termination of its $1.2 billion acquisition of Bico, a crypto custodian. According to its press release, Galaxy is not going through with the deal because Bico failed to deliver audited financial statements for 2021 that comply with their agreement. However, Bico is pushing back against its much bigger counterparty. Bico said that the termination of the deal is improper and that the company is going to seek a 100 million dollar termination fee. The attempt by Mike Novogratz and Galaxy Digital to blame the termination on Bico is absurd, R brian Timmons, partner at Bico's legal firm, told the Bloc.
00:00:49.942 - 00:01:35.206, Speaker A: Galaxy CEO Mike Novogratz has not yet commented on Bico's plans. Alex Machinsky made some bad trades prior to Celsius's bankruptcy. The Financial Times reports that Alex Machinsky, CEO of bankrupt crypto lender Celsius, took control of the company's trading strategy in January, days before A-U-S. Federal Reserve meeting. Machinsky was apparently convinced that the Fed would raise interest rates and started overruling experienced financial professionals within his company. According to the article, Machinsky sold millions of dollars worth of BTC only to buy it at a loss on the following day. Some people were outraged by his behavior, especially since just months later, Celsius halted withdrawals from the platform and filed for bankruptcy.
00:01:35.206 - 00:02:21.850, Speaker A: This is not normal degenerating. It's not his money he was gambling with. This is a concoction of ridiculous arrogance, sociopathy and a heavy sprinkling of scam salt, said Jordy Alexander CIO of Salini Capital. Meanwhile, Celsius's current financial situation does not look promising. This week, a new court filing from Celsius's law firm, Kirkland and Ellis revealed that the crypto exchange would run out of cash by October. The company did receive some good news this week, as it was allowed by the court to sell some of its mined BTC in order to meet operational expenses. Lastly, CDPQ, one of the largest pension funds in Canada, announced that it had to write off a $150,000,000 investment in Celsius.
00:02:21.850 - 00:03:31.454, Speaker A: Coinbase CEO Hints that the Exchange Won't Censor Ethereum Brian Armstrong, Coinbase CEO, said on Twitter that he'd rather shut down the exchange's staking service than Censor transactions to comply with OFAC sanctions. Armstrong's tweet came in response to a question from left Harris Carapetzas, founder of portfolio management tool Rotke, who tweeted if regulators ask you to Censor at the Ethereum protocol level with your validators, will you a comply and Censor at the protocol level b shut down the staking service and preserve network integrity? What kickstarted this discussion was the concern that centralized staking services needing to comply with sanctions would lead to compliance at the protocol level after the merge. Once Ethereum moves to proof of stake, Coinbase is expected to be one of the largest validators in the ecosystem. Michael Morrow resigns as Genesis CEO. Michael Morrow stepped down as Genesis Global Trading CEO as the company announced other changes in the leadership. Team Genesis was one of the many companies that suffered from exposure to bankrupt crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. In July, Genesis filed a $1.2
00:03:31.454 - 00:04:11.746, Speaker A: billion claim against three AC after the latter failed to meet a margin call. Morrow served as chief executive of the crypto broker for more than six years and will be replaced temporarily by COO Dar Islam. It has been an honor to lead Genesis for nearly a decade, and I look forward to supporting the company's next phase of growth, said Morrow. In addition, Genesis is laying off 20% of its employees in an attempt to navigate through the crypto. Winter. Three AC was all over the news this week as well. On Monday, New York magazine published an excellent article by Jen Vietchner exposing the history of the hedge fund and its two cofounders, Su Zhu and Kyle Davies.
00:04:11.746 - 00:04:48.870, Speaker A: Here are some highlights Three AC did not want to put up collateral for its loans. It was supposed to be reputation based. Matt Walsh, cofounder of Castle Island Ventures, started suspecting three AC when the latter seemed to be desperate about a $20 million deal signaling that it might be insolvent. The Terra blowout meant half a billion dollars loss for Three AC, and it kickstarted the collapse of the fund, Castleman chief business officer@blockchain.com said. We firmly believe they committed fraud. It became clear that they were insolvent but were continuing to borrow, which really just looks like a classic Ponzi scheme.
00:04:48.870 - 00:05:26.910, Speaker A: Zhu and Davies intended to buy a yacht, which was the subject of numerous memes on Twitter, and name it Much. Wow. Add more unstable coins to the list. Akala dollar or AUSD? The stablecoin built on Akala network suffered a major deepug on Monday, but it later recovered almost completely after a governance vote. The reason for the exploit was a configuration mistake on a liquidity pool, which resulted in error mints of AUSD. After the hackers exploited the bug, AUSD lost 99% of its value, reaching a low of $0.9, or zero $0.09,
00:05:26.910 - 00:06:22.322, Speaker A: according to Coin Gecko. However, the team in Akala was able to fix the liquidity pool issue, and AUSD pumped more than 10,000% from its lows reaching. A high of recovery came after a proposal was passed in which the Akala community voted to burn the 1.29 billion AUSD tokens held by 16 wallet addresses involved in the exploit. In another related event, HUSD, the stablecoin issued by Stable Universal, also lost its peg after an imbalance on the curve pool and is now trading at $0.99. Speaking of stablecoins, Tether, the company behind USDT, announced a partnership with accounting firm BDO to issue assurance and attestation reports of its reserves. Do Kwan's First Interview wasn't well received Doe Kwan, founder of Layer One Terra, broke a long silence in an interview given to Coinage Media months after the collapse of the ecosystem.
00:06:22.322 - 00:06:53.662, Speaker A: Here are some highlights from the interview kwan stated that Terra was never intended as a fraud and that he didn't think the blockchain would collapse. Terra and Luna were essentially my life. I bet big and I lost. I alone am responsible. In response to questions about his hubristic comments on Twitter, he responded, I developed an entertaining alter ego to match the community. Kwan confirmed that investigators have not reached out and haven't charged him with anything. The interview sparked criticism on crypto Twitter as people wondered why the interviewer didn't ask harder questions.
00:06:53.662 - 00:07:53.374, Speaker A: I wonder why Doe Kwan chose you over all those media titans. Could it be perhaps that TfL is an investor in coinage? Asked Fat man Terra, a crypto influencer 0% Royalties for Creators Pseudoswap, a decentralized NFT marketplace on Ethereum launched an automated market maker that set artist royalties at 0%, which sparked a heated debate on crypto Twitter. The pseudo AMM allows anyone to mint an NFT on the marketplace without having to pay a percentage in royalties to the creator. The biggest NFT marketplaces such as OpenSea, Magic, Eden, and Looksrare do honor the royalties set by creators, but it has become clear that this is social convention, as the royalties cannot be enforced on chain. I think the creator royalty argument is actually a lot simpler than people make it out to be. There is zero way to force royalties technologically, so creators will have to build a collector base that want to honor those royalties. It's really that simple, said NFT artist Beeple Yaw.
00:07:53.374 - 00:08:37.246, Speaker A: A marketplace built on Solana was the first to offer this feature earlier this year. In addition, Solanar allows sellers to choose whether they want to pay the royalty fees to creators, and if so, how much. As a creator myself, I had a heated debate about this topic with Haseeb, Tarun and Tom on this week's The Chopping Block, so be sure to take a listen. Miners are at a loss after a very profitable 2021 Bitcoin mining companies are taking big losses this year. This week, several firms reported their second quarter earnings showing big red numbers. Bitfarm, a publicly traded Bitcoin mining company, reported a $142,000,000 loss in Q Two. The Quebec based company's stock plummeted over 20% after the release.
00:08:37.246 - 00:09:22.560, Speaker A: Greenage announced it will be halting its plans to expand its operations into Texas due to a sudden change in mining economics. The company also reported a $108,000,000 net loss in the second quarter of the year. Riot posted a $366,000,000 net loss for the quarter. However, CEO Jason Less remains optimistic. We are extremely encouraged by Riot's financial resilience and operational achievements this quarter, he said. Stronghold restructured its debt and changed its focus to selling power rather than mining BTC after reporting a $40 million net loss in the quarter. Meanwhile, Bitcoin's hash rate, a measure of the computing power of the network, has been experiencing a decline since June and now sits at 200 million Terrahashes per second.
00:09:22.560 - 00:09:56.650, Speaker A: Time for fun bits poop to earn cho J. Won South Korean professor invented a toilet that turns human waste into energy and pays people in digital currency. The energy is used to power the building of the Olsan National Institute of Science and Technology. Students who use the toilet earn ten G Ghoul a day, which can be used to buy goods on the campus, such as snacks and books. Toilet users earn Ghoul. A literal shitcoin, joked Brian Rommel on Twitter. All right, thanks so much for joining us today.
00:09:56.650 - 00:10:16.970, Speaker A: To learn more about Airy and tornado cash, check out the show notes for this episode. Don't miss the Unchained daily newsletter, which features a roundup of the biggest news in crypto every weekday morning. Visit unchainedpodcast.com to subscribe. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Juan Aranovich, Pama Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
