00:00:30.034 - 00:01:09.742, Speaker A: Hi guys. Today I'm going to speak about very important topic actually about freedom. But let's start from the beginning. When in 2014 the idea of web three appeared in the market and we started to think about that. The idea behind the concept was the free Internet for everyone, freedom of speech. A lot of speculations over that, but the ability to access the information about and the ability to express your opinions freely. And we started to think about our architectures, we started to think about realization of that.
00:01:09.742 - 00:02:03.544, Speaker A: Many projects were there and we all were thinking that. We are steadily and consciously moving to that sort of like freedom, ability to speak freely. And then COVID hit the planet. Majority of the people were segregated, separated, sitting in small spaces and getting most of their information from Internet. I mean, traditional meters were already kind of compromised. Nobody really trusted the tv or, but still the whole planet trust Internet. Majority of the people thinking, okay, if I'm reading from Internet, that's like truth and I can trust that, or I can find the trustful information there and I'm free to read and consume.
00:02:03.544 - 00:02:59.324, Speaker A: And also I do have certain possibility to express my opinion. We all have social media. We can post on social media, you can post on Facebook, you can do the vlogging, you can do YouTube. And that seems to be that you have that freedom already. At the same time, the whole web three stack and how we developed that was massively focused on decentralization of the backend. Most of the solutions we creating to support web three ideas, they're about backend and there are hell of their ideas, hell of their already huge, I would say legacy of web three, which supports that. But at the same time, guys, look how we consume the information.
00:02:59.324 - 00:03:45.912, Speaker A: When we consume information through Internet, you already reach the browser and there are not that many varieties. And try to think who is behind this browser technology. And then try to think consciously how you are getting information, how you are choosing the source of information. Normally you have your own followers, you have your own sources in social media and that limits how you receive the information. And you also use various searches. But try to think who is behind that. Who are those URL owners or social media owners? You will still be stuck with the handful of the big corporations who are implementing a lot of creative technologies too.
00:03:45.912 - 00:04:23.554, Speaker A: They do their marketing, they do their business. Google still decides what you are able to find and what you are not. And you normally do not realize how it's being manipulated. You are taking the results of the search in Google as granted. You are thinking that you are consuming like what you are doing search for the whole information available on Internet. Try to think, is it really true? The same with Facebook. You are speaking like you are reading to your friends, you are searching for certain communities and something recently, you know about being banned, about cancel culture, about all of that.
00:04:23.554 - 00:05:17.064, Speaker A: Try to realize how your information field is being manipulated, how your access to the information is being manipulated. And then look, you have only six browsers to consume the information. And a lot of their browsers, they implement the technology like safe website access. Who knows how it's chosen, if your website safe for others to read or not. Who knows how when you are reading, the Facebook is chosen to whom you can reach and who is appearing in your friendline. For all of the social media you are actually consuming, you are not in control on the information sources at all. That's those owners and the owners of the social media who are in control.
00:05:17.064 - 00:06:06.382, Speaker A: And majority of the people on this earth, they do not realize that they are thinking that they still get everything which is possible. And the conscious thinking about that is, well, I actually would like to escape this lock. I want to understand and control to what I'm listening to. And that's like it's different sort of the freedom, that's not a freedom to speak. Now majority of the people, like everyone have the possibility to speak, but the freedom to choose the information sources, they're still not here because it's heavily manipulated. And when you are speaking freely, you may be in a silent band. So yeah, you speak freely, but nobody can see what you're saying.
00:06:06.382 - 00:07:03.416, Speaker A: And you are under assumption that they do. So what's the escape from that? And I'm actually going to speak about the technology which states like on the level four of web three stack on the front end which decentralizes your front end experience. And this technology is basically what the browser plugin steal browser. And that's still the weak point of the technology because we, we still do not have the community led browser, still browsers are owned by corporations and still the ability to run those, and those plugins is still limited there. But we are moving, we are moving that direction. But let's speak about the technology. That's a browser plugin which works when the HTML is finally rendered.
00:07:03.416 - 00:08:53.850, Speaker A: So you get the HTML you are creating by using the adapter DOm structure, logical accessible structure out of this HTML. And then you have Dopplerit, which is functional application, which can embed bits and pieces, can consume information, can embed information, and to add that to the already rendered website, which means that the owner of the website actually have no clue. But the person who has a plugin and who switched the functional application can access the functionality and yeah, and this application which does something functional, and I will show you examples later, can have a backend, can have a decentralized backend and can access the whole web three stack. We just decentralizing user experience, decentralizing front end. Because this augmentation and yeah, this additions to the HTML, additions to the existing websites, we used to call that augmentations. Those augmentations can be added from any size for anything where adapter is created. And they hold this idea because that's the platform, that's a plugin platform, possibility to create adapters, possibility to create tablets that exist with the community, where platform core gives ability to developers to create as many adapters as you would like to have, which means that any website can be turned into the structure where information, like where the augmentation points can be inserted, and then it can be the same developers, it can be another group of developers, it can be anyone.
00:08:53.850 - 00:09:27.434, Speaker A: And that's very easy to create. You can create functional applications for existing adapters. And obviously, when we're speaking about the new Internet structure, that level four on top of the existing one, you need the possibility to know that those Dopplers exist. You need the possibility to choose the doctors. And for that, the listers, the concept of listers was created. So those are the Googles, but they are independent community. And that can be like anyone can be Lister.
00:09:27.434 - 00:10:06.628, Speaker A: You just name the Dopplers which you'd like. And behind those role models and developers can be two levels. There can be more advanced developers who are doing checking, who are doing validation of the other doublets. So not to allow the malicious structures in a system. And all of this is one combined. And there's like crypto economy behind that. So the right behaviors are motivated, so the behaviors to create more adapters, the possibility for doublets to create their own crypto economy is also pretty easy.
00:10:06.628 - 00:11:33.812, Speaker A: You can get your own bending curve, and you can make the functional application on level four, like having your own token. And basically it gives the ecosystem, it gives the community motivation to create this layer, basically to give people, and to give the society ability to choose information sources, stay conscious about what you listen to, and not only ability for you to speak freely and to be heard, but also ability, like for many people, that's more important to understand what they consume. And this structure that allows society to create this rich, accessible information and ability to consume that. And that's not a theory I mean, we do have, there is a platform that works and there are already a number of doublets which you can download, which you can consume. And they are like, I will give you some examples. They are not all about the freedom of speech, but quite often are demonstrating the ability of platform, because what the technology is looking is adoption. We need developers, at least we need owners who are inventing the ideas of the tablets.
00:11:33.812 - 00:12:44.020, Speaker A: But currently, what is existing? Twitter tipping. So you can motivate the right expression of opinion in Twitter, you basically turning on the tablet, you do have tipping button there and you connect in your near wallet, for example. And when you read something which you like, in which you like to be motivated and to be on top, you are tipping that. And a person who is owner of that on Twitter and connected their Twitter account to their wallet will receive your tips. And that's the possibility for society to motivate. And that's, I mean, then you can bring the right opinions or to what you believe higher. Another one is swarm search tablet, where in YouTube, when you are conscious that you need certain content to be available for you or available for others, you can hit a button again augmentation button and pay in swarm for storage.
00:12:44.020 - 00:13:34.722, Speaker A: And this video content would be moved to the swarm storage. And when you are searching on YouTube, when you have the Swarm search adapter, it will combine seamlessly combine the search results in YouTube and in Swarm, because it knows which one stores in swarm and you will see that seamlessly. And what, and you can get the access to anything which would ban on YouTube. And you can see that. So you are getting escaped from this YouTube manipulation that something is not appropriate. And yeah, we do have other tablets which basically what the video search works not only in YouTube, it works also on Google. And there are other possibilities to augment.
00:13:34.722 - 00:14:16.194, Speaker A: But I'm really like, don't lock your mind to what is already existing. That's the platform which enables, which enables you to get rid of this lock of owner of the website, of the owner of the social media, of the owner of the search, which basically controls what is shown. So yeah, I'm at the end and I can answer questions if there are any. I was too quick. Yeah.
00:14:18.414 - 00:14:21.314, Speaker B: Can we wait for the microphone? And then. Thank you very much.
00:14:22.014 - 00:14:55.424, Speaker C: So thank you for the presentation. So right now there's a tendency in browsers to so right now there's a tendency in browsers to disable this kind of functionality. And there are some good and some bad reasons for it. So my question is, how would you, how do you imagine the way forward. So how are you going to stay ahead of this kind of movement?
00:14:55.804 - 00:16:08.358, Speaker A: Thank you for very good question. That's basically the next thing we're thinking about, because not only for that reason, we really need a community led browser. We really need an independent browser. And there are several attempts, like there are several approaches towards that you can look to brave, which is still corporate led, but basically what we are working, we are trying to combine the cloud, we are trying to combine more ethereum based people or other people who are interested in that, and other projects of creation of our own independent community led browser, which would embed all the crypto functionality we need, will finally get us possibility to integrate with all the possible wallets. We finally get us the possibility to integrate this level for features, because that's not the only problem. Existing projects targeting this level, we really need that and that's the next move. And obviously that would be kind of logical of where the existing browsers will actually move this path, because that's the logical future.
00:16:08.358 - 00:16:45.444, Speaker A: I mean you can resist the technology, but up to a certain time I was talking to actually Google and home and saying, guys, when you finally let us to connect wallets and they are slowly moving there, but I think as a community, as a big community of the people who believe in that, we can be much more successful. And yeah, crypto browser, I mean the community led browser, I think it's a logical step which will give us enough freedom and which will move us to the final implementation of the web three stack, how it should be, not only with the back end decentralization, but with the front end.
00:16:51.864 - 00:17:02.656, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for your presentation. I was wondering what your thoughts are on moderation of content and freedoms, on limit on the. Or limits on the freedom of speech. Sorry about that.
00:17:02.840 - 00:18:04.602, Speaker A: Well, my thinking here is we are given the technical possibility to get all opinions, and I think that's the true democratization of that. And then society will manage itself basically having possibility to speak independently. That would be logical that if the majority of the society wants that to be moderated, that would be economically done. We are giving the fair and flexible economical model, which means that if there is an incentivization behind that, it would be implemented and being more consumed will go on the top of the list. And it would be really like we give the society the possibility to regulate that themselves. But at the same time, I know some skepticism about all the controversial content being published. Yes, but again, if the society is ready to get rid of that, the majority will be like.
00:18:04.602 - 00:18:42.324, Speaker A: And they still would be way for those who are alternative opinion to reach that just use different tablets. And, yeah, basically I'm speaking about enablement. I'm speaking about making that possible. And then there's a psychological aspect of what finally would be possible. But let's leave it to psychologists and again to society to decide themselves. I don't think that there is a right in this planet for several people or several corporations to decide it. For the rest, I do not believe, like, that's actually about the brainwashing.
00:18:42.324 - 00:19:01.592, Speaker A: I don't think that the silent moderation or even open moderation will give the freedom we deserve. More questions? Then I think I'm done. Thank you.
00:19:01.768 - 00:19:03.544, Speaker B: No more questions. Thank you very much, Sasha.
