00:00:07.130 - 00:01:17.410, Speaker A: All right, the blood brain barrier is a specialized permeability barrier in the cerebral micro vessels. So those are the vessels that are lining up the brain. And this is on the right here is a cross section of one of these blood vessels, which are the smallest blood vessels in the brain, which are called capillaries. And you see here the blood cavity that's enveloped by the endothelial cells, which are the cells that are lining up the actual vessels. And around the endothelial cells, we have the other cells called parasites, astrocytes, and the neurons, which are supposed to be the target for most diseases, especially neurological and neurodegenerative diseases. So the main obstacle to reach the neurons from the blood cavity is the blood brain barrier that lies up here, which is similar to what we call the tight junction. This is the specific protein strands that are lining up and actually linking the endothelial cells.
00:01:17.410 - 00:02:31.882, Speaker A: And it's the extra defense that the brain has against foreign molecules compared to the rest of the body. So the blood room barrier in a normal brain does what it's supposed to be doing, which is preventing 99% of molecules that are greater than a specific threshold. And in this case, it's 400 deltons to go from the blood cavity, reaching the surrounding cells. But in the disease brain, this becomes a huge problem, because the drugs that are available to treat the diseases in the brain, only 5% can cross the blad brain barrier. So this becomes a main rate limiting factor in brain drug delivery. How can you actually cross from systemically administered drugs through the bladbrin barrier into the surrounding cells that you want to treat, that are affected by disease? So, in the case of the diseases that we can actually affect by being able to manipulate the bladder barrier are several. So we have the Alzheimer's disease and the Parkinson's disease.
00:02:31.882 - 00:03:47.350, Speaker A: That's diseases that affect several millions of people in the US every year. And right now, they're under treated, meaning that the drugs are available, are not necessarily treating or even curing the actual brains or affected by the disease. And you can see that the actual structure in the brain that's affected by those diseases is very deeply seated. It's actually at the hippocampus level, which is right here, very deep into the brain, for Alzheimer's disease and for Parkinson's disease, the substantial niagara, which are also right in the middle of the brain. Other diseases that are less common but as devastating, if not more, are the Huntington's disease. Also similar deeply seeded structures that are affected, called the striatum or the ALS or the amyotropic lateral sclerosis that affects the spinal cord. So in order to be able to treat the diseases, we have to cross the blood brain barrier, and we also have to go into these deeply seeded structures so that we're able to affect the regions of the brain that are affected by the diseases.
00:03:47.350 - 00:04:54.954, Speaker A: There are as many different methods that are available to do this for drug delivery, and except for this last one that I'm going to be talking extensively about, which is called focus ultrasound. For the rest of them, you have to pick between an invasive procedure or a localized procedure. If you want a localized procedure, the only alternative is to do a direct injection in the brain, and it's called a transcranial brain drug delivery. And it's exactly how you would imagine. It's a small cranial window that's opened and a needle that is injected into the brain, reaching the subcortical structure in the middle of the brain, for example. And then once you reach that structure, you inject the drug that's going to treat that tissue. So that's the only localized method for non localized, but non invasive as well.
00:04:54.954 - 00:06:02.174, Speaker A: So the advantage here is the non invasive property of this specific method is chemically tricking the blad brain barrier to uptake the actual drugs that are available. And for that, there's been a lot of different things that have been implemented. Lipidization involves the addition of lipid groups onto the drug so that they're uptaken by the endothelial cells and into the surrounding cells to be treated. Or you can actually use different solvents and adjuvants to dilate the vessels or contract them so that they can actually uptake the drug of choice. And finally, some endogenous transporters. So you again chemically modify the drugs so that they actually enter the transport system of the cells and reaching from the blood into the surrounding tissue. So after injection of this drug into the systemically, you're reaching all the entire brain the same way.
00:06:02.174 - 00:07:20.540, Speaker A: So you're chemically changing the actual drug molecule, and you're affecting the entire brain, normal, healthy, or unhealthy, the same way, which basically means that you have a non localized technique so that actually can have huge side effects, because if you have a drug that, for example, treats Alzheimer's, you may at the same time be causing other effects in the normal brain that you don't want to. So the only currently available alternative to benefiting from both the noninvasive property and the localized property is the focus ultrasound. That uses ultrasound waves together with intravenous microbubble administration. So how does it work? We actually have been doing this in mice, mainly because we don't find very many human volunteers yet. So you have a transducer which sits up here. This is actually a picture of the actual experiment. We have a water container that ensures coupling between the transducer and the top of the head of the mouse, which sits up here.
00:07:20.540 - 00:08:08.230, Speaker A: And the mouse is only basically anesthetized and shaved. The hair is shaved from the top of its head. So we target a specific region on the brain, in our case, the hippocampus, which is affected by Alzheimer's disease. We inject the microbubbles intravenously, and then we apply the ultrasound wave. The blood ring barrier actually opens pretty much instantaneously. And once it opens, then we inject systemically, the molecule of interest being either a contrast agent or a drug. Then we allow the molecule to deposit through the brain region where we have opened the blood brain barrier.
00:08:08.230 - 00:09:03.020, Speaker A: And the main objective is that we can open the blood brain barrier noninvasively, selectively, so in a specific region in the brain, transiently. So that means that the bladbrin barrier will recover after opening outside of the MRI system. So we don't need a specific magnetic resonance system to be able to guide our technique. And we can also do just a single sonication or a single application of the ultrasound and open the entire brain region that can uptake the drug. And we have been able to image this with MRI. I'm showing you here the histology of the mouse brain. We utilize the symmetry of the brain, so we always have the control hippocampus on the right and the targeted hippocampus on the left.
00:09:03.020 - 00:10:40.086, Speaker A: And we actually show mainly the MRI imaging after the opening of the brain and administration of the contrast agent called gadolinium. And this is an image of the gadolinium after 90 minutes of administration. And you can see how the region where the opening has occurred highlights very nicely the hippocampus. That means that the actual contrast, which is actually above the threshold for bladder barrier diffusion, can actually reach the hippocampus, while the control hippocampus cannot be enhanced with contrast because the contrast cannot cross the bladbin barrier. In this case, since the ultrasound was not applied on this side, one day later, we actually do exactly the same, follow exactly the same protocol, and we're able to see that the bladbin barrier has closed or recovered the gadolinium or the contrast agent no longer goes into the left hippocampus, so that means that the actual technique is transient. We have also shown this in Alzheimer's transgenic mice. So these are mice that are specifically mutated in order to be able to develop the amyloid plaques, which are actually plaques that are formed in the brain, is one of the signs of anatomical signs of Alzheimer's disease, and also one of the markers for human Alzheimer's.
00:10:40.086 - 00:11:24.386, Speaker A: So you can see those on histology. These are some white spots that are lining up the hippocampus in this case, which are absent in the normal hippocampus. And we see exactly the same type of opening on the MRI image and absent one day later. We have also experimented with larger molecules that are more relevant to drug. To the drug delivery. So the contrast agent of gadolinium is about 600 daltons, which is very small. Usually, the drugs that are available for Alzheimer's disease treatment or other neurodegenerative disease treatment are on the order of several thousands of daltons.
00:11:24.386 - 00:12:28.490, Speaker A: So from 1000 dalton to 200,000 dalton. So we have actually used, sorry, fluorescence imaging and used also dextro molecules that are fluorescently tagged. And we started with 3000 daltons, which has a diameter of about 2.3. Again, on the left side is the exposed hippocampus, to ultrasound or sonicated hippocampus, and on the right side is the control hippocampus. So we see that the actual enhancement of the image, or where the actual image appears much brighter, is where the molecule has actually reached the brain after being systemically administered. And you can see that the entire hippocampus here is lighting up, as opposed to the control hippocampus, which is completely dark. We also go to 70,000 daltons, or about 10 diameter, so larger molecules.
00:12:28.490 - 00:13:13.050, Speaker A: And we see also a little bit of a less bright region. So that means that a smaller concentration or volume of the drug or of the molecule in question has actually infused in the hippocampus. But you do see it lighting up much more than the control hippocampus, indicating that the actual molecule has actually diffused through the region. And finally, at the largest molecule, which is at 2 million daltons, or two mega daltons, it's about 20 nm. Those molecules do not go through the barrier that we have opened. They actually stay in the vessels. And this is actually called a hippocampal fissure.
00:13:13.050 - 00:14:14.110, Speaker A: And these are the main arteries that are lining up the actual fissure here, hippocampal arteries. And those contain the largest concentration of the fluorescent molecule in this case, indicating that it hasn't actually reached the hippocampus and these are sizes that are going above and beyond what the available drug sizes are. So this is a limit of what can go through the bladder barrier after it's opened without the sound. So this is a summary of looking at the orthogonal plane to the previous horizontal plane. It's called the coronal plane. And what we have here on the left side is the left hippocampus, and on the right side, the control hippocampus. And we have 3000 deltons, 70,002 million deltons, and you can see that a 3070 thousand.
00:14:14.110 - 00:14:55.220, Speaker A: We are affecting the entire hippocampus using just one sunication. And the fluorescent molecule is actually infusing the entire hippocampus at two mega deltons. The hippocampe are equivalent to one another because the actual molecule did not infuse it. And we can also do this in 3D MRI by looking at the infusion of the actual molecule. In this case, we sonicate in both hippocampe, and we can actually see if the 3d volume that's affected by the diffusion of the molecule through the bladbin barrier.
