00:00:00.360 - 00:00:52.517, Speaker A: It's been a minute. I just thought I'd give you guys a little update because I'm very painfully aware that I haven't put out any new video content in the past couple of weeks. I was in Singapore, I documented quite a bit of that trip and honestly got back and was reviewing the footage and I was just like, oh my God, I could have done a lot better of a job at this. And it also didn't help that I was like simultaneously going through like a creator existential death spiral. Not in a bad way though. Like, I think I was just taking a lot of time to be really reflective about the content that I've put out, the kind of creator I want to be and the stories that I want to tell and like, how I could lean into that now and start doing more of that now. So really for the past couple of weeks I've been putting pen to paper, working on a couple of series treatments.
00:00:52.517 - 00:01:41.515, Speaker A: I actually just started like haphazardously shooting content for one of the series because I know it's something that I'm going to do and that I want to do. And so, you know, no better way to just like jump on into it. But there the series has like a scope to it, so it needs a little bit of pre production. So I've been spending time on that. I have another series coming up that is actually going to pretty closely cover a project that I'm advising for. I think it's just this, the story of this project is fascinating, especially from like a creator perspective, seeing how much they lean into content. And then there's another series that I've been toying around with and I think, like, I really came up with the idea for it more.
00:01:41.515 - 00:02:30.277, Speaker A: More as a force function for myself to become better at certain things, namely trading. I think, like, I have fumbled so many bags that would have made a significant difference in my life. And it's also just like interesting zooming out and looking at like, why is hyper gambling so normalized in crypto? And I think I have like a lot of thoughts around that. So there's content coming. It might just take me a second to put out, but I haven't gone anywhere. I just, I need a little bit of time to cook. I don't know, I just thought I'd like throw this video update out so that way I can at least like go to bed being like, yeah, good job, you put out a video today.
00:02:30.277 - 00:02:37.005, Speaker A: Good for you, you know. Anyways, that's it for now. Bearish or bullish, keep building.
