00:00:00.280 - 00:00:28.286, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. I'm Philip from informal systems, and I want to tell you about interchange security 2.0 or how we're making the Cosmos hub the best place to launch a chain. So, informal systems is a core contributor to the Cosmos hub and to other pieces of the cosmos stack. For example, Hermes, Comet, BFT. And today, I want to tell you, so what makes launching an app chain of your own heart? So security is expensive. When you're an independent, you need to incentivize validators.
00:00:28.286 - 00:01:07.010, Speaker A: You need to incentivize stake, and that typically means you need to have a staking token that has pretty high inflation in order to keep people happy to put their money at stake for your chain. Another thing that makes it hard is you need to bootstrap your own validator set. So when you start up your chain, you ideally want to have experienced professional validators that help you run it. And again, this is expensive. You need to incentivize these validators to pick up your chain. You need to get them excited to validate, and you want them to notice your chain early and to support you in the process. And again, this is expensive, and it's a lot of work that distracts you from developing your actual application.
00:01:07.010 - 00:01:47.294, Speaker A: And then the last thing is when you're in a layer one chain, tapping into network effects is much harder. So if you're a smart contract on Ethereum, for example, it's clear that you will grow with a Ethereum, and Ethereum will grow from people using you. But as an app chain in Cosmos, you're connected via ABC to this whole network. But how you best position yourself to grow when this network grows is not quite clear. So we're using inner chain security 2.0, also known as partial set security, to make it easier for app chains to launch and to make the process delightful. So one advantage of interchange security is what we call tailored security.
00:01:47.294 - 00:02:17.806, Speaker A: So a chain gets the security that fits its security budget and does this very easily. So you get to pick and choose how much security you need. And you can adjust this over time very easily as your chain grows and as your demand for economic security grows. Inner chain security also allows you to reuse the battle test that validators had of the cosmos hub. So the cosmos hub is one of the most decentralized and battle tested validator sets of proof of stake chains. It's been around for a long time. So these are the people you want to notice your chain.
00:02:17.806 - 00:02:44.072, Speaker A: These are the people you want to validate your own chain. So interchange security allows you to reuse them and tap into the decentralization power that the cosmos hub has. And then, lastly, launching on inner chain security 2.0 is permissionless. So we're making it the easiest way to launch your own chain. So we're trying to make the cosmos hub the best place to do so. So we're working on making it as frictionless and as permissionless as possible to launch your chain.
00:02:44.072 - 00:03:11.082, Speaker A: There. Okay, so now I want to talk a little bit about what the current state of affairs is, or, sorry, what the previous state of affairs was before we developed Interchange security 1.0. Then I want to tell you how inner chain security 1.0 tries to sort of address some of the problems, and then how we're iterating on that with interchange security 2.0. So app chains without interchange security look like this. So you have a lot of app trains. They're all connected via IBC.
00:03:11.082 - 00:03:45.316, Speaker A: They're talking to each other. But each chain has its own validator set, and each chain has its own stake. So maintaining and bootstrapping your stake and your validator set are major hurdles to actually getting your own app chain started. And then with inner chain security 1.0, we allow you to reuse the the validator set of the Cosmos hub. So you can see here we have the validator set of the Cosmos hub, and they're running the hub binary, hopefully. And they also have the stake that backs it.
00:03:45.316 - 00:04:23.360, Speaker A: So when they misbehave, they get slashed on the cosmos hub. And in addition to that, they also run these other consumer chains. And essentially, the same validator set and the same stake secures all of these chains. So how it works in a little bit more detail, the cosmos hub will tell via ABC the consumer chain what should be its current validator set. So the cosmos hub goes, hey, these guys should be allowed to run your chain right now. And then the consumer chain sends rewards, because these validators are actually running nodes. They have operating costs, so the consumer chain rewards them for that work.
00:04:23.360 - 00:05:04.014, Speaker A: And also, the consumer chain gets the right to slash validators that misbehave. So the consumer chain would say, hey, this validator did something bad. So either they double sign or they have downtime, and then they can report that misbehavior to the cosmos hub. And the cosmos hub will slash that validator stake on the hub. So you just get the economic security of the cosmos hub against anything that you can slash for. So, in a sense, I think that interchange security is a very sweet spot between sovereignty and customizability on the one side. So this is something that you get from your own independent l one chain.
00:05:04.014 - 00:05:25.246, Speaker A: You get to switch out pieces of the tech stack. You get to choose all your parameters you own. You get to choose whether to have a token or not. You get to choose how you want to do gas. So you have a lot of control of how you want your tech to work. But on the other side, you also get security and alignment. So smart contracts, they are immediately aligned with the l one you deploy them on.
00:05:25.246 - 00:05:54.568, Speaker A: They get economic security from the l one you deploy them on. And interchange security allows you to tap into the best sides of both. So you get to be both sovereign and customizable, as well as secure and align to whatever you want. So that's interchange security 1.0. So it enables you to utilize the entire validator set of the cosmos hub. But this has some limitations. For example, for chains that need much less, so much less economic security or much less validators.
00:05:54.568 - 00:06:27.484, Speaker A: So the cosmos hub has about 180 validators, and a lot of chains might not even want that many validators, maybe for performance reasons. They also might not want that much economic security because they might not be that mature yet. They might have less budget for security. So if your app chain needs much less values or much less economic security, that's where we want to come in with intent security 2.0 and enable you to still utilize the benefits of interchange security. So we call it partial set security. And I'll show you, you'll see in the next slide why that is.
00:06:27.484 - 00:06:50.480, Speaker A: So the principle is just. Oops. The principle is just that you have the validator set of the cosmos hub, and they're still running the cosmos hub, obviously. But you also have a part of the set that runs one consumer chain. You have a part of the set that runs another consumer chain. These can overlap. So the core principle is just only parts of the cosmos hub validator set, run each of the consumer chains.
00:06:50.480 - 00:07:22.118, Speaker A: And this makes it much more affordable because you don't have to incentivize the entire validator set to run your chain. You can incentivize only parts of it. So this is why we also say it gives you tailored security, so it allows you to get exactly as much security as you need for your chain. So we have two ways of actually launching interchange security 2.0 chains today. So we have opt in chains. These are chains where individual validators of the cosmos hub can choose to validate the chain or not.
00:07:22.118 - 00:08:04.220, Speaker A: So each validator makes their choice on their own, and the consumer chains choose their reward levels to attract as many validators as they need this big advantage of this is that it's permissionless. This is not quite live yet. We still have it permissioned. You need to go through governance for spam prevention, but it's going to be permissionless very soon. So then all you need to launch your consumer chain on the Cosmos hub is just you submit one transaction and this is great for applications that don't need the full security of the Cosmos hub, right? You don't get a guaranteed level of security while they get to choose whether they opt in or not. So this is really good. If you or an application, you want to just attract validators, but you don't need the full set.
00:08:04.220 - 00:08:34.630, Speaker A: And then the other thing that we have live is top end chains. So this is where the top n percent of the Cosmos hub validator set needs to validate your chain. So this is the model that neutron and Stride have today. We transitioned them from interchange security 1.0 and now the top 95% of the Cosmos hub validator set needs to run these chains. So with this model, your chain gets a guaranteed level of security. You know how much stake you will have, at least you know how secure your chain will be.
00:08:34.630 - 00:09:13.500, Speaker A: But these have the disadvantage of needing to be approved by governance because some validators are forced to run your chain. So you can't just launch it permissionlessly. It has to be approved by the, by the set of stakers of the Cosmos hub. So this is a great choice if you're application is fully aligned with the Cosmos hub. So if you want to be viewed as a core offering of the Cosmos hub or if you need some guaranteed level of security. And then apart from these two modes of launching your chain, we also give you a bunch of other options to customize your security your validators head. So, for example, you can obviously choose how many validators you want.
00:09:13.500 - 00:09:48.526, Speaker A: You can set a limit to it, but you can also choose which validators you want to have. So, for example, you could say, hey, we don't want any centralized exchange validators on our chain. And you can exclude those validators on the Cosmos hub and pick which ones you want. You could, for example, have hardware requirements that mean you only want validators that have very performant hardware. Or you might only want validators are located in a certain geographic location for compliance. So interchange security 2.0 gives you all these options, but with the economic security of the Cosmos hub behind.
00:09:48.526 - 00:10:26.076, Speaker A: So you get all the benefits of having your own validator set that you control, but you're still secured by the stake on the cosmos hub. Okay, so now I want to talk about a few features that we have coming up. These are not live yet, but this is just to give you an idea of what we're thinking about and what we're working on next. So one thing that we're excited about is security aggregation. So you might have heard that the Cosmos hub has a collaboration with Babylon to bring stake bitcoin to the Cosmos hub. And we want to allow consumer chains to essentially mix and match their security with what's right for them. So one thing I'm particularly excited about is what's shown here.
00:10:26.076 - 00:11:05.138, Speaker A: So consumer chains can have their own native staking token, and they could combine that with the staked atom to mix and match what security they want. So they could give 50% of their voting power to validators from the Cosmos hub and the other 50% to validators that have their own native staking token. So I think this will make it easier for chains if they want to transition, if they have reasons to keep their own staking token, but they still want more economic security. This will allow them to be very flexible in the tradeoffs they make. And then the other thing we're working on is the ICS launchpad, what we call it. So it's supposed to make the process of launching your own chain as easy as possible. I told you, all you need is one transaction to get it done.
00:11:05.138 - 00:11:51.180, Speaker A: But in practice, you need your chain to be found by people that actually want to validate on it. You might want to set your parameters in ways that make sense for you, and you need to understand what those are. And the launchpad is going to allow you to do that. So you can permissionlessly launch your chain by clicking a button, uploading your binary, and validators can discover your project. So validators that want to know which chains are coming up, which chains do I have an option of validating, getting rewards from? They can use this to find it out, and then projects can give perks to their early supporters. So for people that indicate, hey, I would like to validate this chain when you guys launch, you can give them, for example, slots to have prioritized validator access. So even if other people opt in, these validators would be guaranteed to have a slot to validate.
00:11:51.180 - 00:12:17.950, Speaker A: So, yeah, with these features, we hope that we can make the cosmos hub the best place to launch a chain interchange. Security is essentially here to scale the cosmos hub to make it more than what it is today. So the partial stat security is live today. So if you're interested in learning more about that or if you're interested in anything else that I talked about, then reach out and happy to take any questions as well.
00:12:30.140 - 00:12:53.120, Speaker B: When I repeat my questions. This is working. Okay, so you said that the consumer, Shane is the one who chooses when a validator can get slashed. What if you try to do that maliciously setup option?
00:12:54.100 - 00:13:26.158, Speaker A: So a lot of things you can do via just cryptographic proof. So for example, if a validator double signs, you can prove this and there is no subjectivity involved. The same for downtime. No, sorry for downtime. We trust the consumer chain to tell you that this validator has been down. And for these it's fine. But we'll have, in general, we'll have what we call Ford resolutions where essentially the community of the Cosmos hub will enforce agreements that the consumer chain has with validators.
00:13:26.158 - 00:14:06.784, Speaker A: So for example, you might think there is a consumer chain that says, hey, we have an oracle and we need this oracle to be sort of correct. And if someone is very far off the oracle value that's reported, so someone says, hey, one bitcoin is equal to $1 right now, then the community would come and slash them based on the block they signed. That includes this. What do you mean by permissionless? Permissionless launch, yeah. So right now, when you want to launch a consumer chain, you have to pass a governance proposal and permissionless will mean to create a consumer chain. You have to submit a transaction, you pay the gas fee and that's it, you're done. So there's no governance involved.
00:14:06.784 - 00:14:17.850, Speaker A: You do need validators to opt in, but. Yes, exactly. So validators can opt in one by one. Whereas for the governance proposal. Right. You need like a super majority, essentially, yeah.
