00:00:00.480 - 00:00:33.934, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano and today's the 19 July 2021. Alright everyone, hope you had a good weekend. I know the markets have not been kind over the weekend and right now as I'm recording this, the markets are definitely not kind. But I hope you had a good weekend out there. I know a lot of you listen in or watch from the US or Europe and northern hemisphere, so you're enjoying your summer, hopefully. I'm still stuck in inside due to the lockdown in Melbourne and it is cold anyway, so I don't know what, what I would be doing outside.
00:00:33.934 - 00:01:07.202, Speaker A: Can't really go to a beach and enjoy that or anything like that. But, but still hope that, you know, you're enjoying the time, I guess, like in the sun and stuff like that. I just. The markets right now, like I've had a few people kind of like talk to me and kind of ask me my opinion on the markets. I'm not going to go like through a, through a long winded opinion here, but essentially the way I kind of view it right now is that most people that were around in like May and June are like gone right now. Like 95% plus of those people are not around. So that's why people saying, oh, it's a crab season or it's like bearish because it's just like not much is happening in the markets.
00:01:07.202 - 00:01:44.426, Speaker A: But it's funny because I was putting together the Ethub newsletter earlier and I mean, the project update section in that newsletter, there is so much in there for the last week, like so much happened. And I mean, obviously the refuel I've been doing every day and there's still like 30 minutes plus worth of content on that. So it's really just the markets that are bearish. I mean, everything else is like still on, still very active. I mean, we have the ECC conference going on right now in Paris, which I'm incredibly jealous about and I really wish I could go. I'm having super FOMO right now, but I'm sure there's going to be a lot of stuff happening there. But generally, yeah, the only slowdown I'm seeing is on the market side of things and the markets will do their own thing.
00:01:44.426 - 00:02:28.216, Speaker A: They don't really track fundamentals over the short to medium term. It's more over the long term. So all the stuff that we have playing out now, whether that be all the developments happening on Ethereum 1559, all the apps, all the app developments, even like them, the merge and stuff like that. I don't think if the market's just generally bearish, I just don't think the market's going to react to those sorts of things. I think that over time, over the long term, they'll act as fuel for when the market is ready to continue back up. But, you know, I think just looking at project updates and thinking that there's so much bullish stuff happening, the price has to react is not the right way to go about it. And I learned that the hard way during 2018 and 2019 when I basically, you know, I kept seeing tons of different kind of, like, bullish things happening within the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:02:28.216 - 00:03:06.508, Speaker A: And I was like, surely Ethereum can't stay below $200 for much longer. And it did, like, the market can remain irrational for a very, very long time. And then obviously, once the market got, got bullish again and started starting getting really hot again, we went from, what, $100 in March of last year to like $4,400 essentially in May of this year. So in just over a year, we went 44 x from the bottom, whereas we spent, like, you know, a good, I guess, year and a half below dollar 200. So even probably longer than that, which I always find kind of funny. Right. So when you're looking at kind of things and we got the bullish stuff happening, you're listening to me on the refuel, be really bullish on developments.
00:03:06.508 - 00:03:28.524, Speaker A: That's not me saying that. I'm expecting, like, ETH to react to that in the short to medium term. It won't like it. Simply put, it won't because the markets in crypto especially, are not very efficient and they're very momentum driven. And most people who trade these markets or who invest in these markets are low, I guess. What is it? Low information investors, that's the term I'm looking for. Where they come in.
00:03:28.524 - 00:04:00.572, Speaker A: They don't really have any idea about what this ecosystem is or how it works or what's valuable, what's not. They don't really have a way to kind of measure it. With stocks, at least you have some kind of way to do that. Like, if you're a new investor in stocks and you say, okay, well, I want to buy Apple, well, you can kind of like, do a really naive or I guess, like, surface level thing where you're like, okay, well, I know Apple's popular. You know, I know the MacBook's popular. I know the iPhone's popular product. So I'm just going to buy Apple because I know their products are popular, whereas with Ethereum, it's, it is even, I mean, even everything in this ecosystem, even bitcoin, it's a lot harder to kind of do that fundamental analysis on it.
00:04:00.572 - 00:04:33.340, Speaker A: You have to dive deeper. And for most people, their first foray into crypto, they don't care about that. They're here for the gains, the bull markets, the dog tokens, they're here for all that sort of stuff. So that's why I think, you know, the long term is very bullish, of course, but the short to medium term is dominated by these speculators. And, you know, we have seen a bit more institutions and a bit more kind of like, smarter investors come into the space, but they are still made up of people at the end of the day. And those people are still going to be affected by the same thing that regular low information investors are going to be affected by. And that's by the fact that this space is complicated.
00:04:33.340 - 00:05:06.462, Speaker A: Human emotions are still, like, everywhere in this space. It's still based on a bull and bear cycle, just like every market, but it's very much exaggerated within crypto because that's just the nature of it. So those kind of things are going to play out. But anyway, I'm going to stop there on the market commentary, but it just generally, the overall point is that don't expect major improvements, even things like 1559, to have a massive effect on the price in the short to medium term. It's always long term. If you're in it for the long term, you'll be fine. Um, it is scary to kind of, like, keep stacking during these times where the price keeps going down and you're underwater.
00:05:06.462 - 00:05:30.194, Speaker A: Believe me, I know. I did it. During 2018 and 2019, I stacked at prices that were double what they went to. Like, I mean, I was stacking a lot at $200, and it went back to a $100 frequently during, uh, uh, 2018 and 2019. Um, and I was, you know, I was down 50%, right? Like, it may not seem like it seemed like a large drop, but that's 50%. That's like, ETH going from 4000 to 2000 or from 2000 to 1000. It's a pretty steep drop.
00:05:30.194 - 00:05:44.722, Speaker A: So when you think in percentage terms, you know, I get that it can kind of be scary to buy now. And I think that's generally why the market's the way it is. Like, people are waiting for a signal. They're like, oh, I don't want to buy now because what if it drops further. Well, you know, that's how we get bear markets. Same with, like, bull markets. People like, I don't want to wait to buy.
00:05:44.722 - 00:06:23.586, Speaker A: I want to buy now because it's going to be higher by the time I buy and just works reflexively in both directions. So hopefully that's just a bit of extra color for you. I will move on to all the stuff that happened over the weekend now, because there was a lot that happened now, I mentioned this Ethereum kind of documentary that was doing a crowdfund on the mirror platform, and they was running it for about 48 hours, and they ended up raising $2 million, which is really, really cool to see. So this raise was done on Mira, as I said, which is a kind of like new web3 native publishing platform. And if I can go to the link of what happened there, I think it's here. Yeah, yeah, you can kind of like, see everyone that participated. I mean, I participated, of course, and everything like that.
00:06:23.586 - 00:06:51.984, Speaker A: Unfortunately, I wasn't able to become one of the executive or co executive producers because some whales came in and just like, absolutely, you know, killed it. Like 140 ETH from Leo right here, 111 ETH from this no name address. And then Nanex. Cool. With 35 ETH for third place, that is Mariana Conti. So for those who know him, he's long time maker, not at maker anymore, kind of going solo right now, but was at make the maker foundation for a while. And then you got like a bunch of other backers here.
00:06:51.984 - 00:07:15.276, Speaker A: You know, I didn't even get in the top ten or top 20, unfortunately. I woke up and my contribution was actually much less than the rest of them. I'm here number 28, six ETH. But I hope you kind of participated in it. You got like some infinite tokens. You also got an NFT if you contributed at least one ETH. That NFT is this one here, which I think is really cool, but I'm really looking forward to seeing this documentary get made.
00:07:15.276 - 00:08:03.802, Speaker A: You know, as I said on, I think was last week's refuel. I hope to see this land on something like Netflix. It'd be really, really cool to see Ethereum get more mainstream exposure from, you know, I guess it being told from within the community, rather than mainstream media covering Ethereum and getting everything wrong, because this documentary is being kind of like made by people who actually understand this space and are actually going to interview people who are the right people to interview, such as Vitalik and Aya from the Ethereum foundation. See a walkie there from Gitcoin and there's a bunch of other people as well that basically all of the people that don't get much of a voice in kind of like the mainstream, they're getting a voice in this movie. So I'm really, really looking forward to seeing how this plays out. And as I said, I hope to see it on more of the mainstream platforms like Netflix and other streaming services. But yeah, I'm glad that I got to participate in here.
00:08:03.802 - 00:08:25.754, Speaker A: I hope you did, too. And it's really cool to see that. This is like, I think this is the first crowdfunded movie, or at least a theorem movie, using kind of like a theory ethereum as a crowdfunding platform. So that's really cool to see and much better than all the scammy icos that we saw. Right, which went nowhere. This is actually going to eventually do something that's real intangible. But anyway, I'll be keeping an eye on this and keeping you guys updated with it.
00:08:25.754 - 00:09:09.210, Speaker A: So we now have an ecosystem readiness checklist for AIP 1559. So on here you can see that Trent van Epps is tracking essentially which kind of like ecosystem projects are ready for 1559. There's different statuses. One of them is active. So active is basically that they're actively kind of, I guess, sorry, actively working on 1559, not started, self explanatory, in progress and complete here. So you can see here a lot of them are basically active or not started. These are like developer tools here, which aren't necessarily critical or anything like that.
00:09:09.210 - 00:09:39.696, Speaker A: I would say that wallets are the most critical part of this, or kind of like development libraries are kind of the same as developer tools. So if you scroll down to infrastructure, which includes wallets and other infrastructure providers, you can see here that infuria is ready. There's a bunch of them that are active, not started is basically only three, metamask, Trezor and walleth. I think metamask will have it done in time. I think that it's generally pretty easy for them to do. And I showed last week that they've already got testnet transactions running through metamask mobile. So I think that's going to be fine.
00:09:39.696 - 00:10:23.004, Speaker A: But essentially, I expect all of these to be done before 1559 goes live on August 4, of course. So yeah, if you want to keep up to date, you can check out this, this checklist. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to do so. So speaking of 1559, Tim Bico put out a tweet. I think it was what July 16 on Friday, where he said, at the current gas limit, the proof of work chain would be deflationary with a base fee of 150 guI, 133 for block rewards and some buffer for unkr rewards. On proof of stake, with the current daily issuance, 1100 ETH, the chain would be deflationary at eleven Gwei. Now, I have discussed this before, and I've kind of, like, covered that new tool you can kind of play with at ultrasound money, where it lets you kind of like, set assumptions.
00:10:23.004 - 00:11:07.490, Speaker A: You can see it here in the image of, like, the staking amount, which is being covered by my camera, but it's on the left side there, the base gas price and the merge date. Now, I think people are really underestimating the effect this is going to have. Like, this is a stark difference. This is like, essentially almost a 15 x difference here, where with proof of work, we would need 150 GUI plus, which is only really going to be tenable in, I guess, like the short to medium term. During a bull market, when, like, lots of money is flowing around, people don't mind paying like, ridiculous amounts for gas fees or whatever, but this kind of stuff, eleven gwei or even 20 gray, that's kind of normal in these markets that we've been seeing. Even in the really quiet markets on Ethereum and the really quiet kind of ecosystem we have right now, gas prices have still been ten plus. And I think we got into the single digits rarely.
00:11:07.490 - 00:11:26.858, Speaker A: I mean, in the quietest parts of the week, we may get into the single digits, but normally it's. It's ten to 20 gray. Probably a little bit more than that, depending on. On what time you're doing your transactions. And we're still seeing over $5 million of average transaction fees on Ethereum. So we would be burning, like, much more Ethan. We would be issuing per day once the merge goes through.
00:11:26.858 - 00:12:16.416, Speaker A: So I think this is really cool, because I actually think that if you kind of think about the markets and this goes back to what I was saying before, and think that, okay, well, we're in a short to medium term bear market. What happens if we start kind of recovering towards the end of the year, early next year? Well, that'd be really cool because that would coincide with the merge. So what ends up happening is that we might get the merge in kind of like early 2022, and the market's kind of heating up again, which means the gas prices are going to spike again, which means more ETH is just going to keep getting burned. So I think when, when you kind of, like, look at, look at things like that and look at the timing of these things. It's really cool. But again, I've mentioned before how the theorem development doesn't really time itself around the markets. And this is exactly why, and goes back to my point that I was making, this is exactly why the fundamental developments do not get kind of like priced in is because it's not like we waited until the bull market to deploy 1559.
00:12:16.416 - 00:12:47.492, Speaker A: We're actually going to be deploying it in a bear market, really, or at least like a downtrend. We didn't say, okay, well, it's kind of skyrocketing right now. When it first hit, like it's old all time high, and we didn't kind of think to ourselves, well, okay, this is crazy. Like, we're going to have to play 1559 right now. We just said, well, no, it's not ready. We have to continue doing the research and development. And then finally we kind of merged it in, and now we're kind of like launching it when the market is bearish, when the ecosystem has pretty much lost, as I said, 95% of its participants.
00:12:47.492 - 00:13:38.196, Speaker A: But still, this wouldn't matter in a post merge world. ETH would still be deflationary once we have just proof of stake, which I think is really cool. So, yeah, I guess this is just another way of saying that, like, long term ETH is just so incredibly bullish. And I think that there's not many people who actually understand the implications of this, where not only is this ETH kind of like, you know, if you think of 1559 as a person that buys ETH, just like a conceptual thing here, not only is this person buying millions of dollars of ETH per day, they're burning it, they're deleting it. So, and not only are they doing that kind of like starting August 4, but once the merge goes through, they're going to be doing that and making it. So ETH is deflationary so that essentially the block rewards won't even have any impact, which I think is really cool. So, and as I said, even like ten way or eleven Gwei is the norm during a quiet market.
00:13:38.196 - 00:14:16.784, Speaker A: And that's like during the quiet market of where, where is today. Once we have more and more kind of like L2s rolled out, more and more kind of, I guess people coming into this ecosystem, even during quiet markets, the baseline of what the cheapest gas price just continues to trend up as well. So it's really cool to see that play out. I can't wait for the merger really can't wait for it, but still, it's a while away, so I'm not holding my breath right now. So Starkware announced today that Stark net Alpha one is now out. So this supports l one to l two interaction on chain data and the growing Starknet ecosystem. So you can see here they've got kind of introducing it here and how this all works.
00:14:16.784 - 00:15:13.786, Speaker A: Alpha one features, as I said, includes l one to l two interaction where basically what they've built is a messaging protocol between layer one and L2, which will allow developers to implement seamless transaction flows between the different layers. And I mean, most of this stuff is for developers to kind of like build out what they're doing and kind of use Starkware ZK roll ups to do so, and then on chain data availability as well. So Stocknet State update is now also published as on chain data on ethereum. So they're not just using their off chain data availability, which was the validium kind of roll up there, but they're also kind of pushing Starknet state updates to the Ethereum mainnet, which makes it all the more secure. Of course, stocknet operating system code has also been released here and that's, I think I've discussed it before on the refuel. That's basically Starkware's virtual machine along with their Cairo programming language, which is what dy DX runs on, I believe. So if you want to use it, you can go use Dy DX.
00:15:13.786 - 00:15:39.180, Speaker A: This is really cool, I think stock. I can't remember if Stark teased that they'd have a fully EVM compatible, or at least virtual machine compatible ZK roll up by August or September. I preached that was Zksync. But Starkware is not very far behind and it's getting closer and closer. I mean, this is only the first alpha and obviously this is just for developers. End users won't be able to kind of use this sort of stuff for a little while. But still, this is the first phase of it.
00:15:39.180 - 00:16:20.354, Speaker A: And as I said before, I think the next six months in the L2 ecosystem is going to be pretty wild with all these releases going live, not just for users, but for developers as well to keep building out this stuff. So that's really cool to see. Speaking of L2, there's a few updates to get through here. Actually, Dharma has, has got a waitlist now where you can sign up for their L2 waitlist to get access to L2 on Dharma in the coming weeks. I'm assuming that they're going to be supporting things like arbitrum and optimism, Zksync and, you know, Polygon Pos chain as well. I mean, I know it's not a layer too, but still, it's part of like, the scalability landscape here. And I think that's going to be really awesome because Dharma is one of those tools that people use as kind of like normie friendly onboarding vehicles for Ethereum and for Defi.
00:16:20.354 - 00:17:02.380, Speaker A: So if you want to go sign up for the l two waitlist, you can. This will be linked in the YouTube description. Michael Silberling has put together a dune analytics dashboard that compares side by side Ethereum, sorry, Uniswap v three on Ethereum's layer one and Uniswap V three on the optimistic roll up. Sorry, optimism's optimistic roll up network here. So you can see the total value locked, the users, the volume, the trading volumes and things like that. It's actually been growing quite steadily given that there's only six tokens available for trading on optimism right now for Uniswap. And those six include obviously, like, ethan Raptor, bitcoin, some stable coins, and also the fact that there's a, there's kind of like, no easy onboarding just yet.
00:17:02.380 - 00:17:23.856, Speaker A: I mean, the onboarding isn't too hard. You can follow a guide backless as a guide for it, but generally, it's not like there's any centralized exchanges that have enabled kind of easy onboarding into this just yet. And also, the markets are quiet. So I'm actually pretty impressed with the growth. I think TVL was at like $6 million last time I checked. Um, and volumes are averaging around $1.5 million a day, which is pretty good, I think, for something that's totally brand new.
00:17:23.856 - 00:17:59.452, Speaker A: Layer two ecosystem where, uh, I think the optimism team doesn't want people, uh, doing kind of like any sort of mass adoption on this just yet, or having, like, too fast adoption. I think they definitely want, um, to make sure that everything's stable and everything's working well and keeping it quiet for now. And, and there's no liquidity mining either on this just yet, but there will be, I'm assuming there will be, like, very, very soon. But still really, really cool to see this kind of happening here and see this dashboard here. So you can, you can check this out. It'll of course, be linked in the YouTube description. But speaking of tracking, L2 activity, l two beat has gotten a huge update here, as they say.
00:17:59.452 - 00:18:27.540, Speaker A: So l two beat.com, they got a new logo, they've got a new website design. I mean, I've showed you guys this website before, but essentially, this is a huge refresher here. They've got all the l two s listed here nicely for everyone, showing the value locked, the percentage change over seven days, the market share, its purpose, and the technology that it's using. And you can click through, let's click through to optimism here. You can see the TVL, you can see the project overview. I mean, I've gone through this before, but they've just basically cleaned it all up and made it look a lot better, which I think is really, really cool to.
00:18:27.540 - 00:18:57.386, Speaker A: Cool to see. So if you want to check out and keep an eye on all the l two s on ethereum, you can do so from this website. And you can even. I mean, it's really cool that you can even check things like the, the hypothetical level of decentralization, the current level of decentralization. Is it permissionless or not? So you really will be able to know kind of like the security trade offs and the decentralization trade offs that you're taking for these L2s because it's still so early. Right. Because a lot of this stuff is, you know, I guess you can consider them beta deployments at this point in time.
00:18:57.386 - 00:19:32.484, Speaker A: So really, really cool site to keep track of everything happening. So Scooby Truples is teasing a new Alchemyx kind of like user interface here and user experience, which I think looks really awesome. I mean, this reminded me of some of the, I guess, fintech designs out there. Now, as much as I think fintech is like a stopgap for, I guess, fixing finance, they have really beautiful interfaces. A lot of the apps that we use, that you would have used. Yes. They're kind of like, centralized and kind of, like, slow and stuff to deal with, I guess, the traditional finance system.
00:19:32.484 - 00:20:09.334, Speaker A: But they look really nice, whereas a lot of the defi apps still. I mean, there are a lot of defi apps that look nice, but I think many of them still look very daunting for people. A lot of them have pretty, I guess, like, basic uis where it doesn't have much information, doesn't really show people everything. But this is what Alchemyx is doing here with this redesign. You can see in the image here and, sorry, in the, in the screenshot here that they've got, like, much more information being displayed to the user. It's much easier to follow, and they've got, you know, a bunch of different, kind of, like, user experience enhancements, like, different colors and things like that to track what's going on. So that's really, really cool today to see this kind of, I guess, leaked by Scooby triples here.
00:20:09.334 - 00:20:43.954, Speaker A: So this is a photo that I came across in one of bankless newsletters. I had seen it before, but I kind of tweeted it out where. This is a photo from 2014 with Vitalik ever presentation on Ethereum. Now the photo is basically, it's hard to tell because it's in very low quality and it kind of like looks like the photo was taken on an old Nokia phone. But essentially the slide says the Lego of crypto finance. And then underneath it, I'm assuming there's a bunch of different kind of like things describing what those legos look like. But the point of me sharing this screenshot was to kind of show that Defi and money legos aren't new concepts.
00:20:43.954 - 00:21:03.968, Speaker A: Ethereums have been working on them for, for many years at this point. And I would even go a step further and say that pretty much all the things that we enjoy today are not really new concepts at all. You can look at things like tokens, which were known as colored coins beforehand. This was done, you know, before Ethereum was even a thing. This was being talked about on the bitcoin Talk forums. Uh, smart contracts. This was a.
00:21:03.968 - 00:21:31.930, Speaker A: The smart contract term was actually coined by Nick Sabo in 1996. Like that, that was a very long time ago. Now it's like 25 years ago. Um, proof of stake was coin. It was, um, created in 2011. There's a bitcoin talk forum post where someone kind of, uh, put forward this idea of using stake instead of, um, instead of like mining machines to kind of validate the network. And then on top of that, there was also L2 scaling, which was discussed very early on as well, in, in, on the Bitcoin talk forums.
00:21:31.930 - 00:22:21.868, Speaker A: Basically, I would say as early as like 2010 maybe, or 2011, definitely somewhere around then. So when you kind of look at this sort of stuff and look at kind of how forward thinking a lot of the OG crypto people are, were and still are, it's just amazing the fact that it took so long to get here, because think about it, in 2014, Ethereum's mainnet wasn't even live yet, so no one could build this sort of stuff. But Ethereum Mainnet went live mid 2015. We had smart contracts, we had all this kind of stuff going, but we didn't actually get proper money legos until 2018 at the earliest. And then into 2019 is when they started really coming together. And in 2020, obviously, it exploded. So we still waited four, five, six years after this presentation was given to get to a point where people started kind of like embracing money, Legos and kind of talking about it more and seeing the, the modularity of finance, seeing how revolutionary it could be.
00:22:21.868 - 00:23:02.694, Speaker A: So it's just really amazing that it took that long. But what's even more amazing is that it took what, how many years for smart contracts to come to blockchains from when Nick Sabo proposed it? Like almost 20 years. It took from there. So, and, you know, there's countless examples of this, not just in crypto, but just in general. When you look at kind of people who are very forward thinking and have the foresight, you know, potentially decades into the future, it's just amazing that these people exist. So, I mean, I wrote a bit more about this in today's Deli Gwei newsletter, but essentially, I just kind of wanted to kind of highlight the fact that really, when you think about innovators in, inside and outside of crypto, they are thinking decades in the future. They are not like us.
00:23:02.694 - 00:23:59.444, Speaker A: They are pretty much thinking what the world's going to look like 2020, sorry, 10, 20, 30 years. Whereas a lot of us tend to kind of, like, have a short term mind where we kind of look at the short to medium term, especially when it comes to crypto prices, whereas a lot of these other people will, will definitely look into the future, especially if they're, they're kind of like, you know, building the future themselves. I mean, Vitalik has obviously been building the future for quite a while now, but not just him, but like, all of the, the people working on the defi apps and even things like nfts and stuff like that, they've, they're all kind of looking very far into the future. And I like to think that through the refuel, I can kind of, like, bestow some of my long term mindset onto all of you guys and to make sure that you're thinking long term. Because if you look back and to 2014, if you had invested in the Ethereum ICO in 2014, I mean, you would be absolutely laughing right now if you had held your ETH from then. So even just like, from a market perspective, it wasn't that long ago. So taking the longer term view is just always the better option in my mind.
00:23:59.444 - 00:24:23.696, Speaker A: Unless you don't have the long term view to take, obviously. But, you know, if you do, it's always the better option. And if you're in this to kind of, like, build wealth over time, then you shouldn't really concern yourself with the day to day kind of action of the other crypto markets. You should definitely, I know it's really hard to do. I know I'm kind of like a hypocrite here because I definitely do look at the price every day. But generally, you know, when I'm looking at the price, I'm just like, okay, whatever. It's just ETH being ETH.
00:24:23.696 - 00:24:53.680, Speaker A: And then I kind of think to myself, okay, well, what's going to happen in a year from now or two years from now or three years from now, whatever, like what are we going to have? And I mean, in twelve to 18 months from now, ethereum is going to look very different to what it looks like today. We're going to be post merge, we're going to have 1559, we're going to have Defi continuing to grow at a rapid pace. We're going to have the L2 rollout basically done. Nfts are going to keep gaining ground. I mean, you look at the price, you might feel bearish. Then you just look twelve to 18 months out on the ethereum fundamental side and you can't help be extremely bullish. But don't let that blind you.
00:24:53.680 - 00:25:45.586, Speaker A: Don't let that make you think that the short term market action is going to reflect the long term bullishness that rarely happens. You need to kind of look at the long term and kind of like realize that the kind of markets are even kind of more longer term looking and will take a while to kind of catch up to those fundamentals. So chainlink, God put out a tweet where he said the other day, where he said, unpopular opinion, Defi will not outright replace banks or traditional financial institutions. What we'll likely see is first fintechs and then banks adopt Defi into their backend systems to provide their clients higher yield, more transparency and superior financial products. I mean, I've spoken about this countless times in the refuel, I totally agree with Chainlink guide. And I don't think this should be an unpopular opinion because the fact is we're already seeing this play out. Look at compound treasury, look at our vers ave pro, the institutional kind of pool that they're doing.
00:25:45.586 - 00:26:07.780, Speaker A: Look at, I guess like all of the, the kind of bank on the banks. But like all of these financial institutions getting interested in Defi now, they're not just going to seed their power and go and say to their customers, hey, customers, you know, you know, we know you've been with us for a while. But this really cool defi thing now, we think you should install metamask and go interact with Defi. And, you know, we'll just. We're just going to close down. No, it's not. That's not going to happen at all.
00:26:07.780 - 00:26:38.882, Speaker A: And I don't think that that should happen in any, in any way. I actually replied to Chainlink God, and I said here, as much as we all love being our own bank, most people don't want to, nor do they care to. What matters is that the choice exists. You can either choose to go completely bankless or use a trusted third party, such as a bank or financial institution. With Defi, it's a choose your own style adventure. Because at the end of the day, it really is. I can choose to do my own kind of banking through metamask on Defi apps, or I can go through a third party and say, hey, you know, here you go, take custody of my assets.
00:26:38.882 - 00:26:58.506, Speaker A: Do it for me. I don't care. Out of sight, out of mind. I just want to earn a yield. That's exactly what happens today in the traditional finance system, and that's exactly what a lot of people are very comfortable with, especially from a custody perspective. A lot of people don't want to custody their own funds, and that's fine. But the fact that the choice exists for these people is already like a million times better than what we currently have.
00:26:58.506 - 00:27:35.700, Speaker A: But on top of that, and as chandling God also notes, I think somewhere else in this thread where he said, he essentially says, like, not only does Defi improve and offer better products to these institutions, it also improves transparency overall. So generally, regulators are going to be even happier with this because they're going to have better transparency, they're going to be able to monitor this system more closely. And not just them, but like, anyone is able to monitor this system more closely, we're going to be able to tell if something is insolvent. We won't have to wait years to find this out. We're going to be able to tell if any funny business is going on. We're going to be able to see which projects are actually growing versus which ones are actually lying. I mean, the transparency is actually a blessing.
00:27:35.700 - 00:28:22.578, Speaker A: I know it's a curse because of privacy concerns of users, but it's a blessing because we get to see all this other stuff that's going on. So, yeah, I mean, I've mentioned this plenty of times on the refuel. Generally, I believe that DeFi is going to be a mix match or a mismatch, sorry, a mix of basically end users like myself and probably a lot of you who, who prefer to do it on our own and a lot of other people who prefer to don't to do it through a Defi institution or, sorry, a financial institution or a bank or anything like that. And that is totally fine because they'll even be able to monitor what's happening. They'll be able to see where their funds are going within this institution. I mean, the institutions can offer them a full, like offer their customers a full transparent dashboard to monitor what they're doing with their customers funds. And I believe that the ones who don't do this will actually lose out to the ones that do and it'll be demanded by customers.
00:28:22.578 - 00:28:46.098, Speaker A: So already we have like something that's much better than the existing system. Now some, some people might, might hit back and say, well that's just admitting defeat. That's just letting, letting centralization into our lives that is not respecting decentralization. It's like, well, this is just inevitable because DeFi is open, permissionless, anyone can build on it. Just because it's a centralized entity building on it. I can't do anything about it. I can't stop them.
00:28:46.098 - 00:29:24.520, Speaker A: None of us can stop them. DeFi is for everyone, ethereum is for everyone, whether that be individuals, corporations, institutions. And it's up to us to make sure that the core protocols stay decentralized so that the users have a choice, so that we all have a choice, so that we don't have to basically go through these centralized intermediaries if we don't want to. That to me is the key innovation of DeFi, or at least one of the key innovations of DeFi. So hopefully you agree with me. If you don't, you can comment in the YouTube description or come onto the discord and tell me I'm wrong. I'm happy to, to debate you having to debate anyone on this sort of stuff, but I just truly think that this shouldn't be an unpopular opinion, it should be accepted as a matter of fact and as what's going to happen.
00:29:24.520 - 00:30:02.550, Speaker A: And regardless of you think it's, it's right or wrong, it's just what's going to happen, I think. So I live in Lambo put out an interesting tweet where he said, he says, why the flipping is inevitable. Inevitable because money is all about network effects and a network of networks is bigger than a network. Now, he said, he shows in this image here, basically bitcoin and ethereum. Now you've got bitcoin up into the left, which is just a circle with the name bitcoin, sorry, with the word bitcoin in it and nothing connecting to it. Then on the right you have ethereum, the circle with the word ethereum in it. And then you have all these other circles branching off of Ethereum and in different categories, such as the defi category, the metaverse category, daos and nfts.
00:30:02.550 - 00:30:43.028, Speaker A: And from those categories you have branched off into different projects. So I guess you have Ethereum at the center, you have nfts or defi as one, as two of the major use cases. And then branching off of those, you have even more things like Makerdao obviously is branched off of defi, Uniswap, Aave, and then nfts. You have crypto punks and hash mask and everything else. And this is what he means by a network of networks. And this is exactly what I talk about when I talk about the value that's being driven to the ethereum network, not only by the speculative stuff that's happening on the ETH side and within the crypto markets, but also within daos, within metaverse and defined nfts. Every transaction that hits main net is contributing to the value of Ethereum.
00:30:43.028 - 00:31:21.710, Speaker A: And post 1559 is going to be directly contributing to the value of Ethereum because you're going to be having ETH being burned due to transaction fees. And that has been my long term bull thesis for quite a while now is the fact that I believe utility trumps just simply holding an asset. I believe utility value is much more, is worth much more than just something like digital gold. And I believe that bitcoin is something that can actually even be branched off of Ethereum, because you can just draw a line from Ethereum to bitcoin and then that will represent all the tokenized versions of BTC on Ethereum. And you know, you just see how Ethereum is a superset of bitcoin in that respect. So I mean, I really like the way of visualizing this. I think it makes a lot of sense.
00:31:21.710 - 00:31:51.514, Speaker A: And of course I believe in the flipping and I believe that it's healthy for the ecosystem when it happens. Don't know when it's going to happen. Things are going to be violent to get there for sure, because the markets do their own are thing, but to me it's inevitable. So Steiny put out an interesting tweet the other day where he says, since Jack is going to build aave on bitcoin, which is referencing Jack's kind of plan to build Defi on bitcoin. I've should build Twitter on ethereum. Now he's actually not joking about this. There's another report came out from decrypt, which went into a bit more detail about this.
00:31:51.514 - 00:32:40.972, Speaker A: But as cool as I think this is, I'm kind of bearish on decentralized social media in general, and I have been for quite a while for a number of reasons. We actually had this debate in the daily Discord channel the other day. But the number one reason is that I think that moderating a decentralized platform, like, sorry, decentralized social media platform, is pretty much impossible, I believe. I think that if you look at all the ones that have kind of popped up over the years, like steemit, and there's a bunch of others out there, they either turned into places of like a real big toxic, crappy culture where really the fringes of society come in to basically spread whatever they want to spread on there and a lot of illegal content gets posted. And I'm not talking about illegal content like political dissent or stuff like that. I'm talking about actual legal content. I'm not going to mention what it is.
00:32:40.972 - 00:33:17.014, Speaker A: I'm sure you can imagine what it is. But sort of that stuff that gets posted on there that, you know, just stays on there because it's decentralized. And people just don't want to use a network that, or a social network that has that rubbish on it. They want to use something that's, you know, as much as we all hate, like censorship and things like that, we want something that's curated for us because that is an enjoyable experience. So that's, that's one major issue is that moderating a, you know, decentralized social media network would be pretty much impossible to do. Secondly, scaling this would be very hard to do in a decentralized way. The technology is not just yet there yet, but I think that's obviously much easier than then kind of moderating there.
00:33:17.014 - 00:34:01.900, Speaker A: And I think thirdly, this undertaking, depending on how you do it, can, can go pear shaped pretty quickly because of monetary incentives. Now, I mentioned steemit. I think steam or steam, I shouldn't say steam. It maybe, maybe steam is a better reference there. I think steam failed for, I mean, you, some of you may have seen what happened where Justin sun actually took over the steam network by, because it was a deposit system and he basically was able to gain control of the majority of the network. But I think the reason why steam failed to gain kind of like any sort of mass adoption and why I stopped using it, I was actually using it in 2017 for a little bit, was because there was a lot of gaming going on. There was a lot of bots going on where basically every time you up voted a post, it kind of paid that, that kind of creator of that post out of the inflation of the network.
00:34:01.900 - 00:34:28.428, Speaker A: So steam tokens, essentially. So what ended up happening was that people were buying and selling, you know, upvotes, of course, they were using whales to manipulate things. There was some very sophisticated whale bot farms going on that would basically direct all the volume, or, sorry, all the kind of rewards to themselves. So that kind of, like, broke. And how do you moderate that? How do you fix that? Like, you can try and do it through crypto economic design, but it's not easy. It's definitely a hard problem. So, I mean, kudos to aave for trying this.
00:34:28.428 - 00:34:53.395, Speaker A: I mean, it's a little bit out of their wheelhouse, but still, it'd be cool to see them try this, but at the same time, there's a lot of fundamental issues that still need to be ironed out. And I think that some of them are pretty much impossible, like the moderating at scale thing, but we'll see. I hope I'm wrong. I don't know if I am. I don't know. I probably don't know enough about it. But from what I've seen, all the platforms that have spun up at this point have kind of, like, failed to achieve any kind of, like, mass market fit, even within the crypto ecosystem.
00:34:53.395 - 00:35:31.084, Speaker A: If you just count the people in crypto, most of them don't want to use platforms like that. They're happy using Twitter because Twitter gives them what they want. And, you know, as much as, like, censorship sucks and, you know, we want to decentralize everything. It's kind of hard to decentralize social media for the reasons I outlined. So, Philip, Diane from flashbots put out a response to those kind of, like, real stuff that was being discussed, I think, over the past couple weeks. And the TRDR is that flashbots believes incentivized real clients are a negative sum stable game for everyone. Flashbots commits to protecting ecosystem stability and long term incentive alignment for all, and to building sustainable mev infrastructure.
00:35:31.084 - 00:36:02.044, Speaker A: Now, a side note here. The person that was building the. This kind of software, all these clients, Edgar, said that he has decided to not release it because he was getting bullied or getting death threats or whatever, or toxic, kind of like people coming at him and, okay, that that's fine. And everything but it always gets me when people say that because one, you can't verify that that actually happened. And two, I mean, he was saying stuff like I'm going to kill Ethereum or, you know, I'm going to take down a theorem or I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that. What did he expect was going to happen? I mean, you poke the bull, you get the horns. Like, I don't know, I just kind of like don't have much sympathy.
00:36:02.044 - 00:36:45.450, Speaker A: I don't condone people sending him death threats or kind of like being super toxic to him or anything like that. But I mean, one, I can't prove that that actually happened. I just have to take his word for it. And two, generally when you, as I said, when you kind of like poke the hornet's nest or kind of like mess with the bull, you're going to get pushback on it. You can't just kind of go up to someone and yell at them or go up to a group of people and yell at them and tell them you're going to like destroy Ethereum or destroy kind of like especially their investment or something or whatever and confuse everyone and make all these drama and not expect some blowback. But anyway, done with that. Side note, I think Phil in this blog post, it describes what basically I said about this kind of stuff and these real stuff on the refill when I covered it, I think last week or the week before that.
00:36:45.450 - 00:37:22.636, Speaker A: Basically, as he says, it's a negative sum game where it doesn't really make sense for miners to do this or for people to to do this because it makes the chain unstable for everyone. It makes it so that essentially you can extract a lot of value, in short, in the short term, but the medium to long term implications are really bad. It essentially makes it so that no one wants to transact on the network anymore and the price of ETH logically would fall because of this as well. So I recommend going and reading this whole post. It's a really great overview. Phil has been thinking about Mev longer than most people have, so he's definitely someone to listen to and he's definitely a great follow. But I'll up link this in the YouTube description and you can go check this out for yourself to read all about it.
00:37:22.636 - 00:38:01.964, Speaker A: It's a pretty good breakdown of what's happening. So finally here, the squanch who I mentioned on last week's refuel, who kind of created a GitHub repository of different staking provider mishaps, has created another list in this put together of rugs, hack hacks and exploits that have happened on various Ethereum virtual machine compatible networks such as Ethereum, BSC and Polygon. So you can see the whole list here, the apps that were affected or the service that was affected. And yeah, I mean, there's, there's kind of like more than this, obviously, and he's going to keep populating it. You can submit a pull request and populate it with the ones that you want to as well. But I'm glad this exists. I actually wrote in the Daily Way newsletter last week that I wish that something like this existed.
00:38:01.964 - 00:38:35.354, Speaker A: So obviously the squanch here is a regular reader of the Daily Way newsletter. So I mean, shout out to him for that, but shout out to him as well for just creating this. I think this is going to go a long way to, you know, providing users with, I guess, much more information about which products they should and shouldn't use, which ones have been hacked in the past and how they responded to it and everything like that. It's funny because a lot of these products here, actually not, you know, very well known, were actually like pure like scams and kind of like rug pulls. Like Poliwhale here hosted on deleted Telegram. It was a, it was a rug pull. Whatever.
00:38:35.354 - 00:39:11.584, Speaker A: A bunch of other ones, like poly butterfly 600 ETH was stolen. But then there's legit ones like Alchemyx, right? I mean, Alchemyx had a legit bug or exploit that they responded to very well and they got it all fixed and done and they were able to relaunch the Al ETH product last week. So, yeah, this, this kind of like doesn't cover it doesn't split them up into kind of, I guess, what they were and what they aren't. It does have a little bit of a description here, but you can kind of dig through yourself and see what's happened here and see if it was an actual kind of rug pull frozen exploit, how the team responded to it and all that good stuff there. But on that note, wow, this is a 39 minutes refill. This is the longest one I've ever done. I didn't even realize.
00:39:11.584 - 00:39:21.104, Speaker A: But anyway, thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
