00:00:01.210 - 00:00:37.362, Speaker A: Sorry for being a little absent while I was running around getting stuff, but yeah. So welcome everybody, to Ethanlan idea session, idea validation session. This is meant to be just a really quick intro to what you people are working on. And we've got a bunch of great people, they already gave their intros, who are going to be giving you feedback. And the way we're going to do that is by splitting into two separate rooms. Andrew's going to be leading another one, but we're going to start off in the same room just to get the idea of how it's going to go. Projects will have five minutes total to present what they're going over.
00:00:37.362 - 00:01:10.210, Speaker A: Again, this is just meant to be a high level intro to what you're working on, not necessarily a technical review or a solidity audit session. We'll have time for those sessions later in the hackathon. So remember, keep it high level. Make sure to leave time for the panelists to respond. And I'm really excited to see what people are building on. I've already gone through the check ins for almost all the projects and there's some really amazing ideas. So let's get this started and I'll stop talking.
00:01:10.210 - 00:01:45.354, Speaker A: So first up is Jack Sanford. Why don't you give us like a 1 minute overview of what you're working on and then we can get some feedback. Hey, guys, can you hear me? Cool. Yeah, Jack with the 20 pay team here. So what we're building or thinking about building this hackathon is basically Stripe for crypto is the quick way to explain it. So basically you're on an ecommerce payment page and you're a buyer. You want to pay with whatever your favorite currency is, and you're the merchant.
00:01:45.354 - 00:02:32.640, Speaker A: You want to accept whatever your favorite currency is. And we basically take you on the back end through probably one inch or uniswap and transaction for you so that the buyer can pay in his currency and basically gets converted to the seller's currency in order to accept the payment. And what I'm looking for is, what do you guys think about this and are there any cool sort of integrations or twists on this or features that come to mind that you think would be really cool? Thanks, guys. Trent? I'll go. Cool. Yeah, just jump in. Yeah, I think it's definitely something that's needed right now.
00:02:32.640 - 00:03:29.166, Speaker A: I don't think that the actual exchange is going to be the hardest part or the most important feature to people. I think it being easy to integrate and easy to use and easy to understand what your records are for the actual transactions and the other services that Stripe provides. When you integrate Stripe, I think that's the value prop. Yeah, I think in general they're not being with the emergence of like, Xdai possibly roll up soon, there's definitely more opportunity to pay with crypto everywhere, but there's not really a tool that does it well. Plus one there on dev experience. I think that was my exact first thought, too. I mean, stripe should just be doing this, first of all, but since they're not, someone else needs to do it.
00:03:29.166 - 00:04:07.226, Speaker A: But basically it's all about me as an in developer. Can I just NPM install this thing and can it be a wonderful experience and very easy. Like Scott said, maybe this moves between different chains, but all these side chains or L two S are all going to have this same exact interface. You're going to deposit, you'll wait a little bit, then you can send and receive quickly and then you withdraw. Right. So wherever you've got that bat signal pointed, I would say it's all about making the developer experience really great and making it really easy for a dev to pick it up and use it. Got it.
00:04:07.226 - 00:04:56.246, Speaker A: That's super helpful. One thing I was just thinking, I know Scott said that maybe the transferring might not be the most important thing, which it makes sense the recipient can easily convert to whatever token they want. I'm wondering if there's any tax or accounting reasons that businesses would prefer to exchange that they'd rather not convert it on their own, but they'd rather just get USDC and not have to worry about volatile assets. So that could be kind of a cool feature. And I'm not sure if that kind of direction affects the interface at all or anything in terms of knowing that people might want to not even know about what the user is paying in. They just want to know what they receive, but overall right. Cool.
00:04:56.246 - 00:05:24.590, Speaker A: Thank you. Any other comments? All right, cool. Thanks Jack for going first. So what's going to happen? Thanks, guys. Now we're going to break into two rooms. So if you all of a sudden get a pop up that says Trent is pushing you into this room, don't be alarmed. You're just going to talk with some of the other people and then we can get through a couple more projects.
00:05:24.590 - 00:05:57.500, Speaker A: Let me see where we're at in terms of signups. Yeah, I think we'll still split it. So why don't we have Subarette or however you pronounce that? Why don't you go next and then I'm going to start splitting people into rooms again, don't be alarmed if you suddenly find yourself somewhere else or get a pop up. All right, cool. Okay, cool. Yes. Hi, Michael here.
00:05:57.500 - 00:06:51.260, Speaker A: The name is Subret. I just sort of came up with it from the word Superet because basically we do have quite a few ideas in our team, but one of them that we've been working on the most today is about subscriptions paid through micro payments. So kind of using the streaming micro payments thing. Okay. I'm not the technical lead on this project, I'm just the UX designer. So a lot of my thinking and my crazy ideas are going to be around users and content creators, mainly because this idea would be to get content creators. This would be for content creators who kind of want to get into the crypto space for subscribers and their content.
00:06:51.260 - 00:08:12.530, Speaker A: They can't expect long form subscriptions like yearly or monthly. And so our idea is to make very short increments of time based subscriptions with micro payments. Also then just some high level ideas that we've got going on is that we might include an aspect of messaging, like for notifications so that content creators can keep their followers informed of when they're doing special drops of their content. Say they're dropping music and it's very special kind of version or something like that, or they're a blogger or a writer or something like that. We also want to probably make use of maybe giving the content creator an ability to upload it onto IPFS and have buckets so that they can kind of keep access control over their content. Yeah, I mean there's so many great sponsors tech in this hack. I've literally got a list of like ten different ways we can use sponsored tech, but I just wanted to get some ideas about how you think people would like this kind of streaming micro payments for subscriptions.
00:08:12.530 - 00:08:49.134, Speaker A: Yeah, just jump in real quick first and shill the Leak standard and sabler. There's already a couple cool subscription based standards. That's all I want to jump in. Then Brian. You go. Yeah, I was just going to say Superfluid is one of the hackathon sponsors and they had a really cool thing that's like safely earned steroids that kind of launched last week that would probably be a really good fit to look into. But there's a lot of music artists and a lot of digital artists who are looking for streaming micro payments right now that might be a really good audience to kind of hit it into.
00:08:49.134 - 00:09:45.090, Speaker A: Things like lost radio and a lot of other RSC. A bunch of them took it last week as well. Hitting on that crowd for streaming micro payments might be an interesting opportunity to kind of dive into if you're looking for different use cases. Especially if we make an interface really great, because we've got myself a UX designer and we've got a front end developer on our team, so we made a really cool interface to connect all these different pieces together. I mean, we don't want to reinvent the wheel, we just kind of want to put it nicely together. Yeah, that's fine. Yeah, I think one thing that seems like kind of what you're hitting at, if you can lower the commitment on the initial purchase without actually lowering the churn for a fan that cancels their subscription, that might be kind of like a unique value prop of the streaming.
00:09:45.090 - 00:10:46.406, Speaker A: I know there's some streaming subscription fans amongst my other moderators on this call. I haven't quite seen someone package up the value proposition of having streaming payments very well yet. And I think if there's a unique way to solve a unique way to, I guess, who's your customer. And it seems like it's the content creator. And how do you solve a problem that they have with the current system? And I think one thing, if you look sort it's kind of unrelated, but related to if you look at Bootstrapping of Moloch Dow, one of the key things was you weren't actually making commitment with your whole money because you can quit whenever you wanted once you joined. And it seems like streaming payments might have that similar value proposition for someone that's not really sure they want to pull the trigger on a whole month or a whole six months or a whole year subscription. So I don't know, it might be like, can I dive in one extra thing? I'm joining the other room.
00:10:46.406 - 00:11:14.574, Speaker A: But one thing that comes to mind is what you optimize for in terms of your subscription creator or your subscribers. For instance, with Nifty Inc. We optimized for the artists onboarding. Either one side or the other is going to have to do the blockchain stuff. Right. And you kind of figure out which one you want to do the blockchain stuff. Whether I can set up a subscription without knowing or I know how to do the blockchain stuff.
00:11:14.574 - 00:11:38.390, Speaker A: So I'll deploy the subscriber and then all my subscribers don't have to know anything about blockchain. So you kind of have to figure out which edge you want to use there. Okay, I'm diving to the other one. See you guys later. Thanks. Keep going. If anybody else has any more suggestions and just a point, I'm adding people manually to the second room if you've signed up there.
00:11:38.390 - 00:12:37.162, Speaker A: I don't know if people can jump back and forth on their own, but we'll get through it. Yeah, I've got a lot of other kind of ideas to kind of squeeze into it, but I guess there would be also another way to squeeze a sort of NFT aspect to this is that maybe subscribers can pay in NFTs or they could get NFTs somehow as the content that they buy. And then if that NFT is on a bonding curve or something, then they get to get like a piece of it. It's quite endless to kind of think about what they're actually buying and how much they're subscribing to it. Yeah. One interesting idea that a lot of people going around with streaming payments is that you can actually have the streaming payment go towards the owner of an NFT. So if you're the creator and you hold the NFT, you can actually sell it to someone else.
00:12:37.162 - 00:12:56.686, Speaker A: It represents that stream sort of in the same capacity. So you're able to kind of sell the future advance of that stream as well. Right. But the creator in that capacity can basically get advanced on their streams. They can get it all at one time instead of getting it there. Right. It can be an interesting way to represent the Liabilities in that stream as well.
00:12:56.686 - 00:13:12.734, Speaker A: So if you wanted to throw NFTs in there, that'd be one interesting way to do it. I think the other way, as you just mentioned, is like permission content. Using NFT might be the other having an access key or something present that content. Right. Yeah, Definitely. Oh, wow. That's really great.
00:13:12.734 - 00:13:24.060, Speaker A: Thanks for that. Great Feedback. Awesome. Cool. That was right on time, actually. Cool, thanks. Thanks, Everyone.
00:13:24.060 - 00:13:35.020, Speaker A: Next up, we have liquidation helper with Andrew Rudnick. Andrew. Hopefully I didn't move you to another room. You Here? Nope. I'm here. Can you hear me? Yeah. Go ahead.
00:13:35.020 - 00:14:58.214, Speaker A: All Right. So this idea is kind of know on top of ave where you can put in your ethos collateral to get out, die if you want to continue to trade. But instead of having a defined amount, that kind of is a binary of you're either going to be liquidated at this price or not. The depositor could be opted to put in an extra 5% or 10% or however much that is. And that amount would basically be a buffer zone that would be served or reallocated to a vault that could serve interest or gain interest. And if the collateral loses value and they're coming close to liquidation price, the smart contracts would withdraw the interest bearing collateral and kind of add that to the collateralized amount to protect their loan. Another way of looking at it could be if there was a way where people could allow people to kind of add on to their collateral to kind of protect them as like a helper, then someone could top off low health meter loans and they could get some sort of reward for that as well.
00:14:58.214 - 00:16:00.090, Speaker A: Kind of like helping collateral depositors. You can generally apply this to many different kind of, I guess, yoda aggregators. Right? You can think of it as if collateral ratio goes below this pull stake from any of these money markets. Right? So I could imagine you building just like a generalized trigger framework for pulling money out of anything and then sticking it back into and turning into die. And sticking it back into vaults. Yeah. Not that it means you shouldn't do it, but it sounds like what? There's an app called DeFi Saver that I think has a decent amount of subscriptions to it.
00:16:00.090 - 00:17:16.126, Speaker A: And it essentially does kind of what you describe. I'm not sure if it's exact overlap with the feature set that you said you wanted, and so I definitely just check out what they're doing and how yours might be different or how it might improve what they're doing. Also say that one of the biggest pain points in developing a system like this is that there's a lot of DeFi protocols and there's a lot of new DeFi protocols, but your existing integrated DeFi protocols are also kind of changing as those projects ship new code and kind of like figuring out how to scale your ability to safely integrate users while the protocols are dynamic, kind of underneath your feet is a pretty big challenge for anyone doing these sorts of services. But the services are important to users, and I think there is a real problem being solved by building it. Yeah. So Scott, this would kind of be like DeFi save it. You deposit die and when it's needed, it's pulled into a vault.
00:17:16.126 - 00:17:56.986, Speaker A: Right. The idea is like, it's not really earning interest while it's sitting there. So it's like, imagine sorry, I forgot who shared that idea, but they were talking about basically sticking that into, say, a vault, a Yvolt or any other place that earns interest and when it's needed, pulls it out. So the idea potentially is that you could build on top of DeFi Zable, where imagine you talk to them and figure out how you can create a trigger where it's like, do you want to put in my own do you want to put in whatever actual vault or anything? Right. You could even be a liquidity pool if you want, perhaps. And just convert into die and put it back in. Just kind of run it more dangerously.
00:17:56.986 - 00:18:33.146, Speaker A: Yeah, safely run it closer to the line. But safer than squeezing really milking out your yields. Right. For really large DeFi saver for really large vaults, you need a ton of diet right, to really save them. So it could actually be pretty useful because otherwise I'm not aware that this feature is available. And there's a project called Gelato Finance that also does this if this and that kind of smart contract triggers. So I could imagine this plus DeFi safer could be very interesting if you put them together.
00:18:33.146 - 00:19:03.400, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I mean, that does sound interesting because, I mean, there is like for any given amount of yeah, no, that is cool because you get like the same safety but more use your capital. Same safety level. Yeah. All right, that is five minutes unless anybody has a quick comment to close it out. But we're going to move on to the next team, if that's all right. Thank you. Great.
00:19:03.400 - 00:19:30.894, Speaker A: Next up, Alex Conway. The name of the project is Community Engagement. Or maybe that's just a general idea, but I'll let him explain. Yeah. Hello, world. Can I share my screen? What's it for? Just think it will make it easier to explain, but I can't explain as long as you don't have like a huge slide deck. But go ahead.
00:19:30.894 - 00:20:01.602, Speaker A: Yeah, no, just like three quick things. Go ahead. Can you see a screenshot of a tweet? Maybe you don't have screen share capabilities. Let me get that to you. Why don't you start talking to all right, sure. So I was randomly researching Nexus Mutual and came across this meme community on Twitter. The Nexus mutants, they're kind of like the synthetic Spartans and the chainlink Marines.
00:20:01.602 - 00:20:57.014, Speaker A: They're just this, like, meme community on Twitter and there was a post that said, add hashtag Nexus Mutants to your Twitter bio and get the mutant token for our secret Nexus Cost inner circle chat. And I thought that was super cool. And below that, once you've done so DM me with your Ether address, I'll send the tokens all in one go to save gas. And then he was complaining. Quite a manual process, so I thought that was pretty interesting. And I started doing some research and discovered this whole world of social tokens and actually came across this CoinGecko panel, which was great with Brian Flint, who's on this call, shout out Brian and Cooper Turli, and Alex Mesmesh, who issued his own social token. And I posted on the Twitter thread about it, I was like because they were saying in the panel, one of the biggest problems with social tokens is distribution.
00:20:57.014 - 00:21:44.918, Speaker A: Getting these tokens in the hands of your community. Because there's cool things you can do with them, like only allow you inside a discord if you hold a certain number of these tokens. Like Ben's Jam token, you can only read his newsletter on outpost if you hold a thousand jam tokens, which I think is really cool. It's like a great way to line incentives with the mean. Having seen this Nexus Mutants thing, I posted a tweet on the Twitter thread asking, what do you think about giving away social tokens in exchange for engagement on Twitter? Like the first and retweets on tweet, kind of like social mining in contrast to liquidity mining. And yeah, Alex Msmej replied like, there's potential symbol resistance problems, but it sounds like a good idea. And then the next day he did a sort of social experiment where he tried this.
00:21:44.918 - 00:22:23.110, Speaker A: So, yeah, it doesn't look like I'm going to share my screen, so I'll post a link to the tweet that he put in the chat. Yeah, sorry, I think that's turned off for this session, but feel free to share it's all good. Here you go. So I'll post this in the chat right quick. But yeah, basically he did the social experiment and I'm giving away $5 in Alex tokens. The first hundred people who retweet this tweet and follow me, I'll DM you a link to claim in 24 hours. And then he said, if this works, I'm growing the total number of Alex token holders by 25%.
00:22:23.110 - 00:23:08.526, Speaker A: And then the next tweet, like a few minutes later was I've started giving out rewards but got caught by Twitter's algorithm for messaging too many people and it ended up getting closed in 17 minutes and you had like 150 retweets and yeah, it seemed like quite a success. So basically we're building a way to automate this process and rather than being like a push mechanism where Alex has to go and manually DM all these people, make it a pull mechanism where he just says like, go to XYZ.com, Alex, and you go there. You log in with MetaMask, you verify your Twitter kind of like Dark Forest. You just tweet like I'm verifying XYZ.com and your ETH address, which has like a nice viral loop in it. And then we have a bot that checks if you're one of the first hundred retweeters and then allocates you tokens.
00:23:08.526 - 00:23:44.842, Speaker A: So that's sort of what we're building. I'll stop there. It's funny, Alex and I just chatted briefly this morning about his idea, so I kind of gave him some feedback already on this. But one of the things I told him was that when you're actually earning a token for kind of a lightweight proof of work that being engagement or retweeting or something, the community might not be long term engaged or just looking at it as free money. So that was kind of like my biggest criticism. But otherwise everyone's looking for new ways to distribute social tokens, especially to their loyal followers or retroactively. So I think there's some potential in that capacity.
00:23:44.842 - 00:24:20.326, Speaker A: But yeah, curious what Peter and Scott think. Yeah, makes total sense. I think what's really hard about social tokens are great, right. And I guess well, just like community tokens and token curated chats, the really hard thing is actually figuring out a way to distribute them easily. And yeah, I would definitely say creating a bud or some sort of automation that would be pretty awesome. Just like checking who retweeted first or even if Zapier if this and then that. You can check the bio.
00:24:20.326 - 00:25:05.542, Speaker A: You can query, I think, the bio of Twitter profiles. Right. So you could probably do something where you check the Twitter profile of different people, right? Yeah. But generally I think this would be easily the next natural extension of the trend. Yeah, actually sort of like this type of sybil resistance was actually the very first proof of concept that I ever tried to be a part of building back in 2017 and it didn't go anywhere. Obviously the name of our umbrella is still named after it. So when we have to actually tell people what our company name is, they're like, what the hell is that? It's like, oh yeah, it's this random proof of concept that went nowhere.
00:25:05.542 - 00:26:06.250, Speaker A: But I think this is like a very good idea in a space where you don't want KYC. Bots are pretty hard to make fake Twitter accounts that look very convincing and so you get adversarial fast if your system scales. But I think in general it's like a fun thing and the space might be big enough now where it makes sense. Cool. Thanks for the feedback. Anything else? Any final comments? Did you say how you're going to work on or how you plan to how do you close the loop between bots just commenting on things? Yeah, we don't have a really good solution to that. One solution is to take a snapshot of your Twitter followers at a point in time and then only allow people who were following you before you began this to participate.
00:26:06.250 - 00:26:27.570, Speaker A: The other is like, yeah, put a captcha on the place where you claim and needing to verify your Twitter. Both of those things make it harder. But I think fundamentally it's a cat and mouse game with bots. You can never really stop this sort of thing. It's definitely a problem. So let me know if you have any thoughts or ideas on how to tackle that. You can just let someone else verify it via Twitter.
00:26:27.570 - 00:27:04.720, Speaker A: Responding with a tweet. Human verification of bots, I would actually say roughly is fairly cheap and quick. What's really hard is just the manual collection of addresses and sending it on chain and so on. Yes, I think we can automate the collecting the addresses, figuring out who qualifies for the drop and doing the sending. Yeah, having people verify each other is interesting. I mean, that's also potentially gameable, but it is really interesting. Yeah, we could potentially do some kind of like governance token thing and staking and get fancy, but yeah, we're just trying to get an MVP ship for now.
00:27:04.720 - 00:27:30.168, Speaker A: Cool, thanks for sharing your idea, Alex. Next up we have Cooldeep and Machu Picchu project. Yeah. Hi guys. So basically our team is here. Sharindra Nayama is also here. So basically what we're trying to do is help farmers of a particular country.
00:27:30.168 - 00:28:29.240, Speaker A: So farmers lose a lot of crops because of climate and all those things, right? And they have to pay for all those things and suffer the loss also. So what we came up with a system, it used to happen annually in villages right now also. But it's kind of like all the farmers of a particular village or in a country, they can deposit something to a particular pot, right? And from that pot we will assess the farmers crop vegetation using satellite images and then we can check if that particular group of farmers has lost the crops or not. And based upon that, we can give them compensation from that particular pot where they contributed actually. So this is basically like the idea that we are trying to solve and for that the flow that we have. This idea is like we will have three kind of members in our system. The first one will the farmers only the second one will be the waters and the third one will be the enablers.
00:28:29.240 - 00:29:37.264, Speaker A: So the role of farmers is basically to go to an enabler and get themselves registered. So get registered means like they can go there, get the addresses for them and make contributions to the pot. Because we know that farmers don't have enough resources to use blockchain on their own kind of thing, right? So that's why we want to have enablers who can register the farmers and to the contribution person on behalf of them, right? And then we have the watchers all over the world who will do one thing is like they will use the satellite data to watch over the crops of those farmers, right, and they will give their feedback, let's say thousands of watchers give their feedback for a particular field. 60 of them says like, yeah, the crop has been destroyed and 40 says no. Whatever the majority based upon that, the enabler will calculate the compensation for that farmer and reward that farmer with the compensation so that he don't have to suffer the loss kind of system. So for that we are typically going to look for several things actually, like for creating the accounts for farmer, we are using portis for the wallet thing and we actually need one OTP system because farmers don't know anything about blockchain. Right.
00:29:37.264 - 00:30:33.700, Speaker A: So we need something at farmers end so that they could be aware of the things like how many tokens do they have, is their account there or not? And all of those things. Right, and we need one social token for the watchers so that they can be like social token, I mean to say reputation token so that we can judge like if this watcher is working, doing his work correctly or not kind of thing. So there's a lot of things I know, but the basic thing is helping the farmers using the satellite data. The watchers will see those data and we'll just compensate the farmers. It is raising loss. Yeah. So I basically have three questions like how can I develop a OTP system on the blockchain? Second is how can I use wallets for the farmers? And third one is like how can I generate a reputation token for the watches? Kind of I got a bit confused because your project seems a little too serious for this forum.
00:30:33.700 - 00:31:40.680, Speaker A: So the problem trying to be solved is that if a farmer wants to buy insurance, they have to trust it's like crop insurance, right? Yeah, we can say that it's kind of an insurance kind of thing, but like a very minimum pay from the farmers. Wait, say that again. Farmers will not have to pay a lot. Like there will be lacks and lacks of farmers there and they will contribute very minimum but the compensation will be good enough for it. Sounds pretty interesting in that if you have a way to sort of like you're kind of creating a human driven oracle on whether the crops were successful or not, right? Yeah. So for that, what we have is we have a system already developed that's an earth observation system where using that we can see at a particular field that is actually using thousands of images from satellite to judge like whether the field has lost or not kind of thing. Right.
00:31:40.680 - 00:32:45.420, Speaker A: So that will be manually by watchers. But those watchers will actually stake in our system and then do the assessment part. If they do it wrongly, then their stake will be lost and if they do it in. A better way they will be rewarded? Kind of, yeah. Are you familiar with a Keynesian beauty contest is a game theory construct? Because if you need a way to punish the wrong watchers and reward the correct watchers it's kind of a way to I put the Wikipedia in the chat. Yeah, it's sort of like a way to get a bunch of people to be incentivized to say the correct answer without having anyone need to judge the group which might kind of solve a bit of a problem if you have people guessing wrongly. Like how do you adjust reputation and if you use the Keynesian beauty contest game that might make that part of the system simpler.
00:32:45.420 - 00:33:43.200, Speaker A: Okay, yeah. Okay. And the second question was regarding OTP. So let's say farmers will go to enablers and they will give some Rs10,000 to the enablers like make us address for us and deposit this to the pot kind of right? How will farmers know that those enablers are doing the correct thing or not? So we want to send some OTP and something to the farmer so they have some access. So can I do that using on chain or something? Like using chain link or something? Is that possible? Will the farmers have an android phone or no, we can say they will have something. We can send SMS basically some deserts kind of thing. I'm not sure if anyone's kind of like created like an SMS way to send and receive.
00:33:43.200 - 00:35:13.724, Speaker A: I know chain link gives a way to have some random number so I can generate random number in our smart contract but how will I be able to send that to farmers mobile? Actually that's I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm not sure either, I'm sorry. I think in general it seems to use blockchain in an interesting way to solve some of the problems that a more traditional business might have to approach this market. But yeah, if they have an android phone you can just use the wallet on the phone maybe not available. That was the first case from our side. Also, like we can provide the farmers this platform directly, they can use it directly but we know the reality like they don't even use computer system so using blockchain is a very different thing. Okay, one more question I have like farmers will go to enablers for their account like creation of accounts and deposition and all those things, right? Now those enablers will have access to the private key of the farmers kind of, right? So what system can I come up with so that I can stop enablers from misusing those private key or something like that? Wait, why would they need to have access to the private key? Because farmers cannot use we are going with the thing like farmers cannot use a system directly because they just have a simple mobile and they don't have access to internet or kind of thing.
00:35:13.724 - 00:35:52.904, Speaker A: Right, this kind of scenario. So in that case, yeah, there's no solution that comes to mind right now. I don't know if anybody else has thoughts on that. Well, do the enablers have phones? I'm assuming they do, right? Yeah, let's say they have a system. They have system. I mean, the only thing is if the farmers trust the enablers that they have clients that aren't hacked or whatever, then you can trust that if you type in a password on their phone, it could generate a private key, create an address, use it for that one time and then discard it. And if you trust that the phone is discarding it, then that's as good as you're going to get.
00:35:52.904 - 00:36:23.296, Speaker A: Really? Okay. Yeah, that's a good idea. Like generating a password every time the farmer is logging kind of thing. Yeah, like just deterministically generate a private key off of something that only the farmer knows and you just have to hope that the phone that they're typing it into is not saving it. Yeah. This is a tough problem because it's worth solving, but you're trying to do this thing over SMS where you're just trying to reach people. That may not be the typical market for crypto.
00:36:23.296 - 00:36:59.608, Speaker A: Currently everybody on Twitter is a completely different user base. This is super interesting. One thing I'd love to see is your architecture written out just so I can understand it a little bit better. Do you have any sort of diagrams or something you can share on discord? Okay, yeah, I can share on discord. Yeah, you don't have to do it now, but after the session that would be good to see just so I can understand it better. Actually, another thing you can do, if you think about it, is you can have in the community some trusted place that they can go to to generate their private key and address. And it comes on a paper and then just two QR codes.
00:36:59.608 - 00:38:02.640, Speaker A: And then they keep private key at home. And every time they go out to talk with the enabler or deal with the enabler, they just bring their address QR and then that way they have it, they don't need a phone and they can ask the enabler to check the chain for them or whatnot? But if we have another role for the generation part thing, that's again going to be some human being actually, if you say, sure, they can treat farmers. Yeah, but at least having that one place maybe where you know it's safer and then all the decentralized enablers, you don't have to trust them as much. Yeah, that's also no, I just wanted to remind Kildeep about Bloom whether we needed to ask the question on Bloom or whether we'll leave that for now. Bloom and chain link. So what we also thought of is for enablers, like whosoever is going to be enablers, we can do one thing, like we can verify their identity using Bloom. That's one of the sponsors.
00:38:02.640 - 00:38:36.596, Speaker A: Right. So we can also get some idea from you guys how we can use Bloom because once we have identity of the enablers and we can impose some security, at least kind of. Yeah, I think the questions that are sponsor specific are probably best if you just go directly to their channel and yeah, don't forget to share any diagrams you have in discord. I'd be curious to see that. Unfortunately, we got to move to the next team because I know there are a bunch of other people signed up. But thanks for sharing that idea. Cooldeep.
00:38:36.596 - 00:38:54.884, Speaker A: And I look forward to seeing how it gets refined. Okay, thank you. Awesome. Next up is the Carbon credit project. Yes, that will be me. Hello everybody. My name is sohail we have a team of four.
00:38:54.884 - 00:39:51.284, Speaker A: We are looking into carbon credit projects and we are aware that this is not the first attempt to solve this problem. There is another project CO2 can, I think, and have tried to do that. But here's what we are doing on top of that is that we are trying to create some ERC 20 tokens. First of all, we want to invite people or the organizations or NGOs or even government agencies that issue carbon offsets or carbon credits. There are two ways of doing that. Either we get their permits from them and we convert them to ERC 20 tokens or we ask them to register on the website to directly mince the ERC 20 tokens that are more standard way of creating these carbon credits. And then people could come and buy and sell these carbon credits.
00:39:51.284 - 00:40:33.488, Speaker A: So we have another component in that. We are thinking about putting an automated market maker to create a market for these tokens so people can buy and sell. And our target is not necessarily consumer level, our target is mostly industries and the bigger energy industry and other people. This is not something that has been resolved right now because at the customer level there is less maybe incentives to do that, but for a bigger company's, energy incentives, they want to do that. Some of them want to do it in a voluntary basis. Some of them have to do it because of the place they're working at. And that way we could basically track their carbon tokens.
00:40:33.488 - 00:41:16.016, Speaker A: And we also want to partner with people that monitor this, how much they are actually using the carbon credit for and then they can send it back to us so we can burn it and give them an NFD as a record of that. Yes, they basically use this carbon credit in this year and this is the amount they use. So they can keep these NFDS as some sort of a badge to show or to, I don't know, to distribute to other people. And then we can track all of these ERC 20 tokens their cycle. Because another problem with the carbon credit is that they kind of get lost. Nobody can know what happens to them. Like a portion of them, nobody knows whether it's used or not used.
00:41:16.016 - 00:41:43.050, Speaker A: And then there is like secondary market are not very clear. The price of these carbon credits are not very clear. It might change a lot from location to location. So we are trying to put some standard in place so hopefully we can standardize everything or help to do that. That's the idea. I would love to get an input on any aspect of it. Especially we are a little bit not clear on AMM part of it.
00:41:43.050 - 00:43:04.704, Speaker A: Do we use some sort of a pull in maybe uniswap or somewhere to pull the liquidity that way in for this or do we write our own AMM and just create a user interface for that? That would be great thing if somebody can chime in on that. One of the things that might be useful is for the NFT in itself you're going to need a way to have that attached to an organizational level. It's really hard to have NFTs kind of live who actually owns those keys? Is it the individual user? Is it the organization in some sense being able to have that in a multi SIG, like a gnosis multi SIG or something that's meant to show that has the NFT might be a good solution for that. So you can have multiple people in an organization holding that as an NFT. People usually use verifiable credentials to represent when someone has proof of doing something in the past. So I think using three box as a good solution to kind of show your actual identity and showing that you've actually offset your carbon credits in that capacity. The other thing that comes to mind that maybe Scott doesn't know about maybe using gas token as a reference.
00:43:04.704 - 00:44:04.200, Speaker A: Here also how the gas token market works and how people provide liquidity for the gas token might be an interesting way of thinking how to provide liquidity and using automated market maker for people to actually interact with this thing. Because a lot of applications in space are just using gas token to offset a lot of the spikes in gas on the gas token. Do you mean this are we talking about ethereum gas token or are we talking about the actual gas token? Okay, yes. Are the carbon credits, how are they created right now? Are they fungible or what is a carbon credit? This is not unified at all. Different jurisdictions have their own model. So for example, European Union has its own thing that they issue those kind of carbon credits. Then we have California and United States that issue their own carbon offset credits.
00:44:04.200 - 00:44:56.596, Speaker A: These are right now like a physical I'm understanding is that physical? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah that's what I was know one of my friends used to trade, I don't know if you're familiar with them rins like the renewable identification numbers it's definitely a market that already has been trading in the past and it's similar to these documents. One thing that may be an interesting problem, so the clearing of the exchange of these is terrible, right? Because it's like, let me reassign this document to you. In this market, I think it's reassigning like a specific renewable identification number. So in ethereum, you have the idea of NFTs and then ERC 20s, which are just non, non fun, like fungible tokens.
00:44:56.596 - 00:46:07.810, Speaker A: Right. So if you can find a way to create, basically turn NFTs into fungible tokens, the one thing people have talked about for a while, and there may be someone doing it soon, there may not be, is there's this ethereum based collectible called CryptoPunks, which is like a pixelated picture of a crypto punk. Not super important, but they're trying to wrap these NFTs into, like, a vault and then launch an ERC 20 fungible token on top of that. So rather than me and you trading one specific crypto punk or one specific carbon document or one specific renewable identification number, we can create fungible version of that and have a different type of settling and clearing mechanism for them. If you can tokenize the carbon credits and then let people put their tokenized version of the document into the vault, and then I'm just trading ERC 20s from that, then you can sort of create a common clearinghouse, like a simple clearing mechanism. So just a dump jump. You can do this with neftx right now.
00:46:07.810 - 00:46:40.490, Speaker A: So the whole point of nephdex is, like, to take NFTs and shard them into many different fractions. Right. You can shard them on Maddok, it's a bit cheaper. You can shard them on ethereum main net, which is wait, no, I'm talking about the other way. You're talking about sharding NFT. I'm talking about taking groups of NFTs and turning them into fungibles, turning the SD 20s so there would be like taking rather than fungible. So you want to create a basket of NFTs and then shard them collectively? Yes.
00:46:40.490 - 00:47:16.292, Speaker A: You put a koi into the koi pond and you get one koi pond share. I would still recommend potentially chatting to the Niftyx crew, mostly working on this as well, for their next release. Okay, yeah. Thank you very much. It's kind of like whale as well. Right, so one more question. Do you guys think we need to also store this original, at least a scanned version of these NFDS or these documents on a chain? Is it any reason for us to do that? If we don't do that, we are asking people to trust us.
00:47:16.292 - 00:47:34.732, Speaker A: Right. I think even if you upload a picture of the document on chain, they're still going to have to trust you. Okay, yeah. I don't know. There's definitely like this on chain off ramp centralized trustful bridge. It's a tricky one, but you put it on chain to distribute it. Right.
00:47:34.732 - 00:48:29.692, Speaker A: And for interesting things such as price discovery, even for one credit. You could fractionalize it and then figure out how the market values it. It's more efficient than kind of NFCs themselves. The cool things about these clearinghouse businesses is they are hard to bootstrap, probably. But if you can bootstrap it, the market will probably just use yours until you mess it up. You could probably create a much more efficient credit market by tokenizing all of them into, ERC, twenty S. And then almost like using stuff like balancer pools, right, to basically shed liquidity pools for all of them, so that you don't have to create liquidity for every single carbon credit if they're kind of price roughly more or less the same.
00:48:29.692 - 00:49:06.996, Speaker A: Right. Depending on if they don't matter. Right. If these discretionary details don't matter, then they can technically share common liquidity depot. Right. So you're saying that because there might be different type of carbon credits and we might need to mince different type of, ERC, 20 and we can put okay, it's one way or, or you, you buy can, can turn in the basket, right, and do it like whale, like a whale token. There's like a token called whale where they're like a famous collector of NFTs and they have this million dollar worth of NFTs in one basket.
00:49:06.996 - 00:49:56.408, Speaker A: They've basically gone ahead, put in one account and they've created tokenotes ownership over it. I'm not entirely sure about I think Brian, maybe you know about whether the tokens actually entitled complete ownership, but initially it was kind of just like, you have tokens, you vote on it, I control it, but I'll do what you say. General idea though, right? Yeah. I'd also check out AirSwap a little bit because they have some really easy OTC stuff. And if you were going to just DM with someone, you can then send them the offer to trade in text that would then let them do like an OTC transaction if that was how the market was going to flow. Perfect. Thank you very much, everybody.
00:49:56.408 - 00:50:10.110, Speaker A: That was very useful. I have a lot of notes now. Awesome. I'm going to move Peter over to the next room because David has dropped. Bye, Peter. Everybody wave bye. Thank God.
00:50:10.110 - 00:50:29.124, Speaker A: No, just kidding. And we're going to keep going in the main room. We've got about six more projects. We're making good time here. Next up was athlete tokens. Rob, do you want to start off? Hey, guys. Yeah.
00:50:29.124 - 00:51:27.350, Speaker A: So we're trying to gamify athlete performance. So the way that we're trying to do that is with uma, and we're trying to mint player tokens that essentially track athlete performance. So our plan is to use like a rolling average of ten or 15 games during a season, which represents the players average stats. And then if they perform better than that average, the price of that token will go up, perform worse, and that price of that token would go down. So one of the things that we're struggling with is when to mint the tokens and how to do so. So our plan now is to mint long tokens as well as inverse tokens. So one would be betting on the price going up, one or the performance going up, the other on the performance going down.
00:51:27.350 - 00:52:50.828, Speaker A: And we're kind of struggling with how to build this so that us as kind of the builder of the marketplace, has as close to a 50 50 split and really zero net position overall. So with Uma, we need to mint tokens with some collateral and we're kind of curious how we can mint these tokens. And then when people are ready to redeem them, they can either sell to someone else if they choose to, or they can sell, I guess, back to the marketplace. So that's one of the things that we're working on is how to get us enough liquidity on the platform so that there's always a buyer for any seller, any seller for any buyer. And people kind of have enough liquidity to exchange these tokens and get out of their positions when they need to. Yeah. How would the tokens track the 15 day moving average? Yeah, so we're going to pull in sports stats from an API like ESPN or there's a bunch of them, and then channel those through a price feed in Uma.
00:52:50.828 - 00:54:44.310, Speaker A: So the price feed would kind of aggregate all of those stats and then spit out almost like a player rating or like a two K score. Common, like in a video game, players get a rating and then from there that would correlate to a price. So we would map some player rating to a price and then we would pull that in through an API and the price fee would get validated by the uma oracle. Okay, so what if rather than having a long token and a short token for Babe Ruth's performance, what if you just had, let's say we were just doing the home run gambling, the home run prediction markets token? What if it was like shares of total home runs or like shares of total points scored that way? Rather than minting a long and short token for one particular asset, I would mint all touchdown passes for all quarterbacks token, right? And so there's like the Tom Brady one, there are other sports ball quarterback ones, and then you have the field for whichever ones aren't included in there. And then you don't have to worry about long shorts. You can just kind of have all the tokens with a cap and then you don't have to worry about like, let's say there are just way more touchdown passes in this sports ball season than last sports ball season, right? And then everyone wins and then the year out money. If they all just can collateralize each other more like a paramutual type of skill game, that might be more fun.
00:54:44.310 - 00:55:44.884, Speaker A: So at Dapper, we built this game called NBA TOPSHOT which basically tokenizes actual plays themselves as NFTs and so if someone were to do better, theoretically the price would go up in some capacity. It might be interesting, I think there was also a project called Hash Fleets that was built two years ago that basically tokenize players themselves as NFTs and then try to get more of a fantasy game around it. But there's a lot of learnings there that can kind of how players actually have their performance carpet over time, bought and sold. It's a really hard problem when a few teams can try this. I think one other interesting method that it's been really successful and just previous is using auger outcome chairs to represent if a player is doing well in some capacity. There might be very low liquidity for that type of thing. But I just put an example in the Chat kind of exchange which is about the outcome shares of the presidential election.
00:55:44.884 - 00:56:38.856, Speaker A: I think you can probably do something similar with sort of player outcomes and their performance over a period of time. The one issue that I'm worried about of these ERC 20s is just liquidity on each of these tokens and how many people are willing to buy and sell, especially if it's very crypto native. So you're probably going to want to pick and choose which players you have at first until you build some substantial volume around it. Yeah. And also if you do plan to launch anything like this that's not with play money there's like a very fine line between what is sports betting that will get you sent to prison and what is skill gaming or the various exemptions that daily fantasy sports exist in. And if you want to launch it with real money, please hire probably what will be expensive lawyers before you do it. Got you.
00:56:38.856 - 00:57:28.376, Speaker A: Yeah. Because we are going for the fantasy game type of setup where it's a skill game and people can organize a team and that's kind of like a L2 or three that we want to build is some sort of leaderboard or head to head matchups where coaches can organize their team. Then they can pit their team against someone else, whether that's for a prize or just to be at the top of a leaderboard. That's kind of what we're going for. Yeah, sorry. Yeah, there's a lot of stuff just kind of before I was into Ethereum I was really into the daily fantasy world and back then the laws hadn't been refined yet and so you could just call it skill gaming and you might just have to pay. A lot of the big companies just had to pay fines later.
00:57:28.376 - 00:58:35.692, Speaker A: Now those lots have been refined and the gray area is a lot narrower so just do your research. Got you. Okay. Do you guys have any suggestions as far as how to organize? Well, I guess a more general question is what's the idea behind NFTs versus ERC 20s with respect to this idea? Because I had in mind, ERC 20s just so that people could pull them off of our platform and maybe to increase liquidity, they could take their player token, say Babe Ruth token and go trade it on Uniswap or some other decentralized exchange. What would be the reasoning behind NFTs rather than ERC twenty S? One benefit you get out of NFTs is that it also acts as a collectible as opposed to just like a bet on that player doing well. So you can have a lot of people buying something just for the reason of that player doing well in some capacity. Right.
00:58:35.692 - 00:58:54.550, Speaker A: Maybe it's like really nice art. Maybe it's like a really cool play they did or something. Right. I think that's sort of like Dapper's philosophy on it as well. You can actually put the NFTs together to make a team, sort of like be the ultimate team or something along those lines where you have sort of the same setup just using NFTs. It's hard to do that with ERC 20s. Right.
00:58:54.550 - 00:59:32.352, Speaker A: I think the NFTs might be the better approach here, especially if you're trying to go for more of the skill based thing where you can actually assemble a team and it'd be a lot more playful in some regard. The other example that I'm thinking about, their crypto native is Sport X Exchange. They're kind of like a crypto native, like sport sports betting thing that uses ERC 20s. That can be a good thing to look at as well. For reference, do you mind dropping that link in the chat? Yeah, I'll do that. Awesome. Thanks.
00:59:32.352 - 00:59:50.928, Speaker A: Appreciate it. Thanks, Robert. Perfect. We're going to keep going. The next team up is Mario with your open source LP dashboard. Just go ahead. Oh, hi everyone.
00:59:50.928 - 01:00:47.960, Speaker A: I'm Mario from Mexico. Yeah. So I'm calling it a liquidity provider dashboard for automated market maker exchanges. So I'm starting with, say with well, first I'd like to hear your feedback on Julian on this concept and if it's worthwhile to have a hosted version. I'm thinking like, both versions would probably be useful or just focus on an open source project that people can run from their own computers. Yeah. Any feedback? I haven't seen any other DeFi dashboard like Vvank or Sapper that shows the data that would be useful for liquidity providers.
01:00:47.960 - 01:02:11.190, Speaker A: So this would be sort of like a site that would be a place where you'd kind of make decisions about what are good things to provide liquidity in and what are not as good things. Like how to allocate your assets. Yeah, potentially. But for the first minimum viable version, just figure out the user's positions on different pools and calculate their return on investment. And probably not just today's or the current return on investment, but just show also the trend and maybe some other metrics like volatility in that specific pool and stuff that can be useful with regards to evaluating your positions? Yeah, I don't have a place where I do that right now, that specific question right now. So it's definitely, I think, something the market is not meeting. The things that I feel like are especially missing would be having some idea of what impermanent loss was suffered versus the trading fees and did I have a day by day PNL anchoring from some type of impermanent loss.
01:02:11.190 - 01:03:16.346, Speaker A: And then also sort of like some of the interfaces kind of default to very short look back windows like 24 hours and just because something had a really lot of trading in the last 24 hours that's probably not something you'd want to make a three week decision on. So yeah, I think it's definitely as an MVP if you can kind of find an insightful way to let people sort that more. Yeah, at least I don't know if a place exists in the market. But there's also a little bit of a problem and maybe it does exist and I just don't know about it. Because sometimes, sort of like a dashboard that shows you one piece of information like this, it's a little hard to create. Sort of like an awareness engine that'll make people know about it. So kind of like having something in the platform that will help the platform grow maybe from the beginning even I think might be like if you can figure out a way to get that and it might grow, it might be useful.
01:03:16.346 - 01:04:09.998, Speaker A: But if people don't have a reason to share it and talk about it, people won't know about it. Yeah, like some sort of incentive you mean maybe not financial incentive, but sort of like social incentive or social status signaling type of incentive. Like some sort of growth heck like that. Yeah, in the chat actually that I've seen done well was just showcasing liquidity pools and return on investment and permanent loss. I think to Scout's point, they're not widely used. People don't really talk about them that much. Mainly because there's just such a long tail of tokens and so many different pool sources that it's really hard to track which ones are useful and which are not.
01:04:09.998 - 01:04:48.140, Speaker A: I think the pools FYI just shows all their pools. It's really hard to see what you should actually be entering so it's really not that useful in majority of cases. But if you want to limit it to a certain number of pools or certain type of source then maybe it could be more useful in some capacity. Yeah, I know. Pools. FYI. I've also seen a few people post Excel sheets, pictures of Excel sheets they use to track their positions and I'm thinking more towards that end of the spectrum, like heavy on the data analytics part.
01:04:48.140 - 01:05:17.918, Speaker A: Also what you were saying about and maybe this go towards my second question, which is a bit more technical. I don't know if you guys might have. Some suggestions for this. And it goes to what you were saying about the long tail of pools. So the way I was thinking of implementing this was I'm focusing on uniswap to start. Right. And the graph has a really nifty subgraph for uniswap where you can get the open LP positions.
01:05:17.918 - 01:06:21.106, Speaker A: Right. The problem with getting this is that a lot of people have their LP tokens in random farms, right. So that endpoint doesn't show this. But I was thinking another path towards getting there would be there's, like an LP position snapshots endpoint, and then you can see at any point you had any LP token, like the address was holding any LP token. And then I'm thinking calling the address Can API and filtering all the transactions that involve that LP token for the address in question, and then get towards what address that transaction was made. Figure out if that address is a contract that I can check the balance and total supply for, and then check if that address has an LP position on the original pool that the LP token belonged to. And then with those data points, I think I can construct the LP positions even if the tokens are in some farm.
01:06:21.106 - 01:07:05.340, Speaker A: I don't know if there's like, a more direct way around this, and I'm just complicating stuff. There's a ton of emergent complexity and it's a really hard problem and it gets worse every week. Yeah, that's a short answer. Maybe just building something that solves that problem would be amazing. Thing that people would pay a ton of money for, but yeah, just figure out where the actual positions are even if they're in random farms. You mean just solving that issue? Yeah, like all of DeFi is turning into Russian dolls, kind of, yeah, in a sense. But yeah, it's a hard problem and I struggle with it in our businesses too.
01:07:05.340 - 01:07:22.746, Speaker A: I see. Well, I'll let you know how it goes. Okay, thanks. Good luck. Okay. I'll learn some stuff at least. I appreciate the feedback.
01:07:22.746 - 01:08:05.840, Speaker A: Thank you, guys. Thanks, Mario. All right, the last project we have for room one is Oracle Sandboxing. Hey, everyone, can you hear me? All right, I have to put a mask on because I'm in a co working spot. Yeah, go ahead. Okay, so, yeah, we're working on a sort of Oracle Sandboxing testing application. So the purpose of this is to assist DAP developers that require integrating specially off chain data and feeding into their DAP to run the application.
01:08:05.840 - 01:09:14.142, Speaker A: It's inspired because in my business, we're working with electrical grids and we're looking to take into account smart meter data, and we think that this is something that a lot of DApps are going to be using to build out into the real world. So we thought a toolkit that can be sort of a go to for DAP developers would really help. One of the main goals is to build a standardization process as like, the engine of this. So there can be like a grading system that kind of abstracts away a lot of the specific thought and context into it. It's something that adapt developer can simply play with and see the results based on the ratings engine in the middle of sorry. So we're looking to basically take into account in the rating system data source coming from or where it comes from, what it is. Different Oracle tech available and plugging that in different functions on your smart contracts and the amalgulation of your smart contracts to create your DAP.
01:09:14.142 - 01:10:29.980, Speaker A: And how that all comes together in a certain risk profile and then deliver that to the DAP developer so they don't have to think about all that. We're looking to actually make it into an actual interface where you can move around components so you have your smart contract and you have the entries for the functions and also shows the other functions. You can draw lines that have different thicknesses or colors to show you actual visualizations of risk profiles. And then potentially we don't think this should be built out in the final version just on a hackathon, but you can maybe multiply it out to scenarios so that you have 100 different scenarios built out and the DAP developer can identify the most secure one. Understand that this is extremely challenging thing. We just want to give it that attempt to begin a standardization process for it. And then the idea would be that could be potentially a place where people could not people different projects in the space could start having some more coordination and bringing their expertise and experience and case studies from their projects in so that the community has a more standard process to this.
01:10:29.980 - 01:11:19.754, Speaker A: Yeah, that's what we have right now to present. It feels like the value prop is sort of like abstracting the complexity of making this decision. Yeah, so it's, abstracting it. So it's a bit easier on the eyes for the DAP developer. Not literally like that, but it's not like risk profiles interface. Why not just abstract it to one number? Because if I look at a bunch of information, I just want the answer. How would I know how to interpret one risk profile versus another? I might trust you as the expert to just do it and give me the answer and then I just need to buy the number from you.
01:11:19.754 - 01:12:13.900, Speaker A: I don't need to buy the interface from you. Maybe, but the other thing oh, sorry, go ahead. Well, I was just going to say it's sort of a spectrum so we're looking to which is kind of what you're saying, but like a spectrum of risk but multidimensional because it's going to be trade offs in the end. So it's like, well, we know that you're actually trying to do this as well and you kind of need this to build that to provide the results. So this is the extra risk you're taking by doing that. Yeah. How would adapt developer know how to weigh those risks better than you? How would the DAP developer know better than we do? It would be about delivering information to them that they don't have before they use the tool and it's just more information that they have available.
01:12:13.900 - 01:12:48.120, Speaker A: I'm totally open to this feedback. I wouldn't necessarily imagine this being this is the answer, do this. It's more of consider these things. Yeah, I guess it might depend like who your target user is. If it's someone that is running a huge project, they're probably going to have the bandwidth to really dig in on these decisions. If it's someone that's just starting out and is trying to ship a quick MVP, they might just want the answer. I don't know.
01:12:48.120 - 01:13:47.260, Speaker A: The other thing I might consider is whether it's not like you're aggregating Oracles from different frameworks so you could sandbox using different Oracle technology and then sources of feed of data. And it also seemed like your goal was to kind of become the standard for this. Yeah. Begin the process so that entities within the DAP space because I think especially the Oracle companies would like to see success by not having crashes. So somewhere to start coordination. Yeah, I think it might be hard to become a standard if you start off by aggregating everyone because probably no one individually wants to be aggregated into you. So it might be easier to try to become the standard of one Oracle technology and sort of have a more symbiotic relationship.
01:13:47.260 - 01:14:47.734, Speaker A: And then later if it does achieve know, then start supporting multiples. But it might be a hard thing to bootstrap kind of becoming the default choice if you start off kind of putting people in a mode where they'd rather not be okay. If that makes sense. Yeah, to figure out how you have the idea. So you're basically saying that some of the Oracle companies may not necessarily want to be contributing to a general pool because there's other Oracle companies technologies in there and it may give them an they might they might view this as sort of like commoditizing them when they want to be the standard. So if you pick one Oracle to sort of like to not commoditize, they might make you the default answer for them. Does that make sense? Or do you have I don't know exactly.
01:14:47.734 - 01:15:33.680, Speaker A: I guess. Different Oracle Technologies. Like you have different within chainlink, the individual nodes have their own reputations kind of or maybe I don't know if it works, but sometimes standards are hard to bootstrap if the people you're creating the standard for are not aligned enough with you. Okay, I didn't consider that. That's a really good point. So yeah, that could be it where we can't really bring all them in because the commoditization problem a question I guess would be are there different Oracle technologies that perhaps just serve totally different purposes? And don't compete that could coordinate. I don't know.
01:15:33.680 - 01:16:52.146, Speaker A: They all seem like they compete with each other, but yeah, I'm not like, domain expert at all on this. If you're trying to aggregate everyone, you better solve a really big problem or they aren't going to like it. Maybe you are. Yeah, maybe you are too, though. Well, I guess the other approach potentially to consider would be maybe not necessarily getting the Oracle technology companies or projects to coordinate, but rather actually just DAP companies that are just looking to build the space out generally. So major projects want generally better Oracle systems and maybe yeah, it's definitely like if the pain point is big enough that people are like, I need this, like, and I'll pay you for, then then they're your customer. Right, but if the pain point is on the Oracle provider side and they need someone to create a reputation for them, then your customer is like the Oracle provider.
01:16:52.146 - 01:17:43.510, Speaker A: Maybe I'm very far outside of things I know that much about, but definitely think about who you're solving a problem for and then you have to make sure it works for them and kind of no one else matters, really. Yeah. That was not like a whole question that we went through already, but we already kind of thought about that. So it's not really focused on the large DApps that are out there running already. It's more my sort of company that wants to build a real world use case for electrical microgrids. And we don't want to build like, large expertise domain experience in Oracle security. It'd be nice if there was just an app we could download and sort of make it catch up quickly.
01:17:43.510 - 01:18:10.190, Speaker A: Yeah, it sounds interesting. It seems like it's kind of hard right now to set up a new Oracle for yourself. Yeah. We don't know what our boundaries are. We don't know really what to look out for. I mean, we can read a little bit about it. Synthetics had a really clear case of this where they got hacked and someone was messing with the price feeds.
01:18:10.190 - 01:19:14.580, Speaker A: So that was part of the inspiration. It's just a fear of we plug in smart meter data feeding into our smart contracts. We believe that's going to be our weakest point at this point in the whole DAP security system, to the extent that we may have to put in different levers inside our smart contracts in our DAP to maybe even stop it, which takes away from the value of building a there's a website I put in the chat called Oracle's Club. It was created by an analyst from Dragonfly named Tom Schmidt. If you look past the unfortunate font choices, it's sort of solving I've joked with him about this previously too, so I don't feel bad. It's kind of doing a type of this thing. I think he just made it sort of like a nice info site, like in a weekend but yeah, definitely.
01:19:14.580 - 01:19:34.620, Speaker A: There might be something to solve with the purchasing process. This website is yeah. I also know he probably wants to chat about stuff like this. Generally. You're doing great. I don't know anything about Oracle. I'm just making it up as I go.
01:19:34.620 - 01:19:59.838, Speaker A: That website was yeah, that's it. That's going to be really helpful for this. He's got pros and cons here and who uses it. This is nice. Yeah, I don't know exactly, but he probably want to just chat about different ideas for this. Yeah, I'd be happy to connect you if you think it'd be useful. Vincent.
01:19:59.838 - 01:20:19.430, Speaker A: Awesome, thank you. And also maybe DM Vance from Framework. I think he's generally interested in ideas from this. Okay. Yeah, this is awesome. Look at that. We are wrapping up two minutes ahead of schedule.
01:20:19.430 - 01:20:59.266, Speaker A: Does anybody have any last minute comments or thoughts from a team that popped in their head after the team was finished? Scott, Brian, anything? Cool. It's been really cool to see this hackathon, especially. We've had an interesting mix, especially social tokens and personal tokens. We're seeing a ton of projects that are attacking that, and you've seen a couple of them present here, so I'm really curious to see how it will play out. There's also some NFT art stuff. A lot of DeFi, obviously. Yeah.
01:20:59.266 - 01:21:25.182, Speaker A: It's a really wide range, whereas hack money was like all DeFi stuff, basically. So it'll be interesting to see where these projects take this stuff. And then you've got stuff like Oracle project we just heard about. So really wide range of topics that people are building the other room. I think they're still going, so I can't close this out quite yet, but thank you. Brian and Scott. Go ahead.
01:21:25.182 - 01:21:51.538, Speaker A: What's up? So ours is like an app. It's not a DAP. It's not going to have stuff on a blockchain for this hackathon. Is that like can people be building stuff like this without actually building something on the yeah, yeah, totally fine. Okay, thank you. Cool. This like I said, it's been great.
01:21:51.538 - 01:22:16.780, Speaker A: And we can probably just wrap up here if you're going to drop and Andrew and I will hang out. If you want to go and listen into the other room, feel free to, or I can put you in there myself. Anything that was unresolved for this, jump into discord and tag me, and I can try to connect you with whoever brought it up or get you a resource there. Cool. Later, Trent. Thanks. See you guys.
01:22:16.780 - 01:23:37.910, Speaker A: Yeah. Vincent, I will move you to the other room. Still here. Want to chat or anything? Other people wanting to go to the other room? Okay. All right. Yeah, we'll just hang out here for a bit. If anybody wants to ask a question or get my feedback on something, just hi, Trent.
01:23:37.910 - 01:24:33.046, Speaker A: Hello. What's up? So I'll just pitch. So I'm coming from a game dev side, and I don't have much experience with the on chain development. So maybe I was not sure if it's relevant enough, but I'm trying to do a very Djen game. It's more like users submit a transaction and they get an ability from that transaction and then whoever wins that stage takes all the funds. Currently how I'm managing it is through just a normal wallet address. And maybe there's a better way to make it more trustless using Oracles and stuff.
01:24:33.046 - 01:25:38.650, Speaker A: So maybe just a general opinion on that. So you mean that you yourself are managing some part of this and you'd like to swap in an Oracle? Yes. So I don't know how Oracles and stuff work, but currently users send funds to an address, to a normal wallet address. And then that wallet address, it reads, okay, so this user sent funds, I'll enable the ability in my game engine for this users, and then whoever wins, they just take the funds at the end. Okay. What sort of information would you need in Oracle to actually resolve? So the logic is happening in the game engine, the winner logic. Okay, so that winner logic somehow gets to get thrown in a contract or if it's a contract.
01:25:38.650 - 01:26:03.494, Speaker A: Okay, so the game is happening off chain. Yes, game logic is happening off chain. Okay. It's an RPG. It's more like a death match shooting game. Interesting. One thing you could look at to avoid all this is putting the entire game on chain.
01:26:03.494 - 01:26:56.614, Speaker A: I've seen some games like, I think it's called Plasma Dog, which is just like a 2D side scroller and they put the entire game on a L2 and then they don't have to worry about an Oracle because I don't think you'll find an Oracle provider that will provide such niche data as this. They're more providing really generic sets like price feeds or some really large events like sports or would actually here's our gaming man right here, Mr. Austin Griffith. Austin, do you have a minute or? Sure, yeah. Hey, welcome back to room one. Hopefully went well. We've got a hacker here asking about Oracle's reporting game logic.
01:26:56.614 - 01:27:53.818, Speaker A: And I suggested he could maybe just put the entire game on a L2 because Oracles really aren't going to provide such niche reports reporting from a single game. Right, yeah, it's interesting if it's like a subjective accomplishment, right? Like if you tried to do some kind of like Pokemon Go kind of thing, maybe it's not using GPS, it's actually using an Oracle system. You may have to come up with just some clever logic of how to do that. But yeah, I think I'd have to get a little bit more information about the structure of the game before I could comment on Oracle mechanics. Be it more like a GTA type game, a big game, very 3D. So most of the blockchain games I've come across, it's very two D and simple. They have simple logics.
01:27:53.818 - 01:28:31.642, Speaker A: And I don't know in sense of something like an open world, a big open world like GTA, how it can survive on blockchain. Got it. Yeah. That's a very ambitious project. There's a reason why blockchain games are simple. For the first year when I first was getting into the space, basically blockchain games were enter through the gift shop where basically you would come in and buy things and there wasn't hardly a game mechanic to it. So we're lucky to finally have games that are actually games, but doing things like movement is really hard.
01:28:31.642 - 01:29:44.898, Speaker A: On chain. If you imagine is this person inside the house or outside the house, you have to know a lot about their vectors and the math and you usually don't put that on chain. You usually have something separate, some kind of system that is maybe like your oracle, whether or not but almost to build a good blockchain game, you want to think about kind of where Ethereum is very valuable and where it's not. And I think storing someone's three dimensional position within a game is probably not a good use of blockchain. You maybe are testing some new geolocation thing and that's going to provide supply chain stuff down the road and you're playing around with it in a game, maybe that's cool, but putting the actual location of a player within the game on chain doesn't make a ton of sense. With galley ass a two dimensional game I made, I set it up so the ships have a speed and then you can basically make one transaction to put your sails up and then they start sailing. And with each new block that's mined, the ship moves and you can tell how far they are by just knowing how many blocks have been mined and how fast they move.
01:29:44.898 - 01:30:28.640, Speaker A: So you can do movement on chain. Everything, even the clouds are on chain, but probably not a good use of that. That's more of just like doing it because I can, not because you necessarily want to do that. So I think that you probably want to ask yourself why blockchain and come up with not a giant huge aspiring game that's going to be like AAA quality. Come up with some little mechanic like the way Bard fast forwards and rewinds and see if you can figure out how to put something like that into blockchain tokenized somehow or on a bonding curve, something that Ethereum is specifically great at. Not trying to fit something great into Ethereum. Yeah, that makes sense.
01:30:28.640 - 01:30:46.706, Speaker A: Well said, Austin. Yeah, he's got the experience of building games before. I'll link you to what he had made previously. Galas IO. Yeah. Oh, I linked somebody to daog. Oh.
01:30:46.706 - 01:31:00.860, Speaker A: The going. It's coming back in a list, man. I'm going to put it on a list somewhere to see if I can get people to signal toward it. Not really. I'm putting it in my list. The game is amazing. People should be playing it again.
01:31:00.860 - 01:31:11.354, Speaker A: I'm wondering when we're going to weird. We're going to see a resurrection. The dog. Yeah. Pet cemetery. Bring the dog. I want to be sensitive to everybody's times.
01:31:11.354 - 01:31:41.250, Speaker A: I know Andrew has some stuff through and so does Austin. So we're going to wrap here. But huge thanks to Austin for sticking around an extra ten minutes and answering some questions and then also all the teams that you hit in the other room. So this has been a really productive session. A lot of great stuff coming out of it. So we're going to wrap here. Remember to double check your discord handle if you haven't some people are having issues getting into the proper channel, so make sure you have the right discord handle connected to your hacker dashboard.
01:31:41.250 - 01:32:03.002, Speaker A: And if you're around tomorrow during the afternoon Eastern, we're having the scaling and infrastructure summit, so it's going to be a lot of full day of streams and chats and good stuff. So stop by and say hi. Thank you again. Mobile guys, andrew and trent and emily. She's not here, but thank you, Emily. See you guys. Thank you.
01:32:03.002 - 01:32:03.240, Speaker A: See you.
