00:00:18.520 - 00:00:52.904, Speaker A: Who's controlling that? Thank you. Hello, everyone. My name there? Yes, tech working. My name is Aisha Kiani and I work at Ledger prime. We are a quantitative hedge fund active in the Solana ecosystem. Aside from ledger Prime, I also teach at NYu. I teach blockchain and distributed ledger technology at NYU Tandon, which is the school of Engineering.
00:00:52.904 - 00:01:45.164, Speaker A: Previously I was at Republic Crypto, a founding member, a personal angel investor in over 30 projects, and a very early employee at consensus. So I have seen the rise of Ethereum in front of my own eyes, and it's actually pretty exciting to see the growth of Solana now. So very excited to be here. Very excited to be talking about what we see within our portfolio companies on the market, making sign on the yield strategies. And as we are, as we're investing in the ecosystem, where do we see the lack in between? So, just a quick overview. We're a multi strat hedge fund deploying a quant and systematic investment approach. We have over 150 million under management at this point and have worked and invested in over 40 DeFi projects.
00:01:45.164 - 00:02:53.954, Speaker A: Ledger prime is one of the largest liquidity provider on several c five derivatives platforms such as Darabit, Bit.com, Comma, Ledger X, Paradigm, and CME. We're owned by the same holding company as Ledger X, and yes, both of us were recently acquired by FTX for the licenses, but we're an independently run operation aside from Ledger X. But we're also very active users and investors in several Solana Defi derivative platforms such as psyoptions, drift, Zeta, Hero, and mango markets. Ledger prime also provides early and predictable liquidity in a variety of liquidity pools like orca. I know they're around right now, sunny Radium and apricot. So the Solana ecosystem advantage that we've seen as compared to, you know, other chains, many yield farming and trading strategies deployed by retail and active traders are currently not feasible on ETH given the high gas transactions and slower speed.
00:02:53.954 - 00:03:56.486, Speaker A: However, on Solana, these strategies are not only more profitable, but it's also easier to manage risk on the systematic side given the quick speed of entering and exiting the positions. Team building on Solana don't have to worry about L2 solutions, which I think currently they have a huge advantage over. And then obviously, Solana's extensive relationship with a variety of trading firms and market makers has helped them build a solid network effect. The current hurdles that we've seen across all chains in DeFi option markets is that variety of possible options, contracts, expirations and strike make it computationally expensive to build on. Chain necessity for order streaming and cancel replace of orders makes it expensive from Gauss cash cost perspective. That's why we think that Solana is a better alternative. Furthermore, options have expiries and constant creation of new options.
00:03:56.486 - 00:05:20.084, Speaker A: Contract increased gas costs, obviously robust on chain portfolio margining and liquidation system is very much needed before DeFi options can compete with c five. From a capital efficiency perspective, market makers need a liquid on chain Delta one, which is like in forms of spot per or future markets to delta hedge options. Risk and the application of AMM model for Defi platforms can lead to severe impermanent loss, which I don't think that we have a very concrete solution for at this point. A couple of our portfolio companies that we are currently advising and have invested in to overcome these hurdles, drift. We're an investor in drift and also a future liquidity provider. We know drift is building on Solana product design can be used as a guide for existing and future Defi projects. They're building hybrid mm, pool and order book alongside with cross margin and liquidation engine.
00:05:20.084 - 00:06:30.038, Speaker A: And basically they're starting with the launch of like a very robust perps market before they enter the options, because perps need to exist in order for the options market to succeed very well. And then that's enabling market makers to better hedge in a capital efficient manner. We have psy options, which is, you know, a def, sorry, which is, you know, a DeFi options platform on Solana, which is a very innovative approach, just like american options with a serum order book. Zeta, sophisticated options protocol focused on building an under collateralized option system. Note that most option protocols are fully collateralized, which actually makes for traders to lock up a lot of capital. But Zeta is the only one on the Solana ecosystem that's under collateral, not collateralized, which gives it an advantage, a huge advantage. Apricot Finance, which is a lending pool on Solana, one of the first.
00:06:30.038 - 00:07:30.954, Speaker A: And, you know, there the users can earn yield to farm, can earn yields and farm on their ETL assets. One thing on the yield side, we have just started speaking to projects that they're working on yields out of the liquidity pools and yield farming as well from like a very traditional market strategies brought on chain like selling options and arbitrage and cash carry. These projects are still doing structured products for yield. First, we've spoken to Katana Frixion, and exotic I know is in the room also. So those are like better options for yield and then exotic, like I just mentioned, exotic. You know, they're structured products a better product to earn yield through option strategies. Zero one protocol.
00:07:30.954 - 00:08:46.233, Speaker A: Also one of our portfolio companies, they're about to launch everlasting options, which means that these options don't expire, which makes them particularly useful if traders don't want to consistently roll their positions into new maturities. That's a hurdle that every trader phase like either by the end of week or month, but the Friday of like, you know, the end of the week or the end of the month. The necessary attributes for the Defi derivatives markets to work portfolio margining, cross margining and liquidation engine enabling partial collateralization. Obviously, capital efficiency is a huge deal for all of us here. Ability to delta hedge for option market makers via robust spots and perps vision protocols in terms of speed and cost, you know, which is in the form of L2 on Ethereum. But Solana hasn't had to face this kind of an issue. And then if AMM pulled the ability to deal with the impermanent loss, we have theta decay as well as capital efficiency.
00:08:46.233 - 00:09:59.650, Speaker A: And obviously right, like a robust community of professional options market makers enabling accurate pricing and deep and consisting liquidity, which is the most foremost important thing. And that's why I started my presentation by saying that this is one advantage that Solana has over other ecosystem, the relationships with trading firms. Just my very, very quick opinion from our portfolio managers on what they thought as compared to market making on Solana as compared to other chains. They think that it's an excellent part and very similar to traditional finance market makers. Obviously with time, it needs a better infrastructure, more responsive RPC nodes. The other thing is like with time, we'll probably see issues with, you know, size to allow for more complex atomic transactions. Obviously growing pains may need to further reduce gas fee from like, you know, 5,000,000th of a soul or as one sold to keep price rising, or, you know, market making just based on one Solana.
00:09:59.650 - 00:10:58.636, Speaker A: I think that could also be an issue. And then the other thing is that save more info on chain instead of databases, for example, when there's a dispute about liquidation, better and more transparent risk management tools beforehand and on chain tools will help resolve issues faster. That's why we probably see, you know, a better transparent transactions system on chain is, you know, the wider solution to go. But like I said, you know, so far we've really enjoyed working with the ecosystem and the projects that are building on it. And thank you so much. I think that's all I have for today, but I'm around if anyone is building on Solana, happy to talk to you about it. I think the transaction speed, the throughput, and, you know, the club has a lot of promising features that we're looking in a very next promising chain.
00:10:58.636 - 00:10:59.204, Speaker A: Thank you.
