00:00:00.320 - 00:00:15.754, Speaker A: Of the fields virtual workshop on risk basis frames and signal processing it's my great pleasure to introduce our first speaker for today, Ole Christensen from Technical University of Denmark, who will continue his mini course. Please.
00:00:16.854 - 00:00:52.594, Speaker B: Thank you very much. Ilya. What we did yesterday was to consider frames in general gibber spaces. And today we move to the next part and consider very specific frames in the setting of the Hilbert space and two of R. You might wonder what part of it is the most important part of the theory. And for me it's actually the Hilbert space case, because we don't know how science will develop. But frames and Hilbert spaces have so many nice processes that I'm sure that also in 100 years from now on, we will still be.
00:00:52.594 - 00:01:30.982, Speaker B: Maybe not me, but we will still be speaking about frames in general Hilbert spaces. Exactly like nowadays, we are still speaking about orthonormal bases, even though it's an old concept. On the other hand, I'm not completely sure that we will also be speaking about gamble frames and wavelength frames, because, as I say, science develop very fast. In the eighties, for example, there were so many papers about wavelengths. Every day new papers came up. There was nothing like archive at that time, but every day we would have access to new papers about wavelengths. If you look at archive today, it's more like maybe twice a week that there's a paper about wavelengths.
00:01:30.982 - 00:02:17.774, Speaker B: So it is definitely not having so much spotlight as it had before. It's still an interesting subject, but science is moving and we don't know how long time things will stay important. Actually, I think that GABA frames will survive longer, because somehow you will see the concept of GABA frames. I feel it's a very natural one, and in my understanding that one might survive longer than wavell frames. And actually, in my presentation, I will also discuss more about GABA frames than wavelength frames. Before we can start, we need to look at collections of operators that play the key role as well for GAbA systems as for wavelength systems, I guess that you have seen these operators before, so I'll do it quite fast. All of them are operators from l two into l two.
00:02:17.774 - 00:02:50.634, Speaker B: And the first one is the translational radar, which simply takes a function and shifts it by a certain amount, a either to the positive or the negative side. The other one is modulation, which takes our given function and simply multiply it with a complex exponential function. And you might ask why we want to look at that operator. But we are somehow on the way to generalize Fourier analysis. And these complex exponential functions play a key role in Fourier analysis. And this is the way you should look at it. Now, they are coming in here because we are generalizing free analysis.
00:02:50.634 - 00:03:26.714, Speaker B: Then there are operators of scaling or dilation, whatever you prefer to call them. And there's the so called dyadic scaling, which is scaling by the factor of two. And then there's the scaling just by an arbitrary parameter that is positive. An interesting thing about these operators is that they actually don't commute. So if you have a combination of these operators, you need to be very careful about the order you're writing operators. And we will not need exactly these commutator relationships as they are stated here. But the important fact is that you just need to be careful with the order you write the operators in.
00:03:26.714 - 00:03:52.614, Speaker B: Another operator that you know better, whale is the Fourier transform. And I just write it here because, as you know, there are so many different ways you can normalize it. So we somehow need to fix the notation. And I do it like you can see in the third line here, and also the Fourier trench form. You can compose with the operators that we just mentioned. And again, you need to be very careful with the order of the operations. And this is what you see in the last two lines.
00:03:52.614 - 00:04:28.498, Speaker B: When we want to generate our concrete frames, we will need the operators that I just mentioned, but we will also need some concrete functions, namely the so called b splines. And I also think that most of you may be familiar with them. So I also do this quite fast. The b splines are defined recursively. You take the first b spline, which is simply the characteristics function for the interval from zero to one. And then you get the following b spline simply by consecutive convolutions. So that means you get b two by taking b one and converge with b one.
00:04:28.498 - 00:05:10.430, Speaker B: You get b three by taking b two and convolve with b one and so on. And you can write down, you see, there's a formula writing it down as an integral. But you can actually calculate this explicitly. So the b splines can be considered as functions where you know exactly how they look like, and they have very nice probabilities. We don't need all of them, but we definitely need the probability that is mentioned in the first part of the theorem that the support of the b spline, bn is simply the interval from zero to n, and we have a function that is positive on the open part of that interval of the interior of the interval. The third property is also very famous. This is called the partition of unity property.
00:05:10.430 - 00:05:53.998, Speaker B: This is a property that when you take the b spline, and you translate it along all the integers, you always get one. And as you can see in the fourth part, we also know the Fourier transform explicitly. And you can see that the higher degree you choose of your b spline, the faster decay you get towards infinity. So the b splines are actually one of relatively few functions where you know exactly how the functions look like in the time domain and in the frequency domain. And this is one of the key features of the b splines. I just made a draft of the first two beach blinds, b two and b three. And if you think about b three, it already looked a little bit like a Gaussian.
00:05:53.998 - 00:06:47.424, Speaker B: And the higher you go in the order of the b spline, the more it will actually look like a Gaussian, except that you can see the way it's defined here. They are somehow one sided because the functions are zero on the negative part of the axis. But except for that, they actually start to look more and more like the Gaussian. And if you like that they really look like a Gaussian, you can actually shift these characteristic functions that we had at the beginning. You can shift them from the interval zero one and to the interval minus a half to a half, and then you get what we call the centroid piece spines. And then you get functions that simply look like Gaussians when you go to higher order, because then they start to cover the entire real axis and the rest of the properties are very similar. As I say, I introduce these functions because they'll play key roles when we speak about gable frames and wavell frames.
00:06:47.424 - 00:07:33.894, Speaker B: Let's start with the wavelength systems, and I would like to do it quite fast. I told you yesterday that the file I share with you here is a quite compressed file, so it's taken out from a much larger file where I think the wavelength part takes at least three or four times as much as here. So it's really a compressed presentation. And the reason that it is compressed compared to what I actually wanted to do, is that I want to have time tomorrow to speak about open problems. Classical wavelength. What is this about? We start with a function, psi in l two, and then we consider the functions that you can see highlighted in line number three. Functions with index j and k, and index j and k means that you simply apply a scaling to the function and you apply a translate.
00:07:33.894 - 00:08:42.994, Speaker B: If you take this system in the third line and you write it down in terms of exactly these operators that we introduced on the first slide, namely the scaling and the translation, you will see that psi jk simply is equal to the scale scaling operator d to the power j acting on the translation operator acting on the function side. And already here you can see that it is crucial that you actually calculate it the right way. You act with these operators in exactly the way it is stated here. This system is an example of what we call a coherent system, especially physicists who like that term. And a coherent system for us is simply just a system you get by fixing a function, and then you act with a class of operators. And what you can see is we are acting with a class of scaling operators and a class of translated operators. Now, the crucial definition in wavelet theory is that of a wavelet, and a wavelet is simply a particular choice of the function psi such that these functions psi jk form an orthonormal basis for l two of r.
00:08:42.994 - 00:09:26.884, Speaker B: And if this is satisfied, then we have exactly the presentation that we spoke about yesterday. This is what you see in the third line from below. This is exactly the presentation of elements in l two in terms of the chosen autonomous basis. And waiver theory had its highlight maybe in the nineties and year 2000 and maybe ten years more than that. But actually the very first wavelength was constructed in a completely different context by Ha in 1927. And this is what you see in the last line. This is the characteristic function for the interval zero to one, two minus the characteristic function for the interval half to one.
00:09:26.884 - 00:10:17.828, Speaker B: And the half wave is constructed using a procedure that is called multi resolution analysis. I think that most of you will be familiar with multi resolution analysis, and this is actually exactly the part that I cut out of the talk. So there's a procedure which is this MIA analysis, the multi resolution analysis. And this is a procedure that simply, given a certain number of conditions, it produces a wavelength. And the haw wavelet, even though it was constructed directly in 1927, it can actually also be constructed using the multi resolution analysis, starting with a so called scaling function, which is simply the very first b spline. So that means the very first b spline b one is actually the starting point. You can consider it as a starting point to construct the very first wavelength.
00:10:17.828 - 00:11:21.382, Speaker B: Of course, later people have been constructing wavelengths with much better properties. For example, the famous ones that I guess you have guess you have heard about, namely the Tugosi wavelets, are the ones that are typically used in image processing and in signal processing in general. But what we do here is actually to focus on the beach primes. So, as said, the very first b spline b one actually is the one that generates the high wavelength. And this somehow lead to natural questions, because also, at the time of this wavelength revolution, battle and Le Maurie proved that you can do similar things with higher order balance. So no matter what order b spines you look at, you can construct a wavelet of the form what you see in the fault line, namely a wavelength, which is infinite sum of some coefficient ck times the b spline Bn scaled, you can see there's a factor of two. So that means you are, you're applying a scaling to the b spline, and then you are translating it and you are making a sum or certain translates.
00:11:21.382 - 00:12:02.684, Speaker B: And they are actually very beautiful functions. But the problem with these wavelengths, and I think the reason that they are not applied much in practice, is that they don't have compact support. And the reason is that you can prove that, except for this very first case that you saw here on the bottom of the page, except for that case, all the coefficients are actually non zero. And this means that the wavelength that comes out of this will be supported on the entire line. And this is, of course, not very nice for fabrications. They are decaying, but they are just with support equal to r. While WC actually got famous because the constructed wavelength will with compact support and arbitrarily high numbers of vanishing moments.
00:12:02.684 - 00:13:02.514, Speaker B: And this is a point where we can start to explore all these freedom we got in the frames yesterday, because I was advocating a lot for frames and saying that we gain a lot of freedom corresponding to autonomous bases. So the natural question is, can we actually obtain spline wavelets with compact support? That means, can we obtain something that looked like what we have in line free, but just with a finite sum, so just with a finite number of coefficients that are non zero. It could be that we could do that using read spaces or frames. That would of course be a strong argument for the frame theory that we discussed yesterday. And this is the question that we'll ask now, can we do better for n greater than one? So for n equal to one, this is the b spline b one. And then you already have the heart wave. So for that one, we can get compact support, but can we also get it for n greater than one? And the first question would of course be, can we do it without all the frame theory? So, can we construct a more clever, autonomous.
00:13:02.514 - 00:13:36.214, Speaker B: The sad answer is, we cannot. It simply does not exist. There does not exist on autonomous basis generated by a function that is a finite linear combination of the type that we are looking at. But we shouldn't get too depressed about that, because we have several levels of generality ahead of us. The next question could be, can we then at least construct a tight framework? Unfortunately, the answer is that we cannot construct a tight frame either. But the tight frames are not the only thing that we can look for. We can, of course, look for general frames also.
00:13:36.214 - 00:14:09.346, Speaker B: Unfortunately, the answer is also that we cannot construct a pair of dual wavel frames such that both of them are finite linear combinations of the time we are looking at. So it somehow seems that the procedure is in vain. We don't really get anything from frame theory. And you might ask about what about respaces are then just a special case of what we are stating in the last bullish record. Spaces are a special case of frames. So also for the reach basis, we cannot do anything. So it seems that the program is not really giving us anything.
00:14:09.346 - 00:15:00.784, Speaker B: But then Ron and Shen got a very nice idea at the end of the nineties, and it was actually absolutely a breakthrough in wavelength theory and also in frame theory at a time. So what they did was to take exactly the conditions that we use to construct a wavelet using the multi resolution analysis. But then, instead of just constructing one wavelet, they actually decided to aim for a construction of a collection of wavelets. So that means they would look at a wavel frame that you get by taking one function that you could call Psi one. And then you look at the corresponding wavelength system, and then you put that system together with a waveless system that is generated by a function psi two. And then you continue with as many functions you need. And this is exactly what you see here.
00:15:00.784 - 00:15:49.224, Speaker B: So they are having a setup saying that we choose a function psi zero in l two, and it should have two properties. The first one is that it is what we call refinable. And this is a concept that those of you who know multi resolution analysis, you know that very well. What it means is that we can find a bound function h zero such that if we evaluate the function psi zero Fourier transform in two times gamma, it is simply equal to h zero in gamma, multiplied with the fluid frame form of size zero, also evaluated in gamma. So this is a classical scaling equation that you have exactly the same as in multi resolution analysis. And then there is a condition two, which just says that the Fourier transform should behave nicely when gamma changes to zero. So the function tends to one actually.
00:15:49.224 - 00:17:11.500, Speaker B: But then with this setup, you are considering function h one up to some h in, and then you define function psi one up to psi in by the formula that you can see in the last line, and you can see this formula is very similar to what we had in the first point of the setup, except that the function that comes out should no longer be related to psi zero, but it is this function psi L Fourier transform, that is given by the expression that we see here, and exactly that what you see in the last line. This is exactly the way the wavelength is constructed in multiple resolution analysis. So the difference here is that we don't just have one function psi, but we have a collection of functions psi, one, two, three, up to n. What came out of the analysis was a so called extension principle. And why do we call it an extension principle? I didn't ask the authors why they did it, but I think the reason is that for the classical multi resolution, you really just construct one function. So therefore, in classical multi resolution analysis, you don't have this index l, but we could put the index, but then you just have the PSI, and then with index one, because there's only one function. And then the idea by Ron and shen is that then you can decide to construct one more function, psi two, by that formula.
00:17:11.500 - 00:17:56.774, Speaker B: And then you can see if you can make the setup work. And if that does not work, then you can add a third function, type three, and you can continue like this. And then it turns out that you can actually formulate a condition for this system that comes out to generate a tight frame. And it will be formulated in terms of these functions hl, these filter coefficients that you might call them. And if you put them together in a big matrix, the unitary extension principle can actually be formulated as a, as a matrix condition where you can just, you can just add one more column, one more row all the time, time by time in your big matrix. And then if it does not work, then you add more and more rows until you, you get something that works. So this is the basic idea that they're doing.
00:17:56.774 - 00:18:37.332, Speaker B: But, but for the simplified version that comes out of it, you actually don't need to think about this matrix. So you don't need to think about this matrix extension problem, because you can formulate the outcome very nicely, saying that these functions psi L that we are looking at, they are wavelength systems. When we put them together, then they are constituting a tight frame. If the two highlighted conditions are satisfied. That means if you take the functions h l in absolute value to the power two, and you make the sum or all of them, and you get one, and then you can see the second condition is very similar. It is just that there is still a function hl, but the second one is shifted by a half. But except for that, it's a similar condition.
00:18:37.332 - 00:19:26.824, Speaker B: But in that case, you need to get zero instead. So if these two conditions are satisfied, then you can actually construct this tight frame, this tight multi weighted frame, because now you have several functions that generate the system. And this is a very nice principle that actually gives a solution to the problem that we had before, because I was telling you that for the b splines, we can really not get, get wavelets with compact support. But if you apply it just on the b splines, b two, then it turns out that you can make this procedure work, and you can make work with just two functions. So you have a function h l, where l is one or two, and then you have the corresponding function, psi one and psi two. And these functions become very nice. In the case of the b spline, there are several choices, but you can, for example, take the two functions that you have here.
00:19:26.824 - 00:20:03.392, Speaker B: So you see, you get this compact report that you're interested in, and you can actually do it for any order of b splines. So you might be interested in higher order b splines, because then you get smoother functions. So I'm just stating it here for the case of the b spline, b two. But I said you can do it for all order of the b splines. And this was something that made people very, very happy at the end of the nineties. So when you went to conferences, this was really the, the main thing that people were speaking about. Of course, you never get anything that has no negative sides.
00:20:03.392 - 00:20:52.876, Speaker B: And one negative side is that if you want to get nicer functions, you're doing it with higher order b splines. And then their support size actually increase. And not only they increase, but also when you apply the unitary extension principle directly, you get a higher number of generators. Also, Ron and Chen actually did some tricks later joined with Binhann and Dubeshi, where they could show that they could actually, even though the construction as such gives more generators, they can actually squeeze it down to sometimes two generators, sometimes three generators. But there are a couple of conditions in that procedure. And also, if you do that, this also increases the support of the functions. So I would rather say that this is something that was maybe a bad surprise, but not a too bad surprise.
00:20:52.876 - 00:21:51.004, Speaker B: But the real bad surprise is what you see in the second highlighted bullet. And if you know about wavelength analysis, you'll also know that the reason that she got so famous for her construction was that she could make wavelengths with arbitrarily high numbers of vanishing orders. Vanishing moments because the vanishing motors are the one that led to very good compression processes. And what we can see here, but it actually, Ronan showed it later, that if you do this procedure, the unitary extension principle, and you do it on the b splines, then at least one of these wavelengths that come out can actually only have one vanishing moment. And that means at least one of the functions will have quite bad approximation properties. And this is somehow killing the idea of using these functions in practice, because they are not doing it for the fun of mathematics, they are doing it because they want it to be applicable in practice. So this is really a not too nice thing.
00:21:51.004 - 00:22:38.256, Speaker B: But of course, mathematicians, they don't give up that easily. And later, as I say, joined with Dubai and Binhen, then they made another principle that is called the oblique extension principle. And the interesting thing about this is that it is actually equivalent to the unitary extension principle. So these two principles will give you exactly the same classes of waveless. But in the unitary extension principle, there are constructions that have very good numbers of vanishing moments, but you just don't get easily access to them because the conditions are formulated in a way that you have to construct these filler functions, h one, h two, and so on. And when you do that in natural ways, you don't really get access to the wonderful construction. So they are there, but you just don't see them nicely.
00:22:38.256 - 00:23:30.696, Speaker B: But in the oblique extension principle, there's a certain parameter coming into the equations. And when you choose these parameters in a nice way, then automatically more interesting constructions with better approximation processes come out. So that means you actually also, in the unitary extension principle, get these good constructions, but you don't see them because you don't find them naturally, but they are there. And the Obi extension principle is the way to find them in practice. And then there's another version, and you can see that what I focused on so far was actually a construction of side frames. But Ron and Chen were also interested in what I spoke about yesterday, namely the dual pairs of wavelengths. And if you look at their work, there's also a version called the mixed oblique extension principle.
00:23:30.696 - 00:24:18.764, Speaker B: And this is a version where you actually get a pair of dual frames coming out. And one reason that this is nice is that in the classical construction of the unitary extension principle, you actually need to do a spectral factorization, which somehow means that you, you need to extract a square root of a trigonometric polynomial. And this is something that is, there are procedures to do it, but it is not, it is not something you want to do in practice. And the mixed oblique extension principle actually avoid that problem. So this is all mathematics. But I think the last step of what I explained here was done around 2004 2005. But since then, Suva Shin actually have been working intensively with what we have been speaking about here.
00:24:18.764 - 00:25:18.686, Speaker B: It's wrong to say that it's not from the mathematical point of view, because it is clearly strong mathematics that he's doing. But the focus has been to explore its applications within image analysis. And when he keeps talking about it, he always say that, of course, he says that they are very applicable in image analysis, but he also compare them to other methods in image analysis, for example, these variational methods and PDE methods. There are some people who prefer these methods, but then he claimed that they actually correspond to special cases of his frame methods. So he said, even though it is formulated in different language, then all these methods that other people are looking at, they are actually, in a certain sense, special cases of the UEP constructions, even though you don't see it. And that's, of course, a very strong argument for the work that he's done. So if you look at the papers, you can just search for Shen on Medsinate, of course, then 100,000 shens come up, but you should be able to find exactly that.
00:25:18.686 - 00:26:00.540, Speaker B: Schen, if you do that, then you will find many papers about applications to image analysis and restoration of images and video compression and whatever kind of things that you want to do. As you know, this is not the kind of things that I'm an expert in. So I just tell it to you in case that this is your focus area. So I think it's very exciting, mathematic, and it's also very exciting that it actually can be applied. This is what I wanted to say about the wavelets. But we have a second goal for today, namely the Gaba frames. And Gaur frames are somehow developed in a parallel way to the wavelength frames.
00:26:00.540 - 00:26:35.866, Speaker B: If you go back to, again, the eighties and the nineties, then most people were actually doing both things. So if you look at the wonderful survey paper by Chris Heil and David Walnut, then they had a section about waveless. They had a section about GaBA analysis. If you look at the papers by Dogashi, even though she got very famous for the wavelength contribution, then the same happened her book, and also for her papers, that there was a section about construction of wavelengths. There was a section about GaBA analysis. So it was done completely parallel at that time. Then they somehow split into two different directions.
00:26:35.866 - 00:27:39.306, Speaker B: But again, nowadays there's actually a pattern in analysis. That bring them together, because there's the analysis of the so called generalized shift invariant systems. And generalized shift invariant systems form a very broad class of function systems, and they contain Gava systems as special cases and wavelength systems as special cases. So there's this way that somehow unite the theories again, but they, as I say, they somehow split around the middle of the nineties, I would say. But you will see in the presentation that I give here that there are several things that are similar, and that's of course the reason that they were treated together at the very beginning. So the first similarity that you see is just in the definition of the Gava system, because you can write down the Gava system completely explicitly. And if you do that, you will see that you fix a certain function t, which is called the window, and then you translate it by na for a certain parameter a at, where you let n run through all integers.
00:27:39.306 - 00:28:26.414, Speaker B: That means you simply shift the function back and forth on the real axis with this parameter a and a plus minus two a, and so on. Then you multiply these functions with the exponential functions e to the two PI I m b x, where also m is running through the integers, and also b is a fixed parameter. And the reason that I say that this is similar to the weighted system is that this is again something that can be written as a coherent system. This is what you see in the last system. It simply means that you are looking at the fixed function g, and then you act with a translation operators will index n a, and you act with the modulation operators with the index mb. So again, you have a collection of operators and you are acting on a single function. So this is again a special case of a coherent system.
00:28:26.414 - 00:29:18.252, Speaker B: Can you construct autonomous basis of this system? Like for the wavelengths we had the hard wavelength. The answer is also here that you can actually very easily construct an autonomous basis for l two of r. And what you do are not give all the details, but what you do is really elementary. If you look at the first line of the example, you simply take the Fourier basis for l two under intel zero one, and I write it as the complex exponentials. But then I multiply with the characteristics function on the interval zero one, just to emphasis that it is l two on zero one that we are dealing with here. And then what you do is you simply take this autonomy and then you shift it over the real axis. Then you get orthonormal bases for all intervals from n up to n plus one, wherein is an integer.
00:29:18.252 - 00:30:01.534, Speaker B: And then you simply take all these orthonorm bases and put them together. And what you can see in the third line of the of the example is that then the system that comes out is EMTN applied to the characteristic function where then m and n run through all the integers. So this is an also known basis for l two of r. And then again you can say, why should we worry about anything else? Because we have a nice GABA autonomous basis for l two of r. But the problem is that the function does not have nice process and applications. This is coming from the fact that the characteristics function is discontinuous. So GABA analysis is exactly like Wavelet, something that you very often want to apply in time frequency analysis.
00:30:01.534 - 00:30:48.988, Speaker B: And then that means the Fourier transform is playing the key role. But when you take the Fourier transform of this cartridges function, you get a function that has very bad decay because of the discontinuity of the function. So the conclusion is that even though we have apparently nice orthonormal basis for l two, then it is not very nice from the point of view of applications. And then we can again run the same procedure. We can say what will the frame theory do for us? So can we do better? And for sure we want to have continuity because we want the function to be applicable in time frequency analysis. So we actually want more than continuity, but at least we want continuity. And also compact support is something that we want in applications.
00:30:48.988 - 00:31:55.624, Speaker B: So the question is, can we make a GABA system with a continuous functional compact support as generator? And then the problem is that not only the function that I just, the system that I just showed you, but in general, such a system can never form an autonomous basis. We cannot do better if you insist on autonomous basis. What about re spaces? It also turns out that they cannot be reach bases. And then of course, when you think about what happened for waveless, where we could not do anything at all, we might be a little bit scared about the next step. But actually it turns out that if you take these parameters a and b that appear here, and you choose them such that the product is between zero and one, strictly bigger than one, strictly smaller than one, then they can actually form a frame, and we can construct such frames completely explicitly. And this is of course a very good news. And another good news is that actually for any choice of parameters a and b that are greater than one, greater than zero, and such that the product is smaller than one, you can actually construct GABA frames of this type.
00:31:55.624 - 00:32:46.626, Speaker B: But the bottom of line here is that if you want to have GABA systems with good properties, you actually need the frame theory. And this is, for me, again, a strong argument for all this theory that we developed yesterday. Let's speak a little bit more about the theoretical process for Gava system. It turns out that no matter what galva system you're looking at, if it turns out to form a frame, then the product of the parameters a and B has to be smaller than or equal to one. And the case AB exactly equals one plays a very particular role, which is actually very nice compared to what we discussed yesterday about the relationship between reach basis and frames. Because what it says is that if your gala system actually forms a frame, that means, you know, that absolutely is smaller than or equal to one, then it is reach based. Exactly.
00:32:46.626 - 00:33:30.186, Speaker B: If AB is equal to one. I think this is a very nice fact. You might also ask, how can you construct such frames in practice? And there's a statement here that would actually give you a sufficient conditions on the function g and on the parameters a and b, such that the GABA system that comes out is. So you can argue a little bit who developed this theory. So, actually, Ron and Shen are completely characterized GABA frames in the nineties. And they had a special case of their construction, which, if you write it down, then you get exactly the version that is here. I didn't know about that work as I did this theorem here.
00:33:30.186 - 00:34:11.454, Speaker B: I did it together with Pkcese also in the nineties. So. But we did it completely different. We didn't do it using the characterization of Ron and Chen. If you look at the two conditions, there's a condition on a number a and a number b, and they are the numbers that will actually play the roles of the frame bounds at the end. If you look at the expressions, they seem to be completely different, but actually they are completely parallel. So if you look at the way a is defined in the second last line, then you can see that in the two, in the big bracket, there appear two terms, and the last term is with a sum or k not equal to zero.
00:34:11.454 - 00:35:05.264, Speaker B: But if you look at that term for the excluded case, namely for k equal to zero, then you see that the term that appear there will be simply g of x minus na times the complex conjugate of t of x minus na. And then the last term k divided would be disappear. That means the term that you have excluded is exactly the sum of the absolute value of x minus na to the power two. And this is the term that is singled out. This is the one that you have as the first term in the expression for a. So what happened here in the expression for a is that you have this term that is just the square of the translates of t minus all the other terms. But if you change this minus two a plus, then what you will get is exactly the condition that is stated for the b.
00:35:05.264 - 00:35:42.752, Speaker B: So actually the conditions for a and b are absolutely parallel. Both of them are starting with this term, the sum of p to the power two translated, and then they are of the form plus minus this sum that we have k not equal to zero. And then the rest of what you see in the expression of. So they are really the same expression. It's just that you can write it much easier for the case of b, but for the case of a, you really need this minus one thing. That is very nice. And it is actually very apparent, much more apparent when you look at the condition on the parameter a.
00:35:42.752 - 00:36:33.404, Speaker B: If you think about a function g that has compact support, then you can see that the second expression actually completely disappear if the b is chosen small enough. Because if b is chosen small enough, then it means that in the second expression in a, you are looking at the function g in the first term, and then in the second one, you are shifting, it will k divided with b, where b is one, two, three, or minus one, minus two, and so on. And this means that if b is a very small parameter, then you are taking this function and you are shifting it with a huge amount. And this tells you that if the function d has come back to port, then actually this term disappear. And of course the same will happen with the b. Also the expression in the b. So that means we really get something that just has to do with the first term in the expression for a.
00:36:33.404 - 00:37:33.722, Speaker B: And this is telling us that when we are looking at functions with compact support, this is actually a very applicable theorem, because it's very easy to construct functions. Let's satisfy this. And for example, one thing that is very easy is to apply it to the b splines. And if you do that, and this is actually an exercise that all of you can do in very short time, you will be able to show that both of these b splines that we looked at at the beginning, namely the one I started with and then the one that I centered, I moved them so they were symmetric. Both of them actually generate cover frames in certain domains, namely in the domain where a is running through the Internet from zero to n and b is running in the domain from zero to one divided by n. So you can think about it like if you picture it, you can take b along the x axis, and you can take a along the y axis. Then what is coming out here is simply a small box of parameters where you know that you get a frame, and this box is touching at the endpoint.
00:37:33.722 - 00:38:23.914, Speaker B: It is touching exactly this curve that we have, a b equal to one. So what? I already told you that in order to have a GabA frame, the product a b needs to be smaller than or equals one. But this box is going up and hitting exactly this point. You can see when intends to n and b is tending to one divided by n. Then the product is tending exactly to this limit value one. A very natural question is, of course, can you do better than this? So can you actually characterize the a and b such that b and generates a GabA frame? And if you have not looked at this question before, you might think that this is probably something that is within reach. There are so many things that we have been able to characterize in mathematics, so why not also characterize this? But it's actually something that is extremely difficult and the answer is not known.
00:38:23.914 - 00:38:52.424, Speaker B: So if some of you are curious, you can of course start to look at it. It would be wonderful to have more information about this question. I just tell you that, that it is very clear. That is a very, very hard question that we have here. So let's look at what happened for the case of the b spline b two, just as an example. And then there are a couple of results known. First of all, if you put in the b two, the b two is a function that has support of length two.
00:38:52.424 - 00:39:29.404, Speaker B: And this actually means that no matter what parameter b you're choosing, then the system cannot form a frame whenever a is greater than or equal to two. And this is something you can see directly from the system, because you're taking this function of with a support of length two, and then you are shifting it with a parameter a. But then if a is greater than two, then somehow you're getting holes in the real line. You cannot cover everything in the real line. That means it's impossible to get something that spans the l two on the real line. So the first part is actually easy, that it cannot be a frame. If a is greater than or equal to two, the other one is much more.
00:39:29.404 - 00:40:18.854, Speaker B: It's not something that is complicated to prove, but you need to get the right idea to do it. So in that sense, it is complicated. So it was proved by four guys in 2002. And what it says is that if you're looking at very particular cases for the modulation parameter b, namely the positive integer two, three and so on, then you cannot get a frame for any a that is greater than zero. And this means if you're, again, looking at this coordinate system, where you have the a along the x axis and you have the b along the y axis, then there are certain lines, these b equal to two, b three, b four, and so on, they are simply excluded. So that means it cannot be somehow a continuous set that come out of it, because there are these gaps where you know for sure that the frame property cannot be there. And this was actually the status for many years.
00:40:18.854 - 00:41:01.838, Speaker B: It's not true that nobody did any progress. So there are a couple of people who have done something. And for example, together with my korean cohort, I found a small triangle that can be added to the set. But I'll say that no really big progress had been done on the problem for a long time. But then, in 2014, kreutzening actually formulated a conjecture, which, when we stated for the b spline B two, says that we conjecture that we get a frame except for these shortcomings that we have seen. So on. Namely, we know that AB needs to be smaller than one, we know that the translation parameter has to be smaller than two, and we know that B cannot be the integer two, three and so on.
00:41:01.838 - 00:41:50.314, Speaker B: So you conjecture that that would be the only shortcomings. And you might think that this is a very brave conjecture, and in a certain sense, it is also a brave conjecture. But I think. I didn't ask him, but, but I think there's a very good reason for his conjecture, namely that when you look at the B spline, b two, b three, b four, and all the higher order piece plants, they actually belong to the so called modulation space by vitinga. And this is a space that is known to have very nice properties in connection with GABA analysis. And therefore, somehow it's natural to expect that also the frame set, the set of parameters that give you frames, will be very nice. And therefore, from that point of view, it's natural to conjecture that everything except for these shortcomings that we have seen, would actually give us a framework.
00:41:50.314 - 00:42:43.656, Speaker B: But it turned out it was wrong, and it was proved by Nielsen and Denbigh in 2016. So they actually identified first some points, some very particular points inside the domain where the frame property would break down. And then later, by Jacob Lemblich himself, he proved that it's not only points that have to be excluded, there are actually certain curves that have to be included. So that means inside this domain that Golzig was conjecturing would work, then there are whole curves that simply break down. But you can imagine when there are curves that break down, there are also a lot of positive results about places where things actually work. But now there are entire curves where we know that it breaks down. And it somehow tells you that probably it is out of reach to make a very explicit and nice characterization of, of the solutions.
00:42:43.656 - 00:43:25.754, Speaker B: I mean, what are the parameters that we can use? It's, as I say, a very, very interesting question. But to get a result that in a nice way cover everything, seems to me to be very difficult to get. And to illustrate that, why don't we go a step back? So we have been looking at the B spline b two. What about going back and look at the B spline b one again? So the B spline b one is just a characteristic function for, for the intel zero one. But let's look at it more generally and say let's take the characteristics function for an intel zero c, and then we apply the Gauss system. And then we are asking for, this is the famous ABC problem. What are the parameters of the a, B and C source that we get? Frame.
00:43:25.754 - 00:44:13.974, Speaker B: And the analysis of this was initiated by Gude Janssen in 2002. And he provided something that was called, and he's very famous for that, a so called Jensen Tire, because he made graphical illustration of this result. You can search for it, Jensen Tyre, then it will come up and it is a graphical illustrations of the pattern that will give you either frames or not frames. So I'm not showing you the tie and I'll not show you his entire result, I'll just provide one slide. He gave eight conditions that he could solve, and I just state six of them here. And just by looking at them, you can see why I don't go into details, because this will take a whole lot of time to discuss these conditions in details. And as I say, he had two more cases that were a little bit more complicated to formulate.
00:44:13.974 - 00:44:44.300, Speaker B: But he could actually, in these eight cases he could characterize whether you had frame process or not. But it was far away from the full solution. And of course, everybody at that time wanted to provide the full solution. And this problem has been solved in the meantime by Kyushan, by going to forcing cases. And he published it in a paper with a length of 88 pages. And this is what happened. Just when you put in the cartoonistic function of an interval, then you have to spend 88 pages to solve it.
00:44:44.300 - 00:45:27.334, Speaker B: And it's not even very explicit, it's something where you more or less have a decision tree where you can say, if this is the case, then you go to a next step in the tree, and then if this is the case, you go to the next step. And then either, depending on which way you're going in the tree, either you get a positive solution or a negative solution. So it's not something that is very explicit, but theoretically it is a solution to the problem. So the first order B spline is very complicated. And my fear is that also b two and the higher order beast lines will be along the same lines. Maybe not exactly as bad as the characteristics function, but I guess it would be a hard question. Also, this was a little bit about explicit constructions.
00:45:27.334 - 00:46:10.004, Speaker B: What about other things that we discussed yesterday? We spoke about duality for Gaba framers. So let's assume that we have a Gaba frame. Then we know exactly how the frame decomposition look like. Remember that for the frame decomposition, we had to have coefficients given as inner products between the given element and then the inverse frame operator acting on the frame. So what you see in the very first line, first displayed line, this is exactly the the Gaba frame decomposition. And it does not look nice, because you have to apply the inverse frame operator to the collection of operators with modulation and translation. But the nice thing in the Gaba case is that these operators, they actually commute.
00:46:10.004 - 00:47:36.482, Speaker B: So you can take the operator s to the minus one and move it in onto the operator s to the minus one. But still, this is not a perfect thing, because even though g might be chosen as a very nice function, what about s to the minus one g? How can we control the properties of that function? So for me, this is the point where I say, I would rather give up on the canonical dual frame, because then we have to deal with s to the minus one g. So why not go for this flexibility that we had yesterday and speak about construction of dual pairs instead? So why not, instead of just constructing one frame and hope that the dual is nice, why don't we simply construct two GabA systems from the beginning such that they form dual frames? And then we right away get this decomposition that you see in line four. And the nice thing here is, again, the people that I've been mentioning again and again today, namely Ron and Shin and Jensen, they have actually been characterizing pairs of dual frames. So what you see here is that if you pick two parameters, a and b, and you pick two functions g and h, then the Gava systems actually form dual frames, even only if the displayed equations are satisfied and they're not easy, especially if you look at functions with unbound support. They're very hard to deal with. But if you look at functions with compact support, they actually boil down to a finite number of equations.
00:47:36.482 - 00:48:41.844, Speaker B: So they are by no means prevalent. But the smaller the supporters of your functions, the more you can actually handle these equations. So from my point of view, what I would like to say is let's fix a nice function g and then search for another nice function h such that these two functions generate dual frames. And why not look for a function h that has a similar structure as the function g? So my suggestion would be to say, why not look at a function hypothetical that has a form of a linear combination of translates of the given function t. The reason for that formula is that if you have chosen the function t to have nice properties, for example, to have compact support, then it is clear from the expression for h that also the function h will have compact support. And if you choose g to be a function that is 100 times differentiable, then the function h will also be 100 times differentiable. So there are so many things where you can directly verify conditions on the age based on this formula and on corresponding properties for the function d.
00:48:41.844 - 00:49:32.022, Speaker B: So I analyzed this question in 2006, and what I proved is that if you start with a function that is real, valued and bounded, and then it satisfies these two highlighted conditions. Namely, the support should be contained in the interval from zero to n, and the partition of unity should be satisfied. The sum of all translates should be equal to one. Then if you take the translation parameter a to be one, and you take a b that is sufficiently small, namely smaller than one divided by two n minus one, then the procedure actually works. You can see this highlighted expression for the function h. This is simply a linear combination of the function of the type that I was mentioning. And why did I put conditions of exactly that type? This is because they are the type of conditions that we know are satisfied for the b splines.
00:49:32.022 - 00:50:03.346, Speaker B: As we discussed the b splines, we saw exactly that. The end order b spline has support on zero n, and we saw also that it has the partition of unity probability. So it's simply tailored to the b splines. And the reason that the theorem looked like this is as I wanted to derive a theorem. Of course, I was trying to make calculations with concrete functions. So I was looking at the b spline b two, and then simply by hand trying to identify a dual. And then it turns out that I made a construction that worked.
00:50:03.346 - 00:50:37.286, Speaker B: And then by looking at that construction, I could see that it followed exactly the pattern of the age that we see there. So if you look at the statement, you can see that it is actually not complicated. There are not too many assumptions, and it's very explicit. And if you look at the proof, you'll also see that the proof is actually not complicated. It's about getting the right idea, but it's not a technical, complicated proof in that sense. But still, it is the most expensive theorem I ever derived in the sense that it's the one I spent the most time on. It took me three years to get that theorem.
00:50:37.286 - 00:51:11.546, Speaker B: And of course, this is a classical thing that maybe a construction comes out. And it looked very nice at the end, and it's very simple at the end, but it's about finding the right idea to make it, and that part of the procedure can take a whole lot of the time. And this is exactly what happened here. But as I told you, it worked very nice for the bee splines, and you get very nice joules. So here I just write in line three, I write exactly how the joule look like for the case of the b splines. And what you can see, the h is a finite linear combination of functions with a compact support. So it has compact support.
00:51:11.546 - 00:51:48.242, Speaker B: And also, because you know the Fourier transform for the function, for the b spline bn, you can also calculate the Fourier transform for H. So I think it's nice. And here are some figures you can see, again, the dotted figures show the bees blinds, b two and b three. And then you see the jewels. I like the Merrimac. But then my good colleague Peter Mercier pust looked at them and said, why are they so, so skew compared to the b spines? He didn't like that. And then I went back to the desk together with my colleague Rayon Kim from Korea, and we actually made a similar construction, but with more flexibility.
00:51:48.242 - 00:52:11.492, Speaker B: And then we actually managed to. To get something that is symmetric. You can see the blue curve here. They are the symmetric duals of the red curves. I can see that Ilya went back online, and I know this is because I spent a couple of minutes more than I should. Sorry for that. I will stop here and then we will attack some open problems tomorrow.
00:52:11.492 - 00:52:12.524, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:52:12.684 - 00:52:14.944, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Let's thank Colin.
00:52:15.364 - 00:52:16.264, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:52:18.074 - 00:52:32.914, Speaker A: Questions? Comments? Suggestions? Well, if there are no questions, let's. Thankfully, again, thank you. And.
