00:00:00.360 - 00:00:44.236, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 20 May 2021. Alright, everyone, the day after, the day after the big crash of 2021, biggest crash that we have had since COVID since I guess, March 2020 here. So let's, let's take a look at what happened. So something that I've been seeing people talk about a lot over the last 24 hours was how well the Defi ecosystem handled the crash, because, you know, there's always a lot of talk about Defi and how risky it is. And basically, you know, how these cascading liquidations means that a lot of stuff can become under collateralized or there's not enough liquidity in the system. You know, all these concerns and there are legit concerns.
00:00:44.236 - 00:01:32.114, Speaker A: It's not just like people trolling and trying to like poke holes and things that, that shouldn't be kind of poked holes into. Uh, but I think it handled it extremely well. Uh, even georgios here from, from paradigm put out this tweet and he said, is nobody going to talk about how well Ethereum's defi ecosystem handled the cascading liquidations these days now, you know, go back a year and guess what happened. Well, I mean, you don't have to guess what happened. If you remember what happened in March of 2020, the Makerdao system, one of the most popular, or the most popular way to get leverage in DeFi, actually became under collateralized because the keeper bots that were meant to bid on the collateral once positions went, you know, were under collateralized and needed to be liquidated, they didn't work as they, they should have. Right. And of course they need to print more MKR tokens to cover the shortfall and all this sort of stuff, and people got hurt.
00:01:32.114 - 00:02:08.538, Speaker A: Now, I haven't heard a story of anything within Ethereum defi of people losing kind of any money they shouldn't have or things not working as it should have. And even all the L2 things are working quite well as well. I saw Dy DX and loop ring and diversify. All that sort of stuff worked really, really well as well. So, um, and this is, I guess this is a testament to how far we've come in the DeFi ecosystem, right? And how well we've, we've built this, this stuff and how resilient we've built it. Because at the end of the day, you know, if this stuff isn't built to survive those, those massive crashes, then it is not a proper financial system. And I actually think that, you know, we survive this without circuit breakers.
00:02:08.538 - 00:02:52.520, Speaker A: Like for those of you who may be aware, in traditional finance, in the stock market, there's these things called circuit breakers that actually stop a particular stock or, or an index or whatever from going too high or too low. So if it's, if it's dumping really quickly, it actually puts a trading halt on, you know, let's hyper kind of re gather themselves up and basically, you know, I guess clean the leverage out of the system more gracefully and things like that, and then trading restarts. Now, this doesn't happen in crypto, obviously. There are no circuit breakers. There is nothing like that. If the price is falling, it can fall very, very quickly due to these cascading liquidations, which is exactly what happened yesterday when, you know, we fell down to an $1800 ETH or I think it was about $1,900 and a $30,000 bitcoin. Huge dumps across the board.
00:02:52.520 - 00:03:16.174, Speaker A: And we had a lot of, I guess, like volatility after that. You know, the volatility continued to. Today I woke up and the price was back to like 2200 after going at like 2700. And now we're back at like 2900. And yeah, the volatility is still quite crazy, but Defi is handling it well. Yes, the fees got out of hand or whatever, but that is part of the system, right. The fees are just, I think, I think like for end users are a temporary thing.
00:03:16.174 - 00:03:54.766, Speaker A: Once we get L2s live and everything like that, it's going to be all fine there. But I did want to kind of like give a shout out to Chainlink for, for the, for their oracles. Because Chainlink oracles power a lot of this ecosystem. They power all the ave markets, they power a lot of the other kind of money markets out there and a lot of other things. And they handled this crash very gracefully. All the price fees updated as they should and everything ran just fine. So, you know, chain Link, I think we're the real MVP's without because at the end of the day, if you have oracles that don't update correctly or up, you know, have a wrong update or take too long to update or whatever, it introduces systemic risk into the defi ecosystem.
00:03:54.766 - 00:04:36.594, Speaker A: So I think chain link, where the real MVP's here and chandling, God replied kind of like with, with a breakdown here that the, the data feed. The data feeds just updated everything like business as usual. There was, there was kind of nothing, nothing going on here. And for those who don't know, chain link aggregates a bunch of different feeds from different providers and kind of gives spits out a price based on that. And all that, you know, seems to have been green during the whole market downturn here, which is quite incredible, honestly. And I know it's still like they reduced the cost of it recently to post this oracle data on chain, but it's still quite expensive to do so. So, you know, even though the gas fees got up to like 2000 gray plus chainlink, Oracle's functioned very well there, which is really, really cool.
00:04:36.594 - 00:05:16.798, Speaker A: And, you know, Alan here, the founder of yield, basically, sorry, yield protocol here, and basically said that, put a tweet out, it said massive dip and not a single protocol blew up. Incredibly bullish. And of course, he was talking about protocols on Ethereum and not on other chains like Robert Leshner put out a kind of like, reply here, then said that Venus on BSc kind of blew up. But, yeah. So on Ethereum, nothing blew up like we did in March 2020. It was just, you know, I mean, it's kind of amazing, like how nothing, literally nothing blew up and everything went fine and, and the market sorted themselves out and everything like that. I really do think that that's an incredibly great indicator for the future.
00:05:16.798 - 00:05:39.762, Speaker A: And, and, and it instills trust in a lot of people, too. Right? It instills trust in not only individuals, but companies and institutions saying that this ecosystem is not a joke. Right. It is incredibly resilient. You can build products on here and you'll be fine. So I think that is, is an incredible testament to that. And I think one of the products that actually, uh, I guess, you know, survived the dip the best.
00:05:39.762 - 00:06:09.624, Speaker A: And one of the newer products was the flexible leveraged index from the index car pr. Now, for those who don't know, this is basically a tokenized leverage position that basically levers you up two times on ETH here. And this survived just fine. It didn't get blown up, you know, didn't get liquidated or anything like that. It functioned just fine. And I think, you know, there was a lot of concerns around this product saying that, oh, well, what's going to happen in a flash crash? Is it actually going to get liquidated? Right. Can can the system that's in place kind of like recolateralize fast enough? And it did.
00:06:09.624 - 00:06:52.510, Speaker A: It did. It worked flawlessly from everything I saw. So that's just another testament to these newer products that are out there right now that essentially, you know, aren't as battle tested and you only get battle testing by, you know, the last guess, the last 24 to 48 hours happening and all that good stuff. So yeah, just incredibly bullish overall to see such amazing kind of resiliency from the defi ecosystem as a whole here. So, yeah, I guess I'll leave it at that for now. I'm sure you'll see some more post mortems and not, not post mortems, but like more kind of like summaries of what happened, you know, how everything went so smoothly from different people. I mean, I know Chainlink, God has a bunch of different threads that he put together where he explains why Chainlink did so well and how their system is set up and all that sort of stuff.
00:06:52.510 - 00:07:22.100, Speaker A: So you can go check out his twitter for that, for that sort of stuff. And he's a good follow as well for all things chain link, that's for sure. So Sundeep from Polygon put out an interesting tweet where he said, I was talking to some market participants today and he was saying this yesterday. They were saying when the market went down from 3500 to 3000 to 2500 to 2000, blah, blah, blah. Crazy thing I noticed is that they talked about markets in ETH prices and not be BTC signs of mental flippenings before markets flip for real. Question mark. I thought this was interesting.
00:07:22.100 - 00:07:59.918, Speaker A: And I replied saying the ETH standard, right. Because I really do think that if you're talking about crypto native stuff, you're talking about ETH a lot of the time, not only because of deFi, but because ETH has become such an amazing asset to use within, you know, both in centralized exchanges and defi as collateral. Right, as money, as trading pairs. You know, everyone needs it to kind of pay gas fees and all that sort of stuff. So we're kind of having this thing where ETH is becoming the centerpiece of the crypto ecosystem as an asset and BTC is becoming this niche. And I've spoken about this a lot where I believe that BTC is a niche. It's, you know, it can be digital gold or whatever, and that's something that appeals to people.
00:07:59.918 - 00:08:28.814, Speaker A: But, you know, it's just, it's so small and it's so, I mean, it's not, it's not a bigger dream, right. I always like to say dream bigger dreams, and that's exactly what Ethereum and ETH are doing. Bitcoin is not going to have a defi ecosystem built on top of it. And, you know, whatever. I mean, I've seen some Defi products claiming to build on bitcoin, whatever that is, is going to be, you know, incredibly underwhelming. It's not going to be anything like the Ethereum defi ecosystem. And as we've seen lately, a lot of the other ecosystems out there, you know, a lot of the other chains are failing to gain traction.
00:08:28.814 - 00:08:47.956, Speaker A: I think, like, even BSc is actually falling apart right now. I've seen a lot of tweets about people saying that the. The chain's forking a lot. It's. It's. It, you know, if clients are having trouble keeping up with the head of the chain, which means that the chains becoming unstable and things like that. So, you know, not a great bedrock to build your products on, definitely.
00:08:47.956 - 00:09:29.282, Speaker A: And I think a lot of the serious defi devs out there aren't even touching BSc, which makes a lot of sense. And at the end of the day, if you want a BSc kind of like, experience with, you know, much more security and an ethereum aligned team, you go with Polygon, I think, right. You know, I mean, I've talked about Polygon a lot and about how, you know, it's not a roll up or anything like that. It is essentially a side chain or a commit chain, whatever you want to call it, to Ethereum, but a very politically aligned one. And one that's, you know, take security and user fund security seriously and isn't just, like, trying to block, you know, isn't unstable or anything like that. Actually has a lot of checks and balances in place for things like that. But, I mean, you guys know, I'm an advisor to Polygon, so I won't show too much there.
00:09:29.282 - 00:10:07.586, Speaker A: But I just think that, yeah, Ethereum and ETH are the center point of this entire ecosystem and will continue to be into the future. So Brian from Sora rare basically put out a tweet yesterday where they announced that they are scaling Sora, which is a NFT platform for, I think, football or soccer, whatever you want to call it here. They're doing it with starkware now. I think, you know, I've seen a few people be interested in this, in the daily way community and talk about this. So it's really cool to see that they are doubling down on a theorem here. They're not moving to another blockchain or an NFT blockchain, like a. Like, flow, which, I mean, you guys know, I don't really consider flow to be a blockchain or what.
00:10:07.586 - 00:10:29.334, Speaker A: They have to be nfts, but I won't go into that now. But his tweet mentions a, an interesting thing. So his tweet reads like, this, gas fees suck. But, but at Sorari, we. Sorrari, I think it's how you say it, anyway, we believe in open platforms and don't want to compromise on security. That's why we're doubling down on Ethereum with ZK rollups with Starkware. We're going to change the NFT game in July 2021.
00:10:29.334 - 00:10:55.070, Speaker A: I love teams like this. Like, honestly, these are my favorite teams in the entire space. Like, some of you may know I'm not really into sports or anything like that, so I don't follow that closely, but that doesn't matter to me. Like, Sora, I think, has gotten a lot of traction and a lot of people love sports, right? Especially football, soccer. So. And I just love that they're doubling down on Ethereum here and choosing to scale via L2 instead of going to another platform. These are the teams that actually understand what's going on.
00:10:55.070 - 00:11:30.508, Speaker A: You know, you know, there's others out there, obviously, immutable x I'm a big fan of, and gods unchained and all the partners that they have going on there. Um, you know, and I've spoken about before, it's like if you can get the low fees fast transactions on L2, Ethereum, then there is literally no reason to go to a new ecosystem. Like, it's much harder to go to a new ecosystem, another blockchain, or whatever you want to call it here. So yeah, I think that's really, really positive. But as they say here, this is going to be going live on July of 2021. So if you are a Soraria user, definitely this is relevant to you. You can go read the full kind of blog post here and description of like, what this is all about and how this is all going to work.
00:11:30.508 - 00:12:06.822, Speaker A: I will link in the YouTube description below. So Hayden Adams did a bit of a retrospective of the last 48 hours where he said, crazy day in crypto. How did UniSop perform? So there was no downtime, obviously, unlike most centralized exchanges, which most centralized exchanges did go down, I think FTX was the only one that didn't have any issues. Binance had issues, Coinbase had issues. You know, Bitmex and a bunch of other exchanges, I think had issues as well. But none of the Dexs on Ethereum did. And, you know, the gas fees were high, but as long as you paid the fees, you were fine, right? You could, you could use Uniswap.
00:12:06.822 - 00:12:32.184, Speaker A: So. And there was an insane all time high daily volume of $6.3 billion and $2.7 billion worth of volume in Uniswap v. Three alone on just 900 million TvL here. So. And as Hayden says here, the demand value prop of Defi is already very clear at this point, right? I mean, anyone who's doubting Defi right now, and I put a tweet out today where I said, if you don't believe in that defies the future, we can't be friends.
00:12:32.184 - 00:13:08.184, Speaker A: I mean, I said that as a joke. But seriously, if you are denying DeFi now, if you don't think it has a massive part to play in the future in terms of like financial instruments and all that sort of stuff there, then you're just not seeing it. Like, you're just not getting it and you're just gonna be left behind, uh, because DeFi keeps growing and it keeps growing at an exponential rate. The high fees haven't deterred the growth of Defi at all. I mean, I put out a screenshot today of crypto fees website where there was like really high fees on Ethereum and people were complaining, uh, like high fee revenue. People were saying, well, this is, uh, you know, this is actually not bad. Why are you bragging about this? I'm like, well, that's missing the forest for the trees.
00:13:08.184 - 00:13:58.974, Speaker A: Yes, obviously this prices out a lot of users, but at the same time, it shows that there's incredible demand for Ethereum and Ethereum based products, which means that once we get L2s up and running and people can like more L2s up and running with, you know, obviously arbitrams launching very soon, that generalize L2. We already have like awesome platforms, like Polygon, we already have awesome L2 platforms like Dy DX and optimisms coming and all these sorts of like diversify loop ring, you know, you know, the gist here, once we have that, I mean, it's, it's amazing because those wouldn't have gotten built without demand. Like, if there was no demand for Defi, if there was no pain points, if there was no scaling issues, then the L2s wouldn't have gotten developed and deployed. You can look back to when Gui was like, you know, under ten. There was no motivation to build a scaling solution. There was no motivation to build L2s. There just, it just didn't exist.
00:13:58.974 - 00:14:32.128, Speaker A: You don't build infrastructure before you have kind of demand at the end of the day because demand drives the building here. So I think, you know, when you react and see that and you're like, oh, it's pricing out users and everything like that. Just remember how early we are because it's the same thing as saying, oh, well, dial up Internet is, you know, pricing out users because it's more expensive. And it basically, if you want to get, like, the much better experience, the higher data caps and everything, like, it's super expensive. It's like, well, yeah, it was then costs came down over time. They always do with technology. It does not stay expensive, especially when there's this much demand for it.
00:14:32.128 - 00:14:51.058, Speaker A: So I think keeping that in mind is very important as we approach the rollout of L2s, as we kind of, like, get. Get more involved with this sort of stuff and. And have more growth here. But, yeah, crazy day for Uniswap. Crazy day for all the Dexs. I think Sushiswap did a bunch, a lot of volume as well, and a bunch of other Defi protocols out there. So really awesome to see that.
00:14:51.058 - 00:15:23.656, Speaker A: And I can't wait to see what, I guess, like, the total volume of this month shakes out to on decentralized exchanges. I bet it's going to be maybe as much as, like, the total volume of the rest of the year combined. But we'll have to see. There's still ten days, eleven days left of May. We'll have to see how that shakes out. So, speaking of Uniswap, John Palmer here announced that he has launched fish vote, which is an app to make Uniswap governance more accessible. So what fish vote let anyone do, is create a crowd proposal that others can support.
00:15:23.656 - 00:15:45.152, Speaker A: If proposal receives 10 million delegated votes, it becomes a formal uni governance proposal. So this is really cool. I think any tools that make protocol governance easier and democratize it further is. Is very welcome here, because, obviously, 10 million uni is worth a lot, right. I don't know what the current uni price is. Let's just say it's $30. It's probably not, but let's just say it is.
00:15:45.152 - 00:16:16.634, Speaker A: That means that it takes $300 million to kind of put up a proposal here. But what Uniswap allows people to do is delegate their uni tokens to people that they want to vote for them. Not give their tokens to them, obviously, but delegate their voting power, essentially. Now, we need tools to make that easier people to do. We need tools for people to go to and, like, view the proposals, view the people wanting to basically act as, like, I guess you could say, elected representatives for their uni tokens and things like that. And that's exactly what fish vote here is doing. And there's a bunch of other tools like this out there.
00:16:16.634 - 00:16:47.026, Speaker A: You know, snapshot is a very popular tool for governance. Right. The, the compound governance system as a whole is very popular and gets forked by a lot of different projects. There's a few others out there. The names escape me right now, but I think governance, Dow governance in general is going to be a very big theme over the next couple of years. It is becoming very serious as well because the treasuries of these dows is so big, and the apps themselves just keep growing and keep generating more and more cash flows for the protocol. I know I was talking about the index co op before.
00:16:47.026 - 00:17:07.260, Speaker A: Their revenues are growing every day. I think they're up to like $15,000 a day in revenue now. And that's just going to keep growing. And there's a bunch of other protocols out there that have more revenues than that. Obviously, Makerdao has stuff like that and, and, you know, the surplus of that goes to burning MKR tokens. But there are treasury kind of like proposals that go through as well. And then Sushiswap obviously pays it out to stakers.
00:17:07.260 - 00:17:50.698, Speaker A: I mean, there's so many of these protocols now. So governance is becoming extremely important. And being able to delegate your tokens to other people is becoming important because the barrier to entry, to entry on like fully on chain governance systems needs to be very high, you know, in terms of token requirement. Because if it's not, it means that just anyone can create a proposal and then it can be gamed and all this sort of stuff. So I think this is the right approach, making the, I guess like a minimum token amount required, like very large. Because then you have people basically acting as protocol politicians and vying for people to delegate their tokens to them so that they can basically do what they feel is the best, is in the best interest of the protocol. So, yeah, really cool to see these extra tools getting put out here.
00:17:50.698 - 00:18:08.466, Speaker A: I hope to see more of these, you know, built over time. I'm sure we will. Like, there's so, I mean, there's so many tools. Like, I'm just thinking of all of them now. I mean, there's a project that, uh, that I guess, like I came across on Twitter that I thought was interesting called orca protocol. Uh, they are doing a lot of stuff around governance. I mean, the governance space is just getting started.
00:18:08.466 - 00:18:49.986, Speaker A: I would say that we're still very early there. I know there were some early attempts from like, Aragon and, and some other projects, but I don't think that they've kind of gone anywhere. I think they were very, very early, not to say that they're bad or anything like that, but they were very early and it didn't, doesn't seem like they kind of like captured the mind share that. They hope they would, but it doesn't mean people are giving up here. So very, very cool to see this, and I hope to see more tools come out, not just for Uniswap governance, but for all kind of governance here. All right, so last up, we have a tweet that Scott Lewis put out today that I'm going to spend a bit of time going over. So essentially what he said was scammy ecosystems attract scammy co founders, and more scammy co founders create even scammier ecosystems.
00:18:49.986 - 00:19:39.038, Speaker A: Ethereum culture attracts authentic founders. Culture is a bigger moat than many realize. I've spoken about this a lot right in the past, both on the refuel and in my newsletter, where I basically say Ethereum culture is the most important thing that Ethereum has going for it. And it is the reason why Ethereum is number one still in terms of, like, usage as a smart contract platform and will remain number one into the future. You know, Ethereum has a lot of problems to solve, but it's not a perfect system. It has a lot of headwinds, but Ethereum will meet them head on and, and we have the right people to do that in the ecosystem. So what I want to do for the next few minutes is basically define a little bit of ethereum culture and contrast that with the cultures of other kind of chains and ecosystems out there and how they differ, and then bring it all back to why Ethereum wins.
00:19:39.038 - 00:20:39.086, Speaker A: Okay, so Ethereum culture, what is it? Well, I mean, at the core of it, it is open, right? Everyone is allowed to participate in the Ethereum ecosystem, whether you're a scammer, right? Whether you're a builder, whether you're a visionary. All of them are allowed to build an ecosystem. Not all of them are welcome, but all of them are allowed to build an ecosystem because Ethereum is a neutral platform, right? Ethereum has its fair share of scams, don't get me wrong. But in saying that, the Ethereum culture and ecosystem actively weeds out these scams and calls them out and makes sure to ignore them. And teams don't like working with them, right? So if you kind of look at the whole landscape, the top teams in this ecosystem are not scammers, right? The top protocols are not scams. The whole culture around what people use, what people trust their money to are not scams. So, and that, that just comes from the people within the ecosystem weeding out this sort of stuff, whereas there are other ecosystems out there which, which, on the face of it have either very, you know, have just outright scammy projects or very dodgy projects in general.
00:20:39.086 - 00:21:18.960, Speaker A: I'm not going to name any in particular, but you're going to obviously know what I'm talking about. But when you have ecosystems and chains where rug pulls are literally happening daily. Right, I know they happen on Ethereum, but they happen more so in other ecosystems, literally daily, where users are losing tens of millions, hundreds of millions, billions of dollars of funds. Right. You know, over time. And your ecosystem and your social layer isn't weeding this out, isn't calling this out, isn't caring about this, is actually encouraging this because you maybe have like ape culture where it's like, okay, you got rugged in this scam, just try another one, right? It's like a casino culture. And I've spoken about this thing before about how there's two separate kind of, I think, markets in this industry.
00:21:18.960 - 00:21:39.880, Speaker A: There's the casino market where there's people just playing in those markets, just, you know, putting it all on black, wanting to win big, whatever. They're not here for the fundamental side of things. But then there's the, the fundamental side and the fundamental culture. And these people are here for way more than money. They want to build world changing products at the end of the day. And I think Ethereum has a monopoly on that. And the other chains have monopoly on the casino stuff.
00:21:39.880 - 00:22:38.444, Speaker A: I think the other chains actually took away a lot of the scammy and casino stuff that was happening on Ethereum and kind of ported them over, which I, which I thanked them for. Like, I really hated a lot of that stuff that was going on, on Ethereum, but that, you know, that was, that was very healthy, I think, to happen. And kind of the Ethereum ecosystem essentially acted as like has an immune system, which basically forced out these scams and forced them into other platforms that didn't have that immune system, didn't have that culture, because you can think of it as kind of like a, I mean, I'm not going to use a virus, maybe, that it's too close to home, but you can think of it as something that, like, you have to weed out, right? And then you just basically push it onto a weaker organism. Like if you remove something from your system, right, and then it goes and infects a weaker organism, and that organism kind of like dies off because of it. Well, that means that they weren't as strong as, as the one that weirded them out. And that's exactly how I view a theorem culture. We weed things out, we get rid of this sort of stuff, we take ourselves seriously and we don't try to, we don't get bogged down by this sort of stuff.
00:22:38.444 - 00:23:09.016, Speaker A: And every time a hack happens, they, the ethereum ecosystem doesn't say, haha, lol. Okay, whatever. Let's move on to the next thing they do, post mortems, they try to make users whole. The rest of the projects learn from this. And that builds a very non scammy, non grifter ecosystem and a very kind of like great and strong social layer. And from what I've seen, the ethereum community, you know, in some instances, can sometimes be a little bit toxic, but generally is very welcoming and friendly. And I think that started from the very beginning.
00:23:09.016 - 00:23:49.934, Speaker A: And to keep that culture, I mean, it takes effort, right? The bigger, the bigger an ecosystem gets, the more chance it is to turn, I think, toxic, depending on how, I guess, community leaders treat this sort of stuff. There are a lot of community leaders within the ethereum ecosystem. I count myself, myself among those, and I try really, really hard not to be toxic. Like sometimes, you know, I might come across as a little bit toxic on Twitter or whatever. Sometimes I'll say things, you know, about different ecosystems that maybe come across as mean or whatever. But personally, I always try to be as non toxic as possible, and I always try to stick with the science and the facts, and I think that's what a lot of people in the ethereum ecosystem try to do. So this is exactly why ethereum culture is what it is.
00:23:49.934 - 00:24:42.098, Speaker A: That is why Ethereum has a monopoly on good culture, because you don't want to go to these other ecosystems because they just don't have that. Like, could you imagine someone, um, and I'll call out an ecosystem here, but just for an obvious example, but could you imagine a hardcore Ethereum builder who really believes in the Ethereum mission and vision going to BSC? Right? That's not going to happen. Like, and, and not even just a builder, but, like, anyone who's part of the Ethereum social layer, who really believes in the Ethereum mission, they're not going to BSc, right? They're never doing that because BSc does not, um, you know, uh, does not have what they want. And also, if they were to go there, basically they'd just be surrounded by all this crap that they don't want to deal with. Right. They don't want to be a part of. It's essentially like, um, you know, if you go there, you're, you're basically, you feel like you're part of a scammy ecosystem, and it feels really gross and ugly, and you feel like you're participating in something that is just really bad for humanity.
00:24:42.098 - 00:25:01.760, Speaker A: And maybe I'm being. Maybe I'm over exaggerating here. Maybe I'm being a bit hyperbole, hyper hyperbolic. I know I've said that word wrong. Someone's going to call me out for that, but whatever. But I really do believe that the culture, the social layer of these systems is way more important than people give it credit for. And that's why I think, you know, stuff like bitcoin, I think bitcoin social layer is completely broken.
00:25:01.760 - 00:25:21.336, Speaker A: It is incredibly toxic. They think it's a. They think it's a feature, that they're toxic. I think it's a bug. I think it's a reason why bitcoin continues to lose market share. And I think it's a reason why bitcoin continues to kind of, like, just fit in and fill into this kind of, like, very unimaginative niche that is digital gold. I think bitcoin could have been much more than what it was, uh, than what it is.
00:25:21.336 - 00:25:45.408, Speaker A: Sorry, but people wanted it to be what it is today. And, you know, the, the people left in that ecosystem are quite toxic. But anyway, I think I'm going to leave that at that for now. I think a lot of, you know, like, I guess, um, you know, a lot of this stuff because I've spoken about it on the refill before. I speak about it a lot on Twitter. Just follow the, the legit builders, follow the non scammy people. If you're, if you're here to make money, that's fine.
00:25:45.408 - 00:26:08.762, Speaker A: But there's making money and then there's gambling. Like, you can make money by not gambling. I mean, I know plenty of people who have done this. You know, they bought ETH, they stacked ETH, they bought Defi tokens that they believed in and everything like that. They built things, you know, even, even that. Like, you know, I know the, the bankless guys have done really well here, but in particular, they built a whole business around being legitimate Ethereum media, and they're. And, you know, they have a whole team now and everything like that.
00:26:08.762 - 00:26:42.946, Speaker A: And that was amazing to see. You know, personally, I was able to build wealth through, through just like fundamentals based investing and sticking to, to, to the ethereum ecosystem. And now I get to provide all this free education for all of you guys. Uh, and you know, I, I don't see that happening within the, you know, other ecosystems, right? I don't see the daily, you know, insert ecosystem here, right, or anything like that. I don't see, you know, uh, you know, a bankless, like any other ecosystem. I don't see all these social kind of layer things in these other ecosystems. And that's the major reason, I believe, why so many people stick with Ethereum and, and Ethereum is still home.
00:26:42.946 - 00:27:09.292, Speaker A: Even if they deploy to other chains or whatever, Ethereum is still home. Ethereum is still where everyone wants to be. The culture of Ethereum is unbeatable. It's incredibly welcoming. It's very hard to feel unwelcome in the Ethereum community unless you for some reason have done something to make yourself unwelcome. Like unless you ran a scam, right? Or unless you tried to run a grift on people, or unless you traded people like, you know, you're an asshole to them, whatever, it's just generally very hard to feel unwelcome. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that.
00:27:09.292 - 00:27:20.574, Speaker A: And I think that's it for today's episode. So thank you again everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
