00:00:00.960 - 00:00:18.494, Speaker A: What is up, everyone? Humble farmer Tykee here. And today I wanted to go over this concept of the mid curve airdrop fallacy. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe. And check out. The premium discord link will be in the description below. Prices will be going up tomorrow, so make sure to sign up now to lock in the lower rate. So let's get started.
00:00:18.494 - 00:00:51.700, Speaker A: So this is a bell curve meme, right? And we all. I mean, if you're in crypto, you must be aware of the mid curve, right? Here's me in the mid curve. I represent 68% of the population and I'm always struggling. And the left curvers, right, the 50 IQ people, they just ape into random stuff and they catch 1020 x's. And then the right curve, right, the 150 IQ, they're just smart and they're outperforming all of us. And the idea is that if you're in the mid curve, you underperform. If you're in the left curve or the right curve, you just outperform significantly.
00:00:51.700 - 00:01:21.770, Speaker A: And I started to notice a similar trend when it comes to aerodynamic. Think there's two types of people when it comes to. If you ask someone about airdrop farming, you're probably likely going to get two extreme types of responses. On one hand, you have people like me, humble farmers, people like you and I. It's like, okay, let's just try these new protocols out. We're getting points like, what the hell? And who knows? Maybe it's worth something at some point and maybe make a bunch of money. If not, it's okay.
00:01:21.770 - 00:01:52.328, Speaker A: That's kind of like one camp, and then the other camp says, airdrop farming is ruining crypto. We started with liquidity mining, now we're doing points. Farmers are getting farmed. Farmers are assholes. We kind of have the anti airdrop farming crowd, and they primarily tend to be eTh, maxis and VC's. And I'll talk about that later as well. The mid curve airdrop fallacy, which I'll go over later, is just a mental hurdle that people have that just prevent them from just picking up free money on the floor.
00:01:52.328 - 00:02:15.688, Speaker A: And when I say free money, I'm not saying, like, you know, this is, we have unlocked, or crypto has unlocked, like, a million dollar, like, infinite money printer glitch or. That's. That's not what I'm trying to say. Right. It's more the idea of instead of like, just holding capital on mainnet ether or like, l two s, you know, you can probably just farm more capital efficiently elsewhere. Because, you know, these protocols don't have tokens. Lots of things don't have tokens.
00:02:15.688 - 00:03:06.166, Speaker A: So you can, like, just stake USDC ether into some of these protocols, earn, let's say, five to 20%, like in native yield, and then at some point you'll get a token. I mean, like, why aren't people doing that, right? It's. It feels like a no brainer. So let's dive into this thread and let's talk about, I guess, my analysis on the airdrop farming meta and why we're here in the first place. And everyone's talking about farming, right? Me, other YouTube channels, if you just go look at, you know, if you, if you go to crypto YouTube and look up, I don't know, like, how to make money in crypto, chances are people are showing XRP Cardano and Airdrop farming, right? I mean, that's kind of like the meta of crypto YouTube. Like, how can, how can you blame those people, right? XRP people, right? They click those videos, they get, like, ad revenue. Cardano people, right? They get ad revenue.
00:03:06.166 - 00:03:33.556, Speaker A: Then Arizona farmer, like, YouTube videos, right? You know, we get a bunch of clicks. I don't run ads, but, you know, it's a. I do enjoy the clicks, right? I'm not gonna lie. Like, instead of paying $50 gas fees to swap assets on ethereum mainnet, people literally turn $50 into $10,000 by sticking Sol with Jito. One of my analysts that worked for me, he staked $80 with a Solana in one wallet and got like $13,000. I was in disbelief. I was so upset.
00:03:33.556 - 00:04:04.850, Speaker A: I was like, how did I miss this thing? And I've been talking about, this is, you know, the air. Sorry. This is like the Trojan horse for crypto adoption, because during the bear market, there's really no reason for retail to install metamask, download the Phantom wallet. There's no reason to go on chain unless you want to put on meme coins. And people like meme coins. But we all understand that meme coins are negative some games, and it's typically like, the insiders and influencers and, like, you know, whoever got inversed, they make the most of the money. So it's negative some.
00:04:04.850 - 00:04:49.998, Speaker A: It's pvP, and lots of people are kind of turned off by that. But when it comes to airdrop farming, we literally have people turning a little bit of money into a lot of money. And it's less PvP because we're not, I mean, these airdrop farmers we're not really buying tokens, pumping it and then dumping it as soon as we talk about it, right? And we saw this example with Satoshi VM recently where a bunch of crypto YouTube influencers got an allocation and stumped on their followers. And now there's like a. The whole drama around it, you know, like, I have no idea what the hell is going on, to be honest. But if you think about it, right, no reason to go on chain during the bear market. But now people are actually starting to make money, so now there's actually reasons to at least, you know, let's.
00:04:49.998 - 00:05:11.690, Speaker A: Let's try downloading the phantom wallet. Let's try downloading the Kepler wallet. The promise or the hopes. Right? The hopes and dreams of making a lot of money entices people to come on chain. That is a Trojan horse for retail adoption. Personally, that's my obvious thought, or that's my first thought. It's not guaranteed that you'll turn $100 into ten k.
00:05:11.690 - 00:05:53.756, Speaker A: I mean, maybe that meta has already passed because the reason this was possible was because no one was looking at it. Now there's more people looking at it. But is it still possible to turn dollar 100 into dollar 200 just by sitting in USDC, just like aerodrome farming? Yeah, and that's not sexy, but I mean, that's still really good if you think about it, right? If you can just double your money just sitting in, like, USDC Airdrop farming in like two months. I mean, on paper, that's amazing. And I think we should be celebrating this, to be honest. Right? So I think airdrop farming is actually like the Trojan horse for crypto adoption, at least this early into the cycle. Will users be sticky? Right, so after all the Solana airdrops, I know there's a Jupiter airdrop happening right now.
00:05:53.756 - 00:06:34.474, Speaker A: Will people stay on Solana? Only time will tell. I don't have a clear view. I think people will stay, but that's like my opinion, right? And the market doesn't really care about my opinion. And like I mentioned, it's more pvE. Smaller fish now finally have a way of reasonably ten xing their portfolios without having to gamble with leverage meme coins. I mean, you can argue that people are taking on excessive risk by deploying cash into, I guess, untested smart contracts, but I mean, that's the reason we go on chain, so we can test and produce, as I'd like to say. So I'm not really sure why people are so upset with airdrop farmers.
00:06:34.474 - 00:07:35.190, Speaker A: And I'm not really trying to single out this person here. But in the past couple of weeks, past couple of months, it's like one big airdrop happens and then we have hundreds and bunch of people say, oh, you know, airdrop farming was cool, but now it's dead. Right now it's super diluted. I'm not going to airdrop farm anymore because it's super diluted. And I, I've noticed that a lot of these posts get a lot of engagement, right? And, you know, I think tracking sentiment and engagement and I guess figuring out, like, psychological barriers people have, I think, is somewhat important because the point of farming is, I mean, if you're, I guess, exploring an unexplored path, I suppose there's a lot of, I guess, potential on the upside to make money because no one else is doing it, right? I mean, I'm farming things that no one else's is like farming. So, no, if the token does end up worth being something, then it's like, okay, like, cool. If not, then it's opportunity cost, right? We all understand the risks.
00:07:35.190 - 00:08:32.792, Speaker A: I think a lot of people, they have, like, this condescending view of airdrop farmers where people are spinning up like, millions of wallets with like $1 each, and they're just like, depositing into all these. I mean, I'm sure, like, you know, there's a few people doing that, but I think most airdrop farmers, we just have, like, a few wallets, we're trying stuff out, and we're actually trying to have fun again. Why are all these VC's so upset? I really don't understand. So I've noticed that there's two population types on crypto Twitter. There's other farmers just farming, enjoying ourselves, and we make some money and we continue to farm. I mean, maybe I sometimes am controversial on the timeline because I, you know, I say some stuff, you know, but, you know, like, most farmers, like, we're all humble, right? You know, we're all trying to make it out here. Then we have a second cohort complaining about it, how it's no longer, like, worth farming.
00:08:32.792 - 00:08:47.880, Speaker A: I'm sure you've seen this everywhere. It's like, okay, like, airdrop farming is dead. It's so dumb. Points are dumb. Of course, only one of these groups can be right. You know, like, at some point, farmers, like, I mean, at some point, airdrop farms will be diluted. But the question is when.
00:08:47.880 - 00:09:40.296, Speaker A: And this is when I will introduce the mid curve age. And it's the psychological barrier and the block that people have that prevent people from taking action that force them on the path of inaction, which makes these airdrops not that diluted. So this is the mid curve airdrop fallacy. There are far more people that complain about airdrop farmers than there are airdrop farmers. As a result, people end up psyopsing themselves into not farming, which makes the airdrop, like the average airdrops, more lucrative, and it prolongs the airdrop meta. Okay, I am not saying that these airdrops are not being diluted, right? If you look at the amount of phantom wallet downloads, I mean, it literally surpassed Coinbase. So clearly there's a bunch of people onboarding Solana.
00:09:40.296 - 00:10:07.020, Speaker A: And if you look at this, I mean, how can you not be bullish? Solana, if you look at this, there's more people downloading phantom to Coinbase. People might say, oh, this is unsustainable. But I mean, look, I mean, what the hell is this, right? I mean, this is, like, pretty nuts. Yeah. So obviously it's being more diluted. And the other airdrop farming is like Celestia. And of course, following these airdrop announcements and the claims, more and more people are staking Celestia.
00:10:07.020 - 00:10:45.870, Speaker A: I'd be factually wrong if I said that airdrops are not being diluted. But then I ask myself, how do you even define airdrop dilution? If we stake, let's say, I mean, I mean, these numbers don't really matter, right? It's more like this idea. If we stake x dollars of Celestia and receive some airdrop, was it diluted? Right? If you look at this, it's like, oh, my God, it's not diluted at all, right? Like, you know, you stake Celestia 30 months later, that's like $500. I mean, that annualizes to, like, a 400% apr. Like, oh, my God. Like, that's crazy, right? But, I mean, it might not seem like. Like it was diluted, but it could have been, because maybe it was.
00:10:45.870 - 00:11:26.506, Speaker A: It was not a $1,000 airdrop if it weren't for those new stakers. Same goes for all the airdrops in the Solana ecosystem. The big jito airdrop happened, and everyone was like, okay, like, it's not worth farming anymore. Like, why is that? People should just continue to farm until it makes, like, no sense to do so, right? And I'll also introduce this concept from behavioral psychology. And, you know, and when I say, you know, like, I'm not trying to talk down on, like, the non farmers. There's many reasons to not farm. You know, I'm a mid curve, right? I'm a struggling mid curve.
00:11:26.506 - 00:12:22.472, Speaker A: I go to mid curves anonymous every single week, and I'm constantly trying to get out of the mid curve. So when I notice mid curve behavior amongst other market participants, I will call it out because I'm a subject expert, or, sorry, I'm an expert on the subject matter, right? I'm a midcurve. So when I see other people mid curving, I'm like, okay, like, let me try to help those people out, you know, because I'm still trying to get out. And I'll introduce this concept of cognitive dissonance. If you take some psych classes, you know what this is. But cognitive dissonance is defined as the mental discomfort that people experience when they simultaneously hold two conjuring beliefs or ideas in their head. And whenever they feel or whenever they experience cognitive dissonance, humans subconsciously want to get rid of that discomfort, and they will tell themselves or take some action that lead to that discomfort being alleviated.
00:12:22.472 - 00:12:56.498, Speaker A: So common examples of cognitive dissonance as it relates to the markets is here are some examples. So let's say you're up. You know, first action, I am letting my loss run, right? Like, you're bullish on a token, you buy it, but it goes down. There's cognitive dissonance because you think it's bullish. But like, I mean, like, the fact is the market price is going down, so that makes you uncomfortable. So what do you do as a result? Or like, maybe not you, but like, what does the average person do as a result? They just hold on, right? Because, like, they don't want to sell. Because if they sell, then they're admitting to themselves that they're wrong.
00:12:56.498 - 00:13:35.082, Speaker A: So the most comfortable decision is to not sell and just hope to sell on a break. Even. So that's one example. And this applies to ta as well, right? It's like, okay, I'm bullish, I bought, but it goes down. It's like, okay, it's okay because there's support lines or whatever. Let's say you buy something and the token goes up two x, and people tell themselves, sell half on a two x, letting my now have a free position. Which sounds good on paper in theory, but the real reason people do that and say that is because, you know, we buy something because we're bullish, it goes up, but we're really scared of round tripping our gains.
00:13:35.082 - 00:13:57.394, Speaker A: So because we are scared of round tripping our gains, the subconscious mind wants to do something to alleviate that discomfort. And what's easiest to do is to just sell half on, like, on a profit or. Sorry, sell half on a two x. Of course. I mean, it depends on hindsight. Sometimes, you know, that's a good decision. Sometimes, you know, I mean, if a coin goes up two x, there's probably a good reason, and maybe it keeps going higher.
00:13:57.394 - 00:14:27.860, Speaker A: So people have this bias of holding on to losers because, you know, they don't want to or, you know, because they don't want to admit they're wrong, and then they sell their loser. Sorry. They sell their winners because they're afraid of round tripping. And this applies to other stuff, too. So, you know, like, maybe, I don't know, like, number six, I made my money today, so I'll stop, right? It's like, okay, I traded, like, a few coins today. I made money. I don't want to give back my profits, so I'm going to stop.
00:14:27.860 - 00:15:06.052, Speaker A: I mean, if you're winning, shouldn't you continue to be trading because you might have some edge or you might be in the flow state, but people are afraid to lose, so we're just trying to avoid pain. That's the biggest takeaway, cognitive dissonance, is people just trying to avoid pain because losing money feels a lot worse. Losing $1,000 feels a lot worse than making $1,000. People are naturally risk averse if you think about it, you know, like, the market doesn't really care what your cost basis is. It doesn't care what my cost basis is. Doesn't matter what the market doesn't care. The market will just keep going up or keep going down, depending on what the market wants to do.
00:15:06.052 - 00:15:43.530, Speaker A: So, you know, a lot of the most suboptimal decisions in the markets is because we're just trying to avoid pain and we fear something happening. And I think this is what's going on. And I've experienced this myself because I'm a mid curve, and I have also seen this in other people. And I think people don't want to start airdrop farming because of two reasons. Right? For example, for Celestia, they don't want to buy the top. It just feels bad. Everyone's talking about it, and it would feel so bad if someone bought the top of celestia, it just feels bad.
00:15:43.530 - 00:16:03.172, Speaker A: I'm not even sure what the price of Tia is right now. I mean, it's up only, right? I literally faded this entire run up. I mean, I literally, like, missed the airdrop claim. I missed the entire run up, and then I bought here, because I'm like, okay, I'm going to buy the top. I don't care. I just need to get this going. So, you know, I mean, people are afraid of buying the top.
00:16:03.172 - 00:16:16.960, Speaker A: Who knows? Maybe this is like a lower high. You know, like, maybe it goes down. Who knows? I mean, I have no idea. Okay? Like, I'm a mid curve. I'm wearing a farmer hat, holding a rake, right? You know, like, I. I'm not capable of predicting the future. So, you know, as.
00:16:16.960 - 00:16:40.940, Speaker A: Because people don't want to buy the top of celestia, they don't do it. But maybe the optimal decision is to just allocate, let's say, 1% of your portfolio, right? I mean, like, what's the downside? What's the upside? It makes sense .2 people don't want to farm on Solana because they're overexposed to either. And, I mean, I see this. I mean, this is. I mean, I'm saying this because I personally face this, right? Because I personally. I mean, I'm farming on Solana.
00:16:40.940 - 00:17:27.712, Speaker A: I'm farming on Celestia, but most of my assets are in, like, their ecosystem. And if I, you know, sell some of my ETH or some of my ETH assets to farm on Solana, then I'm basically admitting to myself that maybe ETH doesn't really have, like, a big amount, as people think. And maybe I was wrong on the ETH thesis, not in the sense that ETH is not going to go up. Right. I think ETH is going to do well. But I think that, you know, people are, I guess, miss mispricing Eid relative, like, the valuation read relative to other o one assets, potentially. I mean, there's always, like, that cognitive biases and people saying error are diluted is just something people say so that they can justify not doing it.
00:17:27.712 - 00:17:55.478, Speaker A: Right. But, in fact, people are not doing it because they fear I buying the top of Tia. They fear, you know, like, buying the top of Solana and, like, admitting that maybe the Solana thesis makes sense and that their previous bias of, like, FTX and SPF, right. And, like, direct ties to Solana, like, maybe it's not like that big a deal as people thought. It's more of a cognitive bias. People want to avoid pain. People fear, like, making mistakes.
00:17:55.478 - 00:18:34.170, Speaker A: So t is going up. Solana is going up. So, obviously, if you faded it, then on paper, at the current state in the market, people that faded it were technically wrong. So if there are two conflicting beliefs, then it makes people uncomfortable, and then they just don't do anything. So hopefully that kind of makes sense. And so it's gonna wrap things up. So where do I think the beta is? It's interesting because when it comes to these airdrops, it's somewhat crazy, right? Because we had the Manta airdrop, and it's sitting at $3 billion FDV.
00:18:34.170 - 00:18:46.138, Speaker A: Alt airdrops, $3.6 billion FDV. Judo. 2 billion FTV. And then there is also, I mean, dimension, $3.9 billion fdv. I don't even know where Jupiter is.
00:18:46.138 - 00:19:10.740, Speaker A: Jupiter. Okay. At the time of recording, seventy three cents. Seven point three billion dollars fdv. If you think about it, crypto did not create some infinite money printer, right? We can't just drop new tokens, launch it at 2 billion, like 3 billion FTB, and just make everyone rich. There is money. All the money has to be coming from somewhere.
00:19:10.740 - 00:19:39.686, Speaker A: Maybe people are selling ether to buy these things, and maybe people are selling Solana to buy. I mean, whatever it is, the money has to come from somewhere. If we keep launching two $3 billion valuation tokens, at some point there's not going to be enough money to support everything. And then things should start to come down, and maybe we'll see some divergence of winners and losers. I think that's the base case. That's one risk. But I'm not even suggesting people buy these things.
00:19:39.686 - 00:20:11.314, Speaker A: I'm just saying, if you're going to buy something, maybe 1% portfolio, that's fine. You can farm on Solana, go on drift. I mean, these vaults are filled. But, you know, I was talking about how, you know, I'm going to take my USDC and park it here, you know, earning 80% APY and farming drift points, you know, like, they raised like, $24 million. Surely, you know, the tokens would be worth something. You know Jupiter, right? I mean, the DCA feature is pretty cool. And, you know, if you go to JLP on Jupiter perps, I mean, it's paying crazy amounts, right? 100% apr.
00:20:11.314 - 00:20:54.274, Speaker A: I mean, like, why not do this, right? I'm not even saying people should just, like, ape into, like, all these tokens. I'm just saying, let's take some part of your portfolio and just, like, airdrop farm, it's not that hard, right? At least try it out, right? Like 1% in to Tia. 1%. I mean, I'm not, you know, not financial advice. I'm wearing, I'm holding a plastic rake in my hand, right? Like, why not bridge and see what the hype's about right. Like, what's, like, what's, like, a better way to learn about solna, like, reading about it from Eth Max's point of view, or, like, just actually, like, using the applications? You'll learn a lot more by using these things than just reading random people's thoughts on the Internet. I don't think what I'm saying is that absurd.
00:20:54.274 - 00:21:35.192, Speaker A: I think most people will agree. But like I mentioned, the mid curve airdrop fallacy. People would rather complain about it than to act on this type of information. And most people, in reality, they're too lazy to download a new wallet and educate themselves about a new ecosystem. I'm still, you know, I'm still trying to, like, learn about Solana sui aptos. I have my, like, pre preconceived biases around, let's say, sui, right? For example, I don't know where Sui is right here, right? Like, I I thought Sui was a scam, right? Not gonna lie, but it's going up, right? This is cognitive dissonance. I'm like, okay, well, wait, is it not.
00:21:35.192 - 00:22:07.312, Speaker A: Is it not a scam? Like, wait, wait, why? Why is it going up? Right. This is cognitive dissonance. And the rational thing for me to do is try to chain out. But, you know, the biased part of me is like, well, like, I don't want to, you know, go to a VC chain, right? And that's not really rational. That's kind of like the, you know, the thing I'm talking about. So, yeah, it's kind of similar to, you know, this meme that stat start has posted where, you know, if you enter the first cycle, you have no biases. So you just, like, ape whatever makes sense.
00:22:07.312 - 00:23:17.248, Speaker A: And, you know, some first cyclers are here, right? And they're just airdrop farming, right? There's, like, fully gen third cyclers, right? They don't have any biases, right? They just think objectively at the markets. And if there's a way to make money or if there's a way to set up a portfolio and find asymmetric risk return bets, then they're gonna do it. And the second cyclers, like, people like myself, we got burned, or we made a bunch of money in the bull market, we lost a bunch of money in the bear market, and now we have some PTSD, you know, like, now we just, like, sit on eth and, like, you know, farm stables on, like, optimism or something, like, arbitrary or something, and we see all the people farming airdrops on Solana and celestia and we're like, you know, the second cyclers are like, yeah, like that. That's a scam, right? That's a scam. But that's kind of the entire point, right? Going back to the top here, it's kind of the entire point where, you know, for cyclers, it's like, oh, yeah, like, people seem to be making a bunch of money on Solana, let's farm it. And the right cyclers, it's like, wow, no one's going to Solana, let's farm it. And then the mid quivers are like, okay, for sure, for sure.
00:23:17.248 - 00:24:23.788, Speaker A: Airdrops have to be diluted now, right? There's no way that this can sustain, but the correct answer is that it's going to continue to sustain until it doesn't. And I have no idea how long it's going to last, but I think it's going to last a lot longer than people currently think. And, you know, you also didn't think about this scenario, like, what if airdrop farming is the new meta, the cycle, right? Like, I think people just think that it's gonna, I mean, it's happening now, but it's gonna die off in like a few weeks or a few months. I think that's what people think. But like, what if this is literally the meta for the next twelve months, right? Like, are people accounting for that scenario? Probably not. So, you know, you probably have to look at both sides of the equation where, okay, like, on one side, okay, it's like, you know, airdrop farmers, they are kind of annoying in the sense that, you know, you know, like they're like, they're like farming stuff, right? And they're dumping your tokens or whatever. But on the other hand, it's also good, right? It's also good because it incentivizes new entrants or it creates that inertia, right? It forces people to be like, okay, like, if I want to make money, I can't just buy Solana on a centralized, centralized exchange.
00:24:23.788 - 00:24:57.848, Speaker A: I have to download the phantom wallet. I have to go to Solana, use these applications, and then maybe I can make some money. That's a big difference. And it actually brings people on chain. And once people download the phantom wallet, why won't they download the metamask wallet? If someone makes a bunch of money on Solana, at some point people will buy ether. The EtH maxis should be happy because at some point all the wealth is going to eventually be good for everyone's bags, right? It's similar to how, you know, meme points. I don't know.
00:24:57.848 - 00:25:23.038, Speaker A: Like doge got everyone to like. I mean, maybe not doge is like, doge is probably not a good example. Like maybe like, you know, last cycle, right, I got a lot of people into yield farming on polygon because it was like crazy. And, you know, now people will watch my videos and now they stay. And similarly, right? Like, who knows? Like maybe airdrop farmers tried the chain for the first time and now they're like, oh, this is so fun. Right? So that's kind of cool. Staking is kind of cool, right? Lending Dexs LP staking.
00:25:23.038 - 00:25:36.638, Speaker A: Woo. Very cool. And it's Trojan horse for crypto adoption. That's my thoughts. So hopefully you guys enjoy the content. I'm going to wrap it up here. Make sure to check out the premier discord.
00:25:36.638 - 00:25:51.660, Speaker A: Prices will be going up tomorrow at 12:00 p.m. eastern. And I'm not going to lower prices after that. So we'll give discount codes. So make sure to check that out and I'll talk to you guys later and have fun farming out there. Farmers rejoice, right?
