00:00:00.360 - 00:00:28.142, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Delaware refuel where you Capitaltics news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Sasano. And today, 5 August 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I wasn't going to record an episode today because there actually wasn't that much news to cover from the last few days for obvious reasons. The elephant in the room is that the markets have had a bit of a tumble to say the least. And because of that, I guess no one really wants to talk about the tech or put out I guess project updates and stuff like that.
00:00:28.142 - 00:01:30.574, Speaker A: There are a few of those things, but I think most of this episode is going to be focused on making a few comments about the markets. Even though I don't really feel that it's not, maybe not, not relevant, but I don't really feel it's going to be anything new for you guys. I sometimes feel like a priest giving a sermon to an extent where I'm basically repeating myself over and over again and repeating what I'm saying over and over again when it comes to the markets because my stance and opinions don't tend to change on things and don't tend to change on the I guess like wider long term outlook here. And I guess obviously, as you guys are well aware of by now, the prices of, of ETH, BTC and pretty much everything else just fell off a cliff over the last few days, last 48 hours, really. Especially now, of course you've seen everyone on crypto, Twitter and in other places like the Discord channels that you're in and chats that you're in come up with all these sorts of reasons as to why the markets blew up. Oh, you know, such and such player is dumping ETh. You can see it on chain or you know, the carry trade in the yen is unwinding or the bank of Japan blew everything up or this and that and that.
00:01:30.574 - 00:01:59.946, Speaker A: This always happens every time. There's like a massive crash like this. Because this is a massive crash, guys. There's no sugar. This is one of the biggest crashes in crypto history for sure. And it is not like a normal crash where it's a correction because we've gone up a lot. It's more of a, oh shit, did something break or did someone blow up? Or, you know, why is that person doing that kind of crash there? And that's why it can be so scary for people and that's why people get so I guess like fearful and, and start thinking, oh, it's all over and start thinking, am I going to lose everything now? Like, I've overinvested too much.
00:01:59.946 - 00:02:29.238, Speaker A: I should have sold at such and such price. I should have taken profits there, so on and so forth. And I totally get that. But for me, I mean, I've been through this stuff so many times over the years that I always come back to my number one rule in crypto, which is just to survive. Right? I've told, as I said to you guys, I'm not going to be telling you anything new here, and I feel like I'm just repeating myself. But I figured it was worth saying something because I think a lot of you guys look to me for, for guidance, not just on covering the Ethereum tech side, but also on the market side. But at the same time, I can't tell the future.
00:02:29.238 - 00:03:01.368, Speaker A: Just like anyone else, I can't tell what the market's going to do. I obviously strongly, strongly believe that ETH is going to and be more valuable over the long term, and that's been true for most of ETH's life. But I have no idea what the price is going to do in the short to medium term. And even in the long term, I can't say with 100% certainty that ETH is going to be more valuable, valuable in a couple of years than it is today. Like, there's no way for me to guarantee that. And I try not to give the impression that I can guarantee that, but that's why I always stick with, you know, just survive. Don't take on leverage, don't overinvest, don't get too emotionally invested in it.
00:03:01.368 - 00:03:32.814, Speaker A: And especially another rule that I've been trying to really hit home with people recently is that don't pin all your hopes and dreams on your crypto investments. Don't think to yourself, oh, all I have to do is grind for a couple of years at my normal job that I don't like, and then crypto is going to pay off and I'll be able to do whatever I want to do. Please don't do that, because, I mean, I understand why you want to do that. I understand that not everyone gets to work, you know, nice, perfect job. Not everyone gets to work their dream job. A lot of people just work jobs just for the sake of it, just to make money, to make ends meet. I totally understand that.
00:03:32.814 - 00:04:12.526, Speaker A: But by pinning all of your hopes and dreams on crypto, what you're doing is you're now over investing emotionally. Maybe you're not over invested with money. Maybe you've only put like 20, 30% of your total net worth, which is, which is quite substantial. But like, let's just say you have, you put 20, 30% of your total net worth into crypto, right? And that 20, 30%, you're thinking to yourself, wow, what if it goes like 100 x from here? What if I make 100 x on these coins that I'm holding? Maybe it's not Ethan BTC. Maybe it's something else. What if I do that? Then I'll be able to pay off my mortgage or then I'll be able to basically quit my job and work for myself or work on this and work on that. By doing that, by getting that emotionally invested in it, you start making mistakes.
00:04:12.526 - 00:04:59.758, Speaker A: You start basically panicking whenever things aren't going the way that you thought they were going. And today is one of those days where if you were really overly invested emotionally in, in the market and you've seen eth go from four k a few months ago to almost two k today, you're thinking to yourself, where is it over? Like, are all my hopes and dreams now out the window? Like, am I ever going to get that opportunity again to sell and take those profits and, you know, better my life? So I totally understand that whole aspect to it. Don't get me wrong, I'm not, I'm not detached from that. I'm not out of touch with that just because, like, I don't necessarily feel that because of the fact that one, I mean, I did over, I did emotionally over invest at one point, but that was a very long time ago and I learned from those mistakes. But secondly, you guys know, I don't take leverage. I just survive in these markets. And I'm in a, I'm like four cycles deep at this point.
00:04:59.758 - 00:05:19.074, Speaker A: So I'm in a very different position to a lot of you guys out there. So that, that helps me, keeps me grounded. But I'd be lying if I didn't say, you know, I looked at the price and see what it was doing. It didn't feel anything. Like most days, I don't really feel anything. But today I was like, oh, wow, okay, this is a big crash, what's happening here. And obviously, you know, we all try to piece together all the pieces.
00:05:19.074 - 00:06:06.040, Speaker A: We all try to create a complete picture out of all the different pieces of the puzzle that we come across. But the problem with that is that, like, you will basically inflict your, or put your own bias onto these things. If you're biased towards the macro, if you think the macro counts for everything, then of course you're going to be more biased or you're going to sympathize more with the reasoning around. Oh, the reason why crypto dumped was because the bank of Japan raised rates the other day, which led to this carry trade or this yen carry trade unwind, which led to the japanese stock market falling over, which is going to be a contagion to the european and us stock markets. And then the Fed is going to be forced to hike rates. But traditionally that's been bearish and, you know, over the short term, and you're just going to like drive yourself crazy, but you're going to be biased towards that. Whereas if you're more of a crypto native, you might be biased to what you saw on, on chain, wherever, jump.
00:06:06.040 - 00:06:41.852, Speaker A: Crypto was sending a lot of ETH to exchanges and people basically saying, why are they sending all these eth to exchanges just to dump, like indiscriminately? Did they blow up? Did something happen? And apparently paradigm did it too. Another VC firm in the ecosystem that. Pretty sure everyone's aware of what paradigm is, but depending on what your bias is, you're going to essentially put more weight on one reason or another. But at the end of the day, doesn't matter what the reason is. What matters is where the price is that the price went down. And whether you want to buy now or whether you want to wait or whether you aren't, you don't have enough cash to buy, so you just sit on what you've got and write it out. That's really all that matters.
00:06:41.852 - 00:07:08.396, Speaker A: At the end of the day, I don't think anything else really matters. Like protecting yourself, making sure you survive is the number one rule. Everything else is really just noise. Now. You guys know, I don't really look at charts a lot on the refuel, but I figured it was worth bringing up a chart here because I did mention in the deli grade Discord channel today briefly that this latest crash, or this latest, I mean, it is a crash more than a dump. This latest crash gave me very strong flashbacks to the COVID dump. And you can actually clearly see the COVID dump on the chart here.
00:07:08.396 - 00:07:37.598, Speaker A: It happened in about March of 2020, and it was a much bigger dump than what we saw today. Like if you actually look here and go from the 17 February where prices started going down all the way to where was this? This was only the 9 March. So you had basically three weeks. In three weeks, ETH went down 70%. Right. And then there was a single day where eth I believe, went down 50%, whereas if you take it from the top here of what, let's just say four k, and then you go down here, EtH is down. ETH went down about 45%.
00:07:37.598 - 00:08:18.578, Speaker A: So less than it did back then. But that's still a very big dip. Over the last two days alone, EtH went down, like 36%. So obviously, it's not as, I guess, like, volatile as it was back then. It's not some huge global shock to the system like Covid was, but it's very similar price action in that we have this big kind of systemic thing going on within the, I guess, like, wider macro environment, but also within crypto, we have these massive kind of sell off, this massively big kind of, I guess, dumping of the whole market indiscriminately. And this has come off the back of a pretty good run. Like, even the COVID dump, people don't remember this, but the COVID dump actually happened after a pretty good run for Ethan and BTC, like, at the start of the year, eth, at.
00:08:18.578 - 00:08:39.516, Speaker A: Sorry, at the start of 2019. Sorry, start of 2020, I should say ETH was around $130, and it went all the way up to almost $300. So it increased by about 130% in a matter of, what was it, six weeks or something like that. So it had been going up a lot before this, and it was looking like it was going to continue to go up and recover. Same is true for. For this. You can see it on the chart here.
00:08:39.516 - 00:09:03.972, Speaker A: Eth had been going up a lot. Yes, there was a bit of, I guess, like, noise around here. But ETH, and I mean, if, especially if you look at BTC, it's probably clear on BTC had gone up a lot already. And I've drawn some circles here just to compare things, but I like comparing things on the chart, just. Just privately and seeing where we are in the cycle, but a lot of it ends up being wrong. So I never show it on the refuel, but essentially, like, you can kind of see this here, right? Went up a line and then it's. It's come down here.
00:09:03.972 - 00:09:25.674, Speaker A: So the same was true for Covid here. The prices went up, and then. And then obviously it came down in that Covid dump there. Now, does that mean that the dump is over now does that mean we're going to recover? Because if you look after the COVID dump, we basically recovered and went on to have that. That bull market in 2020 slash, 2021, I don't know. Macro conditions also favored, you know, this. This kind of vibe in that.
00:09:25.674 - 00:10:26.182, Speaker A: Back then the Fed obviously cut rates really quickly and they injected a lot of money into the system because of, because of COVID But this time around we don't have Covid guys like we have, I guess like in, in the macro environment at least from what I can tell, stuff breaking. We have I guess just justification for the Fed to cut rates because inflation has slowed but now unemployment is going up and it looks like there might be a recession on the horizon, things like that. I mean, you guys know I'm not a big macro guy, but this is just the stuff that I've been seeing. So those same conditions also exist as what we saw last time. But again, you could drive yourself crazy just trying to analyze all of this. I think that when it comes to your own personal, I guess like investing, not thesis because obviously the thesis probably won't change if you've got like a multi year thesis here, but your own kind of investing style, you really have to make a decision about what that style is going to be. Are you going to DCA in every week with a little bit of your paycheck and then just not care what the price is every week, right.
00:10:26.182 - 00:11:33.980, Speaker A: And you can do that over the long term or are you going to wait and maybe you do that once a month or are you going to wait for big crashes like today and then buy all at once? Like deploy, deploy a lot of capital that you've been saving up all at once? There are risks inherent to both ways of doing things. The risks of dcaing in every week is that maybe you're doing that in a bear market and all of a sudden you've lost like 60 70% of all the money you've put in during the year and then you don't get to actually make a profit on that for a couple of years. There's a massive opportunity cost to that. But then the other risk of maybe going all in at once a month or so, going all in on crashes like this is, or saving your money to go all in on crashes like this is that you don't get those crashes. You know, for example, if, let's just say this is 2020 and BTC is like ten grand, and then it goes up to, you're like, okay, well I think BTC is going to crash back down and then I'll deploy my capital, I think it's going to go back down to like twelve k or something and then I'll deploy all the capital that I've been saving. Well it didn't do that right. It kept going up from there, and it went up to then it came back down to 27, or what was it, 2029? That went back up to then came down and it went down to 15.6k.
00:11:33.980 - 00:11:57.396, Speaker A: So in the best case scenario, you got to buy years later, mind you, 15.6k. If you were waiting to deploy that cash deal. But in reality, you may have just deployed that cash higher up here and that you'd be. And then you would have been underwater for another couple of years or two and a half years, actually, on that trade. So, as I said, there are risks inherent to every strategy, and it's all about picking what's best for you. And. But this is why investing is so hard, guys.
00:11:57.396 - 00:12:18.346, Speaker A: I've actually tried to. To drill this into people's heads as well over the years, is that crypto tends to lull you into a false sense of security in bull markets. And it may make you feel like investing is easy. It may make you feel like that you just put money into anything. It'll be fine. I mean, we had a bit of this recently with the meme coin stuff, but it's not. It's definitely not that.
00:12:18.346 - 00:13:01.022, Speaker A: It's definitely very, very difficult, guys. Like, more difficult than anyone can even imagine. And that's why most people will not make money in this industry on net over multiple years, even if they got in really early. I know of people that got in so, so early to eth that blew themselves up. I know people have gotten in so solely into other tokens and round trip the whole thing. Like, and I'm sure there are many accountants among us that have even better information on this because they see people's tax returns, right? So, you know, you may think that everyone's making all this money, or you may think that everyone's getting richest because things are going up, but that's not necessarily true because it could go up a lot and they could just round trip it on the way back because a lot of people don't tend to take profits the same way. You probably didn't think to yourself, oh, maybe I should sell some ethnic at, you know, 3.5k
00:13:01.022 - 00:13:20.526, Speaker A: or four k. The same thing happens to everyone else where they just don't take profits. And I'm not saying that, obviously, in hindsight, you probably think to yourself, I should have sold, like, 4k. That's obviously hindsight, guys. Like, no one could tell the future here, but it's the same, same logic. And at least with eth, you're investing in something with. With fundamentals behind it.
00:13:20.526 - 00:13:53.250, Speaker A: With these meme coin things and with other very much more riskier things, they tend to not come back because they are much riskier. They are basically seed stage companies or pre seed stage companies that have a token that basically fail. They have maybe a little spurt of growth, and then they fail and they fall off. Or their meme coins, which have zero fundamental value to them at all and are literally just a game of musical chairs. And then, because they're like that, most of them, or the vast majority of them don't become things that come back. They're not. There's no such thing as a blue chip meme coin, guys.
00:13:53.250 - 00:14:22.070, Speaker A: Like, I mean, if you wanted to make an argument that there is a blue chip meme coin, one that's been around for a very long time and continues to, you know, hold its value relatively over. Over long periods of time, you could say dogecoin. But other than that, there's. There's not really anything else, unless you consider Cardano to be a meme coin. Right. But like, the actual kind of, like, meme coins that people talk about, the ones that have been so hyped up this cycle, that it's the same. It's much worse for those things because there's no fundamentals backing things up.
00:14:22.070 - 00:14:42.046, Speaker A: There's just the game of chicken. Sorry, the game of musical chairs. And once that's gone, once that's out, people move on to the next thing because they're like, well, I already played that game. It's boring. They lost money on that game, or they made a lot of money. And that's the funny thing about it. If you make a lot of money on an asset and you cash it out and then it goes down a lot, you're most likely not going to buy back into that asset.
00:14:42.046 - 00:15:22.704, Speaker A: Especially because if you sold, because you realized that the asset was not worth anything to begin with, those buyers aren't coming back. Whereas it is distinctly different for BTC and ETH, where people will typically, if they're trying to trade the markets or trying to trade the multi year cycles here, what they'll do is that they'll sell BTC and Ethan. They think things are hot and they'll buy back into those things because they actually want to own those assets. They actually know that those assets have fundamental value backing them. So there are major differences here between assets, but that's why I, when I talk about, like, crypto as a whole, I have to kind of split it up because BTC and eth, to me, are their own thing. And then there's the rest of crypto. And really, with the rest of crypto, you were literally betting on very early stage.
00:15:22.704 - 00:15:46.380, Speaker A: I mean, maybe, maybe companies is the wrong word, but you're betting on early stage ventures, and you need to aware of that. And when it comes to meme coins, as I said, you're not betting on anything except a meme. You're betting on a shared delusion, essentially. And it's not to disparage people for doing this. And I'm not saying people shouldn't, shouldn't be able to do this, but you need to know what you're getting yourself into. Right? So, so, yeah, and I think that's, uh, that that's most of what I wanted to say, guys. I think it's repeating a lot of what I said in the past.
00:15:46.380 - 00:16:05.792, Speaker A: And as I said, like, it's nothing new. Just survive. Don't use leverage, don't get yourself blown up, because you can make a lot of paper wealth and then blow yourself up and lose it all. Like, you may not think it can happen to you, but it can. It can, and I've seen it happen to people. It's happened to me a few times before. Yes, you can always bounce back, but only if you learn from your mistakes.
00:16:05.792 - 00:16:51.480, Speaker A: And honestly, if you blow up your whole portfolio after holding it for a couple of years, or, you know, let's say you held your whole portfolio for three years, you held, during the tough times, the bear market, and finally you've made like a lot of paper gains. You're like, okay, I'm not going to sell just yet. I think the market's just getting going. And then you get wiped the fuck out in one of these dumps and you lose everything because you on leverage, or you were too emotionally invested and you panic sold everything, and then you watch price skyrocket in the following weeks and months, right. You're probably going to not want to be involved in crypto at all because you will feel so shit about yourself at that point. So that's why, that's, that's the big reason why I say don't blow yourself up. Because, yes, you can come back stronger, yes, you can make it back, but at the same time, you're probably not going to want to because your emotional state is not going to be in the, you're not going to be in the right frame of mind to be able to do that there.
00:16:51.480 - 00:17:20.532, Speaker A: So just some friendly advice, not investment advice, just like friendly kind of general kind of market advice and general advice. On how to think about things or how at least how I think about things in terms of where things go from here. Look, as I said at the top, I don't know, guys. Like, I've got no idea. And sometimes I get ahead of myself. I freely admit that where I get too bullish at one point and then I say, you know, sometimes I say things like, I wouldn't be surprised if we see all time high at some point in the next few weeks. And obviously that didn't happen.
00:17:20.532 - 00:18:00.834, Speaker A: And I fully admit that I was ahead of myself there. But I think it's worth reiterating that, you guys know, I'm a long term guy. I think that what happens with me is that I get ahead of myself because I tend to sometimes be so bullish on ETH that, like, I think that's going to be bullish over the short term, but in reality, it's going to take longer to play out. So I do think, and I do still believe, obviously, what should be obvious to everyone that that ETH is continue, is and continues to be a good long term hold. It is a good story value, in my opinion. It is something that will accrue value slowly over time. But outside of that now, I mean, outside of BTC and ETH, I can't really recommend anything else or I can't really point to anything else that I would like to hold over the long term.
00:18:00.834 - 00:18:41.310, Speaker A: There are definitely things you can buy today. Like right now, there are lots of things on sale. And when I say on sale, I mean, like from a point of view of myself, if I had the cash to deploy right now and I wasn't buying Eth with it, there are a lot of things out there that I look at, I'm like, you know, these things are really undervalued. And I say undervalued in the, in the, in the grand sense of do I think that in a year from now these things are going to be higher than what they are today? Not in the sense of do I think this thing is fundamentally undervalued and it's going to accrue so much value because everyone's going to see the light and they're going to know that this asset is pristine because they get access to such and such whatever. No, not at all. And, and I'm not going to mention these assets to you guys. These are just ones that I've looked at.
00:18:41.310 - 00:19:10.362, Speaker A: And, and I've come to the conclusion that I think at this point in time there would be decent buys. But the reason I'm not going to mention it is because I don't want you guys to copy trade me. I don't want you guys to. To just buy things because I think that they're good. But I'm bringing it up because it's more to illustrate the point that in times like this is where people, or I guess, like smarter people and more and smarter investors load up on certain things that they have a fundamental belief on and are able to ride that wave into the. The next bull market. Because I've said that before.
00:19:10.362 - 00:19:32.356, Speaker A: I said this before as well, guys, there will always be another bull market. And just like there is always another bear market, things work in cycles. I'm not saying we're in a bear market now. I don't think we are. I think this is, is definitely very akin to the COVID dump. I think that the conditions are definitely not right for a long term bear market at all, not within crypto. Look, if the macro stuff really gets dire, where everything just starts blowing the hell up and I.
00:19:32.356 - 00:19:58.584, Speaker A: And the stock market goes into a downtrend for a long period of time, yeah, sure, crypto is not going to escape that, but I'm just personally, like, not feeling it, to be honest. But if you are feeling it, don't take my word. Do what you. What's best for you. But, yeah, my view is, is kind of like we're going to spend a little while here recharging. And I do think that going into maybe even later this year and next year, it's still going to be quite bullish for, for crypto overall there. But that's all I really had to say for today.
00:19:58.584 - 00:20:31.372, Speaker A: As I said, just survive, guys. Just relaxed, you know, take a few days, just relax and digest everything that's happened, because making decisions now, you're probably in an emotional state, probably not going to be making the right decisions. So it's always good to step away and not be staring at the five minute charts wondering what the hell is going on, because that is all noise there. Now, one last thing I wanted to talk about when it comes to the markets is their impact on layer one, ethereum and L2s. On ethereum. Now, as far as I know, layer one and L2 functioned really well. Like, all the L2s functioned really well.
00:20:31.372 - 00:20:52.000, Speaker A: I didn't see any going down. I saw some fee spikes on a few of them, of course, but that's only natural. With with the increased volatility. Layer one gas did go super high. Actually, I saw it at about 650. And right now, it's at 39, which, as you guys know, is really, really high compared to the last couple of months of like 1 gy gas prices. Now, of course, this is because of the fact that things were so volatile.
00:20:52.000 - 00:21:11.716, Speaker A: Lots of mev bots going crazy. There were lots of high mev payments out to validators. I actually proposed the block for rocket pool with, I believe, a 4.5 eth block reward. Now, that went to the smoothing pool. So it actually went to the whole rocket pool ecosystem to all our 8th holders here. So basically, it became our block, right.
00:21:11.716 - 00:21:28.060, Speaker A: Instead of my block, which is. Which is cool. But, yeah, there was just a lot of volatility across the entire ecosystem. Not just ethereum, obviously, but other. Other ecosystems as well. But as far as I know, yeah, layer ones function just fine. Yes, gas went astronomical, but that's normal for layer one.
00:21:28.060 - 00:21:44.928, Speaker A: And L2's functioned really well as well, with fees remaining relatively cheap on there. None of them, as far as I know, went down, went offline. None of them stopped producing blocks or anything like that. It seems like everything went well, which is. Which is awesome, guys. Like, that's really awesome to see. And not just the.
00:21:44.928 - 00:22:10.240, Speaker A: The layers themselves, but also the DeFi protocols on top. So Stani here tweeted out about Aave saying, you know, Aave protocol withstood market stress across 14 active markets on various l one s and l two s, securing $21 billion worth of value. The AaVE treasury was rewarded with $6 million in revenue overnight from decentralized liquidation for keeping the markets safe. This is why building DeFi is for the win. And. Really. Yeah, I mean, it is.
00:22:10.240 - 00:22:43.422, Speaker A: Like, this is incredible that. That we. That we still have this. And people take it for granted that we have these massive DeFi protocols across layer ones and L2s that essentially allow us to have 24/7 access to our capital and to capital that we have at risk. Like, imagine if you were in Aave and you had a position that you wanted to unwind. I on layer one, yes, you would have to pay a really high gas fee, but you have basically guaranteed inclusion if you pay the right fee. And then at L2s, the fee was a lot smaller, and you were able to basically save your position if you needed to.
00:22:43.422 - 00:23:25.118, Speaker A: Or maybe you wanted to take out leverage because you're like, holy shit, the prices are so discounted right now. But I have no money. I have no money to buy. I want to take on leverage to buy. But, you guys know, my view on this is that it's extremely risky and I don't recommend leverage ever, but there are people that do this, right? But it's amazing that people are able to do this through, are there? Because you can imagine within, within centralized plays, there's, there's definitely a lot of, a lot of risk there. Not just risk in that maybe your account gets frozen at the wrong time for whatever reason, or maybe the exchange goes down for whatever reason, you just don't have access to that. So there is a real like special, there's something really special about like the liveness guarantee that especially layer one Ethereum gives you when it comes to these defraud protocols.
00:23:25.118 - 00:24:01.970, Speaker A: And it's not just are there, it's obviously things like Uniswap and other decentralized exchanges as well that allow you to trade assets here. But of course for that liveness in return, fees go up. Right. Fees on layer one go up because the liveness comes from the fact that Ethereum is extremely resilient and stable due to being so, I guess, limited, and the throughput is so limited. And because of that, the fees go up on layer one. But then L2s have cheap fees and also have similar features here, but they've also got some risks, obviously, centralization risk risks. Liveness is not as good as ethereum layer one, but there's always trade offs here.
00:24:01.970 - 00:24:46.078, Speaker A: But yeah, it was really great to see that, that everything held up really well here. So kudos to all the defi projects and especially all the old ones that keep building and have kept building and have kept their, their protocols going really strong, even though they get very little attention these days, which is quite sad. But it is just what it is there. But I think that's going to be it for the market stuff. There's a couple of tech related updates just to go through here before I finish off today's episode one from Vitalik. So this was just a tweet that Vitalik tweeted out just before where he said the cross l two roadmap in one tweet, and he listed a bunch of different things that are being worked on for the cross l two roadmap to basically be realized. And this is obviously got to do with interoperability between the l two s, sharing liquidity, all that good stuff there.
00:24:46.078 - 00:25:35.050, Speaker A: But these are on the technical side of things. These aren't really on the, the user facing side. So there's three aips that he's listed here, as well as, as well as things that would come in something he's calling phase two, which is stuff like proof aggregation keystore roll ups and an l one slowed static calls. So as I said, technical stuff on the, on l one and an l two here, not necessarily user facing, but will allow the the apps to plug into this in order for it to be user facing. In order to have that cross l two interoperability, that's not just for their transactions, but also for liquidity because that's pretty much like what everyone wants, right? And I spoke about this the other day, but yeah, if you wanted to learn more about this, you can go check out Vitalik's Twitter. It's got everything here that you can just google. You can like Google these EIP numbers like ERP 3770.
00:25:35.050 - 00:26:09.070, Speaker A: Read more about it there. Vitalik's in the comments basically, or in the, in the replies talking about this as well. So you can go check that out if you didn't see it just before. And last up here, just wanted to shout out that Infinix now has their litepaper published. So if you're interested in diving more, more deeper into the Infinix ecosystem and knowing what they're actually about, because I know a lot of you were part of the Infinix crate campaign recently. You were farming those crates and now you're wondering what comes next, you know, what's after the crates. Like, what the hell did I just farm these crates for? Well, this Infinix light paper will give you a nice overview of the Infinix ecosystem.
00:26:09.070 - 00:26:49.224, Speaker A: It is incomplete, it's still in draft form, but it'll basically give you the overview of what Infinix is trying to do, what their goals are, and everything in between there. So you can go give that a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But on that note, just wanted to finish up with some final words on the markets here. I know I keep repeating this, but guys, like, please, just, just survive. Like, just survive, survive and thrive and make sure that you're not over, you know, getting too emotionally invested in things. Because as I said, that leads to ruin, usually that leads to blowing yourself up, that leads to getting disenfranchised with a theory and with the crypto ecosystem.
00:26:49.224 - 00:27:29.704, Speaker A: And that leads to you doing what some people do in the daily gray Discord channel where I read these comments and I'm like, guys, like, come on, like, zoom out a bit. Like, did you, did you really just get into this ecosystem just to make money? Like, why are you even here if it's just to make money? Like, I get wanting to make money but there is more to this ecosystem than that. And honestly, I believe that you'll be, I guess, like, you'll have a better time making money in this ecosystem if you are actually in it for the tech. If you are actually interested in the tech, because if you're only in it for the money, and that defines your whole view of crypto. So that basically means that the market dictates your emotions towards crypto generally, and there's nothing wrong with being in it just for the money. But if you are, then honestly, I don't. I don't think it's worth complaining then, because you.
00:27:29.704 - 00:27:48.872, Speaker A: You are taking on basically the risk of being in it for just the money. And that risk is that things aren't going to do what you want them to do. They're not going to be up only, and they're not going to be in a super cycle. Those things are pushed by people to trick you into being exit liquidity guys. There's no such thing as a super cycle. There is no such thing as up only. Right.
00:27:48.872 - 00:28:05.566, Speaker A: There is. As I said, there's always a bull market. There's always another bear market. Your job is to survive those market conditions and make sure that you yourself take the profits you need to take in order to get what you want. Whether that's a house, a car, take care of your family, whatever it is. That is the gold. Those are the golden rules.
00:28:05.566 - 00:28:20.246, Speaker A: You follow those rules, you should be okay. But easier said than done, of course. But yeah. Anyway, enough about that. That's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, scratch your newsletter, join the discord channel, and I'll catch you all next time.
00:28:20.246 - 00:28:20.630, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
