00:00:05.290 - 00:00:24.240, Speaker A: Great. Hi and welcome everybody. Thanks for joining Livepeer's workshop session. This is building on Livepeer. Com's decentralized live streaming platform. And the session is going to be taken by Angela and with that I will hand it over to her to introduce herself and kick the session off.
00:00:25.050 - 00:01:09.810, Speaker B: Hi everyone, thank you so much for joining. My name is Angie Ramirez and I have worked at Livebeer for about three years now. I started off on the engineering team, so a year and a half just building our backend tools and then I transitioned more to speaking to users and presentations. And so here we are. But today I'd like to give you a little bit of an introduction into what LIPR is, give you a demo of our API and how you can plug into our existing platform. And then I'll walk through example projects that you might want to look at or think about this weekend. And then I'll leave a little bit of time for Q and A.
00:01:09.810 - 00:01:53.614, Speaker B: I'll try to make it ten minutes, but might run a little bit over. And if I do, I'll just answer some of your questions asynchronously on Discord or whatever other platform you might want to use. So let's just get started. So a little bit of an introduction and a demo and I'll go through this part quickly. We do have a lot of information on Livebeer.com that you can take advantage of, but Livebeer is essentially we're building a decentralized marketplace on Ethereum that connects infrastructure providers so that's individuals with extra capacity to do video transcoding anywhere in the world. So people with underutilized compute power and with companies that need to process video.
00:01:53.614 - 00:03:07.810, Speaker B: And so to give you an idea of what the potential market of a product like this is, if you have ever looked at traffic on the internet and how much of it is coming in through video, about 80% of it is video. And so yeah, the potential for a product like this is huge. And then just to give you an example of what we do and where we fit in on the live streaming cycle so if you look at this diagram, you see on the left hand side an example, Strive TV. You see in the middle a couple of names like Wowzamux, Bitmoven and Zencoder. Those are other individuals who are centralized companies that are doing video transcoding. Then you have the next step in the iteration, which is going to the CDN and distribution piece of it, and then you have your end devices. But for those of you not familiar with the live streaming cycle, the reason it's really important is because you can take a video that might be at a really high resolution and make it into whatever resolution and whatever format that you'd like, so that it's viewable by everyone anywhere on the internet.
00:03:07.810 - 00:03:48.546, Speaker B: And so anyone with a really low internet connection in Vietnam can take advantage of some of the lower end renditions. But now to the meat of the presentation. And what I'd like you all to take a look at is how to integrate with lipier. And we've actually tried to make it really easy for you guys. So we've created a GitHub repo with a sample application. And I can pass on this whole presentation to you all. But if you go to that link, we have an entire small sample app that you can look at and interact with that will show you and allow you to copy and paste into your applications.
00:03:48.546 - 00:04:34.098, Speaker B: But actually, let me just share my entire screen so that you all can see what I'm doing on OBS. So I will stop sharing and then I will continue sharing some of the entire screen, basically. Okay, so here we are. So if I click on this link here, I'll be taken to a very simple front end where you'll be asked to enter your API key. And so to do that, you'll go to Libeer.com, you'll create an account. And then if you see this button here on the right top hand side, you'll go to your dashboard, you'll go to your API key section and hit Create.
00:04:34.098 - 00:05:38.300, Speaker B: And so here I'll just give my token a name, create a token, and then I will copy and paste that token into my sample application here. Once I do that, I'll hit Enter, I'll hit Create a stream, and voila, here I see again a very simple front end. But what's important is that we have these different pieces of information below the ingest URL, the stream key and the playback URL. And so what I'll do is hopefully you all already have OBS downloaded, but if you don't, I have instructions in the presentation on how to do that. But it's essentially just a streaming software. So I'll take this ingest URL from here, I'll copy it, I'll go into my settings on OBS, I'll go into Stream, paste it into the server field. I'll take that stream key and I'll paste it here into this field and I'll hit OK.
00:05:38.300 - 00:06:27.286, Speaker B: And so for now, we're going to ignore the playback URL. But once I start streaming, I can go back to my sample application. And as you can see, that video is going to start coming through in about 5 seconds. And so, yeah, this playback, I'll talk about the playback URL here. So if I copy it, I can integrate it into whatever player I would like. So if I go to something like THEOplayer, I can paste it into here, load my stream, hit the play arrow, and there you go. So if you hit this link here on GitHub, you'll see all the code that's behind that very simple front end.
00:06:27.286 - 00:07:30.922, Speaker B: And so it's all a matter of just copying and pasting it into your own application. But to continue on with our presentation, and I know you might have some questions because I went through this pretty quickly, but let me now continue sharing that other screen I'm interested in showing you. So here at the bottom of that sample app, you also have a sample post request that you can take advantage of and just try it out on your terminal. So we have profiles, we have the name of a stream, and we have a lot of other fields that might be relevant or important to you. But for the next couple of slides, I've just included some information that I'll pass on to you on how to utilize some of these other features and then how to interact with the API directly. And one that I really wanted to mention was recording. So something else that you can do with the Lipier API is enable recording.
00:07:30.922 - 00:08:02.098, Speaker B: So once you've streamed, your stream has ended. Within five minutes, you'll see a recording URL that's output into the livepeer.com dashboard. And so I've included a link to that guide on how to do that. It's also a pretty simple blog post that hopefully you all can read on your own time. And so I've got some information on creating your first live stream, integrating with the API. And then I guess that slide is a little bit repeated.
00:08:02.098 - 00:09:02.746, Speaker B: But I think what I really want to focus on is some of these example projects that you all might want to consider working on. And so I think that you all already have the description of these projects here, but I'll just go through what they are and what they mean and what the possibilities for some of these different items are. So the first one that we have on the list is the Lip, your audience integration. And so an audience you have an API. You can take out songs from the API and create an easy way for creators to add these tracks to their live stream. That's an idea of a project that you might want to work on. You can also create a live stream of a video visualizer based on audio's fracs an Audius, if you haven't gone on their website, is a really cool streaming project.
00:09:02.746 - 00:10:00.022, Speaker B: It's decentralized music streaming application. The second project that you might want to work on is on NFTs and Live Peer. So if you've been following the NFT field, a lot of individuals will create a time when they'll drop a lot of NFTs. So if you have seen what's going on in the e commerce field, in e commerce, the way things work know, an individual will get up from a company or just someone who has an Etsy store and they'll create a live stream and they'll just show and walk through some of the product. It's kind of like what you see on TV channels with QVC and just showing a product and then having a link where you can purchase that product. It's something that's very popular in China right now and in a couple of other Asian countries. But hasn't necessarily hit the United States or Europe in the way that it has there.
00:10:00.022 - 00:10:54.426, Speaker B: And so the idea here is that you can create an application that will allow a creator to live stream NFT drops and allow viewers to just purchase those NFTs either during or after that live stream. So it is possible to insert links into the live stream or you can think of a different way, maybe attaching a chat functionality where you can have the links displayed. But there are a ton of possibilities here. And then the third one is with Handshake, and Handshake is a decentralized DNS or a domain registry. So for this one, I think it's sort of an adjacent project to what we have. So if you copied our sample app, you could then create a prettier URL for your videos. So you, for example, could create a handshake domain name for a live stream.
00:10:54.426 - 00:11:54.970, Speaker B: And for this we're just looking for a proof of concept, a demo, and so don't worry about making it super complicated. The next one on the list we have is Filecoin and Livebeer. And this one's really interesting because we've actually already created a little demo that I wanted to show you of us using Filecoin. So if we go here to File video and I did not include this link on the presentation, but if you take a look at this, we in conjunction with Filecoin and another company called Basement Studios, we've sort of integrated Lipier into the Filecoin network. And so this is sort of a proof of concept and experiment in the decentralized video hosting. And this is also open source. So if you go to about you can then also click on the GitHub link and see the code to this project.
00:11:54.970 - 00:12:41.918, Speaker B: So this took developers a long time to build. So it's not necessarily something that you would work on yourself, but it is something that you can take advantage of and create some kind of proof of concept that utilizes both the Filecoin and then that's that for that one. And then for project number five or idea number five, we have Skynet. And Skynet is similar to filecoin. And so Skynet acts a hosted service that could be easier to integrate with than Filecoin for some of you. But if you're more familiar with Filecoin then I would recommend going with them. But again, it's a similar concept to number four.
00:12:41.918 - 00:13:32.286, Speaker B: And then number six is a project with a company called Unlock. And Unlock is a decentralized paywall solution. So you can essentially buy access using Ethereum. And if you work on a project like this, you might create some private streaming experience. So right now all the light beer streams are going through our platform and if you have the link, they're essentially accessible to everyone. And so you might want to think about how to turn on or off like the access to a live stream or how you can use unlock to do that, to allow a broadcaster to control who can watch a stream and who cannot. And you could think about integrating a payment solution into this.
00:13:32.286 - 00:14:44.440, Speaker B: There are a ton of different possibilities here and so actually I think I've gone through this pretty quickly, so I'll leave some time for questions if anyone has them, but I'm not sure where I can find the question. Oh yeah, okay, I see the chat. So I have a question from Luke. If possible, could you put the presentation in full screen mode? Oh, sorry, that was a little bit yes, I could totally do that if that is helpful. But let me take a look at the other question. Is it possible to create a simultaneous multi stream experience akin to discord multiple users sharing the screen at the same time? So right now we have the individual streams going, we don't have that feature enabled, but that's certainly something that you could work on or work through, but yeah, not something that we're doing at the moment. I wonder if anyone else has any questions.
00:14:48.830 - 00:15:18.880, Speaker A: Yeah, if anybody has questions for Angie, feel free to unmute yourself or drop them in the chat. Otherwise she will be available in the Sponsor Live Peer Channel on Discord and we'll be happy to take any questions there as well. It would be great actually if you could share the link to these slides and we can share that with everybody in the sponsor Live Peer channel as well, just to go through again.
00:15:19.670 - 00:16:34.134, Speaker B: Totally, totally. And I would also say there are a couple of people on the LiveAir team who are participating in the hackathon themselves and so they're also going to be available to answer questions on the Discord and two of those individuals actually work directly on the blockchain side of Live Peer. So if you do have any questions related to how we've built this decentralized network or how we got started, how our token works, they're certainly going to be able to answer that. But hopefully this presentation has allowed you to see that it's actually really easy to integrate with Live Beer and we have created a lot of five minute tutorials where you just follow step by step on how to create a live stream. And one more thing I'll say is if you go on Lightground.com, let me just go there right now and you just go to our homepage and you click on the blog. We do have documentation, standard documentation, but if you click on the blog you'll see some examples of projects that have built on top of Lipier.
00:16:34.134 - 00:17:37.306, Speaker B: So here at the top you'll see Corekuma and they're an e commerce company and they're powered by Lightpeer. And so they allow creators, individuals who want to sell products, both companies, small companies, big companies. And Lifeyear has enabled them to serve not just the large enterprises, but also the small players that they couldn't have targeted with centralized providers or the cost structure that exists there. And then here you'll see a variety of articles, mostly written by me, but also other team members at Livepeer. So you'll see that article that I told you about, the recording piece. You have tips and tricks, debugging, this one might be really important for you guys. So if you see that anything isn't working or you're seeing some buffering in your stream, you can click on this article here and that will give you a step by step on how to set up your OBS and how to check that all the settings are correct so that your streaming goes smoothly.
00:17:37.306 - 00:18:39.790, Speaker B: And if you'd like a very detailed video tutorial on how to stream into LiveView for the first time, we have that here. And again some features and software that we support and are explanations like more technical explanations on how our always on transcoding network works. And again some other examples of people who have built on top of Live Peer and what they've done with the live streaming experience. So this I bet is going to be really helpful for you guys. And then that first article is just like an introduction to what is video transcoding, why is it important, how can we do it and where does Livepiro fit in into that cycle of live streaming? So I think that's where I will leave it at. But if there are any other questions that I can answer, let's see. Okay, yes, there is another question from YouTube.
00:18:39.790 - 00:19:25.460, Speaker B: Any plans to add a subscription model? So we have something called a pro plan and with a pro plan you can sign up for unlimited streaming. So on Liver.com we have a thousand minutes of streaming free per month. And for you guys we're of course allowing you to use as many minutes as you'd like for the hackathon. But for other individuals I think we do cap it at 1000 minutes and then we do charge per minute transcoded and we also charge for the CDN portion. So another question from YouTube do we stream to the Live Peer through an endpoint? Yes, yes. So you can use whatever software you'd like to stream into.
00:19:25.460 - 00:20:21.970, Speaker B: Do have? We have a lot of experience with OBS and OBS has worked really well for us and that actually does output RTMP which we then receive on the lipure side. Another question from Helios. With platforms like this having costs for content creators, how is this sustainable against Twitch and YouTube? That's a really good question. So we mostly target content creators at this point in our evolution as a company. And the reason that is there's a lot of people there are a lot of people on Twitch. Content creators who maybe aren't gamers. Maybe the gaming community is served pretty well on Twitch, but the music streamers and the individuals who are artists and may not have the budget or will want to live off of the content that they stream.
00:20:21.970 - 00:21:40.386, Speaker B: They're finding that Twitch and YouTube actually gives them a much lesser revenue split than they'd like, or that it's sustainable for them unless they have a very large audience. And so we have a lot of people who are approaching us with ideas, content creators who maybe aren't very technical, who are trying to build the Twitch for their specific vertical of the user generated content. And so we have a music streaming platform that's for classical musicians that's being built out on Live Peer. So that population of people didn't really think that they were well served by the options that are out there. They wanted a community where they could speak to other classical musicians, where they could sell concert tickets, where they could then interact and find tutoring resources or schedule classes with experts online. And so it's an amalgamation of a bunch of different services, but the focus really is on the live streaming and being able to live stream to anyone anywhere in the world. And so with Live Period, because we're about ten times cheaper than the alternative, they're able to set up their infrastructure in a way that allows them to share more of that revenue with their content creators.
00:21:40.386 - 00:22:06.840, Speaker B: And so we are seeing a lot of the people migrate from Twitch and YouTube into just their own platforms and building on top of Live Peer. So hopefully that answers that question. And then we have a question from Luke Federation with Teams or Zoom. I'm not sure what that question means. I don't know Emily, if you have an idea of what that means or anyone on the call.
00:22:09.850 - 00:22:13.910, Speaker A: I'm not 100% sure. Luke, did you grab that question from YouTube?
00:22:15.050 - 00:22:16.040, Speaker B: I did.
00:22:16.810 - 00:22:31.200, Speaker A: Okay, yeah, that might have been a question that came through on YouTube. I can always make a comment there and we can make a plan to pull it through into the Sponsor Life Peer Channel and get that answered as well.
00:22:31.730 - 00:22:38.240, Speaker B: Awesome. Cool. I think that might be all the questions that exist on the channel.
00:22:40.370 - 00:23:02.840, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it is. Thanks so much Angie. Really appreciate you taking the session and for answering everybody's questions. As I mentioned, the Live Peer team is available in the Sponsor Live Peer Channel on Discord, so feel free to reach out to them at any point from now and over the weekend while you're building out your project.
00:23:03.930 - 00:23:11.000, Speaker B: Awesome. And yes, I will share that deck with you all and thank you so much and I can't wait to see what you all build.
00:23:12.490 - 00:23:18.840, Speaker A: Great. Thanks so much Angie, and thanks everybody. We'll see you at all the other workshops planned for today.
00:23:19.610 - 00:23:20.060, Speaker B: Awesome. And.
