00:00:00.250 - 00:00:08.640, Speaker A: Before we jump into the app, quick reminder that nothing on Bell curve is financial advice. Everything is just a meme. Hope you guys enjoy.
00:00:11.250 - 00:00:31.190, Speaker B: A lot of times, people really, like, founders, really, truly want to create these public goods, and it's it's really important to them, but they don't think through what happens when they have investors and token holders who actually have control over the public goods via this governance and economic right. And I think that's where things go a little bit haywire.
00:00:34.410 - 00:01:01.290, Speaker C: All right, buddy, it's going to be a good one. Today we're talking to Larry sockernick and Derek Chu from reverie. Really interesting. So we had a really good first episode with hasu and chris on. We talked all about they give us basically the high level idea of product governance fit or business governance fit, as chris wrote that piece. Next, we're kind of moving and talking more, like, tactically right, about what some of this stuff actually means. So just some background for folks.
00:01:01.290 - 00:01:37.750, Speaker C: Larry and derek run a firm called reverie. They're probably one of the most kind of hands on, like, practitioner focused groups that actually interfaces with DAOs on a daily basis. So they're much more qualified, honestly, than you and I in many regards to discuss kind of what are the pros and cons of how DAOs are structured today and what their sort of recommended changes are going forward. And we specifically talk about kind of map out what corporate governance kind of looks like today, how it might be different in dow land. And then we get a little bit prescriptive and offer some advice for DAOs towards the end of the episode. You get in there too. You're a maker, delegate.
00:01:38.250 - 00:01:46.234, Speaker A: You stole my thunder in this intro. You took the what are we talking about? You took the who are we talking to? You took the who did we just talk to in the last episode?
00:01:46.282 - 00:01:51.054, Speaker C: Yeah, you got in the mix, delegate. Know we heard some on the ground experience from you.
00:01:51.092 - 00:01:56.254, Speaker A: I'm really bringing nothing to the table. All right, this is a really good episode. I hope you guys enjoy it. Let's get into it.
00:01:56.292 - 00:02:03.922, Speaker C: All right, guys, welcome back to another episode of Bell curve. We've got Larry sukernick and derek Shu, the co founders at reverie. Fellas, welcome to the show.
00:02:04.056 - 00:02:04.882, Speaker B: Glad to be here.
00:02:04.936 - 00:02:06.066, Speaker D: Thanks for having us on.
00:02:06.168 - 00:02:59.730, Speaker C: Yeah, guys, really appreciate it. We've got a lot of ground to cover, as you guys can probably tell from the mega document novel that I sent over your way before recording here, but I'd love to kind of start high level here and get your guys thoughts on the current state of dow governance. So maybe as a jumping off point, larry, I've kind of heard you make this analogy of just setting context here, that people kind of bring their past experience to them when they're looking at dow governance. So if you kind of come from a political background, you look at this more through the lens of polySi and how governments kind of work. And if you come from more of a builder kind of corporate America standpoint, you kind of see elements of corporate governance that should be introduced to DAOs. So can you kind of address that idea of people bringing their work from home, so to speak? And what is your mental model for thinking about Dow governance?
00:02:59.810 - 00:04:15.760, Speaker B: Yeah, happy to riff on that a little bit. I mean, the way I think about this stuff is there's all sorts of mental models for pretty much anything in life, right? Whether it's governance, capital allocation, design, people, when they're learning about new concepts, particularly complicated concepts, they tend to reason through analogy. And so mental models are a very easy way to think about new, complicated things. And in my experience, and in our reverie's experience with DAOs, the two common mental models for governance in Dao land are really one, hey, let's govern these things as countries, right? So whether it's a democracy sort of thing or dictatorship, that's like one mental model, right? And the second one is corporate governance, right? So having the same sort of mental model as you apply to companies, with shareholders, with the board, and with investors and managers, that sort of mental model applies as well. And those, I would say, are the two common ones you see in Dowland. There are others, to be sure, but I'd say those are the most frequent ones and they're basically just mental models, right? These are ways that people think about how to make governance decisions in the crypto space.
00:04:16.290 - 00:04:43.106, Speaker C: So probably just reasoning by analogy is almost always wrong. But again, they can provide kind of helpful balance points, right, or almost goalposts for how to think about things. So when you're looking out there into the world of the Dows that exist today, how would you kind of make that distinction in between governance in a liberal democracy on a government type scale versus corporate governance? What are sort of the principles of both? And where does it make sense to apply those different principles?
00:04:43.218 - 00:05:28.306, Speaker B: It's a very difficult question to answer. I think the answer is it depends right, on the project. My general gut sense for this stuff, and I've shared this before on our podcast, I Pledge Allegiance, is basically the governance structure should fit the product. So if the product benefits from having a very slow moving governance structure so take like Ethereum, for example. Ethereum pitches itself as a neutral base layer platform that's censorship resistant. Well, if that's the case, then it probably benefits from having a very slow governance process. That way developers can know, if I'm building on Ethereum, the ground is not going to change under me, right? It's not just going to shift overnight.
00:05:28.306 - 00:05:51.950, Speaker B: But if the product is something like an app that benefits from rapid iteration, upgrading the product and fixing bugs, then the governance structure probably should look more like a company or a dictatorship where you can make decisions very quickly having some sense for what governance structure fits. My product, I think, is really important to get it right.
00:05:52.020 - 00:06:18.230, Speaker A: Derek, can I have you piggyback on Larry's point there? Do you think that that is set from the you when you set out to build something, you're like, all right, this is a product, it because it's a product. Dow should be governed like this. Or it's like, okay, in year one and two, we're focused on wide products, so maybe it's like very centralized decision making. Then in year three and four, it changes. How do you think about that? The governance changing as like, the maturation changes?
00:06:18.380 - 00:07:05.380, Speaker D: Yeah, great question. I definitely think that governance structures evolve over time for projects just by natural forces, by natural evolution. As there's more and more stakeholders, like, obviously the decision making process and the debates, they change. And I think that's how it should be. I think early on, pre product market fit, you probably don't need lots of voices in the room contributing to every single decision. So, again, happy to go into more specifics, but I think broadly speaking, depending on the lifecycle of the project, the same governance structure can make a lot of sense or make no sense at all.
00:07:07.030 - 00:08:08.242, Speaker C: I think maybe there are a couple of different like, if you almost had like a two x two matrix of different, some of the two of the important factors are like, maturity, right? So is this a six month old startup or is this a ten year old type corporation? Nothing really isn't in crypto is ten years old outside of Bitcoin. But there's kind of like the timing and maturation on one axis and then there's also closeness to base layer infrastructure on the other. So maybe you would put Bitcoin and Ethereum as extremely close, like almost like the bottom layer of infrastructure, which is depending on how you conceptualize those two projects, kind of like a store value money type thing. And then like an IP preservation type system on the other side of things. And then you can kind of layer up from there. So maybe like one layer up from Bitcoin and Ethereum, you might put like a maker type protocol. I'd be curious if you guys like one thing that has come out of our interview with Hasu and Chris previously was different governance structures are appropriate based on where the protocol sits on the infrastructure layer.
00:08:08.242 - 00:08:17.866, Speaker C: So I'd love to get your thoughts on if you agree with that concept. And if so, if you've given any thought to categorizing what are the different layers of financial infrastructure that we're kind of building here?
00:08:17.888 - 00:09:07.750, Speaker B: I think the intuition there is quite sound, right? The intuition being if it's lower level infrastructure, it probably is being built upon by other developers, by other people in the ecosystem. And if that is the case, then they probably don't want that infrastructure to change very quickly because if it does, it's going to bubble up all the way to the top and that's not good. And so the intuition is, hey, if a lot of people are building on this infrastructure, it probably should have a very slow moving governance structure so that people can actually depend on it and they won't wake up one morning and the whole thing is different, right. And the higher level we go, the fewer people depend on it and there's fewer dependencies, we can probably make more rapid iterations on the governance structure. So I totally agree with that approach.
00:09:08.970 - 00:10:03.158, Speaker C: How about if I could of like poke you to maybe I don't know if you've thought of this or I'll just put you on the spot here a little bit, but have you thought about what those layers kind of might look like maybe as a jumping off point? Right? Do you agree that kind of Maker and maybe like a Uniswap or Aave compound kind of sit on that first layer? And if so, how many different layers are appropriate? Like hasu actually made the point that the analog in corporations might be something like utility companies, which you have corporate governance for utilities, but they're almost like kind of semi nationalized, right? There's an appropriate profit that utilities companies can make every year say, hey, we want to invest in X amount of capex at this corporate profit. Because those are like natural monopoly type companies, but they're regulated and their governance looks pretty different because we all need power, right? The government has basically said we want all of our citizens to have power. So have you kind of thought about those sorts of classifications or analogs in crypto specifically?
00:10:03.254 - 00:10:45.820, Speaker B: I struggle with this because in any given year I feel like, well, first of all, to take a step back, all this stuff, all the layers are very emergent, right? And so if we look at what we thought are the layers two years ago, a lot of those layers kind of moved around. Some went up the stack, some went down the stack, some stayed in the stack and some just disappeared. Right? And so that layer cake. It's very, I think, difficult in any given time to say, okay, here's how it will actually cement and grow over the coming years. So my personal approach is just to look and see and not to overthink it and not to have strong opinions on which layers are here to stay and which layers are actually going to go away.
00:10:46.590 - 00:11:30.726, Speaker C: How do you guys think about the tension sometimes in between? Like let's look at Maker as let's caveat it and say it looks like a very base layer protocol today. Maybe we don't know exactly where it falls in the stack. But Maker is supposed to produce a stablecoin Dai, right? That's the product. And on the one hand, you'd maybe want to minimize the surface level area for governance, right. Because it's supposed to do a very simple thing. On the other hand, the competitive advantage is kind of managing a balance sheet and managing risk, which is actually a very complicated thing to do. So how do you think about that kind of tension in between minimizing governance surface area versus actually the value add of a protocol? Like Maker is doing something very complex beneath the surface.
00:11:30.726 - 00:11:31.114, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:11:31.152 - 00:12:23.334, Speaker D: Happy to jump in again. I think you highlighted both ends of the spectrum really well. On the one hand, it's obvious that MakerDAO, if it wants to survive long term, it has to be resilient to attack and governance can be a liability. I think the more quickly something changes, obviously the more potential downside risk there is. But at the same time, yeah, MakerDAO, they're where they are because they were one of the first projects to launch in terms of ethereum and DeFi. So they were well positioned from the beginning. But I think going forward, if they want to maintain their positioning, yeah, they're not going to do it by simply just surviving.
00:12:23.334 - 00:12:43.978, Speaker D: I think that's probably the most important thing. But there still is innovation that remains, there's remaining balance sheet management that has to be optimized. And over a long enough timeframe, if you only care about survival, you'll fall behind on some of these other parameters.
00:12:44.074 - 00:12:44.334, Speaker C: Right.
00:12:44.372 - 00:13:06.450, Speaker D: Like MakerDAO is still only at this .5 years old, which is a long time in crypto, but in the grand scheme of things, pretty young. Right. So I think, yeah, crypto gives us all a different sense of timing and longevity. But I think it's really important to just keep that in context.
00:13:06.610 - 00:13:48.254, Speaker C: Yeah, I've had a kind of similar thought and I think sometimes where this debate centers around for me is almost this idea of public goods. So one idea that you kind of hear sometimes even within the scaling roadmap of something like uniswap and leaving aside the regulatory component and lens through which you could look at this, which I want to get your take on later, is this idea that, okay, so uniswap v. Three is basically we're going to stop really building much post. That right. That's kind of a public good that we want. At the base layer, there this liquidity provision kind of decks that other people can build on and then we can build products and services on top of that. But if you dig into the assumption there it's this idea that uniswap v three is the last layer.
00:13:48.254 - 00:14:23.680, Speaker C: Right. And for whatever reason, we've decided there was V one and now there's v two and v three is basically good and that's going to be the public good. Whereas you could take another angle and say, well, actually providing liquidity and creating stealing market share on the dex level is still a wildly profitable business. Right. There's probably good capital allocation decisions to be made at that layer. Why have we surrendered building at that layer? It seems very unlikely to me that in two years, we've built the best decks that we possibly can. So can you talk about a little bit how you think about this idea of public goods and where that enters the conversation as well?
00:14:24.610 - 00:15:18.954, Speaker B: I think in most cases, if the thing has a token, it's not really a public good, right? Like, all of a sudden you have token holders who are the owners of the thing, right. If there's a governance right, that the token holders have, they probably have control over certain critical parameters, and they're going to want to whether they tell you or not, they're going to want to extract rents. Right. And I think that's not applicable to all projects, certainly, but to the grand majority and the public good stuff. My sense is, a lot of times people really founders really, truly want to create these public goods, and it's really important to them, but they don't think through what happens when they have investors and token holders who actually have control over the public goods via this governance and economic right. And I think that's where things go a little bit. Haywire larry, how do you think about.
00:15:19.092 - 00:16:01.840, Speaker A: Or to Derek, how do you think about just who you're optimizing for? Right? Because Mike brought up public goods. You're like? Yeah, well, when you have a like, it's not really a public good, because now you have these token holders, and it reminded me of that piece that you guys wrote, musings on Governance, where you're just talking about how there's a bunch of different there are a bunch of things that you're trying to optimize for. And sometimes you see people trying to optimize maybe too much for the community or for open dows. But really, what you should be optimizing for is like, building amazing products and shareholder value. Right? Which looks a lot like what we optimize for in corporate governance. So I'd love to get both of your takes here. How do you think about what you're actually trying to optimize for? And have you seen examples of folks optimizing for the wrong thing?
00:16:03.670 - 00:16:58.062, Speaker D: Yeah, I think everyone has their own opinions on I think most people would agree that token holders matter, users matter, community matters, all stakeholders matter. There's a lot of disagreement on who's most important and in what order and what percentages. But the one belief I do have is and I think on that point, what's most important. You could talk all day about that and we wouldn't get anywhere. But I think what will be true over again, a long enough time frame is the protocols that care about the right one or two stakeholders over the rest. They'll be the ones to actually survive and maintain their relevancy. So it's not about what we should care about, it's about what will happen and what the protocols prioritize.
00:16:58.062 - 00:17:27.740, Speaker D: So for me, again, it comes down to users. I think if users don't remain on your platform, regardless of what you use, community doesn't matter, token holders don't matter, partnerships don't matter, none of that matters. I think, yeah, if users are there, the other things will generally follow. Obviously there's exceptions and it changes depending on the lifecycle, but I think by and large, if you don't have users, you don't really have anything.
00:17:28.190 - 00:17:57.714, Speaker A: How do you think about one of the innovations of crypto that a lot of people tout as being one of the big benefits is like alignment between token holders and users. Right. So like Web three Uber or something, right? Uber on the blockchain. You would have the users of Uber and the early shareholders of Uber might be one in the same. Right. And a lot of people spouse this as being one of the best things about crypto. Maybe on the other side of the bull market, you're seeing that this isn't maybe necessarily the case.
00:17:57.714 - 00:18:14.060, Speaker A: Oftentimes I'm just curious, maybe I don't know who to ask this question to, but how do you think about just this dichotomy between users and token holders and the overlap? And Derek, I agree with you, you're optimizing for the user, but how much of the overlap is there for the token holders as well?
00:18:17.550 - 00:19:50.970, Speaker D: I think I mean, yeah, I mean, I think as long as token holders are the only ones with clearly defined governance power, it will be an uphill battle for users to have influence on the protocol. But I do think users have a lot of influence even in protocols where it's like on chain governance and only token holders have a say. But I do think over a long enough timeframe, yeah, it's really important for users to have a direct say, whether it's formal or informal. I think Lido's SDE tool governance is a great example of this, where LDO token holders currently have a lot of power. And again, if Lido continues growing, there's a lot of downside risk for users and ETH holders that are using Lido to stake. So I do think, again, over time, protocols should strongly consider implementing safeguards on what token holders can do and the types of veto rights that your users can have today, most of that veto right, is informal, but I think yeah, it's an experiment, I think, worth running. It's giving your average user more formal rights and methods in governance.
00:19:51.710 - 00:20:21.074, Speaker B: Just to jump on what Derek said, because I agree with know you look at some of the companies we grew up with, right? Like Uber and maybe seamless and grubhub. Right? And I remember when they first got started, I was like, wow, this product is awesome. It's super cheap, way cheaper than the status quo. Right. Or like a taxi or a delivery that a restaurant would have. But that's totally changed as these companies actually became incumbents. Right.
00:20:21.074 - 00:21:18.600, Speaker B: And I find Ubers are very expensive now, probably more than taxis are, at least in New York where I live, and the same with delivery for food. And so I think there's this general pattern that happens up and coming companies, they're like, we fight for the user, right? Once they gain the user, they're like, well, we got to make money, right? Why did we do this fight for the user thing if we didn't make any money? Sort of thing, right? So they start becoming attractive. I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing, right? I think that's just kind of a feature of capitalism, right? There's always this chaos in the system and it really leads to innovation because the incentive is always to fight for the user for the first five to ten years. Then once you have the user, you start trying to make money. And I think we'll probably see a very similar dynamic with crypto companies that basically say, hey, we're not going to be extractive, let's hold them to the fire 510 years from now and see what actually happens.
00:21:20.730 - 00:22:06.290, Speaker C: Maybe just because my brain sort of works like a five year old, I'd love to maybe try to simplify and get almost like a mental map for what we're talking about here, which is when I think about corporate governance right. And we're talking about different stakeholders here, there are kind of three, maybe four, really, that matter. Right. There are the shareholders, those are the principals of the company. There are the managers or the operators, and those are the agents. And they're supposed to be acting on behalf of the principals, the shareholders, and then there's a board of directors, right, which is they act as fiduciaries to the shareholders and they're supposed to sort of be in between, right, and watch the managers and operators on behalf of the shareholders. I suppose you could also use add users as a stakeholder, but they basically get no voice in corporate governance, so I'm not really going to include them.
00:22:06.290 - 00:22:27.434, Speaker C: I would love for you guys. Who do you think the most important stakeholders are in our kind of crypto Dow land, right? If you kind of map out in the same way for corporate governance how it looks today in Dows, so, like, most important stakeholders like each stakeholder and relatively what their role is and what they do.
00:22:27.472 - 00:23:29.082, Speaker D: I'll take a stab at this. I think if you empirically look at the evidence today, token holders have the majority of power and are the most active ones actually participating in governance in terms of proposing proposals, voting on them, even chiming in, right. By definition, they are the only ones that have formal power. So I think token holders have the most influence today. A lot of the time you need a pretty large minimum to even propose a vote which gates others from really participating, I think. Yeah, users are the second category and generally, again, this is a pretty broad generalization, but I don't see your average user that doesn't hold tokens. I don't see their incentive to really participate in governance.
00:23:29.082 - 00:24:02.300, Speaker D: If they have a problem with the product or the app, they'll be in the discord or the telegram asking that question, not necessarily participating in your on chain governance forum. So I think, yeah, there's others, obviously there's team members, there's builders on top of the protocols that I think obviously are all highly relevant and do a lot. But yeah, that's sort of my general thinking.
00:24:03.790 - 00:24:49.202, Speaker B: My sense is it depends on just like it depends on in the Web Two World, the company we're talking about. I think here it depends on the project we're talking about too. But I think the general mental model I have for this is if the switching costs are very high, right, then the token holders have a lot more leverage over the users. If the switching costs are low, users have way more leverage because they could vote with their feet. They're not happy with the product. They think it's extractive. They're like, screw it, we're going to go use another product, right? Which is why monopolies typically have really high switching costs, which is why they're very regulated, right? Because governments know monopolies could just extract rents and users can't really vote with their feet.
00:24:49.202 - 00:25:10.430, Speaker B: So that's how I generally think of it. And obviously, companies in the traditional world that have higher switching costs, they're valued way higher by markets than companies with really low switching costs because users churn much more quickly and companies don't have the ability to increase prices as much as a company that has really high switching costs for their products.
00:25:10.580 - 00:26:20.550, Speaker C: I'd be curious, like one stakeholder that we haven't really talked about and maybe this isn't a formal enough group or it's still in its kind of nascent stages, but one is kind of delegates. And I'd love to also start talking about some of the proposed sort of structures that DAOs have advocated for that look a little bit more like corporate governance hasu kind of talked about in our first episode what he proposed at Maker. I know you guys have proposed something, a pretty interesting structure at Orca, so I'd love to get in some of those examples, but I would love to get your understanding of what because right now in Maker and I'm talking Jason, I know you're a Maker delegates. Maybe I can get your opinion here to weigh in on this, but I think delegates are being asked to increasingly weigh in on an enormous quantity of issues and an increasing complexity of issues as well. And historically there haven't been great compensation structures. So you're starting to hear almost advocating for a professional class of delegates where it's almost like a full time role with compensation to weigh in on these sorts of things. I'd be curious to get an understanding from you guys of what role delegates play in some of these larger Dows.
00:26:21.210 - 00:27:09.250, Speaker B: I can take a stab at this one first. You're right. There's this trend happening, right, where delegates are really being charged with a lot of their decision making, right? Because people delegate their votes to them. Because most people don't have the time or interest in browsing governance forums. It's very time consuming to get the information to know how to vote. And so they're basically outsourcing that to delegates whose job it is to read what's happening on the forums, get a sense for what decisions are being made and how to vote for those decisions. My general sense on this is we could have a world where we're going to have these professional delegates just like we have proxy advisors essentially, right? But that would be a shame.
00:27:09.250 - 00:27:42.654, Speaker B: I think there is no better person situated to vote than the actual owner, the person who actually owns the assets, right. Because it's their money, right. The moment you introduce principal agent problems where you delegate your power, your governance power to someone who's not going to face the risk of loss, you will have all sorts of fuzzy decision making that you see in the traditional world too. So I think that is probably the path of least resistance but I don't know if it'll necessarily lead to the best decision making.
00:27:42.852 - 00:28:47.842, Speaker C: I have a thought on this as well, but I'll answer my own kind of question because I've had before Blockworks, I was a consultant, right? So sort of very professional services. And I can tell you the way I thought about solving problems as a consultant is extremely different about how I think about solving problems as an operator of a business. And let me caveat this by saying I know Reverie is I want to give you guys a chance to talk about it at the end. But when I'm talking about professional services, I'm not really referring to you guys because you're a much more practitioner and have stake in the game and think about getting in the weeds. But when I started being a consultant, I thought you were going to solve really hard problems because that's what it's billed as, right? Like the most challenging problems in business, you get to go solve a whole bunch of them and to some degree that's to some degree it's not necessarily true. In a lot of cases you're brought in kind of as insurance by your stakeholder, right? So like a VP of marketing or sales or operations who wants a big change done. They want to bring in consultants to basically look at the data but make sure the data says what I say, right? So that I can go to the board and say, hey, I got these independent guys to come this decision.
00:28:47.842 - 00:29:36.870, Speaker C: But even more so than that, as an independent party, I didn't really think about a lot. I thought more about what would sound good or what would be. A good narrative or what would look good on slides versus what I actually thought would work. And it's just a very different maybe if you've had experience acting as a consultant versus like a proprietor and owner, maybe other people have had this experience. So I hear these arguments about a professional class of delegates and I get it, you have to be compensated. But at the same time it just doesn't make a lot of sense to me because you're sort of acting a professional class of delegates to make decisions for which I don't love it, I'll be honest, it's by the end of that take there. But I'm curious if anyone has thoughts on that perspective.
00:29:40.330 - 00:29:44.520, Speaker A: How would you set it up differently? Would you take away the delegate system, Mike? Or how would you.
00:29:46.250 - 00:30:12.350, Speaker C: I guess it's about properly incentivizing people who are best suited to make the decision. So right now, I think one of the big problems is this like one to one voting based on your token ownership that kind of exists. I don't see how that can continue and good decisions can be made, especially in these early stage protocols.
00:30:13.890 - 00:31:04.334, Speaker A: It reminds me of something that I keep going back to this piece because I really liked it that Reverie wrote The Musings of Governance. There was one piece, it was like we'd much rather participate in a Dow with ten motivated 10% owners than a Dow with 10,000 laxadaisical zero 1% owners. Right. The outcome in the former case is likely to be far more positive than the outcome in the latter case. And so it's a related idea, right? Because I think what you see right now is Dows really pushing to A, get as many contributors as possible and then what you get is another thing that was talked about in the piece, which is there's a bunch of conflicting interests and then B, you get as many contributors and then they're like, I don't want to actually vote. I'm going to delegate my vote. And then you just get this cohort of these delegates who they actually aren't really experts on what's going on in the protocol.
00:31:04.334 - 00:31:59.220, Speaker A: Oftentimes they're just these big brands in the space and then you just start looking almost like I've noticed that diligence on votes in protocols is very similar to VC diligence where you'll be like how a lot of VCs do. Due diligence is like an angel investors. Why does angel investment deal? They're like, oh, because these funds are involved. Okay, well, why is the fund involved? Oh, because Andreessen's leading it and Andreessen has 4 billion and they must have done this great due diligence. And that's how a lot of VC due diligence happens is like there's a remarkable lack of due diligence. Well, in MakerDAO, how oftentimes it happens is like this thing looks super complicated. I could spend 20 hours digging into this or I could see that Mika Honkasalo and Flipside voted on yes, on this and they're really smart, so I'll probably go with them.
00:31:59.220 - 00:32:01.570, Speaker A: There's a lot of overlap there.
00:32:01.640 - 00:33:16.586, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that's kind of just I agree with most of your points, but that's also just kind of how life works, right? Like if I need a babysitter, if I have a friend that I trust that has great experience, I'm not going to go through all the diligence myself as if I met this person completely new. Same thing. But I do agree with your broader point that it's like Uber just raised a Series A and we have external proxies debating on the forums about what colors all the taxis have to be or whether they can have certain thresholds for what kind of cars. You don't need all of those people to be paid or even to have that be a debate in the first place. So I think, again, it brings us back to this point of governance liability and the scope of governance, which I know has been discussed a lot. But yeah, I tend to agree, like introducing too many professional delegates that have a very large scope. It doesn't feel proper to me either.
00:33:16.586 - 00:34:11.958, Speaker D: That said, I do think even with the protocols today, it can be helpful to have external voices that aren't just your community or the team because the reality is that a lot of big token holders don't participate. So if they don't participate, the alternative is what is the alternative? The alternative is either silence or someone less qualified or less knowledgeable comes in to fill that void. So there's no perfect solutions. I don't think a fully full time professional set of delegates is an ideal world or should happen. But I do think there's a lot of very obvious things that could be done by people that follow the protocol here's.
00:34:12.054 - 00:35:02.640, Speaker A: I think my main problem with the I'm doing what I actually hate when others do is just bring a bunch of problems and no solutions. But one of the issues with the delegate system in my mind is that there's minimal accountability for decisions. Let's say cow decisions are made internally at companies like Blockworks, for example. If we have, I don't know, like a chief Revenue officer or something and they have a convicted view on where we should take the sales side of our business and we're going to let them do it because they're the Chief Revenue officer and they're making a bold bet. But if they fail, they could get fired. Right, but high risk, high reward with these delegates. It's like there's minimal downside actually, and there's like a low level of accountability, I would say.
00:35:02.640 - 00:35:32.870, Speaker A: So again, I don't have the solution. But it does feel like maybe that's the benefit of having these committee like systems where you have leaders. The leaders are accountable. The leaders can get removed from their places, which again sounds very much like teams and VP of Marketing and a VP of sales inside of companies. But that's why I like this committee system, is not because it's more efficient, but actually because you end up with leaders who are incredibly accountable that you can actually remove when things go poorly.
00:35:33.770 - 00:36:22.790, Speaker B: I think that's super important, right. If you have any sort of committee that's necessary but not sufficient, you actually need the committee members to hold the people accountable. Right? And similarly, the idea was with a lot of the V, one, Dows, hey, token holders will keep people accountable. I think the reality, though, is most token holders are not equipped to keep people accountable. And two is accountability is tough, right? Because this is a cottage industry, right? So everyone knows everyone through one or two mutual connections. And if you are in a committee or if you're a large token holder and you're trying to keep someone accountable and they're not doing good work, you basically have to cross them and say, hey, I'm going to publicly out you. And if you have a social relationship with this person or entity, becomes awkward, right? It's just very awkward.
00:36:22.790 - 00:36:59.634, Speaker B: And I think there's a lot of research that basically says accountability. It either works when, A, all of the individuals, they really give a shit, right? Like it's really important to them personally to be accountable, or B, when you have the people who are holding the people accountable, they're outsiders. Not just independent folks, but outsiders who actually want to do the right thing, right, and to keep people accountable. So it's a really tough problem. And companies, I think, have the same sort of issues and there's all sorts of academic research on it. And I doubt that we'll as an industry, be the first ones to solve that.
00:36:59.672 - 00:37:07.998, Speaker C: All right, everyone, brief break in the show here to talk about our newest sponsor, Reserve. So it's looking pretty bleak out there. It's not looking that great. We know that the one thing there's.
00:37:08.014 - 00:37:10.626, Speaker A: No bear market in stablecoins stables.
00:37:10.658 - 00:37:47.326, Speaker C: Baby stables. We love those stablecoins, which is why we're excited to partner with Reserve Protocol. So let's just start with the basics. What is reserve? It's a self service platform to build, deploy and govern asset backed stablecoins, which can be integrated with DeFi or within the real economy. So the cool thing about Reserve is basically anyone out there permissionlessly can take any set of, ERC, 20 tokens and use them to collateralize their own stablecoin. So the long term goal of the Reserve Protocol is to create a noninflationary currency that is stable on a month to month basis, but also a century to century basis. In the meantime, though, they're open sourcing design decisions for stablecoins, which is just super, super cool.
00:37:47.326 - 00:37:58.362, Speaker C: I think one of the benefits that you get there is diversification. You hear it all the time in Finance 101. No such thing as a free lunch except for diversification. That's what you're getting with reserve protocol.
00:37:58.446 - 00:38:32.330, Speaker A: Yeah, I've known the team for a long time. I spoke on a panel at SF Blockchain Week with Nevin? With Joe Carlson and Alex Gladstein. Really impressive growth that they've been able to have so far, right? Their premier stablecoin is RSV. It is backed by three other stables. It's already used by over half a million people, transacting over $300 million a month. Right now, like Mike was talking about, anyone can go create a custom bespoke stablecoin using the reserve protocol. You can back it by maybe specific USD stables, or you can get creative and maybe build something more complex, like inversely correlated assets.
00:38:32.330 - 00:38:36.222, Speaker A: The branding, governance, and composition are completely up to you.
00:38:36.276 - 00:39:08.346, Speaker C: And lastly, if there are any builders who are listening and you aren't interested in issuing your own stablecoin, what you can do is you can stake reserve's governance token against your favorite stable strategies. So what you're doing there is you're providing backstop insurance to stablecoin holders, not riskless, right? Not financial advice. There's definitely some risk in doing that, but it does allow you to earn yield, especially now in crypto when there are so few ways to do that. It's definitely worth checking out. So at the very least, you should click the link at the bottom of this episode, go check out the reserve website, see all the cool stuff they're up to. Most importantly, though, click this link. You got to give Jason and me some credit here.
00:39:08.528 - 00:39:09.146, Speaker A: Show us some love.
00:39:09.168 - 00:39:33.540, Speaker C: Give us some love, baby. Give us some love. All right, now back to the show. Let's get into to. So a friend of mine pointed this out to me recently, and I thought it was pretty interesting. If you look up the definition of sabotage as defined by the OSS manual, I want to give you a couple of tactics for sabotage that's actually employed by the CIA. You tell me if this reminds you of anything.
00:39:33.540 - 00:39:59.734, Speaker C: When possible, refer all matters to committees for further study and consideration. Attempt to make the committees as large as possible. Never, if fewer than five, bring up irrelevant issues as frequently as possible. Haggle over precise wordings of communications minutes resolutions in making work assignments. Always assign unimportant jobs first. Assign important jobs to inefficient workers with poor machines to lower morale and with it production. Be pleasant to inefficient workers.
00:39:59.734 - 00:40:25.394, Speaker C: Give them undeserved promotions. Discriminate against efficient workers. Complain unjustly about their work. Hold meetings when there is more critical work to be done. There's a longer list. But it is remarkable to me how the definition of sabotage as defined basically by the CIA lines up with many people's personal experience with Dao governance. So I'd love to get your kind of take on that.
00:40:25.394 - 00:41:06.814, Speaker C: You guys is getting your hands dirty working with a lot of DAOs, and you guys work with phenomenal organizations, I will say. But in my opinion, one of the things that you're trying to optimize for at a high level of a company is good decision making. It's been said in other podcasts, on this podcast before that actually there's a big element of regulatory arbitrage that is trying to be optimized for, especially in early stage Dows. So I'd love to get both of your opinions on this. I mean, how efficient are like what are we really trying to optimize for here? Is it decision making? Is it regulatory arbitrage? Is some middle ground in between? And how do we start making better decisions in these organizations?
00:41:06.862 - 00:42:52.018, Speaker D: Yeah, I'll get to the second question, but on the first one, yeah, that's one of my favorite memes tweets about Dow governance that I've seen and I've seen a lot. I actually bought the field manual, the book itself, and flipped to that exact page and I taped it up to the wall as a reminder, I think to myself really about just making sure that you care about the right things. And this isn't to say that certain voices don't matter or certain opinions don't matter, but I think when you have hundreds or thousands of people chiming in on certain things, if you're really listening and taking being influenced by every single one of those, you're not going to do anything. And this applies to not just it applies to everything, right? So I think it's important to be aware of the different perspectives. But yeah, getting too close and too personally invested and listening to all these things, it's just not useful. In terms of your second question, how do we actually arrive at better decision making? I think it again comes back to the common theme of having the people that have the most context and the right incentives actually be the ones driving decision making. Generally speaking, for crypto protocols today that are young, that's going to be the team as they continue to grow.
00:42:52.018 - 00:43:17.802, Speaker D: I think that's when others with different specialized skill sets can come into the fold and provide specific value, I think, again, generally at this point don't need the masses and thousands or tens of thousands of people chiming in and having that is usually more of a downside than a pro at this point.
00:43:17.856 - 00:43:19.978, Speaker C: Larry, any thoughts there?
00:43:20.144 - 00:43:45.300, Speaker B: I totally agree. I think some people would argue, hey, if we have a bunch of people sitting at the table, we're going to get to the wisdom of the crowds, right? We're going to have the crowd make a collective decision and it's going to be great. I can count on one hand out of the thousands decisions we've seen how many times that has happened, it usually becomes too many cooks in the kitchen, right, which is the inverse of wisdom of the crowds. And that's a huge problem.
00:43:46.410 - 00:44:27.380, Speaker D: The other thing is it's not even just wisdom of the crowds. Time is probably the most important factor, right? We don't have endless amounts of time to decide on a single decision. Dows and protocols and apps that can arrive at the decision quicker will, again, over a long enough time frame, win, even if that is a worse decision maybe, than one that takes like, months to arrive at. So I think iteration and rapid decision making is really important. Yeah.
00:44:30.870 - 00:45:13.866, Speaker C: I want to start talking about Jason. I've annotated this multiple times throughout this season. This was one of the hardest topics that we've dug into, to find people saying positive things about. Basically, we do research before going to these seasons, and it was very easy to find people pointing out the problems with the current status quo. But it's harder to find people who are willing to prescribe solutions. Probably because I think you could imagine, and I want to get into this piece that Vitalik wrote about some of the advantages to DAOs and where a Dao might differ from a corporation in its ultimate objective, and why a more decentralized, maybe surface, minimized approach to governance could make sense. But I think bridging the gap from point A to point B is very unclear.
00:45:13.866 - 00:45:29.910, Speaker C: And I'd love to maybe highlight some of the models right. The early attempts that we've taken at bridging that gap. So maybe you could talk a little bit about the Council structure that Reverie proposed at Orca and how that might solve some of these challenges.
00:45:31.930 - 00:47:03.858, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd be happy to chat through that. And none of it is really all that complicated or rocket science, but some context is orca is an AMM on Solana, one of the top AMMS on there, and we were basically trying to brainstorm with the team, hey, how do we create the most effective product for users? To Derek's point, I think the number one thing we think about is product, right? Because without that, you're kind of screwed. And we're also thinking about how do we avoid some of the pitfalls other DAOs have fallen into, and in particular, how do we make sure that they're able to iterate and move quickly? Right? Because to Derek's point, in an early stage company, the most important thing is product and quick iteration times and just speed to market. And so what we basically created is a little bit of a hybrid between a typical corporate governance structure and maybe a direct democracy, which a lot of the Dows are. And the idea is, basically, the token holders elect the Council and the Council can then have some powers, right? Like make new proposals, right, have access to the treasury, stuff like that. But at all times, token holders have ultimate control so that if the Council is acting rogue, or if token holders disagree with how the Council is actually proceeding, they will have a veto. Right? And so there's always that failsafe at the end of the day such that if Council is not doing something well, the token holders can have ultimate say.
00:47:03.858 - 00:47:23.286, Speaker B: That's the high level summary of the structure. It's not that complicated. We think it's not a perfect structure by any means, but it's probably better than the status quo. And really what we're trying to optimize for is speed and having the best product in the market. And I think that's what we've come up with for Orca.
00:47:23.398 - 00:48:08.018, Speaker C: And I'm curious, how has the response been? I guess both within Orca, but also within maybe some of the circles that you travel within other communities. Do you get the sense that Dows writ large are looking at council structures? As I know it's run into some headwinds in maker, but like council like structures at either maker orca and are DAOs saying, hey, this is actually pretty interesting and maybe as a contributor to a Dao, I've been extremely frustrated by how hamstrung it is to make decisions at this organization. Or do you sort of run into, I don't want to say ideologues, some mix of ideologues or entrenched incumbents who might have different interests or a different ideology for how a Dao might look like. What has the response been at Orca?
00:48:08.034 - 00:49:09.014, Speaker B: It's been really good. I think that the token holder and just the community there in general, I would say in general, the Solana community is much more hey, let's move quickly and break things sort of mindset, rather than the Ethereum community, which is much more ideological about decentralization. And these are just trade offs, right? Like we personally at Reverie don't have strong opinions on which community is better or worse, but there's certainly trade offs. So orca there's really not been too much pushback. But I think a lot of the pushback at other projects we've seen, which is fair, by the way, is hey, these committees that are being formed or these councils, they're not putting in the right people, they're putting in the people who are there to basically profiteer for their own benefit. And I think that's where the big pushback is, is fine, we're totally on board with moving quickly and iterating on product, but we don't think you chose the right people. These people are paying themselves too much and doing no work, right? And I think that's a very valid criticism.
00:49:09.014 - 00:49:20.960, Speaker B: So it really just comes down to are the people who have power, are they good people, do they give a shit? Right? Are they aligned over the long term or are they just making very short term decisions? And that's really hard to suss out.
00:49:21.570 - 00:51:00.842, Speaker C: I'd like to sort of transition or just moving through our list of topics into kind of what you view as being the ultimate value proposition for Dows. Maybe in contrast that with how the corporate model for governance because trying to get at kind of an end game of why we are embarking on this great experiment in governance, right? And is there a purpose basically is governance know, Derek, I heard you use this phrase, I know hasu has used this phrase in the past governance is a liability, right? And to some extent if I were at Reverie and if, you know, interacting with some of these communities on a day to day basis, I might have a very similar perspective. But I'm trying to think like, there's a reason why we're doing this, right? If we were just trying to replicate exactly corporate governance, then what are we all doing here? So maybe on the spectrum of all the way on the left over here, we've got governance is a liability because I have to run everything through this crazy decision making process that just hampers good decision making. And then maybe in the middle of the spectrum, it's kind of neutral, right? There are some pros to it and there are some cons that they ultimately kind of balance out. And then all the way on the right side of the spectrum is ultimately maybe not for every product, but in some very specific cases, for a certain type of product, either based on maturity or where it sits on the infrastructure layer, this very decentralized structure of governance is actually quite beneficial. And governance ceases to become a liability and it becomes an asset. I'd love to get your sense endgame wise where you think governance ultimately ends up falling on that spectrum.
00:51:00.906 - 00:52:15.842, Speaker D: I think in the long run, the ideal governance platform is the one that lets the best ideas win. And again, I think that's a little vague if you dig into what does that actually mean? And I think it comes back to a question earlier you said, which is like, okay, what are the actual strengths of Dows? What are some of the positive attributes they have? How can they actually compete versus other organizations? And to me, the big one is openness, right? Openness in the sense that anyone can join a Dow. Whether it's what that means, I don't know. It depends. But anyone can try to voice their opinion and contribute. And I think today it's very hard for an average person with no context to join a Dao like Uniswap and have influence, but it is still nonetheless possible. And we have seen anons with no backgrounds, no names, no prestige come into large protocols and have a lot of influence just because they have good ideas.
00:52:15.842 - 00:53:03.910, Speaker D: So to me, I think the key over the long run is making sure that the right ideas are surfaced and empowered while minimizing the amount of bloat bureaucracy and debate. And I think it's inevitable some degree of that. But again, I think in an end state of Dows, it's much better for ideas across the world to be surfaced and used than with a closed company that doesn't do anything transparently or in public. So I think we're very far from that reality today. But I think that is sort of the end goal.
00:53:06.570 - 00:54:05.898, Speaker C: I'd be know vitalik laid something pretty interesting out in this piece that he wrote and he expressly responded to this idea that DAOs are not corporations. Title of the piece. DAOs are not corporations. And he basically laid out three distinct advantages to DAOs, which is decentralized decision making in concave environments, decentralization for censorship resistance, and decentralization for credible neutrality. I do wonder. So we're talking largely about decision making in the context of early stage startups where you want really fast decision making because honestly, in basically every startup there are multiple bet the kitchen sink moments that founders need to make and those are almost by definition unpopular decisions and difficult ones to make. And those as vitalik defines them, are convex decisions, right? It's basically a coin flip, either it works or not.
00:54:05.898 - 00:55:12.350, Speaker C: And the benefit of the thing working vastly outstrips it failing. And basically every company has to make that in the early stages. I think using his framework, it actually, I think within organizations, decisions largely start out as you want to be optimizing for convex outcomes, which is binary bet the farm type things, but over a certain period of time you want them to look more concave because it's basically kind of a probability thing, right? If you centralize the decision making, the power with one entity, if they are able to keep doing coin flips to bet the company ODS are eventually they will fail. And you're kind of seeing this in Meta right now. This is playing out in corporate governance, actually much more interestingly even than what's going on in crypto because Mark Zuckerberg has a share structure that allows him to keep making these sorts of bets. So I think you could kind of see, we'll see how that all kind of plays out in corporate America. But I'd be curious to get your thoughts on this idea of convex versus concave decision making.
00:55:12.350 - 00:55:28.020, Speaker C: And in some cases, is it actually a benefit? Right. Larry, like you were kind of alluding to at the beginning of this episode. What are the instances in our world in Crypto Dow land where slower decision making can ultimately be a benefit? And maybe we could start to apply it to some of these.
00:55:29.990 - 00:56:11.794, Speaker B: Yeah, like I read the piece several times and candidly I didn't fully digest it, but I think I get the general gist, right? Which is if you're a startup, you really have not much to lose. You basically have your shingle and your reputation, which is not much. You may as well bet the farm every single time, right? And when you're big and you have a bunch to lose, you're not going to want to risk everything. Which is why large companies, they don't make big risky decisions and as a result, they sort of fade into relevance. Right, and I think that's totally true. But my sense is most of the projects that we're thinking about in the Dow space, they look more like startups than large companies that have a lot to lose. Right.
00:56:11.794 - 00:56:29.080, Speaker B: Ethereum is probably more like a large company than the DApps we're referring to. And in those cases, the DAP cases, they probably should bet the Farm more often than not because they really don't have much to lose in doing so. That's kind of how I think about it at a high level.
00:56:31.450 - 00:57:09.598, Speaker C: Yeah. I want to aggressively advocate some positive stuff here. So let's talk about one thing that I do. So, like, Jason and I in some of those bet the Farm decision making actions that have occurred at Blockworks in the past, jason and I have this informal thing called a brain trust, where it's like, all right, we got to make a decision that's extremely impactful for the outcome of this organization, oftentimes in areas where we're not necessarily experts. Right. So we have a brain trust of people that we trust, which I joke about this, but honestly, it's on my list is my dad. And I like, all right, I'll talk to my dad.
00:57:09.598 - 00:57:54.670, Speaker C: You talk to your dad. And then also whatever friends that we might have that are within these subject areas. Employees, if you're listening to Blockworks, we don't do this anymore. But this was a real thing for a period of time. And one thing that really has been interesting to me or I could see the advantage of is if you had direct access via the community to your core kind of power user, right? And you're like, hey, guys, maybe we're not floating capital allocation decisions by you or, like, long term strategic roadmap or sectors that we want to play in, but it's like, we've got this product. We're thinking about doing feature X, Y, or Z. I'm actually wondering, I think you could kind of get some useful feed if you filter through the crap.
00:57:54.670 - 00:58:30.830, Speaker C: I think you could actually get some pretty useful product iteration and feedback where you could avoid making mistakes like Netflix did with Quickster, if you remember, when they tried to separate the DVDs and the streaming service way too early. Right. And even though Reed was ultimately right on that, if he had a freaking discord of his most loyal customers, he could have probably gotten some feedback that could have saved that stock a 90% drop, if you remember, and they recovered, and it was fine. But that's what I'm kind of wondering, if some access to a community, if you weed out some of the responses, could it be useful for product iteration?
00:58:31.890 - 00:58:59.606, Speaker B: I know we were a little bit pessimistic on Dows, but I am, and I know Reverie is we're very bullish on them, actually. Right. And the reason we're bullish on them is we see all these problems, right, and we see solutions to them. Right. And to your .1 big benefit of Dows and Derek mentioned this, is they are open, so the users are in discord. They are in the forums, and they're constantly telling you what they don't like about the product.
00:58:59.606 - 00:59:46.994, Speaker B: That's kind of cool, right? And I think the Dao teams that look at that and. Actually, iterate on that feedback they will do really damn well. I also think the fact that dows are kind of internet native organizations that anyone in the world can join and coordinate around this token, it really is a hotbed for talent. And so it attracts really good talent that would otherwise be really difficult to incentivize to come join. So there's so many awesome, I think tailwinds that dows have. But there's immense problems as well. But I think a lot of the teams that work on Dows and really try hard and are rigorous about the work they do they see all these problems and they look at them as things to solve.
00:59:46.994 - 00:59:57.340, Speaker B: Right. And that's the most important thing, I think, is to address the problems and fix them. And I think the good dows will fix those issues over time.
00:59:58.270 - 01:00:33.110, Speaker A: Guys, who do you think is right to be a dow right now? So if you look at a lot of the Dows today, a lot of the brands were started in 2018. 2019. They really boomed in DFI summer. After DFI summer, we saw a lot of D five brands or organizations raise capital as Dows. But really now, if you look at a lot of them, they're these ten to 50 person startups that don't really operate as Dows. And now if you look at a lot of the decks and a lot of the companies that are raising, there's, like, no dow. There are very few dows that are raising I'm just curious how you guys think.
01:00:33.110 - 01:00:35.590, Speaker A: It seems like your North Star for why?
01:00:35.660 - 01:00:36.130, Speaker C: Dao.
01:00:36.210 - 01:00:58.494, Speaker A: Is. It's a new evolution of corporate structure built for this world that's incredibly open, incredibly global. Digital first. So I'm just curious how you think about who is right for a dow? And do you think we'll get the resurgence of founders raising from the start as a Dow in the next bull market? And just curious how you think about that.
01:00:58.612 - 01:01:34.774, Speaker D: Yeah. I think the short answer is there's only some use cases within crypto where competing on decentralization and openness makes your product better. I think the mistake that has been made a lot is yeah, let's make everything a dow. Like every single use case in crypto. From trading to lending and borrowing to gaming to middleware. Let's just try all of it. Let's just make it a dow.
01:01:34.774 - 01:02:32.706, Speaker D: Right. And I think it's clear that with a lot of those services, right, if you want maybe reliability, maybe if you want customer support, if you want insurance, you probably don't need a Dow, at least for now. It's probably just not even possible. So I think just really has to be the right use cases. And yeah, I think over time we will see a resurgence of folks building dows raising on that thesis. But I definitely think we're in a bit of a trough. The same way that after the 2017 ICO boom, there was probably two or three years where tokens were deeply, deeply unpopular and the industry was again, I'm generalizing.
01:02:32.706 - 01:03:14.082, Speaker D: It was really only just bitcoin and ethereum. And then in 2020, we sort of had a resurgence in Tokens again, many of which are not useful and are not sustainable. But I think there's a handful or more that are interesting and are doing something new. So I think we're just a few years behind that with Dows, where it is difficult to point to one today and be like, that's an amazing example, everything's going super well, but if you zoom out and go ahead two, three years, I do think that will amazing.
01:03:14.156 - 01:03:49.046, Speaker A: Derek, leading up to this season, I actually went back and looked at some emails and texts and unfortunately public tweets that I had sent about Tokens in 2019 and I was about as bearish as you can get on Tokens in 2019. And again, this is like a year and a half into the bear absolute bottom of the market. Everyone's basically saying like, is crypto even going to work? And it feels I hadn't put that together of like my take on Tokens back then is kind of like how a lot of people are viewing Dows today, which is like, Dows are dumb. No? Yeah. So I like that.
01:03:49.228 - 01:04:57.506, Speaker D: The intellectual discussions on Twitter, on Telegram, they're just discussions. It changes so quickly. Most of the largest Token users, token holders today at some point in the last two, three years, four or five years, were huge bitcoin bulls, right, and nothing else. It's human nature. I think when you see a ton of to be counter cyclical and to be contrarian when you see and I think, yeah, anyone that saw all the Dow raises in 2021 didn't take a rock sign, just be like, some of these don't need to be Dows. And I think people feel justified that a lot of that is playing out the way that they thought. But I think, again, it's times like these where the folks that do believe that realize there is some utility to Dows and protocols.
01:04:57.506 - 01:05:07.040, Speaker D: I think those are the ones that will be well positioned in the next cycle, whatever that means for you.
01:05:07.650 - 01:06:01.338, Speaker B: One thing I'd add is I think anyone who's worked at a large company, like a Fortune 500 company, knows how dysfunctional corporate America and just corporations are, right? There's all these meetings, all these all hands, right? All of these weird hierarchical things. And oftentimes if you're a junior person, you have really good ideas, you're not going to communicate those ideas up to the CEO. First of all, you probably don't have access to the CEO. And second of all, even if you did, you wouldn't have the chutzpah to tell the CEO what problems the company is facing. Right? And there's all sorts of stuff that companies have challenges with, right. Because people don't let the problems really there's no escape valve for the problems. And with Dows and this is something I think is really bullish for them, is there's a huge escape valve for the problems, right? Forums and discord.
01:06:01.338 - 01:06:36.620, Speaker B: So at all times, all of the Ugliness is out there, right? And I think that's like half the battle is just identifying the problems and saying, hey, the shit's not working. Someone needs to fix it. Most companies do not have that escape valve and they still function by the way, it still works despite all these huge problems. And dows too, right? Like, a lot of them have all these problems. They still work just fine, right? The products are kicking ass and maybe they're not moving as quickly as they should, but don't let perfect be the enemy of good either. So I think there's a lot of really good things for Dows as well.
01:06:38.910 - 01:07:19.234, Speaker C: I think that question of product iteration and exactly we were talking about the direct feedback filtering all the way up. I can give you a very concrete example of how that actually helped our business. We host conferences and we had hosted Das for a long time. That's our institutional conference. And the selling point there, it's for banks and hedge funds and regulators. And the selling point is exclusivity, right? Like, all of the verbiage of the conference was basically around this idea of exclusivity and a very high quality of attendee. We hosted Permissionless with Bankless this previous year and we borrowed from that, right? We have like VIP this and VIP that and we submitted these proposals to Uniswap.
01:07:19.234 - 01:07:40.926, Speaker C: And I remember we just got shredded, just shredded in this. And if we had submitted this proposal to a marketer, we probably could have gotten this like, oh yeah, this looks like really interesting, let me take it up the chain. And then we wouldn't have gotten responded to for a couple of weeks. And then it would have been like, I really advocated for you but said no. The community was like, we'll never sign anything that's exclusive. We don't want that. We want this to be a community event.
01:07:40.926 - 01:08:01.720, Speaker C: And we pivoted and we changed our entire marketing message. We changed how the event was laid out and it was honestly super valuable, extremely direct feedback that completely changed an enormous product for us. So that's like, honestly, it's kind of annoying, but we were able to weed out some of the signal from the noise, so it's helped us in the past.
01:08:04.490 - 01:08:09.382, Speaker A: I'm laughing because I remember that I remember that comments were ruthless, guys, you should have seen this.
01:08:09.436 - 01:08:37.618, Speaker C: Look it up. It's in governance. Yeah, you can look it up on they're pretty funny. So I've got one more kind of technical question for you and then I want to get to some recommendations because I always think about reverie. You guys are practitioners, right? And there are people that are out there that are maybe leaders in Dows or contributors to communities. And I'd love to walk away with some sort of actionable advice from this interview. But one thing that occurs to me is a narrative right now that's been kind of playing out.
01:08:37.618 - 01:09:44.120, Speaker C: It's a narrative, but it's actually a very real struggle for what model is going to ultimately be successful is kind of app chains versus layer twos as a way of scaling on Ethereum. And I think Dows play a role in this and that form of governance because if you think about something like an app chain, you're trying to vertically integrate and build the full stack, right? Like a project like Osmosis is building the exchange, but also like products on top of that that customers are going to want to use. And that's entirely based on Dow governance, right. Dao governance is making all the decisions that goes into the base and the product. If you look at something like Uniswap, there's a different sort of model which is, okay, we want the base dex layer to be governed by a Dao. But then there's going to be a Labs, which is Company, which is building on top of that, which allows for a little bit more rapid product iteration and fast decision making. So I'd be curious to get your understanding of how governance, the pros and cons of Dow governance, play into this app chain versus ETH scaling kind of.
01:09:46.890 - 01:10:31.720, Speaker D: People have. App chains are obviously a super big topic right now. There's been a lot of writing about the benefits, whether it's with regards to mev approaches scalability, technical design and others. And yeah, if you boil it down, it comes down to whatever innovations crypto has. In the future, app chains will be the ones that can actually leverage them and implement them, whereas on other L ones they might have less optionality. I think. Yeah, generally speaking, app chains, the thesis really is modular governance and having more direct control.
01:10:31.720 - 01:11:33.130, Speaker D: It enables certain use cases that aren't possible on Ethereum. But I do think over time, Ethereum L2 S, again, they will change as well. You look at Optimism, you look at Arbitrum and some of the other L2 S today, I think they're very closely aligned with Ethereum and it's very important for them. But again, I think over a long enough timeframe those communities will grow and they will start to think about their own long term positioning and making sure that regardless of what Ethereum does, that they're well positioned. So I'm not saying that I think L2 S will be necessarily hostile to Ethereum or other protocols, but I think as they grow, they'll have their own stakeholders that don't necessarily hold ETH and we should expect them to act on their incentives.
01:11:35.470 - 01:12:29.370, Speaker C: Just to maybe clarify one minor thing there, I was kind of trying to refer to this idea of, like, if Dao governance is a liability, then it seems like app chains are actually slightly more exposed to that liability today than the roadmap that some of the DApps on ETH have taken. Because if you think about Uniswap, right? Like there's the kind of base layer decks, but then you have this layer on top. There are two separate forms of governance. There where products that users actually interface with are going to be created mostly by Uniswap Labs, which has that more authoritative, like, rapid iteration type governance structure, whereas for an app chain it's entirely done through Dow governance. So that was my is that like an apt analogy to use then? Like more exposure to Dow governance liability in the app chain side? Or do you not think that's a factor?
01:12:29.710 - 01:13:25.918, Speaker D: I understand the framing and I think it has some truths, but again, I think it comes down to optionality. Right. Having an app chain doesn't necessarily mean that every part of the stack is directly controlled by governance. I think app chain creators and builders have the option on which parts to decentralize and which parts decentralize. I think if you take the app chain vision to its extreme where everything from the consensus to the front end it's all as decentralized as possible, then obviously the scope of governance is much bigger. So I think, yeah, appchains, there's definitely more governance generally, but I think of it more as having more optionality and.
01:13:25.924 - 01:14:22.318, Speaker C: How to use that know, maybe in terms of I know we're a little limited on time here, but I'd love to get to some more kind of prescriptive or practical advice. Larry, I know you wrote this piece for Reverie. Basically we'll link it in the show notes, but it's called Musings on Governance and there's some kind of actionable. You sort of lay out some problem areas or some issues for Dows or that a lot of Dows are sort of struggling with and then kind of what Reverie's prescription would be right? For how to move forward or how to think about it. There are a couple that you laid out so treasuries. So treasuries aren't funds or endowments or other pools of capital. The interesting issue of sometimes contributors having outside agendas or undisclosed interests, committees, diluting accountability conflicts, basically governance being politics and not necessarily shying away from that.
01:14:22.318 - 01:14:36.462, Speaker C: So I'd love to get your kind of thoughts on what you think some of the most important issues that Dows are facing today. And as maybe prescriptive as you want to be, how would you advise Dows that you're working on for dealing with them?
01:14:36.536 - 01:15:46.118, Speaker B: I think the number one thing by far is to have the right people sitting at the table. So the decision makers need to be chosen very carefully, at least on the early stages, the risk in not doing so and we've seen this a lot, right? And I'm sure you guys have as well, is when you introduce too many cooks in the kitchen, it becomes analysis, paralysis and decision making grinds to a halt. Right? And so I think early on it's really important for the team, like the early stage team to basically say okay, we are clearly the best people for the job right? We have the most context, the most experience, the most history, the most vision and over time bring people on board very selectively. I think that's like by far the biggest thing. If you don't do that and you empower just completely random people it becomes a quagmire, like a political quagmire. And I think the competent people, the people who actually want to do really good work they see that political quagmire and they just don't want to sling mud right it's not interesting to them. They just want to do cool stuff right and be productive and as a result when they see it they leave and I think that's really dangerous to Dows.
01:15:46.118 - 01:15:54.250, Speaker B: So the number one thing we'd recommend is always have the team be really involved in figuring out who's sitting at that table initially.
01:15:54.410 - 01:16:53.802, Speaker C: I'd love to actually get your totally agree with that. Maybe if I could pick on your thoughts for Dow Treasuries actually specifically because there's a lot of discussion around them. I think like you what you wrote really resonated with me because if you look at how Treasuries are managed in corporate America basically you want the finances of the business to not impact or support the operating decisions of the business, right? So that's why corporate treasurers tend to be very risk averse and most of your assets are basically just want to keep up with inflation right? That's why they're in very short dated Treasuries and you're not taking basically outsized risk. The way that I've kind of heard Dow Treasuries talked about sometimes is oh yeah we're going to engage in all these complex derivative structures which is like delta neutral yield farming and all this stuff and I'm just like are you optimizing what you should be optimizing for there? Which is just to not run out of money. So I'd love to get your kind of thoughts on how you think we're going to see that field evolve.
01:16:53.946 - 01:17:45.474, Speaker B: This is a huge pet peeve of mine right? Like having Dows manage Treasuries like hedge funds. Dows should not be using their balance sheet capital, their treasury to make risky bets, to make venture investments, to buy all these hedges, right? To invest in derivatives because investors basically give money to Dows, right? And if investors wanted to do all that stuff themselves they would have done it. The reason they invested in the Dow is because they believe in whatever that Dow is doing. They're not investing in the Dow to do all sorts of hedge fund activities. And I think when you see that sort of stuff a lot of it is just service providers trying to bamboozle the Dow and make a personal dollar and you see this in the traditional world too and I think unfortunately you see it in Dow land but I think most of the well run Dows. They don't engage in that sort of stuff. In fact, I don't think any of them do.
01:17:45.474 - 01:18:15.420, Speaker B: And it's really the Dows that don't know better that they use their balance sheet, their treasury as a hedge fund. And it's obviously a huge problem in the space. Right? It's a honeypot of money. It's what people are attracted to it. But I think you're right. Like, Dow should be extremely risk averse when it comes to that sort of stuff. They should just hold some cash reserves for Runway, right? Maybe two to three years, two to four years and not speculate with the rest.
01:18:17.150 - 01:18:38.210, Speaker C: Guys, the audience can tell, right, I think, just from our chat so far, that you really have a deep understanding of working with these Dows communities, kind of getting your hands dirty on the ground. But can you tell everyone a little bit about what Reverie is? And if folks want to follow more of your work or find out more about the work that you do or connect or whatever it is, what's the best way to do that?
01:18:38.280 - 01:19:06.842, Speaker B: Yeah, the best way to understand Reverie is to understand Derek and know. We were former VCs in this space. I was at Digital Currency Group, derek was at Blockchain Capital, and we were investing in a lot of startups. And as a result, we were not able to get super hands on with any one company. And we wanted to do things completely differently at Reverie. And so instead, what we do is we get super hands on with very few companies at any given time and at a high level. What Reverie is, it's an advisory business and an investing business.
01:19:06.842 - 01:19:18.094, Speaker B: So we get super hands on with a few companies. Most of them are Dows, but we work with companies, too, and we basically are operators in the trenches alongside the team, and then we make small investments as well.
01:19:18.212 - 01:19:47.110, Speaker C: Awesome, guys. Well, I will show one more part of your business, which is the I Pledge Allegiance podcast as well, which is phenomenal. Listeners to on the margin. And Bellcraft have probably heard this podcast. I pledge allegiance A lot of I pledge allegiance references. So you guys have done great work, especially kind of fleecing out some of these ideas about Dows and governance. So I highly recommend listeners if you enjoy this program, especially this season.
01:19:47.110 - 01:19:53.990, Speaker C: If there was a godfather to this season kind of a guiding light, it was definitely you guys and the work that you're doing at I Pledge Allegiance.
01:19:54.810 - 01:19:55.126, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:19:55.148 - 01:20:00.142, Speaker C: It was an honor to have both you on the show. Thank you for sharing your thoughts. And we'll have to do it again soon.
01:20:00.236 - 01:20:02.042, Speaker D: Thanks a lot, Mike. Thanks a lot, Jason.
01:20:02.186 - 01:20:02.922, Speaker A: Thanks, Derek.
01:20:02.986 - 01:20:03.934, Speaker B: Thanks a lot.
01:20:04.132 - 01:20:04.890, Speaker C: Cheers, fellas.
