00:00:00.880 - 00:00:41.732, Speaker A: So our last speaker for this day is Xin fu, who's here from Bimza. She's going to tell us about homotopy rigidity for quasi Toric manifolds over products of D subsys. Okay, thanks Stephen, for introducing me. And I would like to thank the organizers to offer me an opportunity to speak today. I would like to report recent progress jointly with Larry Johnbach and Stephen Terrillen. So let me start with our main result. So we considered quasatoric manifolds over a product of d simplices.
00:00:41.732 - 00:01:35.370, Speaker A: And so we assuming m and n are two n dimensional quasatoric manifolds. So in explicitly that means n equals to the dimension of the polytope, which is DL. So in this case, and we use the curly p to denote the set of all the prime numbers that is not greater than minus d plus one. So our result is the following. So suppose we consider two such quasi to manifolds. Suppose their integral coefficient runes are isomorphic. Then we can show that these two quasatoric manifold m and n, they are homotopy equivalents after localizing away the prime numbers inside this set p.
00:01:35.370 - 00:02:33.942, Speaker A: So in this talk I will give you the definitions of the concepts involved in this result and also talk about the ideas improving this sediment. So first of all, let me introduce moment ongoing manifold from a simple polytope. I know throughout this workshop we talk about moment Ongo complexes as a special kind of like polyhedral product. But in this talk I would like to, or I prefer to think of moment angle complex arising from simple polytopes as a pullback square. So, appearing in some pullback square to fix notation. So I'm using pn. N is always to be the dimension of the simple polytope.
00:02:33.942 - 00:04:05.478, Speaker A: And in this case we can always write pn as set of points in n dimensional euclidean space such that these inequalities are satisfied. So here a construction due to Butcher's turbo panel and ray shows that we can always embed n dimensional thermal polytope into non negative n dimensional euclidean space, just sending every point in this n dimensional semipolitope to the number appearing in the left hand side of this inequality. So that's the bottom arrow embedding pn into rm. Okay, so the right hand side vertical arrow mu is the moment map from say m going to rm. So non negative coordinates. So in this case we can define the moment angle manifold as the pullback of these two maps. So on the other hand we can always write say as quotient space of this non negative un euclidean space times a torus modulus sum equivalent relations.
00:04:05.478 - 00:04:51.090, Speaker A: So this gives the moment angle manifold as a quotient space of n dimensional thermal polytope and m dimensional torus. So I will give you an example to show how this quotient space looks like. So for example, if we think of the one dimensional simple polytope which is just an interval from, let's say from zero to one. So uh, so when p is an interval. So in this case the number of the co dimensional one faces are just the two end point. So the vertices of this interval. So we m will be equal to two.
00:04:51.090 - 00:05:43.150, Speaker A: So in this case, so m always refers to the co dimensional one faces of this simple polytope. So before we take the quotient, so we have p times t two, so means to every point in this polytope they attach to a two dimensional torus. So this is just this product space. Then we do the quotient. So the quotient, the recipe or the rule defining the quotient relies on the point lying in the p relies on the co dimensional of the. So every point will contain a relative interior of some face. So every face will have a co dimension in this simple polytope.
00:05:43.150 - 00:06:36.794, Speaker A: So when we think of the point lies in a co dimensional k, let's see, the co dimension of this face is k. So in this case we'll quotient out a k dimensional subtorus inside of this tm. So in the moment angle complex case, this k dimensional subtorus will always be the coordinate circle given by this tm. So for example, if we think of the end point, the vertex, let's see the left vertex of this interval zero. So in that case, so originally before we take in the quotient, it will be a two dimensional circle. So in the quotient space we will quotient out the first coordinate circle. So that means the remaining part to the endpoint zero.
00:06:36.794 - 00:07:30.754, Speaker A: We will only have one circle remaining in this quotient space and similarly to the endpoint one. So in that case we will caution out the second copy of this coordinate circle. So in this case we attaching to this vertex, we only again remaining just one dimensional circle, but for the point lies inside this interior of this interval because cone dimension of this point face will be zero. So there's no torus. Caution out. So to each point in the interior of this simple polytope, we will have the whole two dimensional torus. So in the end the resulted quotient space will be the joint of s one and s one which is s three.
00:07:30.754 - 00:08:36.906, Speaker A: So this is a different way to look at to define the moment angle manifold. Is this clear? So a second definition of the space I want to introduce is called the quasitolic manifold. So the quasatoric manifold from the definition in a geometric point wheel is we look at compact manifold. Suppose it is two n dimensional and on this manifold globally there is an n dimensional torus acting on this manifold. And this torus action t n x on m will satisfy some so called locally standard torus action such that the quotient obey space will be n dimensional thermal polytope. So that's from a geometric point of view we define a quasatoric manifold. So here is an example.
00:08:36.906 - 00:09:33.480, Speaker A: So think about our two dimensional sphere and think about the s one x on this two dimensional sphere just rotating along this equator circle. So this is the s one action on this s two. So locally standard torus action means to each point there is a local charge such that if we restrict to this torus action to this local area, it will become the standard tn action acts on this cn. Okay, so in this s two case. So there are local charts given by just removing the north pole or the south pole. So in that case if we look at from the top to the two dimensional sphere, we can get the s one action x on the local chart is just rotating along the original. So this is a locally standard action.
00:09:33.480 - 00:10:26.986, Speaker A: So S two equipped with this s one action is a quasatoric manifold. Another way of defining a quasatoric manifold is bye, uh, construction. So similarly to uh, what we see before what we saw in defining a moment angle manifold, here we also think of the simple polytope product. Take the product with another n dimensional tolerance. So here n equals to the dimension of this polytope. So this is different to when we defining the moment angle manifold. So moment angle manifold, the dimension of the torus equals to the dimension of the number of the co dimensional one faces.
00:10:26.986 - 00:11:42.886, Speaker A: But here the torus will be n dimensional, which is agree with the dimension of this simple polytope. To defining this equivalent, or the quotient relation appears in this quotient space, we need an x charge delta, which is a function from f one, dot, dot, dot to fm is the set of all the co dimensional one faces of this simple polytope. And we call it characteristic function means whenever the intersection of all the facets is not an empty set, the image of those vectors will form part of a basis of this n dimensional lattice. So that's what we call an n dimensional what we call a characteristic function. So in this case we form an equivalent relation which is related to this lambda characteristic function. Again in a similar pattern as we define in a moment angle manifold. We need to consider the first coordinate x lies in which face relative interior of the face of this polytope.
00:11:42.886 - 00:12:40.490, Speaker A: And we need to quotient out certain co dimensional k phase will be corresponding to a k dimensional subtorus in this tn. So in this quotient relation we will caution out this k k dimensional subtorus. How do we determine this k dimensional subtorus? It will be given by the vectors that comes from the image of this lambda function which span in this k dimensional torus in this tn. So here is an example. Again I'm using the p to be an interval from zero to one. So in this case n is one. So before we take the quotient, we are taking the product of this one dimensional thermopolito with one dimensional tolerance which is just an s one.
00:12:40.490 - 00:13:51.240, Speaker A: So the space before taking the quotient is just a cylinder, right? This is just a cylinder. Then again we look at the co dimensional one face which are just these two endpoint and the characteristic function sending zero to one and another one. Another ending point also send it to one because we only have this one dimensional lattice which is just the integers. So in this case to this left endpoint because the one will span a one dimensional circle in s one. So that means the left circle s one will be cautioned out to a point and similarly to this right side endpoint. So this s one will also be cautioned out to a point and for the other points inside the interior of this interval we do not have any quotient relation. So in this case the resulting quotient space will be s two.
00:13:51.240 - 00:14:40.708, Speaker A: Is this clear? So here is another example. If we think of a pentagon which is a two dimensional simple polytope. So before we take quotient again, it is a product of p two times two dimensional torus and then to every vertex they are co dimension two face. So in that case we will quotient out all the two dimensional torus and to every point lies in the interior of the edge. They are co dimensional one. They lies in a co dimensional one face. So that means we quotient out one dimensional circle inside this t two.
00:14:40.708 - 00:15:37.950, Speaker A: So this one dimensional circle is spanned by this characteristic vector associated to this co dimension one phase. So the remaining part will become again t two quotient out one dimensional circle will be still up to homotopic equivalence, it is again another s one. So similarly we can do the same process to each of the edge, and for the point lies inside the interior of the polytope. So it is a co dimensional zero. So there's no quotient happening inside this interior of this polytope. So every point inside the polytope will attach to the two dimensional torus. So this is the picture for four dimensional toric manifold.
00:15:37.950 - 00:16:16.622, Speaker A: Okay, so there are non trivial examples of quasi toric manifold. For example a bolt manifold which is appears in a sequence of manifolds. So we starting with a point. So we do the projective incision of a trivial line bundle and direct sum of trivial line bundle of another land bundle. So then iterated this process. So in the end we got an end stage manifold. So each of the big end stage manifold is a bolt manifold.
00:16:16.622 - 00:17:52.804, Speaker A: So this is a non trivial example of our quasitoring manifold and the associated polytope will be an n dimensional cube. And we can also generalize this construction to instead of thinking of one trivial bundle and another maybe arbitrary line bundle, so we can think of one trivial bundle together with nk minus one line bundles, then do the projectivization of this Whitney direct sum. So in this case the stage, the resulted end stage manifold will be called a generalized bot manifold, and the associated simple polytope to this generalized bot manifold will be a product of symphysis. The symbols dimension for these simplices might not be the same one to compute the cohomology. So remember we have this m is a quasatoric manifold defined as p times t n modulus, some equivalent relation. So there's a torus action x on this manifold given by the torus action acting on this torus factor. So in this case we can consider the braille vibration from this tn action on this.
00:17:52.804 - 00:19:42.228, Speaker A: So we end up with a homotopy vibration. So this is the braille construction of this quasatoric manifold. Then we project down to the glycine phosphide of tn, a result due to Davis Young scavage showing that the cohomology of the fiber, which is the cohomology of the arm, will be isomorphic to the e two term of this Eilenberg Mohr spectro sequence. And moreover we can compute this total to be the equivalent cohomology run of this quasatorical manifold module, the ideal generated by the image of induced map on the cohomology, which we do not require the zero cohomology. So you can also compute the equivalent cohomology of this quasatoric manifold turns out to be isomorphic to the Stanley trans neuron associated. Sorry, this should be p associated to this simple polytope, and the image of this element is represented by some linear relations in inside this zkp. So this is the cohomology formula for computing quasatoric manifold what we are interested in understanding an open problem in toric topology which was asked by Masuda and Su in around 2008, saying that given two quasi tauric manifolds or two toric manifolds, let's say m and m prime.
00:19:42.228 - 00:21:14.480, Speaker A: Suppose they are integral cohomology runs are isomorphic. Can they say they are dphomorphic or homeomorphic to each other? So that's the rigidity problem in toric topology. So it sounds like the question sounds like quite ambitious, but we don't know any counterexamples. After the question was asked, there are supportive cases. So for example, if we think of the four dimensional quasi tauric manifolds, that means the associated symbol polytropic is just any polygon. So in this case we can use the cohomology formula given by DJ and the Freeman's classification on four dimensional manifolds we can get four dimensional quasatoric manifolds satisfy this cohomology rigidity property result due to Butcher's turbo and his collaborators considered not every six dimensional quasatory manifold, but six dimensional quasatoric manifolds associate 882 poggerolo class so basically that means the associated simple polytope contains no triangles, no squares. So in that case we know this class of manifolds also satisfy this property.
00:21:14.480 - 00:22:44.034, Speaker A: Recently Choi, Huang and Jiang, they showed that both manifolds are also they are also satisfied this property and similarly quasi torque manifolds over three dimensional cube due to hazy or quasantoic manifolds over product of two samples. This is also satisfied. They are also affirmative cases to this problem. So we modified this question instead of answering whether they are homeomorphism or defeomorphism, we think version of this problem asking given two quadratory manifold, let's say m and n. Suppose their cohomology run are isomorphic to each other. Can they say they are homotopic equivalents? So that's there are results that are relevant to this question. For instance, Hausui and Kishimoto shows that for catheteric manifold with the dimension less than two p squared minus four.
00:22:44.034 - 00:24:00.280, Speaker A: So here p is a prime number and in this case cohomology run isomorphism can imply they are homotopic equivalents, arbitrary p localization and we suspend the space many times as possible. So this is involving the suspension. And with Larry and John Bag, we think we considered four dimensional torical orbitals that has no two torsion. So you can think of toric orbifolds analog of orbit version of quasatoric manifolds. And we do not consider, we exclude the case that the space having two torsion. So in this case we can show that the cohomology run isomorphism will imply the homotopic equivalence between those spaces. So recently with Larry Zhongbai and Stephen, we think about the quasatoric manifolds over a product of d dimensional simplices.
00:24:00.280 - 00:24:58.832, Speaker A: So this class of quasatoric manifolds include the both manifolds and the certain generalized bot manifold. So in this case we proved that the integral cohomology run isomorphism will imply the homotopic equivalence after certain localization. So after inverting several prime numbers. So for the remaining of the talk, I would like to talk about the idea in in the proof. So first of all, from the cohomology of the quasatoric manifold, we understand there is a cellular structure for quasatoric manifold that consists of only even dimensional cells. So that means the zero skeleton of m is because it is simply connected. So it is homotopy.
00:24:58.832 - 00:25:54.830, Speaker A: Two point on the two skeleton will be a wedge of two dimensional spheres. And again, this is a twin dimension. Also, the twin skeleton of this arm will be arm itself. And for each of the two k plus two skeleton we have certain attachment map attaching two k plus two cells on this two k plus one skeleton of mh, because m only consists of even dimensional cells. So the two k plus one skeleton will be equal to the two k skeleton. So we can write a cofiberation sequence arising from this quasi command. Our idea is to show each the two case skeleton under the assumption of this mean result.
00:25:54.830 - 00:26:30.588, Speaker A: We will have this homotopic equivalence after localization. So we divide it into two cases. So first of all, we consider the k equals to d. So d is the dimension of these simplices. And the second case is when the k is greater than d. So that's the idea for proving the result. So let's first say when k is d, so when k is d, we consider the vibration of m.
00:26:30.588 - 00:27:36.894, Speaker A: So what's this one? So this is because the quasi Tauric manifold can be understood as a quotient space from the moment ongoing manifold given by a free torus action. So the freeness can be deduced or proved by using the definition of the characteristic function. So because it is a free action x on m. So we can classify this map going to be the classified space of bt minus n. So we end up a vibration from the whose fiber will be the associated moment ongoing manifold. So because we are considered the polytope which is the product of desymplicates, so the associated moment angle manifold is a product of 2d plus one spheres. So the connectivity of this fiber is two 2d.
00:27:36.894 - 00:28:49.164, Speaker A: So roughly speaking, we can understand the map delta from m to btm minus n at a certain lower degree. So the fiber of this data could be just a contractable space because the connectivity of this fiber is two daughter. Or to make it formal, we can apply Blaker and the messy theorem to show the result. But roughly, intuitively thinking, because the connectivity of the fiber is higher, so we can understand at a certain lower degree of this map, the fiber would be contractable. So that gives a homotopic equivalence when we restrict to the delta to only two daughter skeleton. So that's how we end up in those map restricting to the 2d skeleton. This same vibration also applies to the quad satoric manifold for n as well.
00:28:49.164 - 00:30:20.818, Speaker A: So in this case we can consider the composition from data to the so delta two d and so delta prime 2d denotes the same map for the n instead of like m, and the arrow appears in the middle is induced from the assumption by when we, assuming the cohomology are isomorphic. So there will be an isomorphism of degree two m and the degree two n. So it will induce an isomorphism from the bt n minus n goes to bt minus n because they are classified map of the degree two of this cohomology of quasi toric manifold. So that means this map will also be a homotopic equivalence. So each of the map will be a homotopic equivalence so that the composition will be a homotopic equivalence. So that's for the k equals to d case. Okay, any questions so far? Uh, so for the k greater than d case, uh, we, we use for lemma.
00:30:20.818 - 00:31:39.016, Speaker A: So we may generalize thinking of Cw complex, which consists of even dimensional cells, or cos, sorry, connected c double complex. So we can define a homomorphism so from the two k plus two homology groups of X. So we can understand these homology groups to be the cellular homology. So because X consists of even dimensional cells, so each of the cell will contribute to a homology class in the cellular homology groups. Okay, so we understand this one as a cellular homology of X, and the target space of this homomorphism, dx, is the homotopy groups of two k skeleton of X at degree two k plus one. So if we take two k plus two dimensional cell of xdev, so it will give us a homology class inside the homology groups of X. And think about the boundary of this cell, which is two k plus one dimension.
00:31:39.016 - 00:33:01.200, Speaker A: So think about the attachment map from this cell to the two k skeleton of this x. So take the homotopic class of this attachment map. So this is the image for this two k plus two cell of our Cw complex. This is a well defined group homomorphism, and we can also show that this group homomorphism is natural with respect to a continuous map between two Cw complexes that consists of even dimensional cells only. So I'm using h star to denote the induced map on the homology groups and using the h two k, the subscript h two k to denote the induced map on the two k skeleton. So given any continuous map, we always have this commutative diagram. So the top arrow is dx, the bottom horizontal arrow is the map defined similarly for another Cw complex consisting of even dimensional cells for our quasatoric manifold over a product of similar.
00:33:01.200 - 00:34:00.320, Speaker A: So when k is greater than d, so k refers to the k appearing in defining this group homomorphism. So we can show the map glen, I mean, the subscript m means we consider the x to be the crasitorial manifold m. So we can show that this map gm is indeed an isomorphism after localizing those prime numbers in the set of curly p appearing in here. So that's the crucial part in the statement, improving the result. Okay, now we getting back to our case, one k greater, greater or equal to d. So we use inductive process. So remember we consider two quasatorical manifolds, m and n, over the product of these symbolases.
00:34:00.320 - 00:36:18.944, Speaker A: And we know gm and Gn, they are isomorphism after localized after the appropriate localization. And suppose we have shown for the k equals to d, there is a homotopic equivalence between the two k skeleton to the two k skeleton over here. So that means on this right hand vertical arrow, this is an isomorphism between the homotopic groups or isomorphism after appropriate localization, because gl and Gn, this is also an isomorphism after localization. So that means we can get a map which is also an isomorphism after localization from the cellular homology groups of m to the cellular homology groups of n. Okay? And moreover, this map can be kind of like a geometric geometry realized in terms like each of the cell, because the homology groups corresponding to the cells of this structure cellular structure of this arm so we can get a map mapping the two k plus two cells of a map goes to the two k plus two cells of the n, so such that the attachment map for the m and the attaching map for the n and this right hand side is the inductive process. Homotopic equivalence we proved after localization and the commutativity of this part will implies a homotopy commutativity on the level of these spaces and the horizontal maps denotes the attachment map for the two k plus two cells of m and n, respectively, and all the vertical arrows, they are homotopic equivalents after localization. That means there will be an homotopic equivalence between the induced cofiber of this attachment map.
00:36:18.944 - 00:36:35.800, Speaker A: So this shows the homotopic equivalence between the two k plus two sigma t of m and two k plus two sigma t of n. So that's I'm stop here. That's end of my talk.
