00:00:00.400 - 00:00:39.936, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 8 February 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So you guys will know by now about these two popular misconceptions when it comes to the merge. And I, you know, I just put this tweet out before, so gonna just kind of rehash this a little bit today for possibly any new kind of like viewers or listeners out there, but I basically put out this tweet where I said there is currently two popular misconceptions surrounding Ethereum's transition to proof of stake, aka the merge. Number one is all staked ETH is unlocking at the time of the merge, and number two is the merge lowers gas fees on layer one. Both of these narratives are completely false.
00:00:39.936 - 00:01:21.826, Speaker A: Now, long time daily way fuel kind of listeners and watchers will know exactly what I'm talking about here, but just a quick refresh for people who don't. The withdrawals for the staked ETH on the beacon chain aren't actually being enabled until at least six months after the merge. So if the merge happens in June, you can expect to see the withdrawals enabled November, December, the earliest they could even push into next year. It just depends on a bunch of different things, you know, got to do with the core dev process and the EIP process from there. And the second thing here is the mer, that the merge lowers gas fees on layer one. As we all know. If we know about the modular ethereum scaling roadmap, the merge does not lower gas fees on layer one.
00:01:21.826 - 00:01:38.266, Speaker A: The. It has nothing to do with gas fees at all, actually. Right. Because proof of work, proof of stake, it doesn't matter. These are consensus mechanisms. They don't really have anything to do with kind of like lowering fees or anything like that, despite what you may have read. So yeah, the merge is not lowering gas fees on layer one.
00:01:38.266 - 00:02:19.004, Speaker A: Now I want to talk about more, more about point number one because there's a lot of confusion around this point. Right. So right now let's, let's take a, take a step back all the way back to kind of like the bare minimum, the bare minimum information you need here. So right now there is what, eight or 9 million ETH staked. I can't remember the exact number right now, but there's something like that staked on the beacon chain. Now currently that is a one way bridge where you stake your ETH, right? The ETH gets put into what's called the deposit contract on the Ethereum one side or the execution layer side as we're calling it. And then it go, it basically transfers that across to, I guess like burns it on the ETH one side and then issues you that ETH on the beacon chain side.
00:02:19.004 - 00:02:53.392, Speaker A: And then you can stake, if you want to stake on your own, it's a 32 ETH minimum. If you stake through someone else, then like a third party, they will put that ETH into the deposit contract because that's the only way you can end up staking. And every single validator that gets spun up has to have 30 tweets at least associated with. It doesn't matter if you're staking with a, an exchange or service provider on your own. It's the same thing. It's just that the way service providers and exchanges do it is that they allow you to stake less, but they pull it together right as a staking pool and they still put that 32 week per validator in to get that spun up there. So that's, that's kind of like how you get into staking.
00:02:53.392 - 00:03:30.928, Speaker A: Now there's, on top of that and kind of like associated with that is what's called the deposit queue. And there's also, they're going to be the withdrawal queue, but that's not currently in place because that only comes when we have withdrawals. So the deposit queue essentially is a maximum amount of kind of like ETH, or I guess like validators that can be spun up a day. Last time I checked, it's around 30,000 ETH that can actually be deposited every 24 hours from the deposit contract into the beacon chain, essentially, or process, I should say, is the better word there. So there is a limit. You can't, it's not like you could stake a million ETH today and then be earning rewards in that million ETH, like right away. No, it doesn't work like that.
00:03:30.928 - 00:04:02.706, Speaker A: It's limited to about 30,000 ETH per day. Now, the same is true for the future withdrawal queue. So for example, obviously when withdrawals are enabled, all of that ETH is eligible to be unlocked. And some of it will be unlocked and unstaked and kind of like withdrawn and maybe sold on an exchange. But again, only 30,000 ETH per day. And I actually have to double check on this because I think the deposit and withdrawal queues are actually shared, but I have to double check on this. I'm not, I'm not 100% sure, but I guess my main point is that there's still a limit here.
00:04:02.706 - 00:04:31.504, Speaker A: It's not like that eight or 9 million ETH, there's probably going to be more by that point, but it's not like it can actually just be withdrawn all at once and then sold on an exchange or whatever, and we have like, a massive dump that's not going to happen. And the reason there's that queue is for security reasons. Like, you can imagine how disastrous it would be if all the ETH, or even like a large majority of the ETH was able to be withdrawn at once. Those validators go offline. The chain would basically halt if enough went offline. So that's done for security reasons. Same with kind of like the deposit contract.
00:04:31.504 - 00:05:09.636, Speaker A: You have to actually verify. You have to let blocks kind of like confirm over time to verify that everything's, everything's working smoothly. So there are limits in place. So even if the staked ETH was unlocking at the time of the merge, it would still be the same situation where there's a limit to how much ETH can actually be withdrawn each day, and thus there's a limit to how much, how much can actually be sold on the market each day. So I think that a lot of people don't understand this, and a lot of people think that it's a bear case, saying, oh, yeah, we're going to have like a massive run up to the merge because the narrative, and then as soon as the merge happens, it's going to dump really hard because all this, it's going to hit the market when that is just not true at all. This isn't even a matter of opinion. It's a matter of fact.
00:05:09.636 - 00:05:40.550, Speaker A: So I think that understanding those dynamics, as I was talking about yesterday with regards to the, you know, proof of stake and the merge and how that's extremely bullish for ETH, that plays into it as well. So that's, that's, that's point number one. And then I briefly mentioned point number two before about the merge not lowering gas fees. This is a very perverse narrative. I think this is way more damaging than the, than the, than the first narrative. I think this one's going to persist and until the merge. And then, you know, people are going to realize, okay, well, the merge didn't lower gas fees.
00:05:40.550 - 00:06:05.676, Speaker A: What is this? And they're going to think that it's a scam or think that, like, they were promised something that they weren't. It's. It's going to be annoying to deal with. I don't think it's, you know, existential, like a bear case for ethereum or anything like that. But it's going to be a bit annoying to deal with. It's going to be kind of like dealing with people who thought AIP 1559 would lower gas fees, even though I personally didn't see a single person ever say that AIP 1559 would lower gas fees. And anyone who did say that was part of the mine, part of the minority, that it wasn't.
00:06:05.676 - 00:06:49.926, Speaker A: The consensus opinion, none of the serious researchers, developers, educators in this space ever, ever claimed that 1559 would lower gas fees, at least from what I saw. And that's because we all knew that it wouldn't. We all knew that the best thing it would do would be smooth out transaction fees, which could lead to a slight decrease in gas fees, which I think ended up being around six or 7% for Coinbase, for example, not. Not network wide, but I think Coinbase ended up saving six to 7% because they had better, I guess, transaction certainty around getting their transactions in, getting their withdrawals processed and things like that. But. But generally, yeah. What wasn't a kind of like a block size increase or anything like that? I mean, okay, well, technically it was, but like, we're only using half the block.
00:06:49.926 - 00:07:04.846, Speaker A: I'm not gonna get into the mechanics of it, but I think that that narrative still persists to this day. Or people say, oh, we were promised lower gas fees with 1559. It didn't happen. It was like, no, you weren't. And that's why I keep hammering on about the merge. Not lowering gas fees is because no one's promising that. No one serious is promising that.
00:07:04.846 - 00:07:40.578, Speaker A: You know who's promising that? The bloody clickbait youtubers that are just spreading absolute crappy information all the time. That really pisses me off because, you know, I try to, like, fight back against this, but obviously the viewership on the daily way is much lower because I don't use clickbait and things like that. And then you have these massive accounts saying stuff like ETH two or the merge is going to lower gas fees, blah, blah, when in reality you already can have cheap fees today. Go to a L2. There you go. They're already live today. And the kind of like, ethereum core protocol roadmap is in, is being kind of like architected to make l two s better, as we all know.
00:07:40.578 - 00:08:05.018, Speaker A: So. So, yeah, I just wanted to kind of like, rehash a bit on those miscarriages, misconceptions there, I hope that you guys keep educating on this as well. If you ever see someone kind of, like, bring up these. These. These bad narratives and you feel like correcting them, please do so, because every little bit helps. Even if you, you know, if you're a small account on Twitter, even if you've only got, like, 100 followers, it doesn't matter. What matters is if we all work together and we all kind of, like, put this message out there, we can counteract the bad information.
00:08:05.018 - 00:08:35.062, Speaker A: Yes. It may feel like, you know, we're not making progress, but I think we are. Like, every single person that we're able to educate is still progress, even if it's slower than what other people kind of, like, spread its progress. So I hope you guys kind of, like, stick to doing that there. But anyway, moving on to the next bit of news from the last 24 hours was that KPMG Canada announced that they have allocated. That they have completed an allocation of crypto assets to their corporate treasury and their firm. This is their firm's first of its kind investment into the crypto asset class.
00:08:35.062 - 00:09:12.725, Speaker A: This includes BTC and ETH tokens and carbon offsets to maintain a net zero carbon transaction. This is pretty cool. I mean, KP and G is an absolutely massive, kind of, like, financial services firm. I think their revenue I was looking at before is like $30 billion worldwide, which is, which is obviously not nothing to scoff at there. And they are a company that have put ETH on their kind of, like, balance sheet here. And BTC, of course, which is, which is huge, right? We saw a lot of this, obviously, during 2020 and somewhat in 2021 with BTC. But as I said to you guys back then, we would be seeing ETH on these balance sheets right alongside BTC.
00:09:12.725 - 00:09:40.234, Speaker A: And we have been lately. And it just makes sense. I mean, BTC and ETH are the two blue chips. There's nothing that even comes close to the same legitimacy and the same kind of, like, I guess, like ecosystems that BTC and ETH have. I know you guys obviously know that I'm not really bullish on bitcoin as kind of like an ecosystem, but I can't deny that it's a large ecosystem. You know, just because I am not bullish on it doesn't mean that other people aren't, you know, so. And obviously, it's still the biggest crypto cryptocurrency.
00:09:40.234 - 00:09:58.770, Speaker A: It's still the one that a lot of the normies, as they call them, love, because they just don't. They don't understand the intricacies of it. They just want an asset that they can hold and goes up over time. That's it. Right. So, um, but I think with ETH, there's a, there's a lot more that can be done here, obviously, with staking and stuff like that. Their staking products can be offered to clients and, and things like that.
00:09:58.770 - 00:10:34.534, Speaker A: So there's, there's more to it than, than just with BTC. And I guess I got, that's what gets me excited about ETH. But, yeah, very, very cool to see just such a large kind of, like, company putting ETH on their balance sheet that, I guess, further signals to other companies that they, you know, it's safe to do so. Like, obviously, I think Saylor kick started it originally, and he signaled to a lot of other companies and corporates and enterprises that it was safe to put BTC on your balance sheet, or it was, like, the cool thing to do. I think the same is true for ETH. You know, I think, you know, it hasn't materialized as quickly as I thought it would. And I kind of, like, underestimated how slow corporates and enterprises move, even though I shouldn't have because I've worked for one before.
00:10:34.534 - 00:11:09.412, Speaker A: I know how slow they move, but I think they're, a lot of the time, many of them are chases. So what will happen is they'll feel comfortable doing it when the prices are going up, but they won't feel comfortable doing it when the price is going down. And you may think that this is what noobs do, right? Noobs to crypto do this where they come in when the price is going up and then they leave and the price is going down. But, you know, at the end of the day, these massive kind of companies are run by people, and these people aren't experts on crypto. They are new to crypto as well. So any of the decisions that the company makes are really just decisions that people have made. And if these people are kind of thinking, okay, well, you know, the price is going up, this asset class is absolutely massive.
00:11:09.412 - 00:11:55.924, Speaker A: We need to get in because already gone up this much. It's the same thing, guys. It's still people at the end of the day. And if you think that these people, just because they may be smart in one area, that, you know, just because they maybe, maybe there's like, they're a really smart, successful executive at KPMG, for example, doesn't mean they have any context or kind of like any knowledge of crypto, right? If they're a complete crypto, noob they're not going to be an expert on it overnight, especially when it comes to the assets themselves, because as we all know, crypto can move very, very quickly in a short amount of time and cause an extreme amount of FOMo. And that affects not just individuals but corporations as well, because those individuals in the corporation are responsible for the decisions that the corporations kind of make here. But yeah, anyway, glad to see KPMG do this with BTC and ETH. Looking forward to more companies putting ETH onto their balance sheet.
00:11:55.924 - 00:12:40.270, Speaker A: So you'll have been hearing about Dank sharding a lot lately. I've been talking about on the refuel polynyards being a very big cheerleader of it, and they put out a great, a great thread today on Twitter kind of describing it by comparing it to Bittorrent. So Poly now said dank sharding is not like existing blockchains, it's more like Bittorrent, but with the Ethereum. But with ethereum security, the more peers you have that is more decentralized, the faster things get over. And above this, things keep improving over time as bandwidth and storage gets cheaper. So the reason why this analogy makes sense is because for anyone who's ever used torrenting software, the more peers that you have, right, and the more people that you're connected to, the faster your downloads are. And obviously this is capped by the bandwidth that you have from your ISP.
00:12:40.270 - 00:13:31.584, Speaker A: But you can get like to the maximum amount that your ISP is giving you by having the right amount of peers. If you've only got one peer, then the download is going to be much slower, especially because their upload speed might be very, might be, might be quite slow, right? So if you have like many more peers, your downloads better than it would be otherwise. And this is the same is true for sharding in the Ethereum context, because as I've explained before with Ethereum post merge with validators, the more validators we have, the more shards we can have, which means the more capacity we have for L2s, which gives us obviously the kind of like more, more scalability and the cheaper fees there. So I think it's a great analogy. And then Poly now goes on to say Tazo Celestia, Polygon avail are also developing similar solutions. There's growing awareness around roll ups, but there's work to be done and information about what pushes roll ups to being nigh infinitely scalable. With decentralization.
00:13:31.584 - 00:14:08.872, Speaker A: It's a razor coded DA or data availability proven data layers. I see too many very important people still thinking there always be a trade off between decentralization and through port. Hence antiquated metaphors like cities and skyscrapers. Quite the opposite. The most decentralized data availability layers will, will host the highest throughput on roll ups. So I mean, Polyno is basically telling us that like, we need to stop thinking that blockchains are inherently less scalable the, the more decentralized they get. Because we flipped that on its head, as I've explained to you, as before, we flipped that on its head with the ethereum kind of like modular approach here with being able to kind of like scale via L2, keep layer one decentralized.
00:14:08.872 - 00:14:36.818, Speaker A: And the more decentralized it gets, the more scalable the L2s get, which is the biggest breakthrough in, I think, blockchain since bitcoin was invented. To be honest. Like, I think it's that big. And I don't think the, the implications of that have been kind of like understood by most people in the ecosystem. Everyone chases things like, you know, L2. I've been talking about them for so long, and now just over the last maybe two, three months, people are finally year waking up to L2s on ethereum being like, okay, wow, okay, these things actually work and that's because they can use them. Like, I totally get it.
00:14:36.818 - 00:15:26.292, Speaker A: If you're being told of something, something is coming, it's completely different to actually being able to use it because think about the history of kind of like scaling blockchains. Bitcoin had, had been, the bitcoin ecosystem had been promising that the lightning network was going to fix all of the scaling issues since a very long time ago. Like I can't remember exactly when the lightning network was proposed, but it might have been 2013 or 2014 and it still hasn't materialized into anything. And people actually compare Ethereum L2 to the lightning network, which is obviously a silly comparison, doesn't make any sense to me, especially roll ups, but people do that. So I think that if you look at the past failures, which, you know, in the lightning network is a massive failure in my eyes to this point, maybe it isn't in the future, but to this point it has been. People will see that and they say, okay, well, there's these ETH guys talking about L2 scaling. We've already heard about that from the bitcoin guys for so long.
00:15:26.292 - 00:15:35.524, Speaker A: You know, we'll kind of like, we'll believe it when we see it. And that's exactly what happened. People are using it. They're realizing that it is not just bullshit anymore. It's actually. Sorry, it's not just bullshit. It's actually real.
00:15:35.524 - 00:16:07.218, Speaker A: And kind of like, I think that's what's changed the narrative there. And I think I mentioned this, that the two major things that would change the narrative is these things actually going live, and their tokens, essentially. And obviously the tokens are coming soon. I don't know when, of course, but we'll see how that shakes out there. But, yeah, great little analogy from Polynya kind of comparing dank sharding to BitTorrent here. So another major exchange announced support for arbitrum today. So FTX now has a deposit and withdrawal support for the arbitrum one mainnet.
00:16:07.218 - 00:16:38.704, Speaker A: I'll be honest, guys, I did not expect them to do this this quickly. Like, I've actually been blown away by how quick Binance and FTX have supported arbitrum. You know, obviously in Ethereum L2, when obviously FTX is a major stake in Solana, they are a huge benefactors and huge ecosystem investors in Solana, and Binance has a huge stake in BSc. Both of these networks are Ethereum competitors. But I've been proven wrong here. I didn't think it would happen this fast. You can probably find a rear view episode where I said that I didn't think it would happen this fast.
00:16:38.704 - 00:17:18.204, Speaker A: And I'm disappointed by Coinbase for not doing it fast. I mean, they announced back in August, late August of 2021, that they were working on integrating Ethereum scaling solutions, and they haven't even integrated the polygon PoS chain yet, which is actually easier than the L2s from a technical and integration standpoint. At least that's how I kind of like. At least I think it is. They haven't even integrated that yet, so it's been like, what, six months since then? Whereas FTX and Binance have both integrated arbitrum one now, which I'm sure other L2s are coming, and there's other major exchanges that have integrated with arbitrum as well, such as bybit and hobby. So, yeah, I just. I really am disappointed that Coinbase is dragging their feet here.
00:17:18.204 - 00:17:48.686, Speaker A: I understand that they are a huge exchange. They have a lot of kind of, like, I'm technical hurdles to work through. Maybe they didn't have the right people on board to do this, but if it was a priority for them, it wouldn't have taken them this long to do it. It'll. It'll come eventually, but if it was actually, like, on top of their list of priorities, yeah, it would have been done. I think that it's simply because there's just not enough demand yet for it, because we don't have people, you know, that whole tokens, and they're not going to go shill with their favorite things to, to Coinbase and stuff like that. But I think being a more forward looking exchange is how you win.
00:17:48.686 - 00:18:29.720, Speaker A: And that's exactly why binance and FTX have such large volumes. They have a very, they are very forward looking exchanges, barring whatever opinions you have of, of these exchanges and of their leaders. They've been at the forefront of crypto for a long time. That's why they grew so fast. That's why they took market share away from other players, because they were able to kind of like evolve much faster. Some of it was for regulatory reasons, obviously, Coinbase is in the US and they can't move as fast as FTX's non us exchange and Binance's non us exchange. But at the end of the day, there shouldn't really be any regulatory hurdles around supporting ethereum L2s or scaling solutions because it's the same thing as supporting in a layer one blockchain because you're just withdrawing assets to on chain right at the end of the day.
00:18:29.720 - 00:19:31.450, Speaker A: So hopefully they do it soon. Because honestly, I think Coinbase having Coinbase on board is a bigger win than FTX and Binance at this point in time, just because I think Coinbase has more customers, especially more newer and retail customers who are much more sensitive to fees than maybe FTX and Binance users are, because a lot of them are traders. But yeah, we'll kind of like see how that plays out there. But very, very awesome to see FTX supporting the arbitrum one mainnet here. So speaking of Polygon, they have announced an absolutely massive fundraiser, $450 million led by Sequoia, which is a huge kind of like web two vc fund here that's been venturing into v three lately. But yeah, these are, I mean, there's a bunch of investors involved in this round. There is obviously, as I said, sequoia, which kind of like led the round, Sequoia Capital, India in particular, with participation from the SoftBank Vision Fund to Galaxy Digital, Galaxy Interactive, Tiger Global, Republic Capital and more prominent investors here.
00:19:31.450 - 00:20:05.356, Speaker A: And there are also a bunch of other kind of like investors like Alameda Research, which again, is funny because they're part of FTX, Animoca Brands, which you may have heard of, Union Square Ventures, obviously massive there, Dragonfly Capital, a bunch of others here. I'm not going to read them all out, of course. So I guess congrats to Polygon on this raise. This is huge. It's, it's, it's crazy, like, how far Polygon has come. I put a tweet out, actually, I think today where I said, you know, matic, which was what Polygon was before. I mean, obviously the token is still called Matic, but like, Polygon Reboc rebounded to Polygon.
00:20:05.356 - 00:20:33.930, Speaker A: But when they were Matic network, they've been around for a while and they were this scrappy Ethereum scaling startup. No one really knew what they were doing. You know, people, they were kind of like, okay, they're doing plasma stuff, but we don't really understand it. You know, what can we use? What can we do? And I'll be honest, until I started kind of like getting more involved, obviously, and coming on board as an advisor, I wasn't even aware of, like, what they, what they were really doing. But then when they, you know, kind of saw the polygon vision, I was like, holy shit, this is going to be massive. Like, I knew it from back then. I knew it was going to be huge because it was just such a beautiful vision for Ethereum.
00:20:33.930 - 00:21:14.314, Speaker A: Like a whole scaling suite, a whole scaling ecosystem. And the team, I mean, they're just like juggernauts, really. And, and in my tweet, I said that it's like they went from the scrappy little startup that was matic to this absolutely absolute juggernaut that is Polygon now raising a shit ton of money, acquiring, you know, the ZK teams for a crap ton of money, having a massive market cap, all this sort of stuff. It's just the biggest glow up ever. As I said in the tweet, it really is quite amazing to see how it's all played out. And it's not just about kind of like the market cap and the money that they've raised and stuff like that, but it's also about the tech that they've brought to the table. I mean, the PoS chain obviously, is, you know, is the least interesting thing that they have going for them because it's just, because just an EVM chain.
00:21:14.314 - 00:22:07.674, Speaker A: But the thing is, it's helped us get to a point where, you know, we had that before we had roll ups so people could experience cheap etherium on a socially aligned kind of like chain, like the pos chain with Ethereum, instead of going to one of the more hostile kind of like ecosystems out there. And as far as I know, the Polygon Pos chain still has the most users out of any EVM chain, even a theorem layer one at this point in time, which is pretty cool. And then obviously they have all their roll up solutions coming, all their kind of like ZK stuff coming. They have their data availability stuff coming, they have the SDK and there's so much going on, right? They have this sovereign chains and side chains and all that sort of stuff. So they've just kind of like, I mean, and mind you guys, they only rebranded or kind of like pivoted to the polygon vision at the start of, or I guess like late 2020, early 2021. It has only been a year, a year and maybe two, three months at most. And they've done all of this.
00:22:07.674 - 00:22:42.046, Speaker A: So when you really zoom out and see that, that's when stuff gets extremely crazy, right? And, and you know, the market has obviously kind of like rewarded that I believe. When I, I think, uh, back then when I signed up to be an advisor, I think the matic token price was like two cent or something like that. And now it's what, $2? So obviously the market has rewarded them for all this growth as well. Uh, and they really set the playbook for l one incentives too. Um, where, uh, because the l one s or the old l one s all copied the polygon pos chains incentive program for liquidity mining and stuff like that. But yeah, so that was cool to see. But yeah, congrats on this raise.
00:22:42.046 - 00:23:09.902, Speaker A: I'm going to stop it there because you guys know I'm an advisor here. I don't want to show you too much on Polygon, but you guys know that, you guys know that I'm a big polygon guy. Have been supporting them for a while now, and just great to see this kind of race yards obviously gives them a lot of money. They're going to have Runway forever. You know, they're going to keep executing on their vision to bring Ethereum to the world. So an update on the l two uniswap liquidity mining proposal from Lidoco on here that I've spoken about before. So the first order audit results have been received.
00:23:09.902 - 00:23:27.774, Speaker A: All minor issues addressed. Waiting for a final report. Designs by salo here are done. And you can see the kind of designs here. Carter McAllister here is working on the front end and David Mihal is continuing to work on the contracts and more here. So sorry, I should go here. Down here.
00:23:27.774 - 00:23:38.996, Speaker A: The headless working group leader, Colin continues. The headless working group now even has a logo and a temporary domain at uniswap. Staking.com dot. Uh, you can see the l 220 22 logo here. These are awesome logos. I love these.
00:23:38.996 - 00:24:07.104, Speaker A: Uh, and then, yeah, uh, I guess like a little. Cohen. I was going to say, as soon as the app is completed and we have final order report, we will submit the governance proposal on chain, hopefully kick off the liquidity mining. So this is the liquidity mining for Uniswap on l two s, which is obviously going to be a very, very big deal. Get a lot of liquidity on there, and we're going to, you know, hopefully we can really kick start l 220 22 and get the flywheel going without the native token incentives from the actual l two s themselves. So. So, yeah, there's an update on what's happening with that.
00:24:07.104 - 00:24:47.112, Speaker A: All right, so a new kind of project out of the Aave ecosystem today that they've been teasing for quite a while called lens protocol. Now, lens protocol describes itself as a permissionless, composable, and decentralized social graph that makes building a web3 social platform easy from the team that bought you the Aave protocol. So lens protocol is trying to be decentralized social media, but they're not trying to be something like we've seen in the past, where it's a monolithic architecture. They're going for a modular architecture where you can plug and play and do a bunch of different things with it. So all the details are in this thread. I'm not going to dive deep into it here, because you can learn all about it here, but they're actually blending a bunch of different kind of, like, things together. And I should say, this is actually going to be on the polygon Pos chain.
00:24:47.112 - 00:25:05.838, Speaker A: It's currently live on the Mumbai testnet. On the Polygon Mumbai testnet. But it will be on the main net relatively soon. But yeah, they're blending nfts together here, daos together here for profiles and stuff like that. They're doing a lot of, a lot of cool things. They're using ipfs. There's actually a lot going on here, and that's why I can't really summarize it in a couple of minutes on the refuel.
00:25:05.838 - 00:25:53.448, Speaker A: I want you guys to go and read it and to kind of really take in all of this, because I mentioned yesterday how I thought that every attempt at decentralized social media up until this point has been pretty shitty and hasn't actually worked. This is the first attempt after reading about it, that I'm actually excited about and that I think actually can work because of the modular approach it means that you're not locked into any one kind of like website or any one kind of like, I guess like interface or anything like that. Everything is modular. Like your profile is modular, your posts are modular, your pictures, music, videos, all that sort of stuff, your profiles, all that kind of like stuff there. And because of that you can bring that to wherever you want to bring it to. And that, I think is the true kind of like vision for decentralized social media for web3 and things like that as well. So definitely go give all the documentation a read.
00:25:53.448 - 00:26:27.786, Speaker A: You can sign an open letter at lens dot de vault dot let slash letter to show your support for it and everything like that. And as I said, it is live on the Polygon Mumbai testnet, which with it going live on main net in an alpha capacity soon. So very much looking forward to playing around with it on main as well. And definitely been playing around with it on, on the testnet works quite well so far. But yeah, this is really cool. I'm, you know, as I said, I want to see, I truly just decentralized social media play out and actually work. And I think this is the best attempt so far at it.
00:26:27.786 - 00:27:08.908, Speaker A: I mean, early days still, but this is the one that I'm most excited for right now, especially because it's being backed by the Aave protocol team who obviously, you know, they ship, they make great products, they have a lot of faith in them, and obviously this is being built as a community project too. So we're going to see how that all shakes out there. All right, so another great thread from Bartech from the l two beat team here today about bridges. So obviously you're not going to read out the thread, but you can go check it out for yourself. I've spoken about bridges so much on the refuel the last few months. It's very important to always understand, I guess, like the risks and have a risk framework for assessing bridges. And I think this threat actually gives you a really great breakdown.
00:27:08.908 - 00:27:40.024, Speaker A: I know I said that l two beta working on getting like a kind of like pages set up for bridges on their website and that's still coming. But you can use this thread right now as a way to kind of like form a risk framework in your head around what bridges to use, what are the risks, you know, how to protect yourself, all that sort of stuff there. So I just wanted to highlight this thread. Definitely go check it out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, final update here. So set protocol announced today that they have released their perpetual protocol integration on optimism.
00:27:40.024 - 00:28:25.314, Speaker A: So this follows, obviously the recent optimism deployment that set did and plans to enable innovative, structured products on L2 ecosystem. So you can go here. There's a kind of like blog post that's been posted here with set protocol, kind of like integrating with perpetual protocol and all the details about that. Obviously, you know, petrol protocol has been very popular in the past and so, so has set. And I'm biased maybe, because I've worked, I worked at set. But yeah, if you want all the information about that, definitely go check out the, the blog post here because there's kind of, I guess like links to different things going on and all that sort of stuff as well. And then you've also got kind of like an index that was launched called the Saluna Avax index, which is funny because this is an l one index that's on l two.
00:28:25.314 - 00:28:54.166, Speaker A: And, you know, and it's being part, sorry, it's being powered by Galleon, Dow and beverage finance as well. So there's a lot of different integrations going on here, a lot of partnerships happening. I love to see this stuff happening on L2 as well because obviously it's all about getting more and more people to l two, getting more and more projects on there, getting more and more composability going on as well. So think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:28:54.166 - 00:28:54.654, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
