00:00:00.200 - 00:00:22.470, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the deli Wave refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan. This is Sarno, and today's the 22 August 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So we have some merge related news today. The clients have starting to come out for the merge. So if you're running, I guess like most of the clients I think are out right now, or at least they're kind of like been rolling out during the day.
00:00:22.470 - 00:00:47.832, Speaker A: There is a new geth client out which is merge ready or mainnet merge ready. I saw Lighthouse release one and tecu. I believe the others have either been released or are in the process of being released. So obviously post merge you will need to run your own execution layer. Clients such as Geth or Nethermind and your own consensus layer. Clients such as Prism or Lighthouse or any of the other ones out there, they all work. So definitely go upgrade your nodes.
00:00:47.832 - 00:01:45.838, Speaker A: If you are running a solo staking setup and you know, if you're not, if you're kind of like staking with a provider such as a centralized exchange or a staking service provider or even something like a rocket pool, they'll kind of like handle that on the, on that, that side for you if you've just kind of delegated your stake there. But if you are kind of like running your own, I guess like staking setup your own solo validator. Dap node is some software that you may have come across in your travels. It is basically a very nice streamlined graphical user interface or GUI for you to manage all of your node infrastructure. And now they announced multi client support on Dapno, which is now live. So you can install the new kind of core out of DAP node software, install new prism and you can now find your keys to the web3 signer and change Cl client with one click. So you can change from Prism to Lighthouse to tecu to load star to anything else, any other clients there with one click, which is awesome.
00:01:45.838 - 00:02:10.434, Speaker A: I think. You know, you can see the gif here of how easy it is to change. There's basically a configuration menu here and a drop down where you can select between the major clients, which is just absolutely awesome to see, see there. So great to see DAP no releasing this this year. Obviously client diversity is critically important to the health of both the execution and consensus layers. Consensus layer client diversity is looking very healthy as I went through last week. Execution layout.
00:02:10.434 - 00:02:45.750, Speaker A: We're going to work on post merge. I think everyone wants to see the merge go through smoothly with, with what we've got currently in terms of the share of the network. And I mean basically we're at the point where if Geth works fine, then most of the network is going to be fine. But definitely post merge we want to work on execution layer, client diversity as well. So if you're running DAP node, install the new update here and you'll be able to have access to all of these new features. Alright, so Brian Armstrong from Coinbase shared this interesting little chart here today that I wanted to kind of go over with all of you. But this is basically the g 20 plus crypto regulatory tracker.
00:02:45.750 - 00:03:27.056, Speaker A: So it's got a list of countries here and basically six different columns where basically there are labeled crypto framework tax, AML, CFT, CFT travel rules, stablecoin regulations and cbdcs and basically the status of each of these depending on the country. So let's go through, you know, the countries that get brought up the most. United States. United States on the bottom doesn't have a crypto framework and there has been no regulatory process that has been initiated here. There is regulation in place for tax, of course for, for AML and CFT for a travel rule. Nothing in place and nothing kind of like being worked on for stablecoin regulation. But there is regulation underway for cbdcs.
00:03:27.056 - 00:04:08.236, Speaker A: Then you look at the other side of the spectrum, which is China, where crypto framework, they've just basically prohibited all crypto tax. It's because it's prohibited, there's no tax revenue. AML not needed because it's prohibited. Travel rule, you know, not needed because it's prohibited. And stablecoin regulation, again, it's prohibited. But CBDCs, they have regulation in place. So obviously China is taking the approach of a fully controlled and regulated CBDC where the CCP has complete, I guess, overview of absolutely everything happening in, I guess, I mean, I wouldn't even call CBDC crypto, but they want to see everything happening on the digital currency space whereas you know, the United States obviously is on the other end of the spectrum.
00:04:08.236 - 00:04:42.064, Speaker A: Then you can see the other countries here and where they kind of fall. But, but I think, you know, as Brian says, yeah, this is something that's not been widely reported on, but each country around the world, or at least kind of like the, the g 20 plus countries are definitely looking at this. And I mean here I am in Australia, at home here apparently we have regulation underway for a crypto framework tax. And AML was in place. There's no travel rule. There's pending stablecoin regulation and pending CBDC regulation. But I did say today that some news came out that Australia wants to kind of like put a framework around tokens.
00:04:42.064 - 00:05:23.638, Speaker A: I don't know what that's going to look like. I have a feeling it's going to follow very closely with the existing regulations that exist in the US and maybe even other parts of the world, like the UK, Canada. I don't know if New Zealand has anything, but generally, you know, much of the western world, or I guess, like what is regarded as the western world, western democracies follow similar regulations. So we'll have to see how that kind of shakes out. But yeah, I think people often may get this kind of like, idea that these countries aren't looking at crypto in any real big way. I mean, there's obviously a lot of work to be done. And it's funny how like the two most filled out columns here, attacks and AML, because those are what has basically been in front of mine.
00:05:23.638 - 00:05:51.676, Speaker A: Right. Like tax. Obviously the governments want to collect as much tax as possible and obviously they want, they need to be able to give the clarity there so people can actually file their tax return, file it accurately. And AML, which is anti money laundering or just, I guess, like regulations around money laundering in general are top of mind for them too, as we've seen over the last few weeks especially. And then there's like travel rules and things like that which are less filled out. So, yeah, just wanted to put this on your radar. You can go check out this chart.
00:05:51.676 - 00:06:24.994, Speaker A: I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, at the end of the day, whether we want it or not, regulations are coming. It's just all about getting the, I wouldn't say good regulations, but maybe like the least worst. So we don't end up with like the China end of the spectrum because it is a spectrum. At the end of the day, I'd rather be, you know, much more on the spectrum of maybe how the US is approaching it, even though the US's regulations aren't good either. Like, as I said, it's at least worse system, not a good system. But we don't want to end up like China where they just basically outright ban everything and only have cbdcs, which are complete surveillance, complete control.
00:06:24.994 - 00:06:55.456, Speaker A: That's where, you know, we don't obviously want to be heading into. So yeah, it's great to see that most countries aren't heading in that direction, at least not now. All right, so back on the Tornado cash news. So he was a, here's a thread posted on Twitter about the little protest that happened in Amsterdam here. So there was a protest in Amsterdam for the arrested tornado cash dev. Alex Percival here, which I guess, like is an unfortunate thing that there has to be a protest for this. But as far as I know, he's still under arrest.
00:06:55.456 - 00:07:51.250, Speaker A: I don't know if he's been charged formally with anything yet, which is really weird considering how long he's been under arrest for. But yeah, there was a, I guess like a decent showing here of people considering that this is obviously one city in the world and obviously happened very quickly. But you can see the thread here of the people that attended and just great to see that people are protesting this, I guess, publicly now, you know, depending on your view on protests in general, whether they do anything or not, that's a whole nother kind of like, I guess some, a whole nother topic of discussion I'm not going to get into. But I just wanted to put this thread, thread on your radar to know that there is people out there fighting in any way that they can and kind of protesting in any way that they can for, I guess, justice here when it comes to Tonado cash and especially when it comes to Alex, who is, I believe, the only tornado cash dev that has been arrested so far. But I mean, hopefully he will be the last. Hopefully he'll be freed. But, you know, I'm not holding my breath there.
00:07:51.250 - 00:08:26.390, Speaker A: I feel like there's possibly more arrests to come. But yeah, just wanted to hide that for you guys. There is, I guess, probably a bunch more to get through with regards to the tornado cash stuff, but I did cut it down because I know I've talked about it a lot on the refuel and I explained last week how I think it's really important. But I don't want the reef every refuel from now on to just become talking about this because I think most of us up to speed with everything at this point and, and understand where everyone kind of like sits. But there are some new developments that happen over the weekend that I want to talk about, especially new threads. So this one comes from Alex van DER sand, who is the. An OG, OG in Ethereum.
00:08:26.390 - 00:08:54.890, Speaker A: He's been in Ethereum since 2014. So he has been around the block, so to speak. So he put out a tweet thread where he said there's no OFAc fork social consensus slashing or UASF needed. We've gone through this on the Dow wars already. If too many validators refuse to add a transaction, they can be DDos. If they refuse a valid block, then they're the ones forking and risk slashing. How to DDos a censoring validator flood a network with with very complex transactions that by the end of them touch tornado cache.
00:08:54.890 - 00:09:24.118, Speaker A: Because of the halting problem, the validator can't know what they do, what the transactions do, without executing them fully, so they're forced to do unpaid computational work. Of course, if there are enough non censoring validators, the attacker has to pay for some of the submitted transactions. So it needs a threshold to work. But if there are enough sun censoring validators, where then we've got what we want. It just takes a bit longer. But isn't there a risk that some institutions would want to create what would basically be a POA network ran only by us compliant entities? Yes, those are the bank chains being developed. Tons of those will exist.
00:09:24.118 - 00:10:13.026, Speaker A: I just wouldn't call them Ethereum. So this is another kind of like technical, I guess you could call it solution to this problem of censoring validators here, but I am not sure how workable this is. As Alex said, that there is an economic cost here of submitting these transactions, and I'm not sure like how much of an impact it would have. I think that this is just one solution of many, but I just wanted to put it on your radar that this does exist. But at the end of the day, like, the motivation for doing this probably isn't there, because even if like 90% of the validators on the network are censoring your transactions, say they tornado cash transactions, there is still 10% that aren't. So your transaction is going to get into a block eventually anyway. The, and this is what I think a lot of people don't realize is there's two kind of like main things at play here.
00:10:13.026 - 00:11:18.044, Speaker A: There is censorship in the the kind of valid is not including your transactions in blocks, but still mining blocks or proposing blocks on and attesting to blocks on the canonical chain post merge. So that's one form of it. That form is less of a concern, or I guess like much less of a concern than the other form, which is validators refusing to build on top of a chain that, that contains census transactions or contains sanctioned, I guess, like transactions in blocks that would result in a fork, and there would basically be two chains. There would be kind of like the OFAC chain, and then there would be the canonical chain now where social slashing would come in, or I guess like the real Ethereum chain rather than the canonical chain, where social slashing would come in would be the community coming together and saying, well, these people basically want to mine on their OFAC chain. We don't want them in the real Ethereum, so we're going to slash them on the real ethereum. They're probably going to end up getting slashed anyway from not mining on the main chain or suffer in activity leaks. But you know, we're going to take away their stake because they no longer represent the, I guess, will of the community.
00:11:18.044 - 00:12:06.020, Speaker A: Whereas I don't think social slashing would be used in the scenario of, you know, a lot of block producers or a lot of validators, not including censored transactions because and poly now put an opinion out about this where they said, you know, they've refrained from commenting on the topic because of an unpopular opinion. Actually, sorry, I should give some context here. So Polynya is, quote, tweeting taken theorem, who basically highlights that ethermine, which is the largest Ethereum miner, has stopped including tornado router transactions over a week ago. So they've stopped including those transactions at all. And this is on proof of work. This isn't even talking about proof of stake here. But then pioneer, quote, tweets this and said, you know, they think this is an unpopular opinion, but they said ethermine or any block producer has the right to include transactions as they please.
00:12:06.020 - 00:12:51.270, Speaker A: As a community, we should open a dialogue, help them and attempt to resolve such issue issues using diplomatic and legal means. And then Capone continues, it is perfectly reasonable for a block producer to comply with their jurisdictions regulations. As a community, we shouldn't use fear of slashing or social vilification, pressuring them to exist, etcetera. Rather help them fight these regulations if they are unjust, and then they go on with a bunch of other things. And you can read this thread, I'll link in the YouTube description. But I want to say that like, after thinking about this a lot more, I actually agree with Polynya here. Obviously I don't want to see any censorship on the network, but at the end of the day, whether it be miners, validators, block producers, or anyone producing a block has always had the ability to include whatever transactions they want in a block.
00:12:51.270 - 00:13:45.532, Speaker A: Normally the transactions get included by fee priority, right? If the people paying the larger fees get included first. That's, that's how the fee market works on Ethereum. But if the block producers don't want to include a transaction, well, that's totally on them. Yes, it is a form of censorship but it is different to what I described before around building on the non canonical chain and basically forking off into your own chain. So from that perspective, I agree with Polynya here, though I would say that even though I agree with them on this, it's also a very bad kind of, I guess, social signal if like 90% of the network is censoring transactions or not willing to include transactions in their blocks. Yes, your transaction will be eventually included in a block. So it's not a critical, you know, issue where essentially you're completely barred from using the network altogether or interacting with certain contracts altogether.
00:13:45.532 - 00:15:03.496, Speaker A: But it is a really big kind of like issue in that the Ethereum's credible neutrality takes a hit and a theorem censorship resistance takes a hit, even though you can still your transactions in. From a pure social perspective, it is, it takes a hit, right? The credibility takes a hit there. So as Polynya said, we should work with these entities in order to fight bad regulations, enable them to be able to include transactions in blocks without even knowing what's in them. So for example, having base layer privacy, or having things like a shutterized beacon chain where you don't know what the transactions are until they're actually mined, which would be a really nice stopgap solution between kind of like having full base layer privacy and no privacy at all for transactions. So using those kind of things to help them would be better than, I guess, like constantly threatening them with social slashing. Now I want to clarify my point here. I am very much in favor of social slashing as still a last resort, but as something that to be used if block producers are building on top of a non canonical chain and they're just refusing to build on top of that chain, I'm not necessarily in favor of using it for block producers that are just censoring transactions or not including transactions in their blocks, but those transactions are eventually included anyway.
00:15:03.496 - 00:16:04.870, Speaker A: And it gets very murky when you go down that path, because as I said, there is a strong social signal that gets sent if a lot of the network is censoring. And it kind of like waters down Ethereum's credible neutrality. But at the end of the day, that should be solved on the technical layer rather than the social layout, with those kind of like privacy things that I've been talking about. But if there is kind of like an attack on the network where the chain is splitting because of that censorship, because the validators are not attesting to or proposing blocks that contain these transactions at all, it's more a testing kind of post merge while they're not, you know, building on the, the, I guess like right head of the chain? Right, the canonical head of the chain, then I am definitely in favor of using that nuclear option and I think it should be used if there is no other, other way to kind of like get around this or other way to kind of rectify this issue. But I am definitely more in favor of the technical solutions before we start using any social solutions. But the credible threat that social slashing exists needs to be put out there. We need to kind of signal that we are willing to do this.
00:16:04.870 - 00:16:59.498, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, when push comes to shove and we actually need to use it, we better be ready to use it. Like there shouldn't be a strong social signal put out there and then we don't actually use it. Now hopefully it never comes to that point, but we're not here to hope for things. We're here to plan for worst case scenarios. And that is what will happen in the worst case scenario. But I, I'm going to keep promoting the technical solutions such as PBS and CR lists and shutter eyes, beacon chain and privacy at the base layer in general, because that way the block producers have, I guess like plausible deniability that they don't know what transactions they're mining. So how can they possibly adhere to any kind of like sanctions? For example, how can they possibly censor anything if they don't know what the transactions are until they've been proposed? Now that doesn't obviously stop people from, of refusing to attest to a chain that contains censored transactions or contains like sanctioned transactions.
00:16:59.498 - 00:17:25.061, Speaker A: But that's different to, I guess, not including things in blocks because they've been sanctioned and stuff like that. Right. So hopefully that clears up some of the, I guess, nuances around that. There's also a really excellent post here from, I gotta get this tab. It's gone. It's lost on me from our Bitmex here where they talk about how there are a lot of technical nuances when it comes to Ethereum proof of stake and censorship. And this blog post is linked at the bottom here.
00:17:25.061 - 00:18:06.016, Speaker A: I highly recommend giving this a read because I actually learned a lot from this. And Bitmex research is one of the best research blogs out there. But basically there are seven different scenarios here that could happen in the OFAC situation on a proof of stake Ethereum. And these are the seven listed here. Well actually technically eight here, but like the 7th is just ignoring the OFAC rules altogether, which I guess is an exclusive to a theory proof of stake. So technically there's seven, but I'm not going to go through them all. I want you to read this blog post because it's very important to understand the technical nuances of Ethereum proof of stake and how it's fundamentally different to a proof of work network on the technical side, especially Ethereum proof of work.
00:18:06.016 - 00:18:50.662, Speaker A: In saying that, the similarities and why I've been saying that proof of work proof of stake doesn't matter is in the fact that censorship can happen on both in very similar ways and those two main ways of not including transactions in blocks at all, and then refusing to build on a chain that has sent sanctioned transactions as part of the chain. Right? So those are still the same. Whether it's proof of work, proof of stake, deposit, PoA, it doesn't matter, right? What matters is the technical nuances when you get into the weeds, of how the protocol actually handles this on a technical level. And that's exactly what BitMex's blog post goes through. So I highly recommend checking that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Just a couple more things to get through here.
00:18:50.662 - 00:19:25.848, Speaker A: Bantech has been putting together a really nice little, I guess, graphic here showing the individual validators. I think I talked about this last week about which ones have committed to not censor and which ones haven't sent anything yet, but they've also broken down the individual Lido validators by stake. So everyone always says, oh well, Lido has over 30% of the stake. Yes, they do. Right? Yes, there is potential centralization vectors there. But Lido is not a monolithic organization. It is an organization made up of 29 different operators here, as you can see listed out in this graphic.
00:19:25.848 - 00:19:57.140, Speaker A: And each of those operators has a different percentage of stake allocated to them, but none of them have a kind of like a 30% at all. Like not even close to that. So I think right now, Lido governance can't actually kick out any validators. I think it would up like lighter, the lighter dow. I'm not 100% across like what the powers are right now. Lido is certainly not decentralized at this point in time. But I think it's very important whenever someone brings up Lido as this monolithic entity, to tell them, no, it's not.
00:19:57.140 - 00:20:27.800, Speaker A: I mean, there is the STE token, which I guess like introduces. It does introduce centralization into the mix because obviously the stadium providers are at the mercy of that STE because the STE has a claim on the ETH in, in their services. But the services themselves are all part of different providers. They're, you know, they're not all based in the US, right? They're globally distributed here. They have different teams behind them. And some of them are just pure staking providers. Some of them are teams that do multiple things.
00:20:27.800 - 00:21:12.924, Speaker A: Like, for example, you know, you have here prism, right? Prismatic labs. They build an east two client, right? They're building the prism client, but they're also a validator as part of Lido here. So there is just kind of like a very diverse set of validators, a very diverse set of, sorry, staking providers. And this list is going to grow over time. So, yeah, I just, I have a pet peeve about people saying that Lido is this monolithic entity. But in saying that, we obviously don't want Lido's dominance to be as high as it is in general, like, just for the kind of like reasons I outlined with the STE token especially, and I've said before how I believe that once withdrawals are enabled, we'll see this great reshuffling of stake. And also as more competition comes online and improves, there's going to be people staking with that instead of, instead of lighter there.
00:21:12.924 - 00:21:56.686, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just wanted to highlight that little graphic there for you in the, I guess, like, same topic of the kind of like sanctions and validator centralization and everything like that. And Victor Bunin put out a really great kind of tweet. He's, quote, tweeting something that Matt Huang put out from paradigm, but basically he said, gentle reminder that without privacy, all that we're building is the most perfect version of warrantless financial surveillance technology. And he's hit the nail on the head here. Both bitcoin and Ethereum, like the vanilla networks themselves, have absolutely no privacy. They are so bad at privacy that if you send funds from one of your addresses to another one and you only do one transaction, those addresses are forever linked, forever. There's no way to unlink them.
00:21:56.686 - 00:22:43.818, Speaker A: So that's how bad the privacy is. And that's just kind of like one simple example. So because of that, if we don't develop privacy solutions, if we don't improve privacy on Ethereum, then we are creating, as Victor says here, the perfect version of warrantless financial surveillance technology, which is dystopian as hell. Like, that is the worst outcome of this technology. And that's why I've said time and time again, privacy is both a right and privacy is and should be one of the top priorities right next to scaling for the Ethereum ecosystem, because without privacy, none of this shit means anything. Like Ethereum does not give people more freedom and give people kind of like more sovereignty if there's no privacy. I'm not talking about, you know, the fact that we have to have base layer privacy.
00:22:43.818 - 00:23:17.436, Speaker A: I'm talking about everything that can add more privacy to Ethereum should be worked on, should be kind of put out there. I know we've kind of like taken a backseat here because of the OFAC sanctions and everyone's kind of like in limbo right now. But that shouldn't take away from the fact that we need to keep building privacy solutions and we need to fight for them. We need to fight the regulations in the real world to ensure that we can keep building privacy solutions. Because at the end of the day, as I've said before, privacy to me is a human right. We all have a right to privacy and we shouldn't lose our right to that. And we shouldn't be able to not use the tools such as tornado cash just because criminals use it.
00:23:17.436 - 00:23:45.220, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, criminals use end to end encrypted messaging too. But, you know, that's not banned. They tried to ban it at one point and governments around the world, some of them have banned it, but at the end of the day, the US hasn't, right? Maybe. I hope they don't ever ban it, but they haven't right now. And people use it and it's very easily accessible. So the same should be true for our financial activity on networks like Ethereum. We should be able to get full privacy of our transactions.
00:23:45.220 - 00:24:22.822, Speaker A: Now, that's the optimistic thing. That's kind of like me saying that we should be able, we should be able to get these things. But there is unfortunately something that happened over the weekend that with aztec network, that saddened me so. Aztec, I believe the most of the aztec team, or at least the founders, definitely are based in the UK. They're not based in the US. But because the UK is part of that five Eyes, five Eyes organization that I talked about last week, aztec protocol is still at the mercy of something like the tornado cash sanctions or something like the US. Now, they put out this thread where they said, we are aware of reports that FTX is warning users not to interact with aztec.
00:24:22.822 - 00:24:47.842, Speaker A: As a result, we want to underscore our current and ongoing risk reduction framework to implement practical deterrence and measure their effectiveness. And then they go on to the thread about what they're doing here. Now, the most concerning thing to me here, and I don't necessarily blame Aztec for this. I blame obviously, the poor regulations for this. But the most concerning thing to me is this tweet here. So where is the tweet? Where it's. God, where is the tweet? I think it's this one.
00:24:47.842 - 00:25:41.860, Speaker A: So this is what they're going to be implementing on the aztec networks. System wide daily asset deposit caps, ip specific deposit rate limiting, single address pending deposit caps and constraints on the escape hatch window activating only in case of a liveness failure. The reason why I find this to be really bad is because all this does is punish the regular user. Every single person that wants to use privacy tools as a criminal to do money laundering, to evade sanctions is going to get around each of these relatively easily. Especially on a network like that is actually decentralized, like a theory. That's why I said the tornado cash sanctions don't make much sense because North Korea or whoever wasn't using the front end, right. Anyone who wanted to have, anyone who wanted to launder money, anyone who wanted to kind of like evade sanctions was not using the front.
00:25:41.860 - 00:26:26.006, Speaker A: And they were using the immutable smart contracts on ethereum that still exists today. Tornado cash is still in operation that wasn't taken down. So all that happened is that they've punished regular users and then they've also introduced this chilling effect where everyone is so scared now to build support privacy solutions. They're so scared that they're going above and beyond what's required of the sanctions and blocking people who even are even just kind of like one degree of separation away from these addresses, from the, from the tone of cash addresses. And it's led to that big chilling effect there. And the chilling effect has now hit Aztec, which is really, really sad because I love aztec. I mean, disclosure, I'm an, I'm an investor in Aztec, but I mean, I not surprised by this.
00:26:26.006 - 00:26:50.866, Speaker A: I'm just extremely disappointed that it's come to this. I understand why they have to do it, but at the end of the day, like, we really do need to keep building these solutions and we need to build them as anons. We need to build them in a decentralized way. And I know it's really easy for me, someone who is both not a us citizen and is not building any of these solutions, to say this. But I mean, I guess, like, I'm in that position to be able to say it. Like, I know a lot of these teams can't say it because they're building it. They don't want to be doing this.
00:26:50.866 - 00:27:17.822, Speaker A: They don't want to be putting in these restrictions. Most of them, if not all of them, are building these solutions to kind of get, you know, give people privacy and give them something that they believe is a right, but they're being forced. Their hands are being forced here. They are not anonymous people. They are based in jurisdictions that have extradition treaties with the US. They're not going to just, I guess, like ignore the sanctions. They're not going to be guess willy nilly about this.
00:27:17.822 - 00:27:56.294, Speaker A: They're going to be very conservative, especially if they have lawyers breathing down their neck saying, hey, if you don't do this, there is a risk you're going to jail for 30 years. Like, I think people are being very harsh on these people that have to comply. I think what should be happening is that instead of going after these people that are complying with these sorts of things and then going above and beyond as well, which I think is stupid, but it happens, we should be fighting the regulations themselves. So anyway, I'm going to leave that at that. You can go read this whole aztec thread for a breakdown of this year. But I just thought it was quite sad and disappointing that and not surprising that Aztec has to go down this path now. But that's the reality of the situation right now.
00:27:56.294 - 00:28:53.064, Speaker A: And finally, on the, I guess, censorship resistant front, we have mallows here with a thread about the, there's a chart here that shows the current state of Ethereum, Dapps and defi and areas where we excel and others where points of failure exist, which I think is a really, really good chart because you can see here what is censor Abu, what is unknown, trusted and immutably immutable experiences and what is censorship resistant and provably trusted. And this basically takes my layered approach to what is kind of like sensible and what is not. And I guess like maps it out here. So you can see on the far right side there is censorship resistant and provably trusted. Things such as the Uniswap smart contract is immutable, can't be tampered with, can't be changed even by governance. Right? Whereas on the other side, on the left side, you have sensor rule such as the uniswap front end or the Aave front end or a generic kind of front end. Very, very sensible, shouldn't expect any censorship resistance from that at all.
00:28:53.064 - 00:29:16.030, Speaker A: And then you have all these other entities here. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. I'm not going to go over all of it here, but there's also a thread that accompanies it as well, and it breaks it all down. So I highly recommend giving the thread a read. I will link it there for you. And just going to get through the rest of these, because I'm going over time here. So I've been seeing a lot of people talk about a theorem, layer one activity lately, and how it's, like, at rock bottom and gas prices are really cheap.
00:29:16.030 - 00:29:46.958, Speaker A: You know, that's totally fine. Obviously, it's come down a lot from the bull market, but I don't think it makes sense to just look at layer one activity, and that's it. You need to start accounting for L2 activity, because there is actually a lot of L2 activity these days on optimism, on arbitrum, on these other L2 networks out there. You need to look at that activity and pair that with ethereum layer one to get a more accurate view of what's happening on the network. Now. People will say, well, L2s aren't really paying much to layer one in gas fees. I'm like, yeah, okay, they are.
00:29:46.958 - 00:30:08.624, Speaker A: And they're probably going to be paying even less once 4844 comes into play. But that's not the point. The point is that their activity is moving. At least some of the activity is moving from layer one to L2. So we should be taking it in aggregate and also layer one, gas fees. As soon as the bull market comes back in earnest, guys, layer one gas fees are shooting right back up. Like, there's no way they're going to stay at these levels when the market gets hot again.
00:30:08.624 - 00:30:48.870, Speaker A: It's just the way it is now. You know, long, long term, will we have gas fees still kind of, like, high on layer one? I think we will, as long as we get these breakout applications that we all hope we'll get, especially on these L2s. But in the current world, or at least for the next couple of years, as soon as the market gets hot, the gas fees go up. It's pretty much, like, in correlation with each other, but at the same time, there are people moving from layer one to L2. So we should look at L2 metrics and kind of like, pair them with layer one instead of just looking at layer one there. And to add on to that, there is kind of like a tweet from orbiter finance today that basically showed some of this. So you can see here the top five roll ups with the most new accounts in the last seven days.
00:30:48.870 - 00:31:06.418, Speaker A: You can see arbitram, optimism. Arbitrum one, optimism. Arbitrum Nova, Stocknet, NZK sync. And you can see all the numbers here of that. So this is what I mean. Tracking transactions, tracking new accounts, tracking TVL. I mean, obviously TVL is one of my most hated metrics, but it's still relevant to, you know, in some capacity.
00:31:06.418 - 00:31:39.990, Speaker A: Tracking fee revenue, tracking smart contracts deployed. Right. Tracking interactions with the contracts, all that sorts of stuff should be taken, as well as the layer one metrics and put together and compared with all of that, rather than just taking layer one. And in that vein of thinking as well, you shouldn't just take L2 as a vacuum either. You should kind of like compare it all together to get the full ethereum network transactional activity there. All right, last up here, we have a thread from Astaria looking at the Astaria three actor model and what that means for the future of NFT lending. So you can go check out this thread.
00:31:39.990 - 00:32:22.758, Speaker A: I just wanted to put it on your radar because I know recently there's been a bit of discussion about NFT lending, especially because I think we saw like a liquidation cascade on board a, on the board ape yop club. So I kind of recommend reading this thread here for how hostario is targeting NFT lending or tackling NFT lending. It's going to be a big thing. I don't think that just because one protocol failed will mean that others fail. I think NFTs obviously are big right now are going to continue to grow and people will want liquidity on it. I mean, at the end of the day, NFTs don't have to be just your random profile pictures, NFTs or anything like that. Eventually, NFTs will be people's deed to their houses, and then you could potentially put that up as collateral on something like Astaria and borrow against it.
00:32:22.758 - 00:32:46.542, Speaker A: Just like you would put it up as collateral in a bank to borrow against it. Right? So it's all about not just NFT profile picture stuff that we're seeing today, but anything that is a unique item that you can put up as, as collateral can be done through platforms like Astaria. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:32:46.542 - 00:32:47.014, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
