00:00:00.280 - 00:00:25.822, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel. Why? Recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony DeSano, and today's the 17 January 2022. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So ETH had its first deflationary week, I believe so, 100% issuance offset, as you can see in the ultrasound money screenshot here, which means that we offsetted all of the issuance from mining with ETH burning. Whoa. That's crazy.
00:00:25.822 - 00:01:08.278, Speaker A: That's really, really crazy. I mean, you know, I remember, like, people talking about AIP 1559 before it went live and saying, oh, you know, we're not going to really have a deflationary period until the merge happens because there's just too much issuance from mining. And then we started having, you know, deflationary hours, deflationary days, and now we've had a full deflationary week, which I believe it is the first deflationary week. Maybe I'm wrong here, maybe there was another one, but, um, I don't remember it, but maybe I'm misremembering there. But still, it's super crazy. I mean, we burned over 100,000 ETH in the last seven days, which is, what, 300 current prices, I think that's $360 million or something like that, which averages out to about $51 million per day over the last seven days of ETH being burned. That's just absolutely crazy.
00:01:08.278 - 00:01:56.776, Speaker A: Like, the fact that, I mean, when you really kind of, like, contextualize those numbers, I mean, if we kept that up, which I don't think we're going to keep that up, obviously, you know, for the next few weeks, it kind of like. It's volatile, right? It comes and goes. But the thing is, we are burning billions of dollars worth of kind of like ETH a month, right. Which is absolutely just crazy. And I think that right now, the price is in kind of like, this position where I think what's happening is that, like, we're not really having any new people come into the ecosystem, at least not into kind of like the, I guess, like, speculative ecosystem outside of nfts. Like, I think a lot of new people are coming in through nfts and stuff like that, but they're more so kind of like investing in nfts and not investing in, you know, ETH, BTC, other kind of like assets out there and the assets that you do see having kind of, like, great performance. I think it's just people rotating from other things.
00:01:56.776 - 00:02:57.196, Speaker A: So I was thinking about this today? And I'm like, okay, well, what's it going to take for, like, eats price to kind of, like, go up from here? I think that it's just a time thing, right? Because when you think about it, we're still continuously burning this, you know, this incredible amount of ETH, and the ethereum network basically acts as a demand kind of like driver. It's basically buying $51 million worth of ETH a day over the last seven days and not just buying it, but permanently burning it, which means that it's essentially the same thing as, like, you or I buying that much ETH and just locking it up and never selling it. But, I mean, there's an even stronger guarantee here because it's verifiably burnt. It cannot be sold or cannot be put back into the market ever again. Now, what happens when there's, you know, new people start coming in again? People start buying Ethan kind of like drovers again, and we have like, that natural kind of, I guess, kind of like bid on ETH instead of kind of like these other things? I think eats price can move very, very quickly and can get re rated very quickly. Now, I think this is going to happen leading up to the merge. I really do believe that that's going to be an absolutely massive catalyst for people to kind of, like, just rotate back into to ETH.
00:02:57.196 - 00:04:06.792, Speaker A: And it's not just the rotators, but a lot of people who kind of, like, realize that massive issue introduction is coming with the merge and the fact that we've had, you know, 1559 burning all this ETH. But I really do think that eats price can move very, very quickly in that scenario because of the fact that we've taken so much of the supply already off the market with 1559, with a locked in Defi, with staking as well. And the price in the short to medium term is going to do what it's going to do. But I think, you know, if you kind of, like, you know, wait it out over the long term, it's going to explode. You know, if you actually go back and kind of, like, look at the way prices move for different kind of crypto assets, they tend to do a lot of their positive price movement in a really short period of time, and then they'll have, like, long cooling off periods, whether that's kind of like continuously going down or just going side relatively sideways for a while, they'll just, you know, and those kind of, like things. If it kind of, like, goes sideways for a while and then breaks back up again, it's called a, called basically a distribution zone where, or a kind of like a re accumulation zone where essentially you have the people kind of like accumulating, the people selling that kind of like, are taking profits or just kind of like bought get bored with the asset. And then eventually it hits a point where it just starts going up again.
00:04:06.792 - 00:04:47.518, Speaker A: And, you know, the perfect example of this is something like 2019, where ETH ranged from one to $300 for most of the year. And then we got into 2020 and the price started going up and obviously came back down with March, but then went back up again. And ETH finally broke out of that kind of, like, range properly, I think in July or August or something. So you can think about it for like a year and a half, ETH was in this, this kind of, like, range. And then when it broke up, it broke up very violently. We know from mid 2020 to mid 2021 or even, I think even less than that, ETH went from $300 to four and a half, $1,000, almost one half, $1,000. So you can see how the positive price movement happens very, very quickly after that sideways kind of, like, range is kind of, like broken there.
00:04:47.518 - 00:05:21.296, Speaker A: I think the same thing's happening right now with ETH. It's kind of like, you know, just crabbing, as I like to call it. And I think eventually, you know, we break out again and we kind of go to new highs, go to ten k and beyond very easily. And all this kind of like stuff, like 1559, staking all that stuff is additive to this. So, yeah, anyway, I know I'm preaching to the choir here, but just a bit of commentary on what I've been thinking about lately, because I know a lot of people kind of like, say, oh, ethan, BTC are so boring to hold because they're just not doing anything. And look at all these other things, doing things like, that's totally fair. I mean, there's always going to be a market in crypto that's doing something right, whether that be a DeFi or DeFi 2.0
00:05:21.296 - 00:05:49.860, Speaker A: or some Ponzi or maybe nfts or some social token thing. There's always going to be stuff that happens. But as I've said to you guys before, I would never put 100% of my portfolio into any of those things. You know, if I'm going to gamble and play around with them, I'll put a small part of it into it. But I've got my perma ETH stack that I'm just kind of like, never selling and it's just sitting there. Well, not sitting there, it's most of it staking, of course, but you know, and then I stack more ETH to kind of like get more validates, which I'm sure a lot of you guys are trying to do as well. But anyway, gonna leave it at that.
00:05:49.860 - 00:06:17.708, Speaker A: Got a few updates to get through around. Actually, no, a couple around kind of like Ethereum core protocol development. Firstly, the update around the merge. So here's a picture of Go Ethereum Lighthouse and a lighthouse Kintsugi node with five validators running on the same raspberry PI. This is cool. I mean this is an Ethereum full node and a lighthouse full node running on a raspberry PI. From what I can kind of see here, um, testing kind of the um, the merge.
00:06:17.708 - 00:06:48.262, Speaker A: Now, Ethereum on arm, this Twitter account's a great follow. They do a lot of stuff with kind of like low power, low powered devices like the raspberry PI and running these sorts of things. And this really kind of like is putting to bed the fud around the fact that, oh, you need like super beefy hardware to run Ethereum. Kind of like um, nodes and validators. You don't, you know, the funny thing is, is that the bitcoin maximalist always went on about this with Ethereum, like, oh, you need like super expensive hardware. You can't run an Ethereum full node on a consumer pc or laptop or anything like that. I mean, when in reality you could, and I did it, a lot of people I know did it.
00:06:48.262 - 00:07:21.640, Speaker A: And then, you know, it was just objectively false. And then you have some of these other chains that, where it's literally the, literally true for them, where you can't actually run, run it on a consumer kind of like pc. You have to have like some super beefy hardware in a data center or something like that. And it's just funny how kind of like the bitcoin Maximus would criticize Ethereum for it, but then they seem to be embracing these other chains. I don't know, it's just a weird thing there. But really cool to see this from Ethereum on Arm here. And basically another kind of like site that I wanted to highlight for you guys, which has got to do with client diversity, is from Ryan Berkman's here.
00:07:21.640 - 00:07:55.742, Speaker A: He's created a site called Slashed Dot in Fo, which basically shows how much extra ETH you lose by running a majority client during a worst case slashing event. So TRDR is that you'll lose five times more ETH on Prism versus Nimbus, you can see the website here, kind of like, see how it's highlighting everything. So, I mean, I think this number is a bit high on prism here. 72.8%. It was 67% or 68% for Michael Sprouse analysis. But I guess, like, it's not too much of a difference there. But the point is, is that during kind of like a worst case slashing event, I guess, like that would be kind of like a network wide slashing event.
00:07:55.742 - 00:08:39.872, Speaker A: If you're running the majority client, you're going to lose more money than running one of the minority clients. It's just that's how the protocol works. So again, this is another reason to switch from prism to something else or always switch from the majority clients or minority clients, um, because you stand to lose in case of that one of those, kind of like slashing those major slashing events. And I went through kind of like last week about the different things got to do with client diversity and how it's really important. Um, and I think there's progress being made on contacting big, kind of like staking parties, like centralized exchanges and stuff like that in order to get them to switch. But, uh, yeah, this is gonna be an effort, guys. Like, I know that even if you tell people this, they're gonna, a lot of people are gonna be like, oh, okay, well, you know, I don't think there's gonna be a mass slashing event, so I'm not gonna bother or worry too much.
00:08:39.872 - 00:09:14.764, Speaker A: I do think post merge, sorry, I should not say post merge. I should say post withdrawals being enabled. After the merge, we're going to see a better distribution, just generally because people will be able to much easier, kind of like exit and then re enter without having to risk basically getting slashed or anything like that by double signing. And, you know, I'm going to be curious to see how that plays out. But this is how it exists today, guys. Like, if you, if there is a mass slashing event and you're on Prism, you're going to lose a very large chunk of your kind of like ETH compared to someone else. So definitely something to keep in mind here.
00:09:14.764 - 00:09:51.712, Speaker A: So arbitrum has been having a really big last few weeks, and I've been talking about them lately on the refill a lot, but they crossed over $3 billion locked today on their network. That's crazy. This is just one l two on ethereum crossing over $3 billion locked altogether. We have, I think, the l two s right now, over $6 billion locked, which is kind of like better than some of the alt l one s out there. And this is without native token incentives for most of these things, especially on arbitrum, there's no native token incentives. I know that Dopex has been doing a lot of great stuff on arbitrum. I think they account for a large chunk of this TVl and then you have things like magic and treasure nft that I spoke about.
00:09:51.712 - 00:10:29.618, Speaker A: But the fact that arbitrary is growing so organically without token incentives is really bullish to me. Like I know I go on about the fact that eventually these things are going to need tokens for both incentives and kind of like growing in community and decentralizing and that sort of stuff. But I've also said that the longer they can go without doing tokens while maintaining steady growth, probably the better. And it, you know, it gives them time to focus and not have to rush out a token and kind of like focus on building this stuff out properly. But I still expect, as I said, like most of these things to have tokens in the first half of this year. If I'm wrong there, I still expect it to happen sometime this year. But we'll have to see, you know, we'll have to see if they think it's necessary.
00:10:29.618 - 00:11:02.646, Speaker A: It may not be. It may be that there's so much demand for these networks because they're so much cheaper than l one, that these, these networks don't actually need native token incentives. They can just have the projects do the token incentives to get people to come across as well, or people just naturally come across because it's cheaper for them to do stuff on there. So very, very cool to see this. And again, another update with arbitrum is that binance now has withdraws to the arbitrum one network enabled. So I mentioned this, I think a couple months ago or a month ago where they, where they enabled deposits but not withdrawals. Now you can withdraw to arbitrarium.
00:11:02.646 - 00:11:44.194, Speaker A: Now. I can't remember if I, oh yeah, I think, I know I did cover this last week, but this was the official tweet, tweet from arbitrum. I did cover this. I think David Mihal tweeted about this. But yeah, I mean there's an official guide now from arbitrum here that you can use as well. And I think I discussed last week about the costs as well, like that I think was $10 to bridge in or something like that, and how exchanges could subsidize that. I think one major thing exchanges can do to subsidize those costs is that they could actually liquidity provide for these bridges like hop and connect and all these other bridges out there and kind of like make up the difference there in trading fees on their exchange with the fiat, especially the fiat pairs, because obviously exchanges over time are going to lose a lot of their volume to decentralized exchanges.
00:11:44.194 - 00:12:20.550, Speaker A: But I think you can't really do decentralized fiat trading. That's very, very difficult. And if you try to do that without any form of KYC, you open yourselves up to kind of like very strict regulatory punishment there. So yeah, anyway, I do remember that I covered this last week, but again, just shouting out the kind of like guide here from arbitrary themselves. Polynar shared a Reddit thread. Basically it's titled exploring the ecosystem to defy on the arbitram roll up. So you can go check this out and you can kind of like see all the projects that are live on arbitram today that I've got to do with DeFi.
00:12:20.550 - 00:12:34.934, Speaker A: There's a fair few now. Like look at that. That's a, that's a pretty healthy ecosystem there. Still no popular money market yet, like Aviv. Right? Like we're still waiting on that. As I've said, I think other V three is very close to being done. So they want to kind of like get on there.
00:12:34.934 - 00:12:56.634, Speaker A: But there are other options for you right now. Like you can see, I mean there are other kind of like money markets and stuff like that, but nothing like Aave or compound or Maker. But yeah, I'm sure Ave is going to be live soon there. But definitely go check out this Reddit post. I'll link it in the YouTube description to see what you can do on Arbitrum. And there's also a list of bridges as well. Like look at the, look how many bridges there are, guys.
00:12:56.634 - 00:13:25.514, Speaker A: Like, I remember I've been speaking about bridges for a while now and I remember there was only like a handful of them. Now there's so many. Like look, synapse across any swap seller Connect Hop Ren Bridge Orbiter Li find. I mean, there's so many out there. There's going to be more as we go on. I think it's because people realize that the bridge space is incredibly lucrative or will be incredibly lucrative because there's going to be a lot of volume that flows through these bridges and a lot of, a lot of money to be made there. So really cool to see that.
00:13:25.514 - 00:13:59.462, Speaker A: And Rari Capital announced that they will be bringing fuse, their fuse money market to arbitrary very soon. So this is very cool. As I said, like there's no big money markets just yet, but with Aave going live and Rari Capital's fuse going live as well, that's going to be really cool to see how that plays out too. So very big last few days for arbitram. Really cool to see all the growth that's been happening them for them there. So speaking of bridges, Connext has bridged a billion dollars worth of volume in just, I think a year over their cross chain network. Now this is going to be a lot faster from here, I think.
00:13:59.462 - 00:14:29.354, Speaker A: I think it was a slow burn at first because there, you know, a year ago, there wasn't really much of a reason for most people to kind of like bridge to other chains or bridge between l two s. I mean, most of these l two s weren't live you really, a year ago, the only thing you were bridging to was BSc, I believe. And that was just kind of like at the very beginnings of that. Now you bridge to all these other alt one ltl ones, you bridge to these side chains, you bridge to the l two s. There's so many things to bridge to, in and out of. And these kind of like things are becoming incredibly, these. Sorry, these bridges are becoming incredibly important.
00:14:29.354 - 00:15:16.804, Speaker A: So I think the next billion for connects is going to be much faster than the previous billion, you know, and it's going to get to a point where these bridges are going to be doing potentially billions of dollars of volume a day right across aggregate probably, and then eventually tens of billions. And I mean, as I said, like I've been very, very bullish on these brick on these bridges and cross chain swapping protocols for obvious reasons. But I think that it did take a while to get here because there actually needed to be things to bridge in and out of. But now that that's here, it's going to be exponential growth from, from here, I believe. So Polygon put together a little thread on some updates about Polygon Maiden. So what's been happening there? So they've been having some advancements with new features in the upcoming version of Maiden VMware. You can see here and you can go here.
00:15:16.804 - 00:16:04.860, Speaker A: There's a hackmd page to learn more about it. This is very low level stuff. It's definitely not high level. Kind of like user facing stuff. But I think it's cool that they're actually giving updates like this because at the end of the day, as I said before, a lot of these ZK stuff is very in the weeds. End users are really only going to get the benefit out of them once these things alive and have apps on them. Sort of like what Stocknet's doing, whereas these sorts of things are good to put out there to kind of like get more developers involved with it as well because obviously the developers make the ecosystem and we need to get developers up to speed on the CK technology so they can kind of better take advantage of it and kind of like better build their apps on here because obviously it's very easy for them to port their existing apps to like EVM compatible roll ups and L1 S and EVM equivalent l one S and roll ups as well.
00:16:04.860 - 00:16:46.858, Speaker A: But the ZK stuff, until we have like a ZkVM and even then it may prove more difficult. So getting these developers up to speed is definitely the priority here. So cool to see these up, this mini update update thread from Polygon Mydin. So speaking of Polygon, ETH Global announced that there's a kind of like, I guess initiative called the Road to web3 happening from February to February, which is powered by Polygon. So if you join this, you'll be joining to build your first web3 application, win thousands in prizes, meet new friends from around the world, and learn from the best. So you can apply now at web3 dot ethglobal.com. If you're an aspiring kind of developer, want to get involved with the web3 Polygon Ethereum ecosystems, I couldn't think of a better thing than this.
00:16:46.858 - 00:17:12.064, Speaker A: I mean, as I've said to you guys before, I've judged a fair few ETH global kind of like hackathons. The global has been around for quite a while. They probably run the best hackathons out of the entire industry. To be honest, I can't think of anyone else that runs better hackathons than ETH global. I mean there is ETH Denver, which I don't think is an ETH global thing anymore. I think they spun out of it, or at least have never been an ETH global thing. And that's obviously a very big in person, in person a hackathon.
00:17:12.064 - 00:17:53.890, Speaker A: But if global specializes in online hackathons and they do really well there because it, I think the online ones are more inclusive because the in person ones, you have to be able to get there, right? You have to fly there. Unless someone sponsors you. It's kind of hard if you're a, you know, if you're, if you're in a kind of like a third world country or you're kind of like, um, kind of for to go whereas the online stuff, you only need your existing kind of like hardware to play around with that. Like, a lot of people already have like a laptop or somewhere they can access a pc or even a, even a phone. Like, I'm sure there's some people out there that really want to develop things, but they only have a mobile phone and they use their phone to kind of like get started with this sort of stuff. It'd be a lot harder to do that. But I'm sure there's some people out there doing this or all learning kind of like how to do this.
00:17:53.890 - 00:18:14.018, Speaker A: So. So yeah, if you're, if you're interested in this, definitely go to web3 dot ethglobal.com to check this out. So we have an update from Nifty island. Their closed alpha begins 17 February 2022, which is a month from today. So I'm very much looking forward to this. Uh, I've been talking about Nifty island for quite a while.
00:18:14.018 - 00:18:40.060, Speaker A: I, not an investor in them or anything, but I do hold a few of their kind of like items. I hold the neon palm, which was gifted to me. I have the um, I have the neon pistols and I also have the physical sword, which is behind me, but you can't see it. It's like over there, the physical kind of like nifty sword. So I'm like fully invested in their ecosystem and I'm very much looking forward to. For their closed alpha to go live. I can't wait to build up my own little island and just kind of like have everything there.
00:18:40.060 - 00:19:12.846, Speaker A: I want to see if I can have some like figurines there and things like that. Have my neon palm and have somewhere for people to kind of like join me in the metaverse essentially, right? And like maybe have some deadly gray meetups there and maybe we have the AMA there, which AMA is coming back, by the way. Guys, I just still do not have proper home Internet, so I don't want to do the AMA and then my Internet just keep cutting out and just ruin the whole thing. So hopefully sometime this week, if not next week, but I'll keep you guys up to date on that one. Um, but yeah, you can go watch this cinematic trailer here. The sound's not on, obviously, but I'm just letting it run in the background. I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:19:12.846 - 00:19:50.950, Speaker A: Just very much looking forward to this. I think the metaverse stuff right now, still very, very early, but these things like Nifty island and other kind of like products out there, I like the stepping stones to get us to a place where, you know, we actually do spend time in the metaverse and build stuff and have cool products and services in there, get together with our friends, all that sort of stuff, right. And especially things that are not owned by Facebook, that are community owned. Like, I have no interest in being a part of Zuck's metaverse, like, at all. Like, I can't think of anything worse, to be honest. So definitely not gonna, not gonna be participating in that. But I will be checking out all the web3 crypto metaverse kind of like games and stuff out there.
00:19:50.950 - 00:20:27.870, Speaker A: I know there's a few that exist already, but as I said, all this is very, very early stage, but we're gonna get to a stage where it, you know, as I said, it's gonna become like a commonplace thing for people to kind of like go in and join in and kind of like the metaverse, join their friends, have meetups and things like that. And it's gonna be super exciting there. And, you know, the funny thing is, on the topic of the metaverse stuff, there's been a lot of cringe stuff lately. Like Walmart announced that you'd be able to shop in the metaverse or like, there was some grocery chain that I think did it as well or something like that. I saw a video about it. I do believe it was Walmart. And I looked at that and I'm just like, this is so, this is so corporate.
00:20:27.870 - 00:21:01.278, Speaker A: Like, I don't want to, like, I'm not gonna go in there in kind of like the Walmart metaverse just to do some bloody, to do some online shopping. I don't see the point in doing that. Right. Like, maybe you can kind of like, I guess physically measure the size of certain products that you're buying and things like that, and maybe it gives you a bit better of an experience, especially with things like furniture. I can see that, maybe. But grocery shopping, I don't need to walk through a store in, like, with my virtual reality kind of like headset on to pick out items. Like, if I'm going to do online grocery shopping, I'm just going to go through a list and pick out what I want.
00:21:01.278 - 00:21:39.336, Speaker A: I don't need to kind of like, physically hold the item in my hand or not even physically, like virtually hold the item in my hand to decide what I want. But that's just me. I don't know how it is for you guys and maybe the younger generation because they don't kind of like, they spend so much time online, so much time inside, inside, they probably will use that as kind of like a way to have some sense of normalcy and kind of be like, oh, I'm at a grocery store, but you're not really, but you are kind of thing. I don't know how the future is going to shake out there, but I can see that kind of becoming a thing. But I think that with, with the metaverse, as with all things crypto related, it has to be a bottoms up approach. Top down approaches just don't work in crypto. Uh, at least in web3.
00:21:39.336 - 00:22:20.382, Speaker A: I think top down approaches work for institutions that don't try to be decentralized or try to act like they're decentralized. So things like centralized exchanges, it works very well for them. But I think if you're trying to be decentralized, community owned project, then a top down approach is just not going to work. And what I mean by this is like a top down approach is essentially your traditional hierarchy where you have like a CEO and you have like executives and you have all the report, the direct reports and things like that, managers and all those sorts of things. Bottoms up. It's kind of like a flat where you don't have a CEO, you do have some semblance of leadership, right? Because obviously if there's no leadership, then there's a leadership void. And that usually gets filled by people that shouldn't even be in positions of leadership, or it doesn't get filled at all.
00:22:20.382 - 00:22:49.758, Speaker A: And everyone's just like kind of running around with their head chopped off, essentially. But essentially a bottoms up approach is all these kind of like things happening. No one telling you kind of like what to do, no one. I mean, you do have like a kind of like soft roadmap of things you want to build, but you don't have kind of like this micro management going on. You don't have CEO's and executives and all that sort of stuff. It's really kind of like a grassroots movement by people for the people sort of thing. So I think if you're trying to be a truly decentralized web3 crypto product, you have to do it that way.
00:22:49.758 - 00:23:27.190, Speaker A: I don't think top down approaches work. At least they, there are some times that it can work, but I think for the most part it's just not going to work. And you'll get forked as well. If you feel too corporate, as we've seen before, people will fork your project and basically say, hey, we're forking it. We're giving most of the kind of like ownership away to the community because you guys are too vc heavy or you guys are too insider heavy. And I think that's going to happen more with metaverse projects than it will with DeFi projects because there's a sense of kind of like identity attached to metaverse projects. And if you feel like your identity is stuck in like a corporate bizarro world that you don't want to be in, then their switching costs, of course, are very low to go to another product.
00:23:27.190 - 00:24:00.448, Speaker A: But you might decide, hey, I'm going to fork this. I'm going to make it less kind of like corporate in suits, and I'm going to make it basically for the people, by the people, and then you might get some, some kind of like traction there. But yeah, those are just my general thoughts on the metaverse. I know everyone has their own thoughts on this these days, and it's kind of like hard to tell where exactly it's going to go, but I do think it's going to be a thing. I do think there's going to be both top and bottom, top down approach and bottoms up approach. I do think it's going to become corporate versus kind of like grassroots. It's definitely going to become like Facebook metaverse, Walmart metaverse versus kind of like web3 native metaverse.
00:24:00.448 - 00:24:30.864, Speaker A: And I do think that the web3 native stuff will win just like the open Internet one. But we have to be very careful there, too, because the open Internet won. But then we remonopolize the Internet, or at least we monopolize the Internet around a few select kind of like apps, right? Like the big social media giants. And a few are kind of like other ones out there. Whereas I think with Web three, we do have a definite opportunity to not do that. And I'm hoping that we can kind of like keep it that way. But we'll have to see how that all shakes out there.
00:24:30.864 - 00:25:04.632, Speaker A: All right, so final update from Zappa. So Friday on Friday, Zappa shipped their new collections page. So this new feature gives you quick access to collection stats, stat stats such as floor price and a quick view of nfts you own within that collection. And they're teasing more amazing NFT features to come soon. So you can see here they've got like a teaser or at least an image of kind of like the doodles NFT collection here, which are really awesome, by the way. I mean, I didn't see them until they started kind of like blowing up. And, and then I saw them, I was like, oh, like the floor was like, I think it was like ten ETH or something when I saw them.
00:25:04.632 - 00:25:19.834, Speaker A: Or maybe eight or nine. I think it was like seven or eight ETH. And I'm like, uh, nah, I'll be alright. I'll be right for now. Um, because it just like got, you know, even it's too expensive for me. And then I kind of looked at them like, these are really cool and I hadn't seen them before. And it's just funny how kind of like they came out.
00:25:19.834 - 00:25:57.288, Speaker A: They seem to have come out of nowhere, but there was a big community behind them. But anyway, that's a bit of a tangent there, just based on the screenshot that Zappi has here. But I think this is cool. Like, I think they teased NfT integrations a little while back, you know, and which makes sense because Zappa is trying to be kind of like your home for web3 or the front page for web3. So for them to have NfT support is pretty critical. I think that once they do the kind of like mobile wallet app and things like that, that's going to be really cool as well because you're going to be able to have your nfts on your mobile phone. There are obviously other kind of like apps out there that do this, doing this already, like Rainbow and I'm sure Arjun is going to do that and then kind of like some others as well.
00:25:57.288 - 00:26:29.906, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, Zapp, I mean, I use Zapper all the time. Like, I mean, you guys know I'm an investor in Zapper as well, but I, before I was an investor in Zapper, I use them all the time because it's just such a great product. I don't do much NfT stuff, but I still like seeing what I've got in my, in my kind of like Zappa portfolio. It's a funny thing like that. I don't do much NFT stuff. I was talking to some friends about this today and about how you remember how, like, I think it was last week or the week before, I talked about, you know, degens versus boomers and how I feel like I've become pretty boomer when it comes to crypto because I don't do the Degen stuff anymore. The NFT stuff is a funny little area.
00:26:29.906 - 00:27:11.074, Speaker A: Maybe I'll talk about this for, I got about four minutes left. Maybe I'll talk about this. The NFT stuff's a funny area because you do have a lot of the degeneracy kind of, kind of going on in the NFT ecosystem. I mean, I'm sure you guys saw that Irene Dow today where this woman was selling kind of like her selfies as nfts and it went crazy. She made, she's made a lot of money off it so far. But, you know, there's kind of like that sort of stuff, but then there's also kind of like stuff that has long lasting power and communities form around it and they tried to kind of like build products and services around it and projects around it. But for me, when it comes to NFT stuff, it's just very hard to pick those winners, right? Like, it's very, very hard to know what's going to be a flash in the pan versus what's going to be going to have long lasting value.
00:27:11.074 - 00:27:52.230, Speaker A: And I think the same is true for pretty much every sector. But with nfts, it becomes so pronounced because I think with, with nfts, people kind of get like very attached to their nfts and then they kind of like go down with the ship if the project or if the kind of like the nfts, the hype just wears off. And, you know, this has happened many times, I think. I think it happened like pretty brutally with, at the end of the last NFT mania with, I think it was mechaverse or something like that. Everyone went crazy over this kind of like profile picture collection, and then I'm pretty sure they dumped very, very hard, like extremely hard after mint. And I kind of like after the initial mania wore off. And this is true for a lot of these kind of like profile picture projects.
00:27:52.230 - 00:28:17.182, Speaker A: But there are some massive winners, I think cool cats and bored apes and cryptopunks and doodles. Now there's just massive winners that have long lasting communities. And people really enjoy collecting these things and getting together with people on discord or, or anything else like that and kind of like collecting the rare ones and stuff. So I do think some of these things will have staying power, but for me, it's just so hard to pick. And I'm sure you guys feel the same. Just so much going on in the NFT ecosystem. It's just too hard.
00:28:17.182 - 00:28:50.520, Speaker A: And, you know, I'm a collector of things, obviously, as you guys see all around me. You guys know I collect my figurines, but that's a different kind of thing. I'm not buying the figurines as an investment or kind of like as, and they don't cost me. You know, I mean, most of them don't cost like ten e, right. This is crazy amounts for these kind of like none of them cost ten e actually, that's like over 30 grand. But it's just got crazy amounts of money for these things once they get very popular. And that's why you see, like, so many of these things keep getting created because it was crypto punks and then people got priced out of crypto punks very, very quickly, then bought ace came along and people got priced out of that.
00:28:50.520 - 00:29:12.674, Speaker A: Then there was like pudgy penguins and cool cats. People get priced out of that. And then you kind of like go down the list and people keep creating this profile picture. Are nfts to appeal to kind of like new sets of people and new wealth levels, but nfts obviously go far beyond that. But that's when it starts getting even more kind of like out of my, you know, field of expertise. I know nothing about art. I wouldn't know what's, you know, good art from bad art, and I don't know any of that sort of stuff.
00:29:12.674 - 00:29:41.772, Speaker A: And then you kind of like have nfts, like ens names and things like that, which people do speculate on. That's kind of a different thing. It hasn't really got to do with like art or kind of like profile picture nfts or anything like that. It's just in ens names. And then you have crypto gaming in general, which is just exploding, like play to earn all this sort of stuff. No idea. So I think it's a full time job in of itself to kind of keep up with this sort of stuff, to actually make money from it as well without getting lucky to actually kind of like play it strategically, definitely very difficult.
00:29:41.772 - 00:30:10.616, Speaker A: And even the top NFT kind of people in this ecosystem of inundated and probably looking for interns and things like that. So just crazy when we think about it. And it's crazy how nfts really only blew up over the last, what year? I would say last twelve months. It really hasn't been much longer than that in terms of like really blowing up and going mainstream. And it's amazing to me that even if the general market is quiet, like, even if Ethan bitcoin are doing nothing, the NFT ecosystem is still going crazy. So. So, yeah, anyway, just some of my thoughts on nfts there.
00:30:10.616 - 00:30:21.384, Speaker A: I'm at time now, so I think that's going to be it for today. Thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
