00:00:00.280 - 00:00:18.574, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Alleyway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is sign and has the 28 February 2024. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So before we kick off today's episode, just a couple of housekeeping items. First one is apologies for the rug fuel yesterday. Back today, though, of course, hopefully with a longer episode.
00:00:18.574 - 00:00:36.020, Speaker A: There shouldn't be any other rug fuels this week. But we'll see. I'm going to a meetup tomorrow. As you guys know, tomorrow night in at upside, which is a co working space. So I think I'm gonna record the refuel earlier so that, you know, it's not rugged tomorrow. So if there is a rug, that's why. But there hopefully won't be.
00:00:36.020 - 00:00:56.404, Speaker A: So yeah, let's. Let's see how we go there. The second thing is that you may notice if you're watching the YouTube video, that I have a different kind of setup going on. Like, the camera angle is different. I'm not sitting down, I'm standing up. And the reason is because I recently converted my desk into a standing desk. And I've done this because I've had a lot of neck and back issues for like eight months now.
00:00:56.404 - 00:01:20.636, Speaker A: Like, pretty constant pain. It was really bad. Like, I went to multiple osteo, osteo paths to see what the actual issue was and done a lot of great, great work there. But the issue just kept coming back and I kept wondering what it was. I was trying a lot of different things. And my desk, how it set up was actually quite hard to turn into a standing desk because I didn't want to get rid of the desk that I have. I love the desk that I have, but I bought a bunch of other things to kind of convert it into a standing desk, and now it is a standing desk.
00:01:20.636 - 00:01:48.548, Speaker A: And I've just basically been standing all the time instead of sitting. And within like, two days of doing that, all of my issues seem to have gone away with my back and neck. So what would happen is I get, like, really bad tension headaches, and it was just excruciating. Especially it would happen, like, earlier in the day and then dissipate over time. But I got my most energy early in the day, so I want to be able to, like, do stuff, but it was just debilitating. And as I said, it's been going on for quite a while, but it seems like it was because I was just sitting down too much. I mean, I've been sitting at a computer for a long, long, long time.
00:01:48.548 - 00:02:09.100, Speaker A: I mean, I've. My whole life's revolving around computers for a very, very long time. Now. I'm going to have to say the better part of 17 years since I started playing World of Warcraft all those years ago into basically making it my career, not just with crypto, but before I was into crypto. But anyway, enough rambling about my personal issues there. But this will be the view that you see going forward on the video, just me standing up. I mean, it's really kind of a similar view.
00:02:09.100 - 00:02:32.748, Speaker A: You've got like my figurines behind me. Of course, I'm just like standing up instead of sitting down. It's not that different. But I figured I'd address it because people probably gonna ask, you know, why is the view different? And the reason it I'm, you know, it's kind of standing as well. I'm gonna be standing all the time is because I actually have like a walking pad underneath me too. So like a walking treadmill underneath the desk. And I'm not gonna pull that out every time I wanna like sit at my desk and then pull everything back, you know, push all the monitors and keyboard and mouse down.
00:02:32.748 - 00:02:49.372, Speaker A: I'm not gonna bother with that. So I'm just gonna stand up all the time, which is fine. I mean, better for my, for my back, obviously. And walking on the treadmill gets my steps in while I'm at my desk. But anyway, enough about that. Let's move on to the news that I've missed covering over the last couple of days. So first off, as you guys know, Denkun is around the corner.
00:02:49.372 - 00:03:29.036, Speaker A: While the official kind of mainnet announcement from the Ethereum foundation blog came out yesterday. You can check it out here. Really, all this is just a blog post that kind of lists what Dencun is, what it brings with it, you know, what the features are, what the eips are, and links to the client releases so that you can update your node. So if you are running full node or are you running full node with validators attached to it? To keep in mind, you do have to update by March 13. And you also, if you're running MeV Boost, remember that you need to update that as well, or else you will stand to kind of miss blocks if you're running an old mev boost version, and I'm pretty sure they've released a new version of that too. But I don't know if it's linked in, in this blog post here. I didn't see it here.
00:03:29.036 - 00:03:59.196, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, 95% or something of the network uses mev boost, so you definitely want to make sure to upgrade that there. But yeah, guys, like, it's so close now, Denkun, I mean, March 13 is around the corner and I think that it's going to be a smooth upgrade. It seems like there hasn't really been any bugs on the test nets. I think Nimbus had a small kind of client side bug on the whole ski testnet. I believe that they fixed. So yeah, other than that, I haven't really seen anything else. So seems like blobs have been going well and I can't wait to see this finally on Mainnet.
00:03:59.196 - 00:04:28.228, Speaker A: But you can go check out the blog post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. And just actually, before I move on from the Den kun stuff, there is going to be a live stream on March 13 at 1300 UTC or starting at 1300 UTC, which is 01:00 p.m.. UTC. I think that's like midnight my time. So midnight australian eastern standard time, which is like early morning us and afternoon Europe time if I'm doing my calculations right in my head there.
00:04:28.228 - 00:05:01.094, Speaker A: So this live stream is going to be co hosted by yours truly and eats taker along with ETH cat herders as well. So it's going to be a fun stream. We're going to see Dengun go live on the network, you know, in real time, and then we're going to see what happens with the blobs. You know, I'm curious to see if like the blobs are used straight away. Like are we going to see like an inscription mint straight away or are we going to see some of these roll ups using blobs straight away to store their data? Like, I'm very curious to see what's going to happen there and I'm glad we all get to kind of watch this live as it happens. So as I said, this live stream will be happening March 13 at 01:00 p.m.. UTC.
00:05:01.094 - 00:05:34.374, Speaker A: You can do the time conversion to your own time zone on your own, or you can go to the YouTube channel here and just like it'll tell you in your local time when this will be going live. So you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Mike Newta has a new fresh ETH research post out this time. He teamed up with Tarun Chitra here, who you guys may know, he's a researcher within the kind of ethereum crypto ecosystem, has been around for quite a while now, but Mike's on fire. I mean he keeps publishing these 8th research posts and I think he might have a couple more left in him. I've heard on the grapevine there.
00:05:34.374 - 00:05:52.510, Speaker A: But I don't know how he has the time to put these. Put these up. I don't even have the time to read these. Like a couple of them are still in my. In my backlog, in my chrome tabs. But this one's all about the risks of LRT's, or as they've known as liquid restaking tokens. So this is a relatively new thing, obviously that has come with the advent of a restaking on Ethereum.
00:05:52.510 - 00:06:17.510, Speaker A: And obviously the most popular liquid restaking tokens today are etherfy, puffer and swell, I believe are the other top three. There are a few others out there that are up and coming. Like I think there's Kalpdao and Renzo and there's a few other ones. There's so many of these things now. And I think that all of the LSD are pretty much going to convert to lrts. I think that eventually Lidar is probably going to do it as well. Obviously being the biggest there.
00:06:17.510 - 00:06:45.582, Speaker A: The one that probably won't is like CB 8th or Coinbase ETH. I feel like for them, they like it's a regulatory thing, but we'll have to see it. Maybe they will do that. But obviously these LRTs carry a lot of risk with them because restaking carries a lot of risk with it that is under explored or unexplored. Because restaking is a new primitive, has not been around for very long. And also none of the kind of, I guess like Eigen layer products alive yet like restaking as a primitive. I mean, it's technically not even live.
00:06:45.582 - 00:07:16.096, Speaker A: Because really what you're doing when you put the token into Eigen layer or into like Eigen layers contracts is you're just basically putting ETH there as a placeholder. That ETH is not being used to secure any of the Eigen layer avss because none of them alive yet. Eigen layer as a product is not live. So really all you're doing is putting your ETH in there, obviously farming points and airdrops and all that sorts of stuff. I mean there's obviously nothing wrong with that, but it's not actually really at risk. Besides there being smart contract risks, obviously that, you know, there can be bugs in smart contracts. There's no risk right now, because Eigen layer is not live.
00:07:16.096 - 00:07:59.904, Speaker A: No, Abs is alive. But obviously when they do go live, that's when a lot of these things start to come to the forefront. All these risks start to come to the forefront. And that's exactly what Mike and Tarun have done in this post, is basically highlight those risks as they see them, and try to address them in various different ways, and try to address how, you know, the risk could play out, how it can be mitigated, so on and so forth. And there's a lot here, it's quite a dense post. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you guys to check out. But I think that Eigen layer still remains one of the most least understood things or primitives, or restaking generally primitives on Ethereum, because I've seen like a lot of people talk about, even like the basic things and get it wrong.
00:07:59.904 - 00:08:41.396, Speaker A: So for example, I've seen a few people say that they think that validators, Ethereum validators are going to be modified in some way to be an Eigen layer, kind of like AV's operator. That's not how it works at all. So really, when it comes to what you're actually giving Eigen layer, you're giving them the economic security of ETH, you're not giving Eigen layer your validator security. So an Ethereum validator. So like a lighthouse validator or prison validator, those things are not going to be the things that are securing the avss, the Ethereum instance of those validators. Now yes, those things could be forked. Those that software can be fork, like the lighthouse client can be forked and be modified to run an Eigen layer Av's.
00:08:41.396 - 00:09:12.554, Speaker A: But if you're running an Ethereum validator, you have a very specific instance of that, of that software. And that software is just being an Ethereum validator. It is not being repurposed as an Eigen layer. Av's node operator, whatever you want to call it. Now, this confusion is because of the fact that if you're anode operator on Ethereum, like I am, obviously I run full nodes, I run validators, and I want to become an operator on the Eigen layer. You know, on Eigen layer Abs, I can do that. But at the same time, I don't actually have to restake any of my own ETH.
00:09:12.554 - 00:10:27.476, Speaker A: What I can do is I can spin up the software and then people can delegate essentially their restaked ETH to me, and then I can be a node operator of an AV's while that exists separately to being a node operator of the ethereum network, the Ethereum validator is not being used within the Eigen layer. And because of that confusion, people seem to come up with all these esoteric risks that aren't actually risks, really, at the end of the day, I think the biggest risk of not an LRT, because an LRT carries additional risks with it, because obviously it's like, it's like a receipt token, essentially, and there's a whole bunch of things that go into that. But like with restaking itself, the biggest risk to Ethereum, the network I foresee is something massively blowing up and then a lot of stake having to be withdrawn from the ethereum network at once, basically, which means that you're going to see a lot of, you're not going to see a death spiral, but what you're going to see is you're going to see a lot of, I guess, like deep of these LSTs and LRT's, which would result in more ETH being taken out of the beacon chain in order to arbitrage that and people panicking and so on and so forth. I think that's going to happen regardless of restaking or not. I think that's just going to happen because of a deleveraging event at some point in the future. Obviously, the markets are getting really, really hot right now, and I mean, we all know how that ends. Honestly, like, I feel like people have already forgotten how that ends.
00:10:27.476 - 00:10:57.282, Speaker A: It always ends the same way. Things blow up, basically. And that's, that's a cleansing that we have to go through. Anytime you go up really, really fast, there's lots of leverage that gets built up, and then you have deleveraging events that has all kinds of, I guess, you know, things happening here and there that you may not anticipate. I guess this post is trying to address those things and, or at least some of those things and trying to build off of that. But, but yeah, there's no kind of like risk to an Ethereum validator itself, because an Ethereum validator is not an Eigen layer validator, so to speak. Right.
00:10:57.282 - 00:11:33.842, Speaker A: I mean, I know that's not the exact right terminology, but that's just not how it works. And again, like, you can't get slashed on Ethereum either, if you get slashed on Eigen layer, because to get slashed on Ethereum, you have to actually break the rules of the Ethereum protocol using your validator. Such as double signing, right. Such as doing a surround vote, things like that. You do not get slashed because some Eigen layer av's that you're, I guess like running a node for which is separate to your Ethereum validator, right? Which is it could be an Eigen layer validator gets slashed. No, this is not how it works. And I think that more people need to understand how Eigen layer actually works before trying to assess the risks of it.
00:11:33.842 - 00:12:08.446, Speaker A: Because if you think that it works one way, when it works a completely different way, you're just going to run around in circles with yourself and then you're going to come up with all these kind of risks that aren't actually risks. But enough of that little rant there. You can go check out Mike and Tarun's post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. They do a much better job of explaining this stuff than I do, specifically around the actual liquid restaking tokens themselves. And yeah, I'll post this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, staying on the topic of staking for now, there is an oval roadmap that has been published in the flavor of Vitalik's Ethereum roadmap.
00:12:08.446 - 00:13:15.186, Speaker A: So you can see here that ashin from the Oval network team has posted this diagram on Twitter with a bunch of different names, such as for each kind of like roadmap item here. So obviously with Ethereum we have like the Verge, the surge, the verge, and so on and so forth. Well, Obel has the keys, the crown, the blocks, the blame, the base, the lab. Okay, obviously none of that rhymes like it does with the Ethereum roadmap, but under each of these little headings here, you've got a bunch of different kind of milestones that the oval team obviously wants to meet when it comes to distributed validator technology. Now, of course, if you want to check out more details about this and see a better high resolution image, you can go to the blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But there is a lot here, guys like you may think that DVT is relatively simple in that like it allows you to basically a stake using multiple instances of the same validator, and that adds redundancy and potentially extra security and things like that, and obviously enables things like squad staking, as I've discussed before. But it goes way beyond that, and you can actually find out why and how it goes way beyond that by checking out this blog post, which of course, as I said, I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:13:15.186 - 00:13:51.258, Speaker A: But it's great to see this because I think when it comes to designing Obel and DVT. Generally it's going to follow pretty closely with kind of the Ethereum staking kind of design roadmap. Like any changes that happen to Ethereum staking, such as epbs, that's the stuff that oboe is going to be following along with and inclusion lists and things like that. But they're also going to be doing their own things and their own improvements to their own network. Because oval is not just kind of like a feature that gets added onto staking, it is a whole protocol in of itself. And they have a lot of roadmap items here that they want to kind of like execute on. So yeah, you can go check out this.
00:13:51.258 - 00:14:19.472, Speaker A: They've code names at Oval 2.0 actually as well. So you can go check this out. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Armog here has tweeted out that it is the first anniversary of the Rhino Review Ethereum Staking Journal. Now, I remember I highlighted this newsletter back a year ago now, probably like from the day that it was first published. And I remember saying that it is still the number one resource for keeping up with everything happening within the Ethereum staking ecosystem.
00:14:19.472 - 00:14:58.826, Speaker A: So congrats to amog and, and team and anyone working on, on this with him or helping him with this on one year. It's great to see that you've stuck with it. I know that it can be kind of challenging at times to stick with things like this, especially when you're kind of aggregating things together and it becomes a bit tedious because you have to go find all the relevant information, links and stuff. I mean, I've done it before. I did it as the Block by Block newsletter in 2018, which then became the EtHub newsletter, which then became, I guess like into the ether podcast, which has become like the Daily Gwei now. So I understand kind of how mentally exhausting it can be and how many things there are to keep on top of. But kudos to you guys for keeping on top of this and for you, for you guys to putting it, for putting this together.
00:14:58.826 - 00:15:22.562, Speaker A: I think this is a great resource for the community and if you aren't subscribed to this, guys, definitely go subscribe to it. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But really, you could spend like a whole week on each of these newsletters just reading through everything linked here. There is so much happening in the Ethereum staking ecosystem, I really only scratched the surface of it on the refuel there's just so much. I mean, look at, look at this, look at this, guys. I'm just scrolling through the newsletter. Look at all these links that, that are in here.
00:15:22.562 - 00:15:46.368, Speaker A: And each of these links are a post in of themselves. I mean, you've even got things like UPS recommendations. So a UPS is an uninterruptible power supply, which I got a few of them on my setup where basically it's a battery backup, essentially. So if your power goes out, you can connect your validators or connect your hardware that runs your validators to it, and then you'll have. It can stay alive for a little while. It's not gonna. It depends on the size of the battery.
00:15:46.368 - 00:16:11.524, Speaker A: Mine can stay alive for up to, I think, half an hour or something. But it's good for things like brownouts, obviously, and it's good for like, short blackouts and stuff like that. But yeah, they've even got links to stuff like that. So it's stuff that you just won't see anywhere else is in this newsletter. So once again, congrats to amog and anyone else who works on, on this with him. It's been great to watch this evolve over the last year. And here's to another year of the etherea the Rhino Review newsletter.
00:16:11.524 - 00:16:48.166, Speaker A: All right, an update from Cow Swap today. So they say here, cow swap's top priority is to protect users from bad, bad outcomes. That's why we just made the swap confirmation model easier to understand with update data, designs for sell and receive amounts, quote refresh time, fee breakdown, transaction expiry time, and happy swapping. Now, you may be wondering why I'm highlighting such a. I don't know if you call it like little update or boring update, but the reason I'm highlighting it is because I think it isn't actually a little update or a boring update. I think that things like this can have a really, really large impact because obviously it's really easy to get scammed. In.
00:16:48.166 - 00:17:13.730, Speaker A: Crypto, people get scammed all the time. There's so many different ways to get scammed. Even if you're super experienced, you can get scammed or fished. I am the best example of that. Someone who's been in secret system for ages, dodged everything until I got fished in the dumbest way by losing my op tokens a few months ago, which have since gone up in value a lot, which hurts even more, of course. But hey, you know, it was an expensive lesson and I learned that lesson. But regardless of that, why I think this is a big deal or something.
00:17:13.730 - 00:17:55.810, Speaker A: That's worth highlighting is that you want to basically tell the user in plain English what they're doing with their transaction. And this has been something that we've been trying to improve upon for a while now. Obviously, metamask is making their own improvements in a slow and steady way, I would say. But for the longest time, it would just be random gibberish that you would read when you're signing a transaction. You wouldn't even know anything about what you're signing. You'd just be basically saying, okay, well, hope for the best, really. And a lot of people get fished this way, but when you have modals like this that pop up and tell you exactly what you're doing and what you're going to do, what you're, you know, things like what the fees are, what you're expected to receive, so on and so forth, you feel a lot more comfortable doing the action that you're doing on chain, and you have a lot more guarantee.
00:17:55.810 - 00:18:37.286, Speaker A: You have, you know, you have better guarantees around it. Now, of course, this isn't 100% guarantee. Phishing websites can just spoof this, obviously, right? And they can just tell you whatever they want that, you know, whatever's going to happen, whatever they, whatever they're trying to kind of like, send here, but at the same time, that's where it comes in at the wallet level as well. So, for example, Rabbi, I've mentioned Rabbi before, the, the wallet, which doesn't have an iOS app, by the way, there were people that got scammed because someone got a rabbi, a fake rabbi iOS wallet app into the App Store, which is just insane. And they were downloading it and they got drained. Rabi only has a desktop extension and a Android app right now, so please don't download it. And iOS anything claiming to be Rabi, they do not have an official app out yet as far as I know.
00:18:37.286 - 00:19:21.136, Speaker A: I mean, obviously, always check their official socials for updated information on that, but please don't get scammed that way. It's just horrible, horrible way to get scammed. But regardless of that, Rabbi, as a wallet is kick ass, it will warn you straight away if you're doing something that it thinks is dodgy and it uses a bunch of heuristics to tell you if it's dodgy or not. Such an example being like, hey, you're interacting with the smart contract that no one else has interacted with. And if you say, if, for example, you're doing like, a uniswap trade, and then you're thinking to yourself, okay, well, there's no way I'm the first person to interact with this contract. Like, that's just not going to happen because of the fact that even if it's a brand new Uniswap market, the first interaction of that contract will be an MEV bot because they obviously want to try and extract value from it. So you will never be the first interaction on one of those things.
00:19:21.136 - 00:19:53.738, Speaker A: So that's an obvious red flag. So Ravi throws that up and is like, hey, do you really want to do this? This is not, this doesn't look good. And there's a bunch of other stuff as well. It's like how you haven't interacted with this contract before, so on and so forth. And then even for simple things like sending funds, they've got like a white list. So if you, for example, fall for one of those address poisoning attacks, where essentially what happens is that if you go to, like, eat the scan and you see, you sometimes see that someone has sent a small amount of ETH to your address using an address that looks like one of your addresses. Now, it's not your address, it just looks like yours.
00:19:53.738 - 00:20:21.186, Speaker A: And it's actually relatively easy to generate these things. And people have done this and this has happened to me as well. But the scam is basically that they're trying to trick you into copy pasting that address, thinking that it's your own instead of your own address. Now, if you did this, we copy pasted their address and put it into Rabbi. Rabbi's going to straight away tell you, hey, this isn't on your whitelist because your other one is on your whitelist. I mean, obviously you have to add it to it, but your real one is on your whitelist. But Rabbi, straight up going to tell you, hey, this isn't an address on your white list.
00:20:21.186 - 00:21:09.674, Speaker A: And then you obviously see and be like, oh, wait, you know, this is my address. This should be on the white list. And then you obviously do a double take there and save yourself. So, I mean, I've had plenty of people dm me tell me in the delegate discord channel that they've saved their own ass a million times by using rabi for, sorry, a lot of times by using rabi, you know, without rabbi, they probably would have gotten fished. So it's great to see that it's having real impact there. But that brings me back to what I was saying about kind of cow swap's feature here, is that anything that can just illuminate things better for the user is something that we should be encouraging is something that we should be telling people about and something that we should be getting encouraging other projects to do as well. Because at the end of the day, the only way we're going to protect people, or most people from scams and being phished is by giving them, you know, the most information as we can without overloading them, of course, you know, displaying it to them in a really simple way.
00:21:09.674 - 00:21:40.586, Speaker A: But by doing that, we essentially get to make sure that they're having a safe on chain experience. All right, speaking of wallet extensions and wallets generally, Uniswap has released their uniswap extension. They say here, this is the first wallet to live in your browsers. Browsers Sidebar no more pop ups, no more transaction windows. The waitlist opens today. So as you guys know, Uniswap has a mobile wallet app now. They have an extension that basically sits on the side of what you, of your kind of like web browser here, as you can see in the video.
00:21:40.586 - 00:22:01.362, Speaker A: And you can do all the same things that you can do in pretty much every other wallet. But I guess for them, the logic is that they want you to click this big swap button here, which they collect a fee from. They have a fee that's on top of it. Like Metamask has a fee with their swap feature there. But yeah, I mean, I've, I watched the video. The extension looks quite cool. It looks quite nice, quite clean here, but it's not available to the public yet.
00:22:01.362 - 00:22:23.836, Speaker A: I think there's just a waitlist, so you can go check out the thread for more information about this and a link to it. Please only click the link in this thread that I'll link in the YouTube description below. Do not go googling for it or searching for it yourself. That's another quick way to get fished, obviously. And as far as I know, the extension is not out yet. It is. It is coming soon, and users with a uni ETH username will get priority access.
00:22:23.836 - 00:22:59.560, Speaker A: So if you've got a uni ETH username, be sure to sign up using that when you're joining the waitlist here. But kudos to uniswap for getting this out there. Just another way for people to get on chain and start using on chain products. All right, so Dan Romero shared something on Twitter today about Farcaster. Kind of funny. Whenever Dan shares something about, about Farcaster on Twitter, it's just kind of like going into the, I guess, like a Trojan horse, basically, of, hey, you know, we're trying to build, like, I don't know if I'd call Farcaster a Twitter killer, but we're trying to build a competitor here and we're advertising it on, on Twitter. I always thought that was kind of, kind of funny.
00:22:59.560 - 00:23:32.722, Speaker A: But what he shared today is that you can now build an entire storefront in a far caster frame with Coinbase commerce. And shopify integration is actually coming soon. So you can see here in the screenshot that you can set up your frame shop in less than five minutes. All you have to do is add the name of your store, add your products, input your Coinbase commerce API key with Shopify coming soon and start selling. It's 100% free, no charges and no fees. So what this basically means is that these frames will pop up in your forecaster feed, sorry, in people's forecaster feeds, and then your products will be there. And this could be physical or digital products, of course.
00:23:32.722 - 00:24:13.240, Speaker A: And then immediately they can just buy it. They can just click buy, or they can just kind of browse through it in the in frame without them having to click off into a separate website, without them having to click off of forecaster at all. They've just got that in their newsfeed here, which is awesome. I mean, that's another thing that's uniquely enabled by having crypto integration here or crypto native integration here, because you get to basically pay with crypto via coinbase commerce, pay with ETH, pay with a stable coin. Right? Pay with USDC, or whatever stable coin you want to pay with, which is obviously the kind of endgame of what we're building here. We're trying to build a circular economy within crypto. If we always rely on just having like a fiat on an off ramp and not having a circular economy, then crypto is never going to replace the financial system.
00:24:13.240 - 00:24:49.162, Speaker A: But we are getting to that point. We're getting closer and closer every day to that point of having a totally circular financial system where essentially you can get paid in crypto and then you can do everything like on chain, basically. You can do your shopping, you know, your physical goods shopping on chain. You can do, you know, pay your bills on chain and maybe eventually do all that from just like far cost it. Right? How amazing would that be? And then eventually it's not gonna happen for a while, but eventually you'd be able to pay your taxes in crypto. I know some countries are already doing this. I don't know which ones off the top of my head, but I guess, like for a lot of the people listening, and you probably live in one of the countries that don't do this, like the US and Western Europe and me in Australia, of course.
00:24:49.162 - 00:25:06.642, Speaker A: But imagine one day you're just able to pay for your taxes via a far caster frame. Like, how hilarious is that? Like, just thinking about it is funny, but, like, that would be really cool. I don't know. I know that paying taxes isn't exactly cool, and I'm not saying it is, but we all have to do it. I mean, not all of us. Some of us are lucky enough to live in countries that don't. Don't have tax on crypto.
00:25:06.642 - 00:25:26.162, Speaker A: But, you know, I've always wanted to kind of, like, be able to pay my taxes in crypto because just an easier accounting thing. Like, imagine just going and being like, okay, gonna pay my tax in ETH this year. Like, that'd be really cool. But obviously, a lot of work to be done there to get that enabled at the nation state level. And they're probably not. Maybe they don't even want to do it because it weakens. It kind of weakens their dollar, right.
00:25:26.162 - 00:25:58.602, Speaker A: I mean, even if it gets converted to dollars for weakens. They're kind of fiat, I should say, all their sovereign currency. So even if it gets converted to that currency in the background, like, if you replace your currency, like, in your economy, with another currency as the, like, mou, the medium of exchange, right, the unit of accounts, then you're weakening your own kind of currency. And some countries do this on purpose. Like, for example, you know, some countries just want to have USD as their. As their currency, right. So they basically either devalue their own currency or they do, like, a swap, or they kind of just, you know, they kill it.
00:25:58.602 - 00:26:14.628, Speaker A: So, I mean, this happens in Europe. Europe a lot. Like, obviously, the. I mean, the most recent one I can think of is there's probably more recent than this. But I think of this because my background is italian, is the italian leader that got sunset, essentially, for euros. Right. And so it started a lot of european kind of currencies there.
00:26:14.628 - 00:26:24.796, Speaker A: But then this happens all the time. But those are all kind of. That are. Those are all sovereign or I guess, at least kind of like nation state backed kind of currencies. Whereas ETH isn't. BTC isn't. Right.
00:26:24.796 - 00:26:52.054, Speaker A: You know, a lot of other ones aren't within crypto. Not that they're going to be money or anything like that, but, like, we're just talking about BTC and ETH. That's how I kind of think about it there. But that's a discussion, I guess, for another time. I don't want to ramble on about tax related things there, but just great to see that this integration is live on forecaster and coming soon with Shopify integration. Obviously, you guys know Shopify is a huge, I guess, like digital kind of storefront. Storefront as a service kind of service, I guess you could say.
00:26:52.054 - 00:27:33.058, Speaker A: So, yeah. Anyway, you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, finally here, just a little bit of another mini bullish rant. And I put this cast out on Farcaster yesterday where I said there is now $100 billion worth of ETH staked on the beacon chain. And this represents 26% of the current total e supply. So how crazy is that, guys? Like, I think I spoke about this maybe last week of the week before, but the fact that only 26% of the current total eat supply is staked and that is $100 billion worth is just utterly insane because that means, I mean, obviously the total ETH market cap at time of recording right now is 400 billion, right? It's a.
00:27:33.058 - 00:28:00.526, Speaker A: Yeah, it's 400 billion ETH prices. Let me check. 33, 20 ish right now, which it just feels crazy saying that. I mean, two weeks ago, I think ETH is at $2,500. But such is the nature of bull markets. Right? But the whole point of me kind of bringing this up is that one, if ETH goes like another five x from here and no more ETH goes in, I shouldn't say if, I should say when it goes another five x from here. If no new ETH gets staked, which is obviously like not going to happen, there's going to be more ethic at stake.
00:28:00.526 - 00:28:29.934, Speaker A: But if no new ETH gets staked, this just quickly becomes half a billion dollars. No, half a trillion dollars, right? I was half a billion, no, half a trillion dollars worth of ethnic staked on the beacon chain, securing a theory under the network, right? Half a trillion. Like just think about that for a sec. Right? Now, let's just say that ETH goes five x and then the total ETH staked goes to 50%. That's a trillion dollars of, of eat staked. That's trillion dollars, guys, of just eat steak. That's, that's just crazy.
00:28:29.934 - 00:29:12.168, Speaker A: Like when you actually think about it, that's just absolutely insane. Like when you really break it down, like how much value that actually is there securing the ethereum network. Now, I know in the past I've said that there is kind of like a diminishing returns to the economic security aspect of things. And it's obviously about more about node operators and unique node operators than economic security. But still, like, that is an absolutely massive amount of value, kind of securing that, that existing kind of pool of validators there and that existing, I guess, like Ethereum network that we have and we love and that we use every day, which is just crazy. Now, of course, like people, when people talk about like, okay, well, there's a lot, there's all that economic security there. Like, how is anyone ever going to be able to like, attack the network through that? Well, they're not.
00:29:12.168 - 00:29:49.150, Speaker A: That's the whole point. The whole point of making it so costly to attack is that it's too costly to attack and that not even nation states will try because it would cost them too much money to do so. Then you kind of go down the curve of, okay, well, where would they target next? I still believe that the easiest way to, I wouldn't say kill these networks, but to basically alter them to your will. So to bend them to your will. So let's say you're a nation state, say you're the US and you want to bend Ethereum to your will. The easiest way for you to do that is to infiltrate the social layer. And what you would do, what is, is you'd have like a plant or a couple of plants into the ecosystem.
00:29:49.150 - 00:30:28.240, Speaker A: Now, they may seem harmless or value add at the beginning, and they may seem like people that are doing a lot for them, for the ecosystem. And they may seem like completely friendly people that you don't suspect at all. But then slowly over time, they don't do it, obviously, but slowly over time, they'll start seeding different ideas based on what, what the US government wants to see, or based on what the US intelligence apparatus wants to see. And then that slowly becomes kind of consensus if they play it right, and then it ends up going into the network or something ends up happening with the network. Or maybe there's indecision. Maybe you kind of make it so that governance can't actually move forward because there's just so much infighting going on. And this is not like me putting my tinfoil hat on.
00:30:28.240 - 00:31:16.070, Speaker A: The CIA actually has a legitimate playbook about this, like how to infiltrate groups. And I think the playbook is centered around political groups, or I guess like different kind of factions that kind of form around different movements. But the same, I mean, applies to a theory theorem is a movement, right? Ethereum isn't just like a technology, it's a movement. It's a movement for creating a decentralized world, essentially, right? Creating a decentralized financial system, a new social coordination mechanism. So the easiest way, and I say easy, I mean, this wouldn't be easy. It's obviously very difficult. But the easiest way to attack a to theory in the network is not to go the economic security route because obviously that's super expensive and you wouldn't even succeed at doing it anyway because we could just grace, we could just recover from any attack and you would see the attack happening just the way the ethereum proof of stake mechanism actually works, right, because there's the entry queue and all that stuff.
00:31:16.070 - 00:31:38.834, Speaker A: But yeah, the easiest way would go would be to go for the social a. It would take a while. It's not easy, but it's easier than. Than the other kind of ways here. And then, yeah, you just basically grind it to a halt. And there are some people out there saying, this is what happens to bitcoin, which I don't really buy into, but people say, oh, well, you know, bitcoin was infected. And that's why we have, like, these bitcoin maxes who think that bitcoin shouldn't change and evolve.
00:31:38.834 - 00:31:55.130, Speaker A: And by doing that, it kind of like hampered bitcoin's adoption, which, I mean, you could argue it did as a. I guess money. Like, no one uses BTC as. As a currency, right? Like, okay, it has money. Money, property, monetary properties. It has a lot of money ness to it, but no one is using their BTC to. To buy coffee.
00:31:55.130 - 00:32:22.530, Speaker A: I mean, not at any scale. Maybe they're doing it, you know, sometimes at a smaller scale here. And then they. And then people say, oh, well, they hampered bitcoin because the lightning network sucks, but they managed to convince everyone that it doesn't suck. Like, I don't buy into these conspiracy theories personally, but like, some people do, right? And the thing. The crazy thing about these is that they could actually be true, right? And you may think it's insane, and that's maybe exactly what the people that did this want you to think. And now I'm getting into like, full blown tinfoil hat territory.
00:32:22.530 - 00:32:38.386, Speaker A: But as I said, guys, this is not something that is. That is unfathomable to happen. There is a playbook that. That the CIA wrote. We know that the US intelligence apparatus is vast. We know that they have access to an unlimited budget. I mean, the US military budget is a trillion on the books.
00:32:38.386 - 00:33:15.170, Speaker A: Who knows what else it is? Like, you know, potentially off the books, right? Or who knows? Like what projects have been working on for years now to end. Who knows what they've been able to unlock. You know, they might, they may be sitting on a zero day that could drain the Ethereum deposit contract, for example. Right. Like for staking, who knows? Right? So I think when it comes to nation states and what comes to what a theorem is being built to resist, you should never underestimate them. Obviously, the bigger ones you don't want to underestimate at all. And you should never underestimate the lengths that they'll go to to infiltrate a movement and to infiltrate something that they regard to be a threat to their power.
00:33:15.170 - 00:33:39.526, Speaker A: And I think that within a theory and web, we're really well positioned to defend against this. But at the same time, the weakest link is always people. Infiltrating the social who layer is always an option for these groups, and it could happen without us even realizing it. That's the scary thing. So always good to keep on your toes about that sort of stuff. But regardless of that, it's good to know that there's a lot of economic security backing ETH. But yeah, the social layer, unfortunately or fortunately, is always social.
00:33:39.526 - 00:34:01.744, Speaker A: There is no kind of like, I mean, there's economics and monetary incentives at play, but at the heart of it, it's, it's just humans, guys, just humans. And humans emotions, and humans do silly things all the time, as we all know. But anyway, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. Thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, get a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
