00:00:00.090 - 00:00:53.866, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap hack of BNB chains sparks decentralization concerns The BNB smart chain executed a hard fork to solve crosschain issues following last week's 100 million dollar exploit, the developer team successfully deployed a new version of its network. Wednesday morning, the hard fork, called Moran, was released to re enable crosschain functionality between the beacon chain, which handles the staking and governance, and the smart chain, which enables smart contracts. After the hack news broke last week, the team decided to halt the blockchain, which raised many questions about how decentralized it was. In response to critics, BNB chain posted a blog saying decentralization is a journey and that it will become more and more decentralized with time. Additionally, in the following weeks, developers are planning to introduce more features to improve the security of the network.
00:00:53.866 - 00:01:54.090, Speaker A: Following the vulnerability, core team members of Cosmos and Osmosis started auditing the code and discovered a critical security vulnerability that impacts all IBC enabled Cosmos chains. To fix the issue, the team will release a security patch that's scheduled for Friday at 02:00 P.m. UTC. Celsius reveals customer information as former CEO withdraws funds Bankrupt crypto lender Celsius revealed a 14,500 page document with customer information in a court filing that may leave its customers vulnerable to cyber threats. The document contains information on customer names, transaction amounts, crypto wallet, IDs and the crypto tokens held by each person, among other things. Nick Hansen, CEO of Bitcoin Miner Luxor, wrote, this Celsius leak may go down as one of the greatest breaches of customer information ever. According to a tool that presents the data from the document, one person lost over $40 million with the lender's collapse.
00:01:54.090 - 00:02:42.458, Speaker A: Also this week, it was reported that former Celsius CEO Alex Machinsky withdrew almost $1 million in crypto tokens since the beginning of this month. These movements are quite controversial, as regular customers still have their funds frozen on the platform. On a related note, Voyager digital's sale of assets to FTX had been going smoothly up until now. According to court filings, the executives of Voyager want the agreement to grant them legal immunity from future lawsuits. This condition was received with contempt from Voyager's unsecured creditors, committee or UCC. However, it looks like creditors have two choices to accept the deal as it is, or to fight the terms of the agreement and risk having the funds frozen for a longer period. It has never been this difficult to mine BTC.
00:02:42.458 - 00:03:22.902, Speaker A: The Bitcoin hash rate hit an alltime high as it surged over 10% this month. Hash rate is a measure of the computational power per second used when mining. The higher it is, the more difficult it is to mine BTC. It can also be an indicator of the security of the network. With the hash rate at unprecedented levels, the mining difficulty also reached an all time high. This puts further stress on Bitcoin mining companies, which have been suffering greatly since the beginning of the bear market, with many going bankrupt, raising debt, selling equipment and merging with other companies to get through the winter. Onchain analyst Will Clemente said only the most efficient miners will survive these low BTC price, high energy price, high difficulty conditions.
00:03:22.902 - 00:04:23.182, Speaker A: Additionally, according to data from into the Block, the amount of BTC held by mining companies is at a twelve year low, as they have been likely selling to cover operational expenses. However, this could be good for BTC as there is not much sell pressure left. Circle's Stablecoin USDC has lost billions in market cap over recent months Circle's Stablecoin USDC has lost approximately $10 billion in market cap over the past four months, going from $55 billion in June to $45 billion now, bringing it back to January levels. This massive decrease might have to do with Binance's decision to remove USDC from its platform last month. Since then, Binance's Stablecoin has gained $3 billion in market cap, as USDC has lost $6 billion. The stablecoin market is dominated by Tether's USDT, followed by USDC and BUSD. These three tokens, all centralized and backed by fiat reserves, account for 90% of the total stablecoin market.
00:04:23.182 - 00:05:43.562, Speaker A: Tether announced in a blog post that it has replaced its commercial paper holdings with US Treasury bills in an effort to uphold the company's commitment to backing its tokens with the most secure reserves in the market. Meanwhile, Circle CEO Jeremy Alair said the House Stablecoin bill is the country's best shot to compete in digital dollar currency, and US representative Patrick McHenry said he is optimistic about the advancement of Stablecoin legislation in the upcoming months, although he's not sure it will come this year. Meanwhile, speaking about regulatory issues earlier this week, CFTC Chairman Rostin Benham said the Ukidao case was so obvious that the agency had to intervene. NFT Royalties to charge or not to Charge? The debate on NFT royalties got spicier this week as Project D Gods announced it would charge no royalties on the sales of its collectibles. D Gods said it still believed that royalties are an incredible use case for NFTs, but that this is the best decision for its business. In a Twitter spaces, the founder of Dgods said that all marketplaces will end up following this model of 0% royalties. For those of you who watched the Chomping blog last week, you will know that Haseeb Qureshi and I threw down about this issue during the episode, and I highly recommend that you check it out.
00:05:43.562 - 00:06:21.990, Speaker A: Founder of Huobi sells stake amidst rumors the founder of Crypto Exchange Huobi, Leon Lee Lin, sold his majority stake to investment firm about capital following the company's announcement. A crypto news outlet reported that Justin Sun, crypto billionaire and founder of the Tron blockchain, was behind this acquisition. However, sun told the block that these reports were wrong and he is only an advisor to Wobi. Speaking of Wobi, its stablecoin HUSD slightly lost its one to one peg to the dollar. After the platform delisted 21 trading pairs. The token reached a low of $0.95, but later recovered the losses.
00:06:21.990 - 00:07:11.254, Speaker A: BNY Mellon moves into crypto and receives a bitter response. BNY Mellon, the oldest bank in the United States, will start offering bitcoin and ethereum custody services to investment firms. A recent survey conducted by the bank revealed that institutional investors have been showing increasing interest in cryptocurrency as an investment, with 91% of them interested in tokenized products. However, the news wasn't received positively by everybody. Caitlin Long, founder and CEO of cryptobank custodia accused the federal Reserve of hypocrisy on a panel at DC fintech week. Long said she has been waiting for years to win approval from the Federal Reserve to have a master's account, which would have enabled her company to issue the same service that BNY Mellon is now launching. Coinbase Partners with Google to Allow Crypto Payments Google, the tech giant valued at $1.28
00:07:11.254 - 00:08:10.758, Speaker A: trillion, announced a partnership with Coinbase to enable crypto payments for cloud services. Max Brandsberg, VP of product at Coinbase, said, we will look back on this moment as an inflection point for developer adoption and the emergence of the next major computing platform. The partnership will begin next year and will give selected users the ability to pay for Google cloud with several crypto tokens, including BTC, ETH and even Elon Musk's Fancied Meme, Coin dogecoin. Also this week, Coinbase received approval from the Monetary Authority of Singapore to expand its services in the region. Hassan Ahmed, Coinbase's regional director for Southeast Asia, told Bloomberg, we see Singapore as a strategic market and a global hub for web Three innovation ethereum Goes Deflationary for the First Time Postmerge Ether became a deflationary asset for the first time since the merge. According to data from the Ultrasound Money website, the supply has decreased by 0.17% over the last seven days.
00:08:10.758 - 00:09:17.994, Speaker A: The deflationary aspect of ETH has been one of the biggest narratives around the merge. Even though the transition to proof of stake was successful at reducing the issuance levels, it hadn't achieved an extended period of five days of deflation until now. For ETH to be deflationary, the gas price has to be above 15 GWe. This past week, a new crypto token called Xen, which some have suspected of being a ponzi, spiked gas prices on the Ethereum network, thus triggering a sustained net reduction in ETH's supply. Salana's Mango Markets Falls Victim to a 100 Million Dollar Exploit Mango Markets, a DFI protocol based on the salana blockchain, suffered a 100 million dollar exploit on Tuesday, representing the 13th largest hack to date, according to Rect, a website that tracks DFI exploits. The hacker managed to spike the price of Mango Market's native token Mngo and drain its lending pools, leaving the protocol with $115,000,000 of bad debt. The next day, the hacker post a governance proposal on the Mango Dow forum to return the stolen funds for a juicy bug bounty of $70 million the same amount Mango markets raised during its Mngo token sale.
00:09:17.994 - 00:10:21.060, Speaker A: The attacker used their stolen Mngo tokens to vote yes on their own proposal, but they haven't achieved the necessary votes to be passed yet. We're only 14 days into the month, and October is already the worst month for cryptohacks ever, with exploits worth over $700 million. Time for fun bits. The Cryptopians, the TV series playground Entertainment, a television production company that has been behind series such as Stars, Dangerous Liaisons and Peacock channel Four's Undeclared War, has optioned my book The Cryptopians, with plans to turn it into a TV series. I'm super excited to work with playground as in my first conversation with managing directors Scott Huff and David Stern, they showed a strong understanding of crypto as well as of my own vision as a creator. David and Scott said Laura's brilliant book uses high stakes human drama to demystify and make accessible and immersion technology still misunderstood by so many. We're thrilled to be partnered with her to help bring to the screen the story of these trailblazers who are shaping the future of the Internet and the world.
00:10:21.060 - 00:10:50.620, Speaker A: Who do you guys think should play Vitalik? Let us know in a poll which you will find on the Unchained Pod Twitter account. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about the SEC's investigation into Yuga Labs and Coin Center's lawsuit against treasury, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Bon Ivanovich, Pama, Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening close.
