00:00:00.090 - 00:00:32.390, Speaker A: Costanza and I work for the Swarm association. And today we're going to talk about censorship, what it is and why we care about it. So before I start, I want to make sure that everyone here is comfortable. We're going to talk about blasphemy, genocide, extreme violence. So if for whatever reason, you are not comfortable, I won't mind if you just leave. And I'm going to be happy to have a one to one chat with you later. Also, disclaimers.
00:00:32.390 - 00:01:20.920, Speaker A: I'm not a lawyer and this is not legal advice. And whatever I'm saying does not represent any organizations that I am or I was affiliated with in the past. These are my own. So we're going to have a look at the philosophy of the interplay between chanceorship and freedom of speech. We're going to look the legal elements of chanceorship, how it happens. We're going to look at governments, which is quite an important part, and the enforcement brand of chanceorship and how we can protect ourselves, which is the final goal of this talk. So I guess here everybody agrees that people should be free to express themselves.
00:01:20.920 - 00:01:57.220, Speaker A: So why would you draw the line for freedom of speech? Are you okay with knowingly insult someone? Like in the case of Shirley Abdul cartoons? I am. As a matter of fact, my father was a cartoonist and he did some pretty naughty stuff. This is an example of what I'm talking about. The pope say that God was like father and like mother. So suck it and tell me if it tastes like milk. It got super. This cartoon and his newspaper got transferred countless of times.
00:01:57.220 - 00:03:07.240, Speaker A: But like he used to say, either we are free to insult or we are not free at all. So what is freedom of speech? According to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, everyone has the right to the freedom of expressions and opinion, regardless of where they are and of any media. And this article is pretty cool. But it led to some of the darkest moments of humankind. The misuse of freedom of speech led to some of the darkest moments of our history. Yeah, freedom of speech is good, but what if you could save millions of people? What if you could go back in time and stop itler's propaganda? What if you could kill the radio in the Rwanda genocide? Would you do that? Because that's the real question. And that's the question that governments use to justify their needs to be able to stop speech, to stop code, and to have an infrastructure that they can stop whenever they want.
00:03:07.240 - 00:03:54.360, Speaker A: So, moving on, what do the US Iran plateau and the Bible have in common? Censorship. This is because it's a global phenomenon, and it's not related to a country or a time and place. It happens all the time. The US and Iran, they both transfer a tornado cash plateau was arguing for chancellorship to shape children's mind. And the Bible, well, it says, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. The history of censorship is as old as the history of humankind. The common factor is the suppression of expression according to whatever the rulers want you to do.
00:03:54.360 - 00:04:46.886, Speaker A: So now, a comprehensive analysis of chanceorship will take too long compared to the time that we have here. And so we're going to focus on the power dynamics behind the championship of crypto projects. So in other words, the acts that prevent people from using software. And we will try to answer the question, why does it happen? And not as in to prevent the genocide, but as in chancellorship that prevents people from using code because the IP address is in a location that someone doesn't like. So there are four components at play. Low government infrastructure and affected people and projects. Some anthropologists says that low is a mean to an end.
00:04:46.886 - 00:05:37.510, Speaker A: And I like this approach because it's very practical and it goes to the root of the problem. So it follows that human activities are determined by specific problems like rules about property. Duty and privilege exist to solve practical problems through the use of corporations and cultural values. This guy here is Malinowski, and he's the father of modern anthropology. He says that in looking for law and legal forces, we shall try to discover laws that are obeyed willingly and spontaneously, rules that are conceived and act upon as binding obligations. And those are the keywords, three elements worth of consideration here. Violating the rules means the end of the society.
00:05:37.510 - 00:06:33.260, Speaker A: The final end of law is the preservation. And law should be obeyed willingly and spontaneously. So we will see later why this is particularly important. Now, questions. If violating laws means the end of an institution, what is the institution that chancellorship law tries to preserve? And what are the rules that are conceived as binding obligations? So, for example, for Plato, chancellorship was fundamental to fight Patricia and intergenerational fight. This is because if children had known the true characters of gods and heroes that would have killed their parents. Now, another element is that technology goes way faster than the law.
00:06:33.260 - 00:07:03.940, Speaker A: I'm not sure if you remember this moment from Zuckerberg's earring after the Cambridge analytical scandal. It was super fun. It was a masterpiece. To understand what legislators get about technology. Nothing. And imagine this is a future, because everything that is not illegal is illegal. So the fact that tech goes faster than the law means that crypto projects exist in a gray area.
00:07:03.940 - 00:07:51.374, Speaker A: So the law doesn't work like a smart contract. You kill someone, you go against the law, it's way more advanced, and there are more gray zones. So governments, this is how governments think that society will be if there was complete censorship. So why and how do they do that? The official explanation, like we saw before, is saving society and fighting terror in any of its forms. Money laundering, legal sanctions against enemy countries, preventing illegal activities of any kind, and fighting fake news. So let's play a game here at adventure. We are in an amazing bubble.
00:07:51.374 - 00:08:43.380, Speaker A: Let's get out of here and let's try to step into the shoes of a fictional character. The year is 2024. Our name is Simos Kinners, and we are faced every day with new challenges. The world has evolved, and things like borderless financial freedoms, central authority, have, access to knowledge, have very different meanings than what we're used to. And all those new things like web3, cryptocurrencies are a daily pain in our ass. They have extravagant narratives like permissionless, borderless, anonymous notch, central authority, cyberpunk, lunar punk, cosmic panks. We don't understand much about it.
00:08:43.380 - 00:09:21.082, Speaker A: They preach freedom from central authority, but there be society without a central authority. How would that work? So what do we do when we face a challenge? We either fly, freeze, or fight. And since we cannot go to Mars yet, we fight with a tool at our disposal. So we transfer the code. Now transferring my father's newspaper was very easy. Whenever it was going to fire, the police will go to every news agent in the country and will take the copy of the market. And that was a big win for him because the police was super slow.
00:09:21.082 - 00:10:06.490, Speaker A: So by the time they will go everywhere, it was already sold out. Freedom of speech one, chancellorship, zero. But Internet transferring in a centralized world is different. It requires cooperation from institutions and infrastructure organizations. So now we're going to see, we're going to analyze those. This is because first of all, an analysis of sponsorship on a specific country will be legal advice, but it will also not offer us enough understanding of what is actually going on. So in order to protect crypto project, it's more helpful to abstract and look at the actors involved in enforcing the sanctions.
00:10:06.490 - 00:11:03.398, Speaker A: So making championship happen. In particular, centralized node providers, centralized software development tools. Malinowski, the anthropologist from before, said that the work of society is not done by individuals or by community as a whole, but by institutions and even web3. Today we do have institutions. Now we are fighting to change that. Yes, but if we are realistic and we look at the status of things today. We do have institutions tell them organizations like GitHub for example, they are structured, they are created to carry out specific functions, and they have a set of rules that govern their behaviors before we say that laws should be obeyed willingly and spontaneously.
00:11:03.398 - 00:12:14.310, Speaker A: So how does it work in practice? Those institutions comply with churnsoship orders, and their actions have a noble effect to everyone that is within their sphere of power or influence projects or people that rely on them. And by taking down calls or by preventing IP addresses with interacting with them, they are today's transfer and the enforcement body of transfership. So let's see how it works in practice. Now, freedom and control is not like black and white, it's on a spectrum, and so we can see how they interact. On the extreme left, we have total freedom, on the extreme right, total transfership. Now, if we match the picture with a society where there is a rule of law that transfers some code, we need to understand how those interact. So on the extreme left again, we have total non compliance, extreme right over compliance, which is when institutions go far and beyond what they're asked to.
00:12:14.310 - 00:13:04.520, Speaker A: And somewhere on the right, we have perfect compliance. Now, here in perfect compliance, closer to the right side of the spectrum, we have a dual class of citizens. Some people have the right to use the code, some other people don't. Who belongs to each class is decided by governments. Spoiler people in the country are normally first class citizens, while people in addresses are second class citizens. So someone might argue that by transferring that bit and complying that bit, the infrastructure still gives the majority of people access to the code and to the tools. And it is what, for example, GitHub declares to do.
00:13:04.520 - 00:14:08.780, Speaker A: Say we might need to block content if we receive a complete request from government officials, so that our users in that jurisdiction can still have access to the platform. So here the government acts as the legislative body and platforms act as the enforcement body. If we go to the extreme right, we have over compliance with censorship laws. That's the case when, for example, there is no specific sanctions against a country, yet people with ip addresses associated to that are prevented from interacting with the platform. And we still have dual class citizens. But now, this time, who decides who belongs to this class is decide by the platform, the infrastructure. So here, diverse themselves of judicial and executive power, which is a bit worrisome if you ask me.
00:14:08.780 - 00:15:06.240, Speaker A: Now, the more we move to the left, the more we have non compliance and we have more freedom of speech. The platform decides that they won't apply at all. With a chancellorship law, they give everyone freedom of speech. The problem is that they put themselves at great personal risk. To be incarcerated, to go to jail, to be deemed as terrorist organizations, because those are the questions and the trade offs that platform providers have to do. So we almost over we've seen the three forces behind chanceorship law, government and infrastructure. And we also saw the interplay between freedom and compliance and the trade off that centralized platforms have to consider.
00:15:06.240 - 00:16:36.694, Speaker A: So will a crypto project be transferred? That depends on two questions. First of all, how much do government officials, governments, bureaucrats feels like you are threatening them, you are threatening the society? Do they understand what you're doing? Do they understand your reasoning? Or they just like crypto, I don't want to see anything of it. And the second question is, what's the risk appetite of the centralized platform that you rely on? So where does deliver as the builders that rely on those institutions? I want to be optimistic and see a positive path emerging. The more we decentralize the infrastructure layer, the more it becomes resilient to transfership and projects can decide for themselves where to be on the spectrum wall, one block transferring is still one block too many. As of like last week or two weeks, the number of Ethereum blocks that were transferring IP addresses was decreasing. So there is a positive path emerging and we do have tools at our disposals. So instead of relying on centralized platform, instead of relying on AWS and GitHub, you can use the centralized platform like swarm that will allow to let you decide for yourself where to be in the spectrum.
00:16:36.694 - 00:17:12.150, Speaker A: We saw because thing is that overall each one of us has a different perspective, each one of us has different considerations and the trade off is not the same for everyone. So you should be able to decide where to be for yourself on the spectrum. Some may want to fight from within with the code and want to comply, some others want to fight with code. Above all, it has to be a choice. And it is a choice is. And finally, this is legal advice. Get yourself a shadow with super lawyer.
00:17:12.150 - 00:17:16.340, Speaker A: So those are my context and thank you so much.
