00:00:00.090 - 00:00:30.642, Speaker A: Alright everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co hosts today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. Alright everyone, before we jump into this episode, super excited about our newest sponsor, Reserve.
00:00:30.642 - 00:00:54.094, Speaker A: Big shout out to reserve. They are the easiest way to design, deploy and govern stablecoins, backed by a diverse set of assets with access to DeFi, yield and insurance. If you don't know Reserve, we're super excited about them here at Bell Curve. You'll hear more about them later in the show. I'm curious to get both your takes on how you think about returning capital to shareholders and are we asking these protocols to do it at an appropriate time?
00:00:54.212 - 00:01:13.358, Speaker B: Well, so that fixation is that penny pinching mentality, right? Of like, you got to give me my money back now when they should actually most be reinvesting it in the opportunity, right? And so that's like one of the perverse things I think of. Like, we could just call it more junior management or more short sighted management buddy.
00:01:13.374 - 00:01:20.280, Speaker C: We got a big episode here coming with Chris Berninski and Fernando Martinelli at balancer. This was a really good one.
00:01:20.650 - 00:01:35.062, Speaker A: I want to do more of these conversations where we have like a builder and an investor here. I think Fernando was able to go really deep on specific topics and then Chris is able to zoom out and be like across a bunch of different protocols in the industry. This is what folks are doing. It's a good combination.
00:01:35.126 - 00:02:20.594, Speaker C: We probably could have gone a little bit more down the route of what's the difference know, capital allocation in Dao land versus traditional startup land. But I think we answered a lot of those questions. So to give you all primer on why we wanted Fernando and Chris on this, we wanted the perspective of both an operator in DAOs and also an investor to talk about building a Dao through the lens of capital allocation. And I think we kind of started and looked at the whole episode through that lens, but then we really got into some pretty interesting discussions around what's the right way for Dows to allocate their treasury, how should insider rounds be treated and priced within crypto? Like, what is yield, farming and mechanism going to design look like in the future for crypto and just a whole bunch of really interesting stuff. So yeah, I thought this was actually one of my favorite conversations of the season.
00:02:20.642 - 00:02:25.894, Speaker A: Yeah, me too. I mean, these are both guys who have seen multiple cycles and have just are able to zoom out a little bit.
00:02:25.932 - 00:02:26.694, Speaker C: Shall we get into it?
00:02:26.732 - 00:02:28.310, Speaker A: Yeah, let's do it. See you on the other side.
00:02:28.380 - 00:02:37.120, Speaker C: All right, guys, welcome to an another episode of Bell Curve. Here we've got Fernando Martinelli. I believe a balance for labs. And then Chris Berninski. Guys, welcome to the show.
00:02:37.490 - 00:02:38.638, Speaker B: Thanks for having us.
00:02:38.724 - 00:02:40.640, Speaker D: Thank you. Thanks for having us.
00:02:41.970 - 00:03:34.402, Speaker C: So thank you both for joining. Part of the reason for having the two of you on here is we wanted to get sort of someone who's in the trenches and kind of an operator in a dao environment and actually an investor as well, because we wanted to talk about this through the lens of basically how to effectively allocate capital in Dow World and what are the similarities between allocating capital in a company sort of setting and then how it might differ a little bit in a crypto native setting. And Fernando, I hope it's okay if we use balancer as sort of an example here. And maybe we can use balancer in many ways as like a jumping off point and then kind of go down a whole bunch of different threads throughout the course of the conversation. So maybe we could actually just start with kind of like the history of balancer, like, what was ultimately the vision, what does it look like today? And then if you had to almost describe balancer, the business, I would love to get an understanding of your revenue and cost drivers and all that sort of thing.
00:03:34.456 - 00:04:17.760, Speaker D: Sure. So I kind of started looking into crypto early on and really liked the idea of separating money from state and all that bitcoin kind of brought us. I was very fascinated by Ethereum, this idea of smart contracts and smart money. What really kind of caught my attention was the possibility of creating stablecoins right. The idea of having a way to hold crypto that would not go up by 10% and down by 30% overnight. I think this was a prerequisite and still is for mass adoption. And Ethereum kind of gave us that opportunity.
00:04:17.760 - 00:05:31.954, Speaker D: So I got involved with MakerDAO very early on because they were kind of the first guys really exploring that. And I had some MKR back then and some ETH and some dai, and I had this portfolio that I didn't want to kind of just leave alone and overnight again be overexposed to MKR because it went up a lot in value and it wasn't very liquid either. So that kind of happened at the same time where we were having those conversations about AMMS and x times y equals K. And I realized that x times y equals K what it does, beyond being enabling people to exchange with that pool. From the LP side standpoint, it kind of rebalances continuously, constantly your money. So that it's always 50% on each of the sites, each of the coins. So I thought to myself, why does it have to be just a 50 52 tokens? Why can't it be like a basket, like an index fund where I know I always have 30% of my assets in Dai and 20 in MKR and the rest in ETH.
00:05:31.954 - 00:06:05.806, Speaker D: So I went through all this kind of mathematical design to come up with Balancer. And that's balancer. V one. It enables you to create an index fund where you pretty much turn it upside down. Instead of charging LPs to be part of the index fund, which is what TradFi does, it actually gives LPs fees because people who are interacting trading with the index fund with the pool, they're actually paying a spread, which is then accumulating. We all know that from uniswap. So Balancer is a lot more flexible.
00:06:05.806 - 00:07:11.570, Speaker D: So balancer v one is that? And we realized that we needed some more flexibility for some use cases. A team forked us and created a way to use most of the coins that are in a pool to lend them out to a lending protocol to make it more efficient, more capital efficient. And another team did something else and we had Curve launched with another type of invariant, which doesn't keep the percentages, but it kind of optimizes for liquidity around price One. We realized that there's so many things that can still be created around AMMS that we wanted to create a platform like infrastructure for other people to come up with all those crazy and amazing ideas. So we didn't want to be opinionated. So we created Balancer V Two. Balancer V Two is really like an architecture that enables anyone to create their own pools, pool types with their own invariants, and they use this common vault which holds all the tokens from all the pools.
00:07:11.570 - 00:07:59.922, Speaker D: It does a lot of optimization of gas costs. It's very secure. So we spend a lot of money and time making sure that this vault cannot be corrupted. So what it does is really it allows teams like Gyroscope and so many others that are using Balancer V Two to very quickly innovate on top of Balancer V Two doing their own new AMM. So if they had to do their own AMM from scratch, they would have to spend a lot of time and money in things that we already did, right? So we make it so that they can just plug their idea, their invariant into our vault in a way that actually shares all the liquidity from audit pool types that are also using the same vault. So it's not really commingled money or tokens. Each one belongs to their different pools.
00:07:59.922 - 00:08:51.602, Speaker D: But it makes it very efficient to do, like batch swaps. You trade with one pool that trades with another one and at the end the vault only sends the net tokens to the user who's trading and gets the ones that are trading in back. So it's a very efficient way to do batch swaps and multi hops. So this is pretty much Balancer V Two and how we're kind of trying to further the ecosystem and help other teams. We like to say that the success of Balancer is the success of those building on top of us. So we kind of migrated a little bit from the early vision of being an end user application to being infrastructure for devs and other protocols that are then themselves going to interact with end users. The idea is for Balancer to be really like this piece of infrastructure that's self sustaining.
00:08:51.602 - 00:09:50.118, Speaker D: So we don't want to be injecting money from investors or from people who are buying tokens from the Dow. We really want to make sure that the protocol generates revenues because it's used, people are spending money to use it. Then the Dao decides how to use those revenues, which service providers it wants to fund that are actually working for the protocol. So it's really about finding different ways because it's so generic, it's so kind of open to different ways of using. Balancer is very multifaceted. There are different ways to charge protocol fees and the most obvious one is swap fees, which Uniswap is kind of always on the verge of turning on their switch. And other protocols from the beginning already had their switch on like Curve.
00:09:50.118 - 00:10:56.410, Speaker D: So that's kind of the first type of revenue generation for the protocol. The second one that we believe in, the third one, maybe there's others coming. But something that's very typical to Balancer is the fact that we are focusing on having yud bearing tokens assets on Balancer. So we want all the tokens in the vault to be generating yield passively like instead of ETH wrap staked ETH, instead of bow wrapped abao, whatever lending protocols out there. And we have a very kind of ingenious architecture for that with linear pools and boosted pools that I can talk more about and for those we can charge a little bit of the yield so we don't need to only charge swap fees. And probably you're all seeing that swap fees is a race to the bottom. Like more and more protocols are cutting their fees and you see Uniswap launching new fee tiers to undercut Curve and then Dodo not charging any fees for some pools.
00:10:56.410 - 00:11:49.950, Speaker D: So there is like a clear race to the bottom and Balancer is kind of putting itself outside of this race to the bottom by finding different and creative ways of charging fees where it's really adding value. Like Ugeneration. There's also the use case of asset management, treasury Management that Balancer does where you can charge an AUM fee. Like you use Balancer to rebalance your portfolio or your treasury balancer takes a small cut and that's not even being built by Balancer. There's like partners building that like index co op with index funds. And so that's kind of the business the way I see it, and I'm just one of the participants, we have an amazing community, people stepping up from the community, really leading those conversations. It's not me anymore, it was me in the beginning, but more and more it's really getting very decentralized and it's me stepping back and seeing things happening.
00:11:49.950 - 00:11:54.590, Speaker D: So, yeah, that's more or less the business of the protocol.
00:11:55.730 - 00:12:38.030, Speaker C: So thanks for that exploit. There's a lot to unpack there, Fernando. And maybe Chris, I can tag you in here because I think maybe the two ways that I'd like to unpack that is know, when you think about where you are in the lifecycle of a company, especially a startup, I think that determines when you want to start basically showing profitability or really extracting cash flow. And then there's also kind of fee preference, right, which is like do you charge a fee? Like let's use like an RIA or something like that. You could charge like a flat fee or you could take a percentage of AUM. So there's kind of like where you are in the lifecycle of a company and then there's also how comfortable the VCs and investors are with subsidizing that product and then there's also fee preference and how that's going to express itself in different marketplaces. So maybe Chris, I don't know.
00:12:38.030 - 00:13:07.974, Speaker C: As a VC or a longtime investor in this space, I think if we were having a conversation in sort of Web Two land and you had a I know balancer is one of the older protocols, but if you were talking to, like, a three or four year old startup, you might be saying, well, hold on a second. You guys are still in growth mode and you don't need to necessarily be charging fees from your users yet at this point, because we're all trying to capture market share. So I'd be curious, Chris, about how you kind of think about that whole argument in where we are in crypto right now.
00:13:08.012 - 00:15:15.550, Speaker B: I'd start with the fact that I don't think of Balancer as a company, right? It's very much a protocol that's capitalized by a native crypto asset and it's supported by a company. And the reason I want to draw that delineation is while there are some shared tenets of how a company operates over the long run and how a protocol operates over the long run, the Balancer team could walk away and the balancer protocol would continue working on Ethereum, right? And so the cost structure of improving, say, the utility of the balancer protocol and increasing awareness of the balancer protocol and all those things that's for evolution of the balancer protocol, whereas the balancer protocol could be just left. To ossify, everyone could walk away and it would continue to operate on ethereum. And basically the user would be paying for the marginal use of the protocol. And that's very different from a company, right? Like when everyone from a company walks away, the service of the company shuts down. And I think that's like part of the key for people to really understand how these things get quite powerful. That said, to sustain people that are going to work on the evolution of a protocol and also potentially to have a crypto asset that accrues value over time, you do have to start to think about the inflows versus the outflows of cash or resources, right? And so I would say that for teams that are in the growth phase, the playbook over the last couple of decades, I would say, has been just like continually reinvest everything that you can into growth and raise dilutive venture funding to juice your treasury even more or your balance sheet even more to turbocharge that growth.
00:15:15.550 - 00:16:25.334, Speaker B: I would say that that has also largely applied to crypto protocols. Crypto protocols have had the further benefit of being able to create their own programmatic capital, right. The native crypto asset Bal in the case of balancer or Uni in the case of uniswap. And that has gone towards the balance sheet or treasury of the protocol. But I think that one thing that happens and why this conversation is interesting in the depths of the current bear market is people get really spendy and they don't really care in bull markets. And I'm not so much talking about the protocols, everyone spends too much money, I would say in the bull market and very few people care all that much about the reality of the economics. But then crypto is so cyclical and so boom bust that when we're in the bear markets you have a lot of angry people who just want to make their money back in some way, right, and then they're focused on like oh well, why aren't you giving me money back? Or I see these fees, you have to give that back to me.
00:16:25.334 - 00:18:24.750, Speaker B: And the other thing is it's an open discourse, right? Like a big difference between a Dow and a company is a company is very hierarchical and it's closed to discourse, at least the startup company, right? They're basically talking with their core customers, their investors, the team, but it's pretty sterile, I would say, as compared to a Dow, has all these vectors for conversation and is chaotic but extremely biodiverse, right? And so then you're going to get all these viewpoints more and you're going to hear a lot from the people who want the protocol to stop reinvesting in its growth solely for their own personal interest to try and get some money back. So I would say that I believe in working with each team for what their medium to long term goals are. And in the case of something like Balancer, balancer aims to become a foundational protocol with strong independent dependence where a bunch of teams are building on top of it. And so I see Balancer as investing in the dev tooling, in the true decentralization of its community so that all these different teams that are building on it can be supported by many leaders, not just the founders. Right? And then what Bal chooses to do with the fee over time is going to always be an important conversation. But I don't think even though parts of the community are focused on it right now, I don't think it's necessarily the key to longer term success. We have to get through some things first and then once you're turning on that extraction or that fee mechanism, I think the protocol will be at later stage, just as companies that get to later stage start throwing off dividends.
00:18:25.570 - 00:19:07.190, Speaker C: I want to just bookmark that to come back to later this idea that people feel like they're owed something and there's like these discussions about cash flowing protocols or protocols that return parts of the treasury to the token holders. I definitely want to put a bookmark and get to that, but I'd love to get maybe both of your perspectives as well on the preference that's going to emerge in this market for fee extraction. So, to use the example, people already say this, public market analysts say this about Coinbase. All the, you know, fees for brokers have basically brokerages have gone to zero over a period of time. That doesn't mean that brokerages have stopped extracting fees from markets. They haven't. They just do it in a slightly less visible way, which is payment for order flow.
00:19:07.270 - 00:19:07.562, Speaker B: Right?
00:19:07.616 - 00:19:43.302, Speaker C: Very similar kind of people debate a lot on what's the right way to pay financial wealth managers, right? RIAs and there's a lot of good reason why it should be a percentage of AUM, but there's also pretty good reasons why it shouldn't actually necessarily be that as well. There are some weird incentives that arise, but ultimately it's a question of preference from the standpoint of the customer or the user. How do you see that evolving in crypto markets? Do you think it's a relatively similar thing where the upfront fee kind of goes to zero and maybe it's monetized through mev or something else, but how do you guys see sort of fee preferences playing out?
00:19:43.436 - 00:21:10.994, Speaker D: So I was going to mention exactly that. Michael, I think there's the protocol decisions in terms of inside the protocol, how you charge fees and is it AUM, is it swap fees, is it yield bearing fees? And there's a layer maybe below that, which is what is the consensus layer, like the blockchain that's being used for that. And we know that Ethereum is amazing, but has a lot of mev and there's a lot of discussions. And recently, Dan Alitzer published a very nice article about UniChain and how this is something that he thinks is inevitable and how much money today before miners now validators, are kind of taking from users and a protocol and how having an app chain can change that and kind of forward the fees or what would be going to validators to users of the protocol and token holders. So I tell you that for bouncer being such kind of a complex protocol that touches many different use cases and other protocols, it's very hard for us to go to an app chain before. There is very good kind of composability and cross chain messaging communication because we really rely on atomicity and composability. So I do think that it's a trade off.
00:21:10.994 - 00:21:36.330, Speaker D: Like how much goes to validators, how much goes to LPs in the case of AMM, how much goes to token holders that are maybe passively, kind of just tagging along with the protocols without actually generating a lot of value. I think there's going to be a lot of discovery and I'm curious to hear Chris's opinion on that as he usually foresees things really well. High precision.
00:21:36.830 - 00:22:34.478, Speaker B: Well, I'll do my best. I guess the thing I disagree with about this idea that fees go to zero is that creation is not costless. And so in order for fees to go to zero, creation needs to become costless. And the only place that I see creation becoming costless is if you have general purpose AI or whatever. GPT is producing protocols at like near zero marginal cost. And it doesn't have an ego and it just wants to provide free services to the world and it just wants to well, maybe its ego is it wants to outcompete all the puny humans, I don't know. But until creation is costless, there will always be fees that are extracted and there won't be infinite creation because we're limited the number of humans and our capacities and our time.
00:22:34.478 - 00:23:54.322, Speaker B: And so, okay, yeah, there's a lot of AMMS or there's a lot of brokerages like Coinbase, but there's not infinite, right? And there's actually a relatively limited number that are a great UX very trustworthy, high brand value to the user such that the user is willing to pay for that service. And as an example, I've been in this space for a long time now and I pay to use some very high end services where I have to pay like a monthly fee or whatever. But it's as high security as I could hope for while still having a customer service representative or someone that I can just call if I'm having issues. And I do it because I'm willing to pay that amount of money just for the ease of use, the peace of mind, the security, all those things. And so that stay on the company side, on the protocol side. I basically think that protocols will charge the market based fee and everyone will kind of be undercutting each other. And like you were saying, Michael, it's like, okay, you'll start with the obvious one and you'll all undercut each other down to as low of a marginal fee rate as everyone can tolerate while sustaining their operations.
00:23:54.322 - 00:24:15.498, Speaker B: And then someone else will come up with some other innovation that will be like a sneakier fee and then we'll get to the bottom of that. And so you never actually get to zero because there's also, just as there's technological innovation, there's economic innovation, which includes fee innovation and the only place all that goes to zero would take me back to the start which know costless creation.
00:24:15.594 - 00:24:49.430, Speaker C: Let's talk a little bit about and Fernando, I'd love to get your thoughts because I think in many ways the bellwether or the forward looking indicator here is like the uniswap fee switch which there's been an enormous amount of debate around, right. And there are kind of like several schools of thought on it, which is uniswap in many ways is a leader, right, in terms of the liquidity that they have on the platform today. So it might not actually be an enormous impact. Let's test the fee switch on a couple of different pools. I'm really sorry. By the way, if you can hear noise here, they're doing construction right outside my window. Hope that's not too loud.
00:24:49.430 - 00:25:28.466, Speaker C: Then there's kind of another school of thought which is look like we were talking about fees on the upfront. Fees of a fee switch are going to go down to zero over a period of time. Really what we can do is there's a lot of opportunity on mev. So I didn't read the Daniel Ellitzer piece. But really another way that we could do is, hey, there are all these ETH validators which are extracting value here. We should have our own chain with our own validators. And then instead of charging users up front, what we can do is just order those transactions underneath the surface or kind of over here in the mem pool and extract fees that way based on front running or back running or whatever we want to call mev these days.
00:25:28.466 - 00:25:39.882, Speaker C: Do you have an idea of how that ultimately ends up playing out or are we just going to have to kind of wait for the market to decide and users to decide what their preference ultimately is?
00:25:40.016 - 00:26:44.270, Speaker B: So like mev is the sneaky fee or it's the next fee pathway, right? So the transaction fee is the explicit fee and mev is the implicit fee that unless you're an informed user, you don't really know about. And so we're seeing pressure on explicit fees if you're deep within the mev market. That's changed a lot too. The players have professionalized significantly within Ethereum. You're starting to have good exploration of mev and some of the other ecosystems such as Cosmos and Solana. And so not as professionalized as Ethereum, but so that implicit fee within Ethereum already has become much more competitive. But I guess perhaps you could claim that there will be some type of inverse relationship with the more you decrease the explicit fee, the harder people will work to extract as much as they can from the implicit fee.
00:26:44.270 - 00:28:22.010, Speaker B: And that said, the implicit fee that mev marketplace is just going to get more and more competitive. And so I expect that we end up paying the equilibrium is that at a 0%? Call it apr. Let's just take staking for a moment, right? If you look at your yield off of ETH, okay, so that yield is coming off of inflation, but also transaction fees plus mev. So if you set aside the inflation for a moment, because inflation is like if everyone's staking, you're actually just all staying at the same percent ownership of the network, so you kind of just run in place. And so then the true yield creation is from transaction fees and mev. And I kind of think that that at a perfect competition, place starts to just hit the cost for the validators to run the infrastructure, right? And at a minimum, that needs to happen because otherwise the validators will start shutting down, right? Or it's not profitable for them to run. And this is where a validator is a company that supports a protocol, right? And so the validator has to operate profitably to sustain its operations, and then the protocol is reliant upon there being enough validators to perform those operations.
00:28:22.010 - 00:28:33.842, Speaker B: And so this is again where I think we'll have market based dynamics, where people will have to accept that there will be forms of fee extraction because this stuff isn't free.
00:28:33.976 - 00:28:49.246, Speaker A: Chris, in your mind, should that mev accrue to be internalized to uni holders and validators, or to the ETH holders and validators, or I guess separately? What what do you think about Dan's UniChain thesis?
00:28:49.438 - 00:30:20.740, Speaker B: So so I didn't read Dan's UniChain thesis. I guess I've been spending more time understanding the Cosmos mev ecosystem because I think it's more where the space is going, I guess. And what I'm coming to understand about cosmos mev is that each app chain or sector specific chain has its own preferences and value sets. And so if you look at something like Osmosis, they're pushing some updates where they're going to slash you if you perform sandwiching attacks as an example. And so they're going to protect their users and their users and their token holders will ratify some of these things that align with their value sets that will decrease the profitability of a validator who wants to perform sandwich attacks, right? But then if you're a validator who wants to perform those attacks or whatever, you might find another app chain or sector specific chain within cosmos that will allow you to perform those types of attacks. And so you'll start having validators that are the chain of value will align through the community better, I think, from the user's preferences to the token holders preferences. And there's large overlap there to what the devs implement, to what the validators run.
00:30:20.740 - 00:31:05.474, Speaker B: And so I think that uni holders or users will only want to pay for things that they can also benefit from, if that makes sense. And maybe that's where Dan went in his UniChain thesis. But the way I would think of it is, yeah, I'm willing to pay, and I'm willing to get extracted from if I'm a big time uni user, if I'm also. At the same time getting the rebate because I'm staking uni or whatever it might be. And so for me, if I'm active as a the on the production side and the consumption side, then I'm either net zero or positive in how I perform.
00:31:05.672 - 00:31:49.422, Speaker D: That's the whole I think idea of liquidity mining and distributing tokens and airdrops, like what Chris just mentioned is super important. You being on both sides kind of aligns the incentives much better. So if there is a UniChain or a bow chain in the future, if you have a lot of people who are using the protocol, but they are also staking or there are V bow holders, in our case, our tokenomics has this idea of locking for a year or less. You have those people aligned, then you don't have two different groups, like in the tug of war fighting towards who gets less fees and then there's this race to the bottom.
00:31:49.556 - 00:32:43.102, Speaker C: Just wanted to add that 100%. Maybe that's like talking about yield, farming and airdrops and all that sort of stuff. Maybe this would be a good part of the discussion to sort of transition into capital allocation decisions, which is really what the CEO kind of has to make that decision, right? It's a little bit different in the land of Dows and crypto, but if you were to take a look at a budget for a startup or something like a startup company, it would look very different than when you kind of look at token allocation distributions, like how they look for crypto protocols. So I'd love to sort of get your thoughts on, I don't know, what are the major buckets of kind of spend for a protocol and how would that look different from a company. And then maybe we can get into yield, farming and airdrops and those sorts of things.
00:32:43.156 - 00:33:49.554, Speaker D: Chris will have the breadth and he knows so many teams invest in so many different kind of networks and everything. So I'm kind of going to give, like you said, Michael, the picture at balancer and then Chris can expand that and generalize. So I think there's a lot of areas that are similar for a protocol compared to a startup. Maybe the like we're really more in the tech startup world where most of the costs of a protocol go or the investments go towards engineers and people creating adding value, creating code, open source and really making new things that people like to use. And there's all sorts of kind of necessary supportive things. Like you need a community manager, you need to make sure people are being listened to, you need to have people who create a front end and that's also technical but in a different way. So you have also to make sure that people can use your protocol.
00:33:49.554 - 00:35:11.198, Speaker D: So there's the SDK side of things where devs kind of connect to your protocol and can build on top of that. So in a lot of ways, there's similarities between startup, tech startups and protocols. And I think the biggest difference, Michael, is what you said, how those things are decided at the very beginning. Balancer Labs, which is the company I'm the CEO of, we were doing all these things right at the very beginning, and it was always in our roadmap to be as decentralized as possible in order to achieve that kind of really amazing state that Chris mentioned. If we just all disappear, the protocol will still be working and kind of have this independent dependence that makes sure that if one fails or one team just gets, I don't know, dismayed or wants to do something else, the protocol will still have a lot of people working and adding value to that. So at the beginning, Balancer Labs was doing lots of things, and now Balancer Labs is just focusing on code and SDK and smart contracts. And we have now this kind of framework of service providers who come to our forum who say who they are, what they want to do, like how they want to add value to the protocol and how they want to be compensated for that.
00:35:11.198 - 00:36:07.234, Speaker D: So now any marketing that's done is done through service providers. Balancer Labs doesn't touch that anymore. Any partnerships is done by Balancer Maxis, a team of community core guys who have been around since the beginning. So, yeah, it's been more and more like an ecosystem, really, of companies and entities and even some individual contributors that are anon, which you don't really see in traditional companies and tech startups. So it's really becoming this idea of lots of different entities, anons and whatnot, and companies that are then funded by the Dao. And the Dao is really a forum, a lot of people who have some trust in them that have been around for a long time, and then that's how decisions are made. Chris, if you want to chime in on how this is done differently in.
00:36:07.272 - 00:37:55.598, Speaker B: Many other places, well, within crypto, it depends a lot upon stage and where in the stack the team is, right? So how much infrastructure versus how much application, so how much dev facing versus how much consumer facing at the start, I totally agree with what Fernandez said initially, which is like, you need engineers to build the thing, right? And so with a lot of teams that we work with, four out of the first five hires are engineers, or eight to nine of the first ten hires are engineers. And I would say that pre 2017, you had a lot of purely engineering teams with people, maybe one business, one BD person. 2017 started to change things with ICOs, and people started to realize that marketing and education and these softer, touch things were relevant. But I would say that 2017 was the start of changing things and 2021 blew the door wide open in terms of diversity of spend, of treasury. And if you look at teams like Polygon, Solana, Avalanche even to some extent chainlink, though chainlink is more of an anomaly. I guess we go with Polygon, solana and Avalanche. They all had strong, they all had strong engineering teams but complemented by a BD powerhouse, right? And so if you went back in time, I would say that the BD and marketing or being overly heavy on that used to be kind of a dirty tactic within crypto.
00:37:55.598 - 00:39:15.614, Speaker B: And crypto was nerdy enough and insular enough that it was kind of like why are you doing that? Whereas now it's gone more mainstream. Such that I see it as a key tactic to understand and get right to effectively compete. Because not only are the users getting more mainstream but the devs are getting more mainstream and everything needs to be a little bit more spoon fed and is less in the wire cipher punky. And so where I'm heading to with this is past building the MVP. Once you have the MVP, the minimum viable protocol or product, it's more important than it used to be in crypto to start to allocate to building out your BD team that's the real use and getting the integrations. And then from there on the marketing side, I think that it's highest leverage to market in bull markets, at least to consumers or users and then it's highest leverage in bear markets to advertise to developers and the core users and people that will be stickier. And so I would encourage teams to adjust how they spend on marketing, depending on the face.
00:39:15.614 - 00:40:33.986, Speaker B: Because you can burn a lot of money to say, the same group of people in a bear market, but you're not going to get that much change, say if you're trying to pull in new consumers and you're like fighting outgoing tide. So that's another thing I would encourage people to consider. I know everyone right now is going and looking at their runway and how much money they have and so it's important to be focused. I saw a great this is a bit of a tangent, but while we're on the topic, I think it's worth saying saw a great quote. It was from some Formula One driver and it was from some investment conference, but it was basically that this driver was saying you can't pass ten cars on the track in sunny weather, but you can when it's rainy and cloudy. And I think that's such an elegant way of revealing how important it is to be focused, determined, 100% conviction all in in a bear market because the landscape changes so much in a bear market and the signal is really clear and people can pay attention a lot better and so things will rejigger. It's kind of like the tectonic plates move around very quickly and then that is the foundation then for the next expansion.
00:40:33.986 - 00:40:58.846, Speaker B: And by the next expansion people are so borderline manic and whatever that they're not paying attention as much to the substance. And so I would say that the rate of innovation and the tectonic changes actually slow down, and it's really just people talking about everything that happened and was built during the bear market mostly, and regurgitating that. Until then, we get a period of recomposition again.
00:40:58.948 - 00:41:07.586, Speaker C: All right, everyone, brief break in the show here to talk about our newest sponsor, Reserve. So it's looking pretty bleak out there. It's not looking that great. We know the one thing there's no.
00:41:07.608 - 00:41:10.094, Speaker A: Bear market in stablecoins stables.
00:41:10.142 - 00:41:46.766, Speaker C: Baby stables. We love those stablecoins, which is why we're excited to partner with Reserve Protocol. So let's just start with the basics. What is reserve? It's a self service platform to build, deploy, and govern asset backed stablecoins, which can be integrated with DFI or within the real economy. So the cool thing about reserve is basically anyone out there permissionlessly can take any set of ERC, 20 tokens and use them to collateralize their own stablecoin. So the long term goal of the reserve protocol is to create a noninflationary currency that is stable on a month to month basis, but also a century to century basis. In the meantime, though, they're open sourcing design decisions for stablecoins, which is just super, super cool.
00:41:46.766 - 00:41:57.790, Speaker C: I think one of the benefits that you get there is diversification. You hear it all the time in Finance 101. No such thing as a free lunch except for diversification. That's what you're getting with reserve protocol.
00:41:57.870 - 00:42:07.874, Speaker A: Yeah, I've known the team for a long time. I spoke on a panel at SF Blockchain Week with Nevin? With Joe Carlson and Alex Gladstein. Really impressive growth that they've been able to have so far.
00:42:07.912 - 00:42:08.066, Speaker C: Right.
00:42:08.088 - 00:42:35.662, Speaker A: Their premier stablecoin is RSV. It is backed by three other stables. It's already used by over half a million people, transacting over $300 million a month. Right now, like Mike was talking about, anyone can go create a custom bespoke stablecoin using the reserve protocol. You can back it by maybe specific USD stables, or you can get creative and maybe build something more complex, like inversely correlated assets. The branding, governance, and composition are completely up to you.
00:42:35.716 - 00:43:05.942, Speaker C: And lastly, if there are any builders who are listening and you aren't interested in issuing your own stablecoin, what you can do is you can stake reserve's governance token against your favorite stable strategies. So what you're doing there is you're providing backstop insurance to stablecoin holders. Not riskless, right? Not financial advice. There's definitely some risk in doing that, but it does allow you to earn yield, especially now in crypto when are so few ways to do that, it's definitely worth checking out. So at the very least, you should click the link at the bottom of this episode. Go check out the reserve website, see all the cool stuff they're up to. Most importantly, though, click this link.
00:43:05.942 - 00:43:11.402, Speaker C: Got to give Jason and me some credit here. Give us some love, baby. Give us some love. All right, now back to the show.
00:43:11.456 - 00:43:34.660, Speaker A: Let's get into it. What do you think are lasting things that we will take from the last bull market? Things like Airdrops or like token swaps? What will last from the last bull market that people will and protocols will implement in the next bull market? And what are things that are just like, oh, that was like a 2020 bull market thing that won't happen again?
00:43:35.990 - 00:45:07.022, Speaker B: Well, I think people are still airdrops have been around for as long as crypto has been around and people are always iterating with them. Because the frustrating thing with Airdrops, right, is like, how do you keep people from just immediately selling the token and what are you actually accomplishing with that tactic? And so things like what across is doing the Bridging protocol within Ethereum, I quite like where they have an age of capital that increases your reward. And this is like a combination of AirDrop plus yield farming, but where your reward starts going up the longer that your age of capital is so the longer you've gone between vesting periods. Because presumably when you vest, you're vesting to sell. And so if you have no interest in selling, you'll just keep your age of capital going up such that you can achieve the highest rate of reward. So I think that Airdrops are definitely here to stay and that's a good thing. But I think people need to put more time into the mechanism design around loyalty, right? And how do you get the user behavior that you desire? So that would be one that sticks out to me, of course, yielding is going to be another key one.
00:45:07.022 - 00:46:28.314, Speaker B: And where this is all going to go is yield markets where everyone's going to see what different assets yield. And that should be commensurate with the risk of being a participant that earns that yield, right? And so we're at a very early stage right now in that. But just like people have a hawk's eye on the traditional finance yield markets, I think over time we're going to get to that level of sophistication where people really understand, okay, you should probably be getting higher yield if you're supporting some thin application that has some risky crypto asset on some risky alt l one versus if you're a validator within Ethereum or Cosmos or Salana or whatever it might be. So I expect to see, I guess, more professionalization around what it means to be a yielding asset and less of the games of like, oh my God, this is like 250,000,000% Apr because it's a complete ponzi. Sure, that'll come back somewhat, but I think people learn their lesson, too, of how unsustainable it is. Now, that said, I'm always surprised by how few people remember the lessons that they once learned. So there will be variants of that.
00:46:28.314 - 00:46:45.280, Speaker B: But on the important stuff, I think professionalization around yield more, stickiness around Airdrops. The thing that I would love, and this is my PR training of answering the question I wish I'd been asked versus the question I was actually asked.
00:46:45.890 - 00:46:47.230, Speaker C: Great question, Jason.
00:46:48.930 - 00:46:49.882, Speaker B: Yeah. Thanks, Jason.
00:46:49.946 - 00:46:52.720, Speaker C: Rick Me, you really nailed that question.
00:46:53.570 - 00:46:55.120, Speaker A: Thanks for your shitty question.
00:46:56.050 - 00:47:45.038, Speaker B: No, it was a good so I would love for people to think more about how they can compensate people who put in their time or their labor that don't have that much capital. And so most of the games thus far are still rewarding capital of some kind. Even being like a miner within bitcoin proof of work that requires the capital necessary to purchase the machine and so on. Now it takes a lot of labor too to keep it running. Staking is more just pure capital and less labor. And that's where I think some of the proof of work arguments are valid. But a lot of airdrops or a lot of the mechanisms to distribute assets within crypto are still capital dependent.
00:47:45.038 - 00:48:37.706, Speaker B: And the issue with that is the whole way through the capitalist system capital begets capital begets capital begets capital. And so we see capitalism getting more and more concentrated or unequal. And I very much believe in capitalism as the best at scale coordination mechanism that we have. But I think for it to work optimally it needs to be better distributed. And I see crypto as society's best tool currently to programmatically distribute capital to labor and so more ways that people can think of compensating people directly for their time and allowing people who don't have much capital to earn their way into capital the better. I also think that that in part relies upon identity being solved because that will get gamed. That idea of allocating to labor will get gamed by capital right.
00:48:37.706 - 00:50:41.946, Speaker B: Who will set up a whole bunch of addresses and we've seen these games and Fernandez noding his head because it's frustrating. You can try and design these mechanisms earnestly and then they'll get but like, if we could have identity where you're provably revealing parts of yourself that make you qualify and this is probably a bad example, but let's say people who are earning $50,000 a year or less on their provable tax return? What if they were eligible for three X the reward as people who were earning like one hundred K to two hundred K a year on their tax return? And maybe the people who are earning 100, 200K, they're probably going to not like that, right? And it's going to become a conversation but I think the conversation needs to be had around okay, what are ways that we want to compensate people with this capital that we're creating? And then also I would say that the more you can contribute capital directly to some people who give a lot of time, those people will be very loyal if you change their lives. And one issue that we have right now in crypto is there's so many people who are just foaming at the mouth trying to collect every single AirDrop they can or every single thing they can, kind of running around just collecting, collecting, but they don't actually care. And so I think it's more impactful for a lot of protocols or DApps to allocate deeply and change 10,000 or 100,000 people's lives than have a kind of meh incentivization mechanism for a million people. And so I'd love to see more of that. And in addition to identity, I think we'll just need more mainstream applications, right, where it's speaking to specific user groups rather than just crypto as a whole.
00:50:42.048 - 00:51:20.690, Speaker C: I am really curious to get your thoughts on this because I've read something on this basically called like governance mining as opposed to liquidity mining. I forget something like you're mining for labor, right? And that's kind of a fancy way of instead of paying people for their capital, their liquidity, you want to pay for their labor. I think the one thing I would say in defense of sort of yield farming in general is that it's simple. And one thing, it was very beautifully simple. And Jason, you and I have used this example before, but we've had the delightful experience of trying to design sales comp plants. And there's all this temptation to be very specific about this little thing. You want to incentivize each little action.
00:51:20.690 - 00:52:10.342, Speaker C: But what you end up with at the end of this discussions about every action you want to incentivize is a convoluted, complicated mess that no one can really fully understand. So I view that as like a potential danger a little bit because I'm with you on that. We want to specify more specific actions. We don't want this mercenary liquidity that kind of plagued yield farming v one. But on the other hand, I see us being in danger of overcorrecting there and getting way too specific and making stuff too complicated, especially in an industry of still mostly engineers, I would say. And then the other thing, when it comes to governance mining, basically getting people to contribute to Dows, that's something that, yeah, there's more just work involved, right? You need to get individual people to underwrite the quality of each individual contributor. So I don't know if you have thoughts on that word vomit there.
00:52:10.396 - 00:53:13.330, Speaker B: It's good pushback. And I mean, the complexity of compensating labor versus capital is why this is an issue, right? Because it's also like, capital is a commodity within these systems, but labor is typically pretty boutique, right? And then you get into this question of like, well, do you just treat all labor equally? Because that's certainly not how wages work. But that said, where labor is treated equally would be, like, within governance seats within the traditional systems, right? So, like, each member of Congress or the Senate or whatever, they'll have their base salary. Certainly they like, look at Nancy Pelosi and how she trades. She uses that to her advantage to make more money on the side. But everyone has a base rate. And so I could see there being more base labor know or of different tiers.
00:53:13.330 - 00:54:39.720, Speaker B: For example, like let's and like let's say that there's going to be the Scooters, the ride sharing teams. It's like what Lyft has or whatever. I think that there's a world as we get more of these real world applications of crypto or like meet space applications where like, okay, and now we're more in companyville where you have whole fleets or tiers of labor, right? And so you got the people who are going to go and pick up the scooters or the people who are going to maintain the scooters, or the people are going to market. And maybe marketing is at the company level. But if you want kind of this loosely aggregated or organized swarm of individuals, I think that you can pay them in a combination of potentially, like a base rate of dollars to cover their expenses. But then you can pay them a token bonus that potentially gets juicier the more that they're loyal to that specific protocol. Or maybe they pick up slack, maybe there's even surge pricing for labor when labor is really needed on the Scooter pickup side.
00:54:39.720 - 00:55:19.540, Speaker B: And I agree with your original question, Michael, of like, okay, you make something too complex and no one uses it or it breaks easily or whatever. And so I don't have strong answers for any single use case. Where I do feel strongly is that the conversation is only being had in certain pockets. And I think it's a very important conversation for us to have because if we only enrich existing capital more and more and more, the socioeconomic change or sociopolitical change is not going to be that great.
00:55:20.950 - 00:55:45.580, Speaker A: Fernando, how do you think about this breakdown of labor? Because in traditional economics you have unskilled labor, semi skilled labor, you have the skilled labor, then you have professional labor like lawyers and doctors. And I mean, Chris is right. Like in crypto you have this breakdown of that because there's like a lot of anons and you can kind of but obviously different types of labor have to get paid. I'm just I'm curious how you think about this.
00:55:46.190 - 00:56:36.794, Speaker D: Yeah, I think this is a super interesting area with lots of potential to creation of innovative things. Like Chris was mentioning the problem of civil attacks, which is a very big problem for any type of labor kind of compensation. You never know if it's one bot or person, like creating lots of accounts. So the identity problem that is being worked on by a lot of people is super key. It would allow us also to do some interesting experiments with governance, like quadratic voting. Yeah. So I think there's a lot of innovation coming from identity and combating civil way.
00:56:36.794 - 00:57:18.910, Speaker D: There's also some smart ways that are already working for labor compensation. One of them is one we use at Balancer. It's called coordinate. So it's really like a smart way for people to kind of be recognized for helping each other on Discord or for participating on the forum. So every contribution that people make kind of counts points, and if other people give kind of thumbs up or kind of there's like some cross kind of algorithm that detects who is actually contributing. So there's ways to automate that. We also have grants and this idea of service providers.
00:57:18.910 - 00:58:12.762, Speaker D: So, as you mentioned, you cannot pay developers. They're super hard to get and a very scarce resource. You cannot pay them the same way you would pay people who are just answering generic questions on Slack or Discord. So you can go to grants and then kind of ask to do something and people will kind of approve that or not. So, yeah, I think labor is super important. And the people that were there in the beginning of the protocol, being around and kind of helping and onboarding people, I think this is also super important if people just don't see that they're being valued. So it's nice for founders and for people who have been around to be in the score answering questions and welcoming people.
00:58:12.762 - 00:59:32.462, Speaker D: I think it's important to this recognition, not only finance wise. One thing I also wanted to mention is delegation. I think this is kind of one of the answers to Chris's kind of question of how do we kind of compensate people who don't have a lot of labor with recognition? If you give as a big token holder, if you give and you don't have time to follow everything that's happening, if you give your voting power to someone who you see has good ideas and is kind of defending what you think you would if you had more time to follow the project. Giving your voting power to that person or committee could be an a none. I think it's a very interesting way to align labor with governance power that would otherwise only be given to capital if you buy a lot of tokens or if you mine liquidity. But I do think, as you said, Michael, liquidity mining is something that has been really groundbreaking and I think we're going to see it for a long time. And for Balancer, for example, we have this inflation that goes down over time and will eventually fade off a little bit, like bitcoin.
00:59:32.462 - 00:59:46.898, Speaker D: And the idea is that with the treasury, but also with the revenues generated by the protocol, we'll keep compensating labor and people who are actually giving their time to balancer as opposed to only the capital.
00:59:46.994 - 01:00:31.826, Speaker C: I want to make sure we cover sort of two more big topics here before we have to depart, which is one kind of like insider rounds and this thought on actually, Chris, I'm just going to start because you had a great tweet, great tweet on this. Let me see if I can find it. But I really felt this. All right, many knee jerk saying that they won't buy here for XYZ reason. The same people will moan about how VCs get preferential access next expansion when they had equal access. This bear actually public market is still even attractively valued as opposed to private market of crypto right now. So can you talk a little bit about you were just starting to get into this with we want to make sure crypto is kind of a force of good and evens things out from a sociopolitical perspective.
01:00:31.826 - 01:00:39.594, Speaker C: But can you talk a lot, a little bit about this whole pushback against VCs and how insider rounds have kind of changed throughout the course of the time you've been in the space?
01:00:39.792 - 01:01:00.720, Speaker B: Sure. So I'm definitely going to jump into that one just to emphasize that last part of that tweet. The public markets are more attractively valued than the private markets right now. So for anyone listening, keep that in mind. Keep paying attention. In particular, if you're an investor, now is your time. Don't moan at me later.
01:01:00.720 - 01:02:02.100, Speaker B: I'm actually really tired public service announcement. Yeah, I'm like I'm really tired of like, certain characters, like, I guess people are calling them NPCs now, non player characters who just like, regardless of what the environment is, they're like, they find things to moan about and it's like, well, you've got a lot of opportunity right now. Don't tell me that you're going to buy later because you probably won't. So in terms of the insider allocations, I think it's useful to go from bitcoin to current. And so if you look at Bitcoin, I would say it's widely recognized that Satoshi mined about a million BTC, right? Which is about 5% of the supply. If you look then next to ethereum. So 2014 design, by the way, are you guys hearing me all right?
01:02:02.710 - 01:02:03.170, Speaker D: Yeah.
01:02:03.240 - 01:02:37.934, Speaker B: Okay. So you had ethereum, 5% of the supply to the creating insider ethereum. 2014 2015, they allocated 12 million units of ETH to the foundation. So there's currently 120,000,000 ETH in supply. So 12 million out of that 120 is 10%. So double BTC. There would be people who would claim because ETH always gets like the Bitcoin maxis always get angry about the ETH pre mine, which refers to 60 million ETH that was sold in a public sale that anyone had access to.
01:02:37.934 - 01:04:03.942, Speaker B: I don't actually think of that as like an inside allocation because it was public access. And so I guess I really should have defined these things. I think of inside allocation is like, you need a privileged seat at the table, and it tends to be the creators and the investors who support the creators in that process before the thing is actually liquid or even a reality. So everyone who's an insider, yes, they get a privileged seat at the table, but they also all run the risk of zero before the thing. Is actually created or liquid and then the permissionless public, there's no privileged access and there's much less risk of zero. So you had ETH at 10% then in 2017, I would say we started to get a lot of experimentation with ICOs where you started to have variation, I would say of like 20% to 50% take by insiders to fund the protocol and then 2021 that bled even more. And we're now getting to a place where even though the way that it's marketed or communicated is massaged, let's say to be polite, basically 100% is going to insiders or being top down allocated by insiders.
01:04:03.942 - 01:05:15.358, Speaker B: And this is where as crypto gets more mainstream and more corporate and whatever and indoctrinated with, say some of or more invaded with some of the ideals that come from the traditional world, people will just be like well, let's just take 100% of the supply and we'll know how to allocate this better than anyone else. I very strongly disagree with that view of allocate 100% to insiders because I think that insiders can't help but be biased, right? And there's this very human tendency when you control a lot of capital and resources to just allocate more and more to yourself. And so to break that cycle, you have to allocate it to the permissionless public. Or what we could think of traditionally as outsiders. Right now, within Ethereum, I would say like the good guy norm. Good guy and girl norm is 40% goes to insiders and 60% is reserved for the permissionless public. So you have one and a half x the supply going to the permissionless public over the insiders.
01:05:15.358 - 01:06:26.978, Speaker B: And again, that insiders includes the core team, the investors and really the treasury to fund the evolution of the protocol, how that 60% is used and communicated. There's tons of variability and you really have to look closely because sometimes again it's massaged in terms of how it's communicated. But I at a minimum think that the minimum tolerable or you could also say maximum tolerable extraction is a 50 50 split insider outsider. I prefer more for the outsiders than the insiders. The only caveat to this that I'd say, because I wrote a piece on this called The Original Sin, is because of this normative shift where teams are taking more for the insiders and that also in large part can be used to fund the protocol evolution. If not enough is taken, then you may not have enough of a war chest to outcompete greedier competitors. And so that's a tricky conundrum.
01:06:26.978 - 01:07:07.634, Speaker B: The other thing that happens, or like one model, and we've spoken about this with balancer and I know Synthetix explored it, there is a world where you don't have an excess supply creation. You just actually create the supply that you need. So you wouldn't have a fully diluted, say, overhang, you would just have the circulating supply and then you could issue on an annual or every three year basis, more tokens as needed to cover costs, right? And so this would be much more similar to say, how a company would work in terms of stock based comp.
01:07:07.752 - 01:07:46.500, Speaker A: We have this very archaic system that's all based around Bitcoin, which is there's this the total supply, there's this total supply of 21 million. So then if you look, we learned so much from Bitcoin and there's actually one of the earlier episodes of this season was with Hasu talking about maybe some of the wrong things that we learned from Bitcoin and ETH. But that seems like, I mean, Mike and I talk about this all the time. We learned this from therefore, like, fixed supply, therefore everything that has come since Bitcoin has had a fixed supply. And I do wonder if in the next cycle people maybe get away from that and look at traditional startup fundraising as a better model here.
01:07:48.630 - 01:09:37.074, Speaker B: I think you're directionally correct in that fixed supply assets are a rarity, like total anomaly within the traditional system and their inflexibility can be a weakness if you're not trying to build something like what Bitcoin is trying to build. And Bitcoin is like a very specific thing for the world. And most other things are not that they're much more a type of capital than they are a commodity like store of value, which is what Bitcoin is. Now, the tough thing is if we go back to a dow structure and you have this very biodiverse set of participants, it can become chaotic in a bear market in the time when you need most organization and most clarity and most conviction in a single direction and you also need to spend. And the thing that I don't like that I see a lot is communities become very penny pinching when they actually need to spend most and they're like least penny pinching when they should actually be saving up for that future rainy day, right? So if you look at dow spends, crazy spends get approved in a bull market and then fractions of that spend will get shot down in the bear market on much more important things. And so that's one thing that we haven't solved for yet. If we were to go to this model, because I'd be afraid that some dows would get choked out basically in bear markets or they wouldn't be able to create because people are like, oh, we can't suffer the dilution, we're already down 90%.
01:09:37.074 - 01:10:00.758, Speaker B: And it's like, well, you're going to be down 100% if this thing doesn't keep evolving, right? And one thing that the creation of total supply enables is like a buffer to continue spending. On the flip side, it can lead to a lack of discipline because there's such a big balance sheet that takes a while for people to realize that it's actually finite.
01:10:00.934 - 01:10:43.690, Speaker A: I mean, really, the problem that you're talking about though, of like, oh, we have to dilute more at the bottom. That's the problem that companies are faced today, not in crypto. You're really talking about is being conservative at the top and aggressive at the bottom and having enough of a treasury management like a good treasury management solution so that when shit does hit the fan, you don't have to go race to raise another capital. But as we're seeing today, while we're at the bottom, not even in crypto, there are a lot of companies that are like, oh crap, I didn't manage my treasuries correctly. Let me go race. I'm going to go dilute myself so that I can stay alive and I can compete and I can hire talent. And it's like, yeah, there's just the sacrifice you have to make for not managing your treasury correctly.
01:10:44.110 - 01:11:59.678, Speaker D: One thing I'd add though, is that the perception of a token that can mint infinite new tokens is super important. If someone is considering two tokens and the two protocols are very similar, they have the same amount of users adding the same amount of value. One can infinitely mint tokens and the other cannot has like a fixed supply for the next, I don't know, all years to fund itself. Investors and people, anyone would buy the one that has a fixed supply because you don't know how governance might react in the future. You don't know if there could be some attack that takes over governance and uses that infinite minting power to create a lot of tokens and transfer that to themselves. So I think the kind of a certainty that that protocol doesn't have the technical ability to create new tokens and dilute everyone else who thought they would be buying into this supply, but actually now it's double as much out of the blue. You can always do a fork, right? You can always create a new contract and then allow it to mint new tokens, but not without a lot of hassle to do fork.
01:11:59.678 - 01:12:13.240, Speaker D: So I think my preference for a fixed supply is really because of the certainty that anyone participating in that ecosystem that they're not going to be diluted to zero if some crazy unknown unknown in the future happens.
01:12:14.730 - 01:13:07.650, Speaker A: I think the last place that I want to go here to think about and before we think about wrapping this up is just around this concept of returning capital to shareholders. Right now you're seeing, I think just in bear markets you see a preference towards cash flowing protocols, although I guess this might be the first bear market we've really had that. But there's this whole conversation around like uniswap turning on the fee switch, obviously. How do you guys think about I guess when I look at that, I'm like, okay, I see why we're having that conversation. But also in traditional markets, it would be pretty absurd to request to go to a startup that was like three years out and request them to start returning capital to shareholders. The most productive use of capital is to R and D and to build more and then maybe beyond that you could do some acquisitions. The last thing that you want to do for a startup is to return capital to shareholders.
01:13:07.650 - 01:13:19.980, Speaker A: And that's something that we frequently ask of protocols these days, especially in this market. So I'm curious to get both your takes on how you think about returning capital to shareholders and are we asking these protocols to do it at an appropriate time?
01:13:20.670 - 01:14:30.146, Speaker B: Well, so that fixation is that penny pinching mentality, right, of like, you got to give me my money back now when they should actually most be reinvesting it in the opportunity. Right? And so that's like one of the perverse things I think of. Like we could just call it more junior management or more short sighted management that can sometimes come up from a short sighted community's preference. And that's not me trying to slander uniswap like I see it across the board. Right? And this is also like the way that having too speculative of an ecosystem can bite where people are just too focused on the short term. So I think that the fixation on it is not the highest leverage thing that communities could be doing in the spare market. And that actually improving if you're developer focused, improving the tooling, educating teams, getting more teams building on you so that you ultimately have more cool products that are leveraging your underlying infrastructure when things are booming in a few.
01:14:30.146 - 01:15:09.038, Speaker B: Years time. That's a much higher leverage way to spend a dollar than to give it back to someone who's disgruntled and probably going to go and sell it anyway, right? I'm not sure exactly how uni plans to how the fee switch will exactly accrue to uni token holders, but I very firmly do believe that now is the time to be investing in the opportunity. Anyone who has a long term vision will be aligned with that and is not going to be focused on trying to maximize their dollars extracted at this point in time.
01:15:09.124 - 01:16:14.126, Speaker D: I think the balancer has kind of struck a really good trade off between giving back to token holders and reinvesting in growth and creation for the ecosystem. We have the same tokenomics as curve like this vote escrowed token. So first, only the people who are really escrowing their tokens, they're getting something. Passive bow holders are not getting anything. Right? So you have to lock your tokens for up to a year to be able to vote to get your share of revenues of the protocol. And 75% of the revenues go to those kind of we call veal holders and 25% goes to the treasury of the Dow where the Dow then discusses should it go to grants or service providers or coordinate in order to really keep growing the ecosystem and innovating. So you need also, in my opinion, some stability for people to build on top of your protocol.
01:16:14.126 - 01:16:51.774, Speaker D: Like balancer has Aura has Tetu, has lots of different protocols. It's not just token holders that want to see the tokens back because they're short sighted. It's really long term oriented protocols that need that income to make their own protocols built on top of balancer to be sustainable. So it's not really just people who want their money back because they invested. It's things that are getting built on top that need this kind of stability and not for those percentages 75 25 to be changing every now and then. So yeah, it's a complex kind of trade off, but I think Balancer has found a very good balance there.
01:16:51.812 - 01:17:26.150, Speaker A: Actually, I think there's one more thing I want to get your take on, Fernando. Maybe I can throw this one to you or I guess I want to get both your takes on this from the builder side of things and from the investor side of things. How do you think about just this idea of building moats in crypto, though? And it's a problem I think a lot of folks haven't had to deal with before. A lot of the founders in crypto and even the investors in crypto have never had to deal with and think about is like it's just a different environment, right, building in an fully open source environment. So Fernando, how do you think about as a founder and as a builder, just this idea of building modes?
01:17:26.230 - 01:18:20.650, Speaker D: It's definitely hard to build moats and keep your edge competitive. Edge, if you're doing things always in the open and creating open source software, which is our case, everything we create is open source and people can fork it. So we believe that it's really like the words that Chris mentioned at the beginning, it's the independent dependence. So lots of different protocols and teams that are dependent on balancer because not dependent in a bad sense, they use us as one of the dependencies, as in code. You import Balancer's NPN package and you can always exchange that, replace that for a fork. But a fork might have some changes and the interface is not the same. So there's always some work to be done if you want to replace balancer for a fork or for a competitor.
01:18:20.650 - 01:19:22.766, Speaker D: So the idea of a mode for us as infrastructure is the more protocols build on top of balancer, the harder it is for someone else to create a thriving ecosystem like we have, where there's a lot of liquidity in that one single vault where my protocol can benefit from, even if it's not my liquidity. But I'm actually doing a multi hop that uses ETH die liquidity from this other protocol that's also using my vault. So it's capital that's being accumulated and kind of there's some network effects there, but it's also the idea of, like a lot of people are using our tools, our smart contracts, our SDK. So even though we're all open source, it's hard for someone forking balancer to convince each one of those independent dependents they don't know each other. It's not kind of something that they can coordinate and move all to this other competitor because of a small percentage kind of drop in the fees if we charge any. So I think that's how we should look at mode for infrastructure in this open source space.
01:19:22.868 - 01:19:25.154, Speaker A: Chris, do you see things in the same way?
01:19:25.352 - 01:20:39.046, Speaker B: So definitely on the infrastructure side, independent dependence is the thing that we really focus on. Because just to draw that out a bit more, when you have so many different teams relying upon a protocol, be it balancer or Ethereum or any of the major protocols out there, they have to all leave together to get that same combinatorial utility. So they all start feeding each other. And this is often talked about through composability as well. So on the infrastructure side, for sure, I think on the token side, I think there is a wealth loyalty moat. So, like having gone through the very early rise of bitcoin with the bitcoiners, or the very early rise of ethereum with the ethereums, or also observing Adam and Are, as you rise with a protocol, you become increasingly loyal to it, especially if it becomes material or potentially changes your life. Right? And so this is something that I'm probably seeing most acutely within the Solana ecosystem right now.
01:20:39.046 - 01:21:43.566, Speaker B: Where Solana had such a crazy rise last year, some people took profits, but a lot of people didn't take as much profits as they probably should have. And so now there's this loyalty that they all have to the protocol, right? Both because of some of the core values that they believe in, but also because they know how valuable it can be and they want to get it back to that place. Right? And ETH went through the same thing in 18 and 19 when people were shocked that it went from $1500 to $80. Right? And so that's a real one that I see. I would say on the consumer side, it's going to be more of the traditional things that we would think of just in terms of when you're treated well, you're likely to keep going back. Or if a brand doesn't give you a reason to leave, your default is to stay. That said, what's great about crypto and this is where the consumer wins, because you can always opt out.
01:21:43.566 - 01:22:27.034, Speaker B: Or like we work with Xerion, right? But there's also Zapper or there's other examples that do relatively similar things and you can just connect your MetaMask or whatever wallet you're using and go from Xerion to Zapper to XYZ and get different views of the same data. And so that ability to opt out easily protects the consumer because it means that brands need to behave better. Whereas in the traditional system where moats are easier to build, the consumer gets fucked over more. And so I see the difficulty of building moats at the consumer level actually means that the consumer will win and that brands will have to behave better.
01:22:27.232 - 01:22:35.200, Speaker A: Yeah, this has been a great conversation, guys. I don't know if Chris, you have anything left to add. Fernando, anything on your end too?
01:22:35.810 - 01:22:38.590, Speaker B: No, I feel full. I'll give Fernando the last word.
01:22:38.660 - 01:23:24.926, Speaker D: No. Yeah, I think the conversation has been amazing. Yeah, maybe on the last topic that Chris was touching on, I think the same is true for infrastructure. So if you see the new crazy protocols that are kind of putting new things out there and then you see people building on top of them or using them, getting hacked, and you really need some Lindy effect if you're infrastructure. So our utmost kind of important thing is security. So we've been around since the early days of the defy summer and even before that. So I think also for infrastructure, this idea of being around for a long time and being trusted, not being just like new trend is super important.
01:23:24.926 - 01:23:38.900, Speaker D: So it's also part of the mode for infrastructure protocols, like balancer. But I also feel full and I think we talked about a lot of cool stuff. Thanks for inviting us. Chris, I don't know if you want to add anything.
01:23:39.830 - 01:23:42.722, Speaker B: No. Balancer is here to stay, that's all.
01:23:42.856 - 01:24:14.986, Speaker A: Actually, Fernando, I think I've been thinking more and more about that. It's not just Lindy with protocols. The most important thing, I remember like month two of blockworks four and a half years ago, we had just like an advisor tell us the only thing you need to do is survive. Especially in an industry that's going up but is incredibly volatile, you just need to survive. You don't need to be the best, you just need to survive. And even like we're seeing other media companies going down, you're seeing protocol struggle. It's good advice.
01:24:15.098 - 01:24:31.490, Speaker B: Yeah. Anyways, guys, so related to that, sorry we keep going here, but one of our favorite LPs told us very similar advice. He said there are those who take themselves out, those who get taken out, and all you need to do is survive.
01:24:31.830 - 01:24:39.030, Speaker A: It's good advice. So prescient with this market. So awesome. Chris and Fernando, this is awesome. Appreciate it. And yeah, talk to you guys soon.
01:24:39.180 - 01:24:40.130, Speaker B: Thanks Jason.
01:24:40.290 - 01:24:41.490, Speaker D: Thank you, bye bye.
01:24:41.570 - 01:24:42.614, Speaker C: All right, budy, what'd you think?
01:24:42.652 - 01:24:46.934, Speaker A: Good app. Really good app. One of the best of the season in my mind.
01:24:47.052 - 01:25:38.662, Speaker C: I really like the discussion around fee preference and what is the preference of users going to be and how fees get extracted in crypto. And I've kind of thought this for a little while, but I really thought this walking away from the episode is that people like the uniswap fee switch discussion is a little bit of a red herring, probably because at the end of the day, that's not how these protocols are going to monetize. The way that they're going to monetize is say, hey, it's free to use and trade on this protocol, but then underneath you have validators that are basically ordering the transactions and profiting that way. And even if there's probably an order of magnitude, more fees that are going to get extracted through that process, which is mev. But ultimately for the casual, even the professional user, even though you know it's going on, to not pay that fee upfront is going to be meaningful, I think.
01:25:38.716 - 01:25:38.982, Speaker B: So.
01:25:39.036 - 01:25:43.398, Speaker C: I just think mev is going to be the way that fees get extracted in crypto.
01:25:43.494 - 01:26:20.146, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's becoming pretty clear that DeFi is going to end up looking I don't know. It's going to end up looking like traditional capital markets, with one difference, which is the biggest difference, which is that it's better for consumers because the switching costs are like I think a lot of things that you saw in traditional capital markets. Brokerages taking fees down to zero. That's going to happen in DeFi and even in CFI like Coinbase and stuff too. There will be fees, but there'll be hidden fees, like payment for order flow. That's going to be mev and DeFi. I think it's going to look very we're realizing that you don't really have to reinvent the wheel.
01:26:20.146 - 01:26:54.954, Speaker A: It's going to look very similar. It reminds me of there's this quote about the iPhone, about new technology is usually worse in a lot of different elements, or it's the same except for one tiny difference. And it's like the iPhone, you could have a computer in your pocket. It was like smaller, it was slower, but you could have a computer in your pocket. And with DeFi, it feels like you're kind of reinventing all the things or you're actually realizing that you should kind of just copy a lot of the things from traditional capital markets except for the fact that you should have easier switching costs, it should be easier to switch.
01:26:55.082 - 01:27:36.746, Speaker C: And it's a fundamentally open system as opposed to a fundamentally closed one. I think that's kind of like it's permissionless and anyone can interact with it even if there ends up being KYC or large swaths of it that are KYC. I also think there are implications for the app chain thesis versus generalized mean. We started to get into that a little bit when Chris was talking about MEB. That's going on in the cosmos ecosystem, but being able to customize at the execution layer, osmosis shout out to Sonny and what those guys are doing over there. But yeah, being able to do something custom, like we'll slash you if you're a staker and you're doing sandwich attacks in our ecosystem. You can't do that as far as I'm aware, on the ETH ecosystem.
01:27:36.938 - 01:27:41.280, Speaker A: Yeah, I think they're going to be yeah, good point. People will want customizability at that level.
01:27:41.970 - 01:27:45.140, Speaker C: It's just a way to generate alpha, I think, and create a better user experience.
01:27:47.750 - 01:27:49.970, Speaker A: What other takeaways did you have from this episode?
01:27:50.790 - 01:28:02.658, Speaker C: Yeah, I thought the discussion around yield farming and how that's going to evolve from yield farming to governance farm, I forget what he and the whole discussion around moving from capital to labor.
01:28:02.754 - 01:28:32.142, Speaker A: Chris's idea, I think it's not a fully fleshed out, baked out idea yet, but I like where he's headed with it, which is if you just basically rebuild a system that rewards capital, you're rebuilding a lot of what we already have and that we should be experimenting with rewarding labor. I think you had a good pushback there, and it didn't feel like a fully baked out thesis yet, but I like where he's headed with it.
01:28:32.276 - 01:28:37.858, Speaker C: The push pull of labor versus capital is something that plays out over economic cycles in the real world, and it.
01:28:37.864 - 01:28:43.310, Speaker A: Plays out over we just saw it the last couple of years were a perfect example of the push and pull swing back labor and capital.
01:28:43.470 - 01:29:30.558, Speaker C: So I think zooming out of that frame and zooming way in on what do these protocols need, how are they going to grow? I think there's a very strong argument to be made that they just need people actually contributing and building stuff and marketing it and all that kind of stuff that's much more valuable than just liquidity on a platform, which people are just looking to dump. I think the one thing I'll say in defensive yield farming, which I kind of said on this episode, is it's very simple, but the thing that sucks about it is it just doesn't really work anymore. I don't think it's going to work much anymore. So, yeah, they're going to have to tweak it a little bit. We didn't talk about lockups. I think you could probably solve an enormous part of the problem with yield farming by simply distributing locked up tokens.
01:29:30.654 - 01:29:33.380, Speaker A: Well, Ve kind of tried to do.
01:29:36.730 - 01:30:32.760, Speaker C: Benefits. There are interesting. So you can go back and there's this old episode of Invest like the Best where Ted Sides goes on and talks about what are the alignment misincentives of allocating capital between institutional allocators and general managers. And they're sort of trying to play around with this idea that how do you reward the people that stick with you through multiple cycles? Because as a GP, as a partner, like a hedge fund or something, you kind of have to do short term decision making because you can't have a long term investment. No one's going to let you lose money for three years because, oh, I'll make it back on my fifth or 6th year, even if that's the correct investment strategy. So they were kind of trying to figure out a way to bridge the incentive gap. And they were hypothesizing around a side pocket vehicle, which was like, let's say you're an LP and you're like, I'm going to back this GP for the next ten years.
01:30:32.760 - 01:31:37.980, Speaker C: And the way that I'm going to be incentivized to not bail when maybe their strategy goes poorly for like, three years, is there's going to be this little side pocket that we'll contribute to? And it's like a loyalty program. And that's what I heard Chris saying when he was talking about Ve and that's just one of those cool. It's very difficult to predict when you're able to get more creative around mechanism design, some of the cool things that people will experiment with and I'm hopeful that we see some of that stuff moving because we need labor, I think, more than new capital. I think also this is where I cut out a little bit right at the end, but I think there is this wrong idea in crypto and it starts with an assumption. There are two assumptions that I think we get in trouble with. One, everything should be based on bitcoin, which is hard cap fixed supply and even that's probably going to have to change. I know that's crazy to say, but I'm pretty sure they're going to have to remove the hard cap, fixed supply too.
01:31:37.980 - 01:32:27.178, Speaker C: I think they will. I don't think the security model works if it's just based on transaction fees, but it definitely doesn't make sense for protocols that are more company like, more equity like in their structure. And I also think there's this other core belief in crypto which is if I was early, I deserve to keep getting rewarded passively and I just do not think that that's the case. I think that sets up a lot of the problems. I got here early, no inflation schedule because I correctly picked this. So I don't want to get diluted by all you people who are jumping on one cycle later than me and I just don't think it's a correct view. The view should be you actively have to keep contributing to keep your pro rod at stake and defect against inflation that way.
01:32:27.178 - 01:32:48.094, Speaker C: And I'd like a smaller piece of a bigger pie. I think equity land largely has that right. I think a lot of these protocols, chris made a good distinction between a protocol versus company, but I think the lesson about dilution is correct in equity lend.
01:32:48.222 - 01:33:35.730, Speaker A: Yeah, similar to the beginning of the conversation, we were comparing what happens in traditional capital markets and with brokerages taking fees down to zero and payment for order flow exists in capital markets and then in crypto. We have mev similar conversation at the end of the episode about how maybe what exists in traditional startup land is a better model than what exists in Token land right now. And I think that there's probably a lot of operators and investors in crypto who are learning that some of these models, some of these things, and the ways that things the reason we do things in traditional markets is because these things have been baked out over time and we've made a lot of errors over hundreds of years and have landed on these models.
01:33:36.070 - 01:34:04.934, Speaker C: I think. It's a super simple thing. If you can issue more tokens and for whatever you get for issuing those tokens is higher than the cost of dilution, you've created value if you have to issue a million dollar tranche of new equity. But in return for that, you get skilled labor or whatever by skilled labor, that's going to create more enterprise value than a million dollars. Let's say it creates $1.5 million worth of enterprise value. That's 50% return on your capital.
01:34:04.934 - 01:34:10.026, Speaker C: So there you go. I think it's as simple as the calculation needs to be.
01:34:10.128 - 01:34:13.654, Speaker A: Any other takeaways too early to be.
01:34:13.712 - 01:34:15.610, Speaker C: Returning capital to token holders?
01:34:15.690 - 01:34:16.320, Speaker B: Yes.
01:34:17.730 - 01:34:30.290, Speaker A: Love that take by both of them. And I agree with it. You would never ask a startup that's three years old in traditional startup land to give dividends. Like, why are we asking all these protocols to return capital to shareholders? Go invest that in R and D and build.
01:34:30.360 - 01:35:05.406, Speaker C: I much prefer these discussions, by the way. These bear market discussions are so much better than bull market. And like, what's this next thing going to? This is so much better. Honestly, these are real company building or protocol building or industry building type discussions. The one thing that I think is an interesting problem now everyone is within because it's a problem at hand. How do I extend my runway, make sure that my assets exceed my liabilities and just survive as a company? There's a very interesting other problem in bull markets which we didn't really get to. But here's another problem.
01:35:05.406 - 01:35:38.834, Speaker C: Let's say tomorrow you have a billion dollars to spend. What do you spend it on? You have too much capital to spend. Even Uniswap still in its Dow, treasury has like $2 billion. Then it becomes the other problem. It's like I have too much capital and I don't have enough profitable places to allocate it. So that's why I think you started to see at the end of this bull market, every crypto protocol was trying to do everything because I have all this money and I don't want to just sit on it and have it be useless here. But really the best thing they could have did was just trade that into USDC.
01:35:38.962 - 01:35:48.518, Speaker A: Yeah. Also, you dropped out at the end. But actually the most important thing anyone can do is just lindy. Stick around.
01:35:48.684 - 01:35:49.722, Speaker C: Survive.
01:35:49.906 - 01:36:05.340, Speaker A: Survive. Good message at the end by both Fernando and Chris. So anyways, guys, hope you enjoyed this. We have one more episode of the season coming up next week and then Mike and I'll do a big recap episode with our takeaways from the season. So hope you guys have enjoying the season so far and see you next week.
