00:00:00.640 - 00:00:33.504, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano and today is the 18 December 2020. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours. So it has been a very big last 24 hours, that's for sure. I feel like I say that every day within Ethereum, but I woke up this morning and I was like, wow, okay, a lot of things happened while I was sleeping, so we'll get into that in a sec. I just wanted to quickly mention that Gitcoin grants round eight has matching. Round eight has now ended.
00:00:33.504 - 00:01:10.538, Speaker A: According to Gitcoin. It was a record breaking round, which is really cool to see. So if you did, if you did donate to the Daily Gwei and actually to Ethub as well, I just wanted to extend a big thank you for your donations. It really helps to support me and support all the work that I'm doing and support all the work that Eric and I are doing at Ethub as well. So just a big thank you there. And also a thank you to, to you if you donated to other projects too, right? It's always good to give back, especially during these matching rounds where your donations are of course matched quadratically so you can have a bigger impact when, when donating money. So yeah, kudos to everyone for that.
00:01:10.538 - 00:01:44.124, Speaker A: There was a tweet put out yesterday by git coin about how much was, has been donated. I think that it became a lot more. So this was the day before it ended, basically. So basically they were able to raise 413,000. Well, not raise, but like $413,000 was donated from 24,842 contributions or 4844. Unique contributors, almost 5000 contributors. So 5000 like really active Ethereum community members have, have donated here, which is really, really, really cool.
00:01:44.124 - 00:02:25.674, Speaker A: And there was 289,000 in carts, you know, a day before it ended. I'm curious to see basically what it ended on, which would be really cool. And you can see here the top grants that, that raised the most. And sorry, they got the most matching. On the technology side it was, you know, things like Dap node, ETH two kind of things. I think there's Dap node three east, two related things, and open ethereum, which is ETH one related. And then on the community side of things, I think we had the communities down here, we had coin center obviously like a big entrant this round, bankless ETH planet, Dap chaser and defy dad there.
00:02:25.674 - 00:02:54.776, Speaker A: And then I think this one was like the infrastructure section where we had like AP or Apy vision mask book, rocky Snapshot and keep alive. So congrats to all those teams for raising a bunch of money there. It's really, really cool. It's, you know, bankless here has 586 unique contributors. That's pretty, pretty crazy, right? I think that's the. Probably the most unique contributors out of any grant that I've seen for a while, actually. So that, that's, that's pretty cool there.
00:02:54.776 - 00:03:24.614, Speaker A: So congrats to those guys. But, yeah, so I guess we can move on to the next thing, finally, to this. So this was the biggest news, even though there was lots of big news, this was the biggest news from the last 24 hours. Compound announcing that they're spinning up their own blockchain now. I wrote a pretty lengthy piece in the Daily Gwei about this with, with a bunch of my thoughts and explaining exactly what this is. So if you want to check that out, I'll link it in the show notes. It's basically in the Daily Gwei newsletter.
00:03:24.614 - 00:03:54.720, Speaker A: But I mean, to say, I am, I'm like positive on this is, is not right. I'm more negative on this. I don't think this is going to be anything good. I don't think it's a good idea. I think it's a pretty poor strategic decision on compound's part. I don't see the point in it for a multiple, for a multitude of reasons, really. I feel like it's going to fragment, you know, liquidity, fragment, network effects, fragment.
00:03:54.720 - 00:04:26.024, Speaker A: The utility of compound for, for little gain, I believe. I just don't think that the gain outweighs the negatives that come with this. And it's unfortunate because compound is one of my favorite teams within the Ethereum space. They've done a lot of work for Ethereum. They've pioneered a lot of different things. I mean, they were, I think they were the first money market protocol on Ethereum. So to see them kind of, I guess I wouldn't say like they stabbed Ethereum in the back or anything, but they're kind of like migrating away from Ethereum, right? Yes.
00:04:26.024 - 00:05:01.134, Speaker A: They'll still have bridges back to Ethereum and all that sort of stuff. And, and apparently the chain will actually be governed by the comp governors on Ethereum still. So there's still like, that interoperability there. But at the same time, it kind of feels like, you know, they, they came to a theorem, they did what they needed to do to grow their platform, and they're basically saying, thanks for all the fish. We're going to go to our own chain now, which I kind of, I didn't like. And I also just don't think it makes sense from a technology point of view for the reasons I outlined just, just then. And, you know, you can go into my, into, go read the newsletter for a longer breakdown there.
00:05:01.134 - 00:05:33.820, Speaker A: One thing I will say, though, is that the general sentiment around this is pretty negative. Like, usually if I think something's, like, a bad idea, you know, I can find at least a group of people that think it's a good idea, right. And I can debate them. We can have like a healthy debate about it. But literally everyone that I spoke to about this today, literally everyone, like, not one person was able to give me the bull case for this. They were basically in total agreeance with what I was saying and, and how I felt about it. And they had their own views on it, too, about how they didn't think it was good.
00:05:33.820 - 00:06:09.946, Speaker A: And, you know, you can always tell what, you know, what, you know, a company or like an individual thinks is going to be an unpopular opinion by this little feature on Twitter. So on Twitter, you can actually limit who can reply to your tweets. So what they did on this announcement tweet is they limited the replies to only people that compound finance follows or mentioned. So they didn't mention anyone. So only the kind of accounts that compound labs follows, and it's only 49 people. So basically they knew this was going to be a controversial kind of announcement. They knew they were going to get a lot of flack for it.
00:06:09.946 - 00:06:42.594, Speaker A: So instead of taking it, they figured that they would just disable replies. And I feel like this is like a streisand effect because disabling replies doesn't stop people from talking about it. You can see here there's 115 quote tweets here, right? If I go into them, I'm guarantee, guaranteeing you that, like there, there are, you know, a lot of people here talking about, you know, the compound chain itself and, and talking about, I mean, some people are bullish on it here. Right. Good news. I, you know, I'm inspired. But then, you know, danger goes on to say, wondering why they are reinventing the wheel here.
00:06:42.594 - 00:07:08.836, Speaker A: You know, I guess there's positions on both sides. I mean, the people I've spoken to a more, I guess, like in the weeds of Ethereum, maybe you could consider them ethereum maximalist. Right? And this goes against that, that kind of like Ethereum narrative. But I do think it's kind of like torn the community here. But, yeah, there's a bunch of people here that are excited for it. I hadn't actually looked at this yet. It's interesting to see that there are people who are excited about this, which is cool.
00:07:08.836 - 00:07:40.574, Speaker A: And, I mean, Samyak's part of the instadap team, so he's not just like, you know, some, some anonymous Twitter account is, you know, he's respected developer within the community, I guess. You know, there's other people here, like Tom Howard, who says, you know, why not make their own chain a bit, you know, bit sarcastic there. So I guess he doesn't really think that it's a good idea. Yeah, I mean, yeah, there's other comments. Yeah, there's plenty of comments. I can go through them yourself. I'm not gonna go through 115 of them, but I guess, like, I'll pop up there, I guess, like.
00:07:40.574 - 00:08:15.442, Speaker A: But. But what would have happened, I think, would be, you know, when you do this, you kind of fragment the conversation, right? So if you let people reply to it, you basically let them, you know, hash it out in the replies. You know, it's all, you know, it's all collected in one place, but when you do this, it fragments it, and then the kind of conversation gets split up here. So, you know, I'm actually just curious to keep scrolling through here and kind of see the different opinions here. See? Yeah. Hey, Ethereum, stop using compound. Right? There's, you know, didn't Aragon try this already? And then they, they deleted their efforts.
00:08:15.442 - 00:08:40.118, Speaker A: This is actually a good point. I hadn't thought of that. Aragon did actually try this. They said that we're going to migrate to a new chain. They tried it and then they're like, okay, we're going to go back to Ethereum because that didn't work out. So we already have proof that that kind of, that wouldn't work out. And I'm, I'm thinking, Will, will compound get kind of like, usurped now? Will they lose their network effects? Will they basically get forked? Right.
00:08:40.118 - 00:09:03.878, Speaker A: You can imagine someone saying, okay, we're compound. Classic. We're staying on Ethereum. You know, use us instead of this compound because they left or whatever. Who knows, right? There's a lot that can happen here because you're not just dealing with technology here, you're dealing with people, right? You're dealing with a very feverish community who, you know, don't like to see this happen. I mean, I'm, I'll freely admit that, you know, I have a bias towards Ethereum. Right.
00:09:03.878 - 00:09:15.528, Speaker A: Obviously. Right. And that I want to see things stay on Ethereum. So that informs my kind of views as well. But I also just think in general, like, app trains don't make much sense. They just. They.
00:09:15.528 - 00:09:45.224, Speaker A: It just fragments everything and you lose all the network effects that Ethereum has managed to gain over the years by moving away from Ethereum. And, you know, I think that's the reason why. Kind of like one of the reasons why Aragon came back to aetherium and things like that. So, you know, there are high fees on Ethereum, and that's commonly something that's cited by teams moving off of Ethereum saying, you know, the high fees are killing us, we have to move, whatever. But there are solutions being built on Ethereum to alleviate that. Right. I feel like.
00:09:45.224 - 00:10:12.382, Speaker A: Sometimes I feel like what happens is that instead of fixing what we already have, like people, teams or different kind of like teams, different builders, just decide, okay, you know, let's pack it up and move to a kind of like a new city without even trying, or a new chain without even trying. Right. To fix it. You know, I'd probably be more understanding if what ended up happening was we tried to fix Ethereum and, you know, we couldn't. Right. For some. For one reason or another, we couldn't fix it.
00:10:12.382 - 00:10:43.304, Speaker A: We couldn't fix scaling, we couldn't solve it, you know, the protocol ossified or whatever, and it was just, you know, disaster. But that hasn't happened. So why. Why kind of leave? Right? Why? I don't know. I feel like it's like leaving the party just when it's kind of getting started. So, yeah, controversial move from compound here, something that I think we're going to have to see play out because I think compound is obviously much bigger than what Aragon was. So looking at Aragon as an example of what failed probably isn't mapping one to one to this.
00:10:43.304 - 00:11:15.808, Speaker A: But at the same time, I am weary about if compounds are going to actually see much traction with this. And I actually do think there's a high fork chance, you know, fork risk here now where someone's going to fork compound and call it compound classic or something to capitalize on this kind of drama. So, yeah. Curious to see how this plays out. I know there's a lot of thoughts there. You can read more of my thoughts in my, in the newsletter, of course, but I've been stirring on this literally all day. I've been trying to make sense of it because I really wanted to give this a chance, but I just can't.
00:11:15.808 - 00:11:26.896, Speaker A: I just don't. I just don't. I don't get it. Maybe I will in time. Maybe I'll change my opinion in time, but for now, I. Yeah, I'm just kind of bearish on the idea in general. All right.
00:11:26.896 - 00:12:18.308, Speaker A: Another kind of controversial announcement was Tornado Cash, announcing that they've launched. They're launching a token called Torn, which I think is a bit of a funny name for a token because every time I see these four letters together, I think of Tron. So, yeah, it's a bit weird, but for those who don't know, Tornado Cash is basically a privacy kind of protocol or a mixer protocol on Ethereum where you can send ETH or tokens in and mix it and then you can spit it out and basically have like a clean address with, with ETH. This has been a popular tool that's been part, I guess, of like the hackers kind of toolkit. People who are hacking defi protocols, they always go through tornado cache, things like that. It's also been popular for people who want to preserve their privacy. I know a lot of ETH two validators actually went through tornado cache to wash their addresses in order to start, like brand new on ETH two, which is really cool.
00:12:18.308 - 00:13:29.604, Speaker A: So, yeah, they've, they've kind of launched this token and I don't think they've really thought it through too much. They say it's going to be a governance token for tornado cash, but like, then they go on to say, like, this torn is not a fundraising device or investment opportunity and whatever, which is standard, like kind of legal speak. But it's kind of funny though, because, like governance tokens in my eyes, like if you launch something that's purely a governance token, you're launching it to not make money but to like, I guess, like cash out on your idea because tornado cash is great, right? It's getting a lot of use, but it's extremely hard to monetize open source. So the way you do it on Ethereum is you issue a token, but what ends up happening is a lot of tokens get issued that don't make much sense because they're just pure governance tokens. Yes, you can vote in like fees later and things like that and fee capture and value accrual mechanisms, but for tornado cash, I don't, like, they don't have any of that yet and I don't see, you know, how they would in the future because I guess, I mean, I guess it can work if they get, like. Because it's dependent on liquidity. If there's enough liquidity within the system, they can justify charging fees and they can protect against fork risk.
00:13:29.604 - 00:14:09.258, Speaker A: But at the same time, if it's just fee accrual, then I don't see how this token can be, you know, worth a lot going, going forward because I don't see a tool like this being used, you know, you know, enough to justify like a really high valuation for the token just based on fiacrel. Right, and governance. I mean, it's kind of like diminishing returns at this point. The more governance tokens out there, the less the whole are worth, basically. So, yeah, I don't know if this has been thought through too much. Maybe it has. Maybe I'm being a bit harsh here, but yeah, I think the most interesting part of the token though is that it's going to actually help bootstrap the protocol.
00:14:09.258 - 00:15:10.462, Speaker A: Because what they're going to be doing is they're going to be kind of doing a liquidity mining program, which they call anonymity mining, which basically is going to increase the liquidity within the tornado cash system. So for those of you who don't know how this works, the more liquidity in the system, which is called the anonymity set, the better it is because the more kind of like ETH and tokens can run through and get kind of like washed through and mixed through. So by doing this liquidity mining program, their hope obviously is to get all that liquidity in and be able to kind of like increase that, that set of kind of ETH in there so people can, can mix more. And they also say that they're going to be building a on tornado cash here, which is interesting. And, and they saying that, you know, it's a complex system, but it ensures that user privacy is always protected in the process of claiming, you know, their torn tokens as well. So, yeah, there's a bunch to unpack here. I'm not going to read it all.
00:15:10.462 - 00:15:50.110, Speaker A: You can go check it out in the show notes. It's a pretty long read here. And, you know, it might seem funny that I'm saying that it's not like totally thought out because. And even though there's like a long blog post here talking about it, but the reason why I say it's not totally thought out is because I just don't think it needs a token, really. I mean, the anonymity set was growing regardless of a token. And, you know, a token will make it happen faster because of liquidity mining all this kind of stuff but I don't think it's going to, you know, I don't know. I mean I'm not going to like claim that it's not going to be worth anything or whatever, but at the same time I just, I don't see the fundamental value in it.
00:15:50.110 - 00:16:15.244, Speaker A: Like if it's just governance. I mean, yeah, I don't, I don't really see it that, that. But maybe I'll be convinced here. I know, like I just kind of ripped compound, you know, ripped into compound for their announcement and now I'm doing the same to tornado cash. But I don't know, I just kind of felt that, that these things were kind of out of left field and I mean, I don't really think anyone expected tornado cash to do a token. Right. No one really expected compound to do their own chain.
00:16:15.244 - 00:16:57.926, Speaker A: So that's why I'm kind of feeling like this. Maybe I need to digest this more. But at the same time, yeah, I do believe that people should be rewarded for their work and, you know, make money from their work and it's hard and open source to do so. You have to rely on grants and like, you know, funding from, from, you know, companies and projects that do somehow make money, which is, which is not great. Right. But at the same time this is, I guess, like, you know, issuing a token just for the sake of it sort of thing which, yeah, I just wish it was, was better thought out and, and, and the token actually had like a purpose other than governance at the start. But I guess for regulatory reasons, especially saying it's just the governance token is what you do these days.
00:16:57.926 - 00:17:21.762, Speaker A: Right. So we've seen a lot of that. But, you know, I'm curious to see where they go with this and how it evolves. I'm sure they've got plans like the team's great. I'm sure they've got a lot of plans to kind of make this better than just a governance token. But for now that's, that's what it is, basically. All right, so I spoke about this regulatory news in the last few episodes and the block got a scoop today on what it might actually be.
00:17:21.762 - 00:18:14.726, Speaker A: So this was the regulatory news about the kind of like self hosted wallets in the US and people saying, you know, the US is going to ban self hosted wallets, blah, blah, blah, they're going to do this, that and the other, which I don't think is true and I explained that on the previous episodes. But basically what this post from the block says is that what's actually going to happen or what they've learned. Right. This is an official information, but it's what they've learned is that exchanges are going to have to file a currency transaction report if a client conducts a cryptocurrency transaction to or from a self hosted wallet that involves their exchange. And above and as, sorry, an as yet unknown threshold. So, for example, if you send in $10,000 in a single day, the regulations will want the exchanges to report this and file it as a report. I mean, this is like a nothing burger.
00:18:14.726 - 00:18:38.674, Speaker A: Like, what I don't get, like, why this is like even bearish or why this is even a big deal. Exchanges already have access to all of this information. Exchanges have records of all of this information. Yes. They're not directly reporting it to these agencies, but the thing is, these agencies and these law enforcement bodies can access this information at any time that they want. They will get a warrant to do so. They will be able to get this information.
00:18:38.674 - 00:19:09.908, Speaker A: So especially if it's over, like $10,000, because that's what they've done in the traditional system. So I don't see this as being anything, like, special. I, you know, obviously, people were kind of saying they're going to ban self hosted wallets, and I don't think they're going to do that. Like, that's just insane. But at the same time, I don't think this is a big deal either. Right. I just, I mean, I just think it's just like tightening of regulations making the exchanges have to report this now instead of the law enforcement going to them.
00:19:09.908 - 00:19:40.988, Speaker A: But, you know, if they, if they wanted to, they could have gotten access to this data anyway. So not a big deal here. But again, this is an official, we'll have to wait for the official kind of comment, which is apparently supposed to come out as early as today, so Friday. But, you know, maybe we don't see it till next week or something. I don't know. It's just like all up in the air and people kind of like, we're like, oh, we're going to dump because of this? And then we, we've got, we've actually gone up right in price and everything like that. So who knows? We always kind of have this kind of looming over crypto.
00:19:40.988 - 00:20:04.622, Speaker A: It's like, oh, is this government going to ban it or is this government going to ban it? Like the China bans crypto meme is a thing for a reason. I just think it's more nuanced than that. There's not going to be outright bans, at least in the US. Right. And in other kind of western democracies, because it just doesn't make any sense. There's a lot of different players involved. I just think there's going to be tightening of regulations around things and that's, that's basically it.
00:20:04.622 - 00:20:42.826, Speaker A: Basically. All right, onto the next thing. So the graph launched their network today. So for those of you who don't know, the graph is basically an indexing protocol for querying blockchain data on ethereum and other kind of networks. So, for example, when you go to a DeFi website and it shows all your pretty AP wise and, and kind of like position information on like Ave or compound, for example, and things like that, that's the graph powering that. So they actually power most of DeFi. They are one of the most used things that you've probably not heard of before because they're back end infrastructure.
00:20:42.826 - 00:21:09.636, Speaker A: So they launched their network today, which came with a native token called GRT. And that token is currently trading at a $2 billion fully diluted market cap. So it went crazy. And I mean, I knew it would, considering how used this protocol is and, and the fact that the token is going to be kind of more than a governance token. It's going to actually be used to secure the network, it's going to be used to pay fees and things like that. So. And their token model, in my eyes, is actually very well thought out.
00:21:09.636 - 00:21:34.144, Speaker A: And the network model is very well thought out. So yeah, congratulations to the graph on, on launching this. They had a huge launch. I mean, they had Coinbase listing them on day one, they had binance listing them day one. All these sorts of things happening, which I mean, I expected because I'm pretty sure Coinbase invested in the graphics. I have to double check that. But they usually, they usually list things day one when they've invested in it through Coinbase ventures.
00:21:34.144 - 00:22:01.606, Speaker A: So wasn't surprised to see that. But yeah, congrats to the graph there. If you want to learn more about the graph, you can go check out their kind of website here, the graph.com. They're actually a really interesting protocol and I love their design as well, the design of like their front ends and things like that. It's really cool to kind of browse through, but yeah, congrats again to the team on that one. Speaking of Coinbase, they also put out a big announcement today. What did I tell you? There's a lot of announcements to go through.
00:22:01.606 - 00:22:35.788, Speaker A: Basically, they have submitted their draft registration with the securities and Exchange Commission aka, they've submitted the forms to do an ipo or a public offering to issue Coinbase stock. Everyone kind of knew this was coming. It was rumored to be coming, you know, at around this time. It kind of makes sense, you know, the markets are heating up again. What better time than to IPo than right now, right? You don't want to ipo in a bear market when everyone's kind of bearish on crypto. You want to do it in the heat, on the heart of a bull market. So this will be going live soon? I'm not exactly sure when it's going live.
00:22:35.788 - 00:23:17.230, Speaker A: Maybe they say it in the post here, but basically, I think, yeah, once they've submitted this and then the SEC completes their review process and, you know, subject to market and other conditions, they'll kind of launch this. So, obviously, it's not going to go live till next year, but this is going to be one of the biggest ipos of 2021. I think there is a tweet thread from Myra here that basically says that Masari values Coinbase at $28 billion from. From, you know, right from the onset, due to the fact that they're doing $1 billion in daily volume. You know, they're growing. They're like the kind of front door into crypto for the US and things like that. So that's a, you know, pretty fair valuation, I think that's less than ethereum still.
00:23:17.230 - 00:23:44.814, Speaker A: So, you know, there's always. There's this thesis about, you know, should coinbase be worth more than some of the networks it supports? I don't think that maps one to one. I never really kind of understood that thesis, but, yeah, I mean, I expect this to happen. And we've seen a lot of ipos go live recently that have kind of opened at a much higher price than people thought they would. So maybe Coinbase will do the same thing, especially if, you know, crypto continues in this bull market. Right. The investors are going to be like, oh, I need a piece of Coinbase.
00:23:44.814 - 00:24:22.572, Speaker A: And people were speculating, you know, what will this do to the price of, like, uni on for Uniswap? Right? Because people like to compare Uniswap to Coinbase. So will uni kind of match Coinbase's valuation, things like that? I don't. I don't think that's going to happen, but curious to see if uni actually moves when Coinbase is kind of when Coinbase does IPO, and they have a price for this, for their stock or for their share. So, yeah, I guess, congrats, to Coinbase for filing this and we'll kind of like, see what what happens next year on all of this. Alright everyone, that's it for today. Thank you again for tuning in. If you haven't subscribed to the YouTube channel yet, be sure to do so.
00:24:22.572 - 00:24:30.164, Speaker A: Give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the daily newsletter, join the discord, and I will catch you all next week. Have a great weekend, everyone.
