00:00:00.170 - 00:00:41.314, Speaker A: You. All right, so let's talk about lever, which is how you pronounce the acronym LVR, which stands for loss versus rebalancing. So, this is a concept that was introduced in an August 2022 paper with three co authors of mine, Jason Milionis, CMac Molemi, and Anthony Lee Zhang. So, lever concerns automated market making. So, let me explain how an Amm, like uniswap, works. So, this is an exchange that lets you sort of buy one type of token in exchange for another. Where do those tokens come from? Well, they are provided through deposits by what are known as liquidity providers, or lps.
00:00:41.314 - 00:01:39.174, Speaker A: So why would you ever hand over your hard earned tokens to one of these automated market makers? Well, you would do it in exchange for a share of the trading fees. Well, wow. Okay, so if you can get fee revenue from these amms, why would you not hand over your hard earned tokens to one of these amms? Well, it's because, and this is something that's been true also in traditional markets, market making, you face something known as adverse selection costs. Adverse selection, meaning whenever you participate in a trade, whenever you fulfill a trade, you might be taking the wrong end of that trade and losing money as a result. In traditional markets, what people have normally worried about is informed traders having private information that you, as a market maker, don't know. That's why you might end up on the wrong side of a trade, amms. However, there's an interesting new reason why you face adverse selection costs, which is that the spot price of an automated market maker generally lags behind the changing prices on open, for example, centralized exchanges.
00:01:39.174 - 00:02:34.734, Speaker A: So that means whenever the price in the open market moves, there's a little opportunity for an arbitrageure to make a trade on an AMm to correct the spot price so that it aligns with the price on the external market. And the money made by that arbitrageure is exactly the money lost by the liquidity provider. So the cost benefit analysis that's faced by an LP of an AMM is, does their share of the fee revenue exceed their adverse selection costs? So what is lever? What is loss versus rebalancing? It is a precise characterization of those adverse selection costs. It tells you exactly how much you're losing due to being on the wrong end of trades of arbitrars. So lever has two forms. There's one, which is based on empirical data, where you look at what's happened in the past, and you assess what have the adverse selection costs been? And that's very easy to do. You can also make predictions using lever in a black Scholes style continuous time model.
00:02:34.734 - 00:03:06.980, Speaker A: And it turns out, at least for popular amms like constant product market makers, for example, you get extremely clean predictions of what the lever is going to be as a function of parameters like the volatility of the underlying assets. The upshot is, if you're thinking about providing liquidity, you want to compare the lever your adverse selection costs to the fee revenue that that you're expecting. If you're designing a next generation automated market maker, well, you want to have happy liquidity providers. So you should think about designing that AMM to make the lever as small as possible.
