00:00:11.130 - 00:01:53.390, Speaker A: All right, so good morning, everyone. My name is Slovadan Sudaric. I work with CLABs and I work to talk a little bit about tokenized natural capital assets and their use in regenerative finance and tie this a little bit together in the context of the Mento protocol that Soci also mentioned before for those who attended her talk. So let's maybe start a bit with some basics. What exactly we mean with refi or regenerative finance, because I think there are a couple of definitions floating around and I really like this description by Pecky McCormick from Not Boring, which describes it a little bit in terms of pricing externalities, you know, charging those who create negative externalities and rewarding those who create positive externalities. And the question then comes up, what does this really mean translated to web three and blockchain more broadly? Because there is a very narrow view, I would say, to look at this, for example, we could ask ourselves, should we only care about emissions of the underlying blockchain layer? And if yes, I think we already made some good progress there by moving away from, let's say, energy intensive proof of work mechanisms to, let's say, something like proof of stake and something like cello blockchain, I guess, made even one step more in that direction by taking this concept of externality serious and by including protocol level offsets. Actually, the more broader view is, should we actually do more than that? And this chart here is a bit of an apples and oranges comparison, I have to admit.
00:01:53.390 - 00:03:04.086, Speaker A: But I think it kind of brings across the point because what you see here is in blue, the ethereum DeFi TVL total over the last three years. And in red you essentially see the global voluntary carbon market. And the question is, can't we channel a bit of the blue stuff into the red stuff? Right? And the next question, if we agree that this makes sense and this is a use case for web three, the next question is essentially how can we actually do this? And this is where I want to talk a little bit about Mento protocol. So, as Sochi already said, cello is this layer one essentially with a focus on financial inclusion and sustainability. And Mento is a stability platform that is built on Cello that essentially creates currencies that support Cello's mission in achieving this. There are currently three currencies supported by Mento. One is a Euro tracking stable asset, one is a dollar tracking, and one tracking the Brazilian real.
00:03:04.086 - 00:04:02.020, Speaker A: And they were used in use cases all across the world, in humanitarian relief in Haiti and in the Philippines, and in microwork projects, for example, in Kenya. I don't really want to go into too much details, but just to give you a rough understanding of how mentor works. So those stable assets are backed by an overcollateralized reserve that is on chain. This reserve is essentially a basket of different crypto assets. So it includes Cello, it includes BTC, it includes ETH, it includes other stable assets for diversification purposes like USDC and Dai. And it also includes a small portion that you see on the top there of natural capital. And this part of natural capital is what I want to focus a little bit more now on.
00:04:02.020 - 00:04:52.606, Speaker A: So the idea is really, if we look at historical currencies, what we can observe is that whatever was used essentially as a currency or whatever backed a currency, people tended to make more of. So when we used T bricks, there was an overproduction of T bricks. When cattle was used as a currency, there was an overproduction of cattle. When gold backed currencies, everyone rushed into gold mining, essentially. So the idea is, can't we use the same logic, the same mechanism, but actually back currencies with something that we would actually like to see more of, clean water, unpolluted air, or beautiful forests. And this is essentially where this allocation comes into play. So the mechanism is then quite straightforward.
00:04:52.606 - 00:06:15.104, Speaker A: So as more use cases for mentor stable assets emerge, more capital would flow into that reserve. And as the reserve grows in size, also the allocation towards natural capital would grow in size and the reserve would essentially create additional and incremental demand for natural capital assets. And this in turn would then translate into impact in the real world by creating capital flow towards project developers, ecosystem service providers, and so on and so forth. So far, so good. But the big question is, okay, fine, what are those natural capital assets in the first place, right? And I think it makes sense to briefly distinguish between assets that currently exist in the real world, the ones in green, essentially. And then in a second step, think about where can we actually move with tools that are provided by web Three to improve those assets. This chart is also from a, let's say, DFI protocol perspective because it plots impact on the y axis and liquidity on the x axis, because liquidity is just so important in everything that you build in DeFi, you can probably start with ownership of underlying assets.
00:06:15.104 - 00:07:12.840, Speaker A: You could think of essentially buying a piece of land to protect it from being cut down, a forest from being cut down. This is probably a high impact asset, but it's probably very illiquid because you essentially have to buy land, right? If you want to move into a more liquid direction. Let's say you quickly end up in traditional climate finance instruments. So this might be like the private loans for, let's say, a solar development project or even slightly more publicly traded bonds, for example, issued by World Bank or other institutions. You are still in, let's say, a class of assets that are, from a DeFi perspective, difficult to handle. Most of those assets are considered security, so you have a lot of challenges in actually tokenizing them and working with them in a decentralized setup.
00:07:15.320 - 00:07:15.876, Speaker B: Then there.
00:07:15.898 - 00:08:55.270, Speaker A: Is a class of assets that I just described as ecological state change, but you can think of it for now as essentially carbon credits. So carbon credits is nothing else but like a ledger entry that verifies that a ton of CO2 has been removed from the air or not emitted into the air in the first place. And since this is just recorded in a database in the first place, this entry can also live on chain and is a very liquid asset in a sense, which is why at Mentor we essentially started with this right bottom area of fairly liquid assets in that space. The question is then where does web three help us here? I think there is a lot of potential of actually and let's just stick with the example of carbon credits here to actually improve on those assets. So a big problem with carbon credits, for example, is there's a huge time lag between project implementation and actually issuance of those credits. And then those credits are traded on the secondary and tertiary markets and we trade essentially credits that have been that represent activities that took place ten years ago. So if we through web free technology can actually accelerate this process and make improvements and efficiency improvements in this monitoring and verification process, I think we can actually keep the, let's say, advantages of those fairly liquid assets, but actually improve in terms of impact quite a lot.
00:08:55.270 - 00:10:05.290, Speaker A: On the other hand, there is probably a risk that by moving more into web three native assets, you lose on, let's say, trust and buy in from institutional players in this market. And I think this is especially in markets that are still not fairly developed, let's say the voluntary carbon market actually a big risk. And so we should be a bit careful about we shouldn't end up in the lower left corner, we should try to reach the upper right corner here. In general, over the last, let's say, one year that we've worked on this, we kind of found four areas that are areas that are challenging in that space. So whenever you deal with real world assets, you suddenly deal a lot with counterparty risk, right? You interact at some point in this process, you interact with counterparties. Again, from a protocol perspective, you have liquidity risk. There are a lot of legal challenges involved in this.
00:10:05.290 - 00:10:50.280, Speaker A: I talk a lot with the legal team at Seller Foundation, for example, and more and more we realize that this is not really a technical challenge, but primarily a legal challenge. There is challenges around regulation, there's challenges around ownership and the whole concept of how can a decentralized entity essentially own something in the real world in the first place. There are a couple of technical challenges as well. By pure definition, you integrate the off chain world and the on chain world. So you have integration problems. You make use of different kind of oracles that introduce new technical risks to this. And last but not least, I think we should also really be serious about the impact that is generated with those assets.
00:10:50.280 - 00:11:53.352, Speaker A: And I think the literature and theory of change can be maybe like a guiding principle here by focusing on plausibility. So let's say we, as some arbitrary DeFi protocol include some asset. What does the asset actually do? How does it actually translate into action in the real world on feasibility as well? So let's say we have this asset. Is actually everything in place in the real world to generate the impact that we want to see. And last but not least, also measurability. So are there metrics in place? Is there something that we can track as like empirical observers on all of this? And I think if done right, this can have a huge impact. I included this chart on CO2 emissions but it doesn't really matter which chart you look at because I think the message is quite clear and I think the contribution that refi or Web Three more broadly can have here is quite substantial.
00:11:53.352 - 00:12:56.132, Speaker A: So on the demand side we can introduce committed large scale buyers into this space that stabilize demand and create market opportunities for the entire supply chain. On the supply side especially, we can support the launch of new and innovative solutions at the intersection of climate tech, climate finance and web three. And then there is this meta component where I think DeFi really excels at is by providing market infrastructure and increasing transparency and efficiency in this market. So that's just a very rough overview of how we think about this and what the challenges are that we see with this. I would very much like to discuss this with you in more detail. If you're interested, please feel free to check out the website mentor.org or our Twitter or discord or yeah, just ping me if you're interested.
00:12:56.132 - 00:12:57.270, Speaker A: Thanks a lot.
00:13:03.720 - 00:14:06.940, Speaker C: We have a few more minutes time, so in case there are any questions. Yes, hi, I'm not sure you were there earlier but I just got in touch with the refi sector recently so I'm still learning a lot. And one thing that I keep wondering about so when you think about positive externalities, it's pretty easy to create a token and people want it, right? But when you talk about negative externalities, then the carbon market works partly because government kind of coerce companies to do something about it, partly because the markets or the customers want companies to do something about it. But it's kind of no disc coercion that needs to happen. So I've been wondering a lot whether there's waste, whether there's ways to create incentives for these players that create negative externalities to voluntarily accept the cost of them and offset them.
00:14:09.390 - 00:15:12.110, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean that's a great question and I think especially like climate finance in the ESG space, I think struggles with this for 20 years now or more. I think what we see now is essentially a moment in time where it's actually the customers that kind of dictate this. Right? So there are studies that show that, for example, capital costs for companies that are not ESG compliant are actually higher than for compliant companies. And at that point in time you might even ask yourself, is this really still voluntary? Like this participation in the carbon market, if it has a tangible benefit? But I agree. Maybe there are more direct mechanisms to force them to do something. But I think even the shift in consumer attitudes and consumer demand already created something like a tangible channel, essentially to create this feedback mechanism.
00:15:19.590 - 00:15:54.670, Speaker B: Hi so if I understand you correctly, you're trying to tokenize natural resources to back up other currencies. And I'm wondering if as long as governments or really big companies and enterprises are the ones that hold areas or all the technology that create this, let's say the natural new technologies so doesn't it compromise the decentralized character you're suggesting?
00:15:58.130 - 00:16:29.930, Speaker A: Yes and no. I would say the way I see it, in a quite pragmatic way, I have to say. So if we can kind of use the tools of, let's say, decentralized finance, and even if we have to deal with centralized entities somewhere in the real world, as long as it works, I'm good. In an ideal world, sure, this would be more open and more decentralized, but we're running out of time, essentially. And whatever works, essentially.
00:16:30.590 - 00:16:43.782, Speaker B: So it doesn't necessarily have to be integrated with web three. It's just an initiative to change a bit the economical system we're working on tokenize some natural resources, as you suggest.
00:16:43.926 - 00:17:23.370, Speaker A: I think it's getting more and more integrated. I'm not sure if you were in her talk, she mentioned this team, Climate Collective, and there are a lot of projects in there that actually work on providing this integration between real world assets and turning them into something that is more web free, native. But this entire space is so new that I think it will simply take some more time, to be honest. Thank you.
