00:00:00.480 - 00:00:42.884, Speaker A: All right, everyone, welcome to the 15th daily Gwei AmA. Thank you all for being here, as usual. If you would like to ask a question, you can raise your hand and I'll invite you up onto the stage and I'll be taking all the questions from the AMA series channel in order. You can also ask a question in there and it'll be answered towards the end of the AMA. Of course, as usual, this will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube with timestamps within 24 hours. So without further ado, let's get started with the first question from the AMA series channel, which comes in from yawn the faun. Who asks are the l two s on Ethereum in direct competition with one another? For example, is stocknet competing with IMX to be the NFT layer on top of Ethereum? So I'll kind of answer the first question.
00:00:42.884 - 00:01:08.280, Speaker A: I guess it's a yes or no answer. I think that all the l two s on Ethereum are competing with each other. Yes. Just like that. Would you know they're competing for like liquidity, developer mind share applications, all that sort of stuff. Right. But it's not unhealthy competition, it's not parasitic, it's actually healthy competition because they're all kind of like, at least most of them, not all of them will be like this, but like, most of them have the same kind of goal in mind.
00:01:08.280 - 00:01:49.784, Speaker A: And that's to use Ethereum as this decentralized, secure settlement base layer and then a scale, ethereum at L2, and allow users to tap into like Ethereum layer one's properties. So from that point of view, it's kind of healthy competition. But you know, as time goes on, there's definitely going to be changes where there's going to be roll ups that are much more aggressive than, than other ones. For example, we're already seeing the early stages of this right now, right. Like Bobba network is a modified fork of optimism and they're being more aggressive about how they're attracting capital because they have a token and they're doing air drops and liquidity mining and all that sort of stuff there. I'm sure optimism will do that later on. I'm not sure when they're going to do it, but I would bet that they would do it.
00:01:49.784 - 00:02:36.972, Speaker A: But the thing is, you know, Boba network beat them to the punch and he's being more aggressive about it. And that's just the early example of what's going to happen where, yes, the competition is healthy, but there is competition there. So yeah, I guess to answer. And as I said, like, the answer is yes and no. Yes in the fact that they're all competing with each other for the things I outlined, but no in the sense that it's not competition like it is with other l one's competing against Ethereum, for example, right? Or trying to compete against Ethereum's l two ecosystem where they're just trying to like get users to come away from Ethereum onto their own ecosystems. That's very different when it comes to the l two s. And then you kind of ask, you know, is stocknet competing with, as an example, is stocknet competing with immutable x to be the NfT layer on top of Ethereum? So the thing is immutable x is built on, built using star quest technology, their stock x technology.
00:02:36.972 - 00:03:21.596, Speaker A: And if immutable wants to, they can join Starknet as a kind of like a roll up in, as part of that kind of network there. So I wouldn't say that they're competing, but if you're looking at other kind of like ecosystems, for example, optimism and arbitram being the two premier optimistic roll ups, they would, they're obviously definitely competing as well, right? They're competing across a number of different kind of like fronts there to be the, you know, the best optimistic roll up on Ethereum. Same goes for the ZK roll ups. Obviously Zksync is competing with starquares, competing with Polygon. They're all competing to be the best at what they do. But as I said, it is kind of like a healthy competition. I haven't seen any unhealthy competition yet, but I do expect that to change as time goes on where we get like more aggressive kind of like roll ups.
00:03:21.596 - 00:04:02.298, Speaker A: As I said, we already seen the early stages of this happening with Boba network and I'm sure there's going to be others like coming very soon as well. So it's going to be interesting to see how that all shakes out. The cool thing about l two s is that it basically detaches kind of like that, that tribalism where all that, that tribalistic parasitic competition where the l two s, if they're competing with each other, it's fine, but they're not competing with Ethereum l one. They're actually all benefiting ethereum l one because they're all paying ETH gas fees to secure themselves. They're all burning that ETH, right like that. Most of that ETH gets burned when they pay that. They're basically letting users tap into Ethereum's awesome properties, which is, which are its decentralization and security.
00:04:02.298 - 00:04:43.066, Speaker A: And they're breeding healthy competition at the execution layer, which is obviously the roll up layer. So I, in all honesty, I think that it's actually incredibly healthy that we have so many roll ups already and we're going to have many, many more. As I've mentioned in the refuel, plenty of times I expect roll ups and l two s to be the new l one's going forward because it just makes a lot more sense. And the beautiful thing is that ethereum benefits from all of it. So that's why, you know, that's obviously one of the reasons why I'm so big on ETH as an asset. It's just like a no brainer bet on the entire ethereum ecosystem. And, you know, everyone, no matter if they're kind of like competing with each other, like, you know, defi apps compete with each other, dao, you know, different daos can compete with each other, all that sort of stuff like nfTs, it all goes back to Ethereum.
00:04:43.066 - 00:05:14.410, Speaker A: Like, ethereum benefits from all of it, which is, which I think is really, really cool and basically makes it very different from, you know, l one s competing with Ethereum. It's, it's kind of like now the l two s compete with each other and now, and ethereum l one benefits from it. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions there. You're on the phone. I know you have a few more in here, which I'll get to, but there's. The next one comes from Flex BC, who asks, I was in a discussion with the BTC Maxi, and he questioned me on if Ethereum is quantum resistant. Is it quantum resistant or will it become resistant in the upcoming upgrades? It's not.
00:05:14.410 - 00:05:55.090, Speaker A: And look, I think quantum resistance is a bit of a red herring. It just seems like such a, it's talked about like, from time to time. And, you know, if there's some tech blog that writes something about there being a breakthrough in quantum computing, and, you know, they're saying, oh, it's around the corner, whatever. There's a lot of this clickbait happening within, within, you know, the computing world with regards to quantum, quantum computing. But it is something that has been talked about by the Ethereum community. Vitalik has spoken about it before, I believe, and there are plans to make Ethereum quantum resistant. You know, if it needs to be right, if there is an impending threat, then Ethereum can simply kind of like hard fork network upgrade to become quantum resistance.
00:05:55.090 - 00:06:34.054, Speaker A: And as far as I know, it doesn't seem like it's a difficult thing to do from what I can tell. But maybe, maybe my information's old there now. You know, the funny thing is that a BTC Maxi was, was asking you this, right? I do wonder if bitcoin has the culture to be able to upgrade this quickly because they obviously have an anti hard fork culture. They don't like doing any hard forks or network upgrades. They only like doing the network upgrades by a, by soft forking, which in my mind is basically worse than a hard fork. But we won't get into that discussion for now. So I do wonder if that community would come together if there was an imminent threat and hard fork bitcoin to be quantum resistant.
00:06:34.054 - 00:07:14.590, Speaker A: I think they would. I think that, you know, as, as kind of like hard headed as the bitcoin maximalists are, they do first, like first and foremost care about bitcoin, and they only don't want hard forks because it goes against their kind of, I guess, like ethos, it goes against their values. But if there's like an impending network threat and it's a credible threat, then I do believe that eventually they'll get to the right kind of like, um. Right, uh, right place where they'll, they'll hard fork to become quantum resistant. But I think that Ethereum will do it much sooner because Ethereum has a culture of network upgrades of hard forks. It's not a surprise whenever a theorem does this or announces a new one, it's kind of, it's expected right and all. And the community is bought into that, because if you're in Ethereum, you're bought into the way Ethereum upgrades itself.
00:07:14.590 - 00:07:29.474, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, vern, I'll invite you on to stage here. Seems you've got a question for me. You just got to click accept. There we go.
00:07:30.714 - 00:07:31.498, Speaker B: Hello.
00:07:31.666 - 00:07:32.774, Speaker A: Hey, how you going?
00:07:33.074 - 00:07:34.770, Speaker B: Hey, Anthony. Good to talk to you.
00:07:34.882 - 00:07:37.082, Speaker A: You too, mate. Yeah.
00:07:37.258 - 00:08:11.394, Speaker B: Two relatively quick questions. One, you know, I'm starting to get through these airdrops. We're getting a lot of ERc 20 tokens that are becoming increasingly valuable. Are there any specific hardware wallets that you know of that are best for those for basically non ETH, non BTC tokens? And then secondly, do you know of any ways, like in doing analytics or elsewhere, that kind of dashboards that look at overall leverage in DeFi? Those are my two questions. Thanks for taking them. Appreciate it.
00:08:11.694 - 00:08:50.526, Speaker A: No worries. So, yeah, I guess like, to your first question, any hardware wallet that supports Ethereum will support ERC. 20 tokens, because they're, you know, it's the same kind of like, ecosystem, obviously, an ethereum wallet and a. And ERC 20 tokens, they're kind of compatible. So that should be fine. There are different apps for these hardware wallets that may not have, like, out of the box support, like Ledger Live may not have support for some token whatever it is. And you may not be able to see it in their app, but you would be able to see it on another kind of interface, whether that be something like metamask, when you connect your hardware wallet to metamask, or my ether wallet or my crypto or anything like that.
00:08:50.526 - 00:09:21.668, Speaker A: So there should be no worry there with Arc 20 tokens, because they're 20 tokens. They're supported, you know, naturally, by every. By every ethereum wallet, because the format, that's how the kind of, like, Ethereum account works. And Ethereum wallet works. In terms of, like, which ones, I would recommend the only two that I've kind of, like, heard a lot of good things about over the years I've used myself. I've never really had issues with are both the ledger nano S or X S is the non Bluetooth, X is Bluetooth. And it's.
00:09:21.668 - 00:09:38.732, Speaker A: It's a bit, you know, looks a bit nicer, I guess. And then the lattice one, which is a bit bulkier. Well, I guess a lot bulkier. It's like a. Basically a unit that sits on your desk. You can google it, lattice one from grid, if you haven't seen it yet. But it is much more secure than a ledger.
00:09:38.732 - 00:09:57.286, Speaker A: It has. I mean, it has so many different things built into secure itself. It's actually pretty crazy what they've done with it. It's got, like, tamper resistant. It's basically. I mean, from what I can tell, it's basically not impossible, but, like, very, very hard to crack into this thing. And it's really great at securing everything that you've got.
00:09:57.286 - 00:10:19.918, Speaker A: And it also works with metamask as well. So those are the two kind of things I've used both, as I said. I still use both the ledger and the lattice one. And, yeah, as I said, depending on what interface you interact with, one might not show you the tokens that you have. One might, but at the end of the day, the tokens are there in your wallet. You'll always be able to access them. It's just depending on which interface you want to access them from.
00:10:19.918 - 00:10:22.474, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that answers those questions for you.
00:10:25.094 - 00:10:26.294, Speaker B: Yeah. Thanks. Appreciate it.
00:10:26.334 - 00:10:39.630, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. So, and then the second one, about the leverage. So I don't know of any dashboards that track leverage in Defi. The one I use for CFI is bybt.com dot. I think that's it. Let me just quickly look.
00:10:39.630 - 00:11:26.244, Speaker A: Yeah, by bt.com, that allows you to track open interest, liquidations, funding rates for centralized finance. But in terms of defi, no, I haven't actually come across any. I haven't really particularly looked at it either. I think maybe DeFi, TVL is a good metric, or I guess a good barometer or something, a good piece of signal that you can look at. So if TVL seems to be going up in lending protocols, or if rates are kind of creeping up in terms of stablecoin yields, that probably signals there's leverage in the defi ecosystem, because the end of the day, most stable coin yields, if not all of them, come from some form of leverage. So, yeah, unless you've seen something else that I may have not have seen.
00:11:27.664 - 00:12:11.258, Speaker B: No, that's. Yeah, I was trying to see if there's a way. I figured it'd be hard to get a specific look at that, but maybe those are good approximations of that to be interesting. So I'm looking to see, like, to what extent we can see sort of systemic risk, because I worked in finance for a while, and there, this is like 2008, back in those days, and back then, you couldn't tell what the heck was going on. So what's so great about DeFi is that there's so much transparency. I'm curious to see how you can actually see all the systemic risk buildup and where it can be accounted for, where it can be modified or whatever. But, yeah, I think those are good approximations.
00:12:11.258 - 00:12:14.346, Speaker B: I've looked at this, too. Thank you for confirming that.
00:12:14.530 - 00:12:43.324, Speaker A: Yeah, no worries. And, yeah, I mean, I'm totally with you, and yeah, the beautiful thing is you can see where all the assets are on chain anyway. But as I said, like, I think stable coin yields are a good proxy proxy for leverage in the system. So if stable coin yields are high, like, you know, depositing your stable coin into, like, a yield farm, and it's not giving token incentives, it's just giving kind of like natural yield, and it's high, I would say that's probably the best approximation in DeFi for leverage across the system.
00:12:45.824 - 00:12:48.712, Speaker B: Thanks, Anthony. Really appreciate it. Love all your work. Thanks.
00:12:48.848 - 00:13:00.000, Speaker A: No worries. Thanks, mate. See you later. Cool. All right, onto the next one. From the sheet here comes in from Danny. Hi, Anthony.
00:13:00.000 - 00:13:49.792, Speaker A: I was really worried the other day when you mentioned in the daily way that Metamask plus legend Nano is a risky wallet option because of exposure to man in the middle attacks and other risks. Is this a big thing deal? Look, if I'm being honest, it's a big deal in that you. It's scary because you don't know that it's happening to you unless you're, like, checking everything that you're signing. Right? Like, as I said on the refill video, just to give context for those who maybe didn't catch this, essentially what can happen with a man in the middle attack is that you can submit a transaction on metamask, right? And you can interact with, like, some. Some web3 apps. Say it's a uniswap, and you say, okay, I want to swap these tokens, and then you'll get the normal metamask pop up that says, hey, you know, confirm this transaction. Now, a man in the middle attack, what ends up happening is that it can actually fool you into signing something that you didn't trigger yourself.
00:13:49.792 - 00:14:45.636, Speaker A: So it can actually replace that Uniswap transaction that was sent to you from kind of like uniswap. It can replace that with their own transaction. So, for example, say you've submitted a transaction, you need to sign it to swap USDC for ETH on Uniswap. Now, that transaction, obviously, in the normal case, gets sent to your metamask, metamask or other web3 wallet. You confirm the transaction after, you know, putting in gas price, or just, like, confirming it without changing the gas price, and then it goes into the mem pool, and then it gets executed after some time. Now, in a man in the middle attack scenario, that Uniswap trade that you did, that transaction would never actually hit your man in mask. What would happen is there would be another transaction that was crafted by the attacker, probably automatically by some form of malware that was on your pc, and they would replace that trade with, send this, you know, send these kind of, like, coins, or send this ETH to this address, the attackers address, for example.
00:14:45.636 - 00:15:14.378, Speaker A: And then you thinking that the transaction that's gone to your metamask is a uniswap trade, the uniswap trade you initiated, you would just, like, sign the transaction, right? You'd say, confirm, and then you've actually confirmed that you're going to send these funds to the attacker. And. And you won't actually realize that until, you know, the transaction confirms. And then you go to check if, you know, if you got the funds from the uniswap trade and that, and that. And that isn't what happened. And all your ETH got sent to this attacker's address. So that's what's very scary about it.
00:15:14.378 - 00:16:06.610, Speaker A: In terms of, like, worrying about it. I would say that for most users, it's probably not something you're going to worry about, like, too much because these kind of things are probably more targeted towards known people, like, well known people and, like, targeted attacks and stuff like that. But at the same time, you know, look, I worked in cybersecurity for a long time, and it's amazing to me how easily people got themselves infected with malware, because for this to work, you would need to get infected with some form of malware. And it's actually quite easy for malware to enter your pc because the easiest thing it's, you know, a lot of, a lot of you would probably be familiar with this. The easiest way malware gets onto your pc is if you open some kind of, like, attachment or you download some file and it's got a piece of malware attached to it, just installs itself on your pc. It can do this completely in the background, by the way. You will have no idea that it's happening unless you run, like, antivirus software that has it cataloged and they can actually pick up on it.
00:16:06.610 - 00:17:07.994, Speaker A: But if it's like, if it's like a new strain or if it's got, like, evasion techniques or whatever, it can install itself covertly and then basically do its job in the background. So I don't mean to scare anyone with this sort of stuff. And as I said, like, a lot of the man in the middle attacks that I've seen have been more targeted. But at the same time, if you want to keep yourself, like, super secure, especially for high value transfers, I would definitely make sure that you look at what you're signing. Like, if you're sending high value transfers, like, and high value is relative, say your portfolio is worth $10,000. If you're sending the whole thing to an exchange, if you're trading the whole thing for something, well, you might want to check that transaction, right? You want to maybe double check that transaction. The one that you're signing is actually the thing that you're actually trying to do and not, not a man in the middle attack, because if you don't, you know, you could end up losing all your funds, right? And the thing is, a hardware wallet will not protect you from this because a hardware wallet just allows you to keep your private key off your kind of, like, pc, keep it on this little kind of, like, device that the private key never leaves that device.
00:17:07.994 - 00:17:30.321, Speaker A: It's secure there. But the problem is, is that it's the same transaction flow if you sign. You know. You know how on a ledger or a lattice, it comes up with the same kind of flow? Confirm the transaction after you've confirmed it. Kind of like through metamask, or, you know, if you're doing a metamask pass through, and then you sign it, and you'll be signing the same thing, right. You'll still be signing a malicious transaction. If you don't check it, it doesn't.
00:17:30.321 - 00:18:06.714, Speaker A: The hardware wallet won't help you with this. So that's why I've been recommending the lattice one to people lately. Because on the ledger, they have this thing called blind signing, which means you can't actually see what you're signing at all. And if. Even if you do see what you're signing, you can't really see anything, because the screen's so small, whereas on the lattice, it's got a bigger screen. You can see the whole transaction, and you can actually sign it and knowing exactly what you're signing. So, from that perspective, if you do care deeply about security and, you know, maybe on the paranoid side of things, which, to be honest, is not a bad strategy, being on the paranoid side of things, I would definitely get a lattice instead of a ledger and make sure that you can see the whole transaction before you sign it.
00:18:06.714 - 00:18:16.850, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully, that that answers that. That question there. So I'm just bringing up my sheet here. Where was that question from? That was. That was from. From Danny. Yeah.
00:18:16.850 - 00:18:47.712, Speaker A: So, hopefully that answers that there. All right, next question comes from Sclerk, who asks, in regards to a recent refuel episode where you mentioned Alameda was a VC in Starque. I mean, I'm wondering what you think their game is. I thought Solana was trying to pitch that it doesn't need l two s to scale. So, look, Alameda, SBF, FTX, whatever, they're profit maximalist. They're in this to make as much money as possible. I don't think they're in this for the crypto vision omission.
00:18:47.712 - 00:19:21.290, Speaker A: I pretty sure SPF has said this before, that he's in this because it's the easiest way to make money in the world right now, which it is, because he's made himself extremely rich off of crypto in just a few short years. So, I would say that they are backing things or investing in a lot. I mean, they invest in a lot of things. Alameda is invested in hundreds of projects, and because for them, it's very low risk, high reward, they throw a check, which is probably a very small amount of, like, if they throw, like, even a couple of million dollars at a project, which is probably on the higher side of things, that's nothing to them. These guys are multi billionaires. They manage probably tens of billions of dollars of capital. That's.
00:19:21.290 - 00:19:35.402, Speaker A: That's nothing to them to take, like a bet. And if it goes to zero, they don't care. Like, they probably just make that back in. In a day or something, or even less than that. Um, so I would say that them backing starkware is literally just a play for more profit maximalism. They probably. I don't.
00:19:35.402 - 00:20:11.280, Speaker A: I mean, I can't speak for them, but I would wager that they don't pay that much attention to what. What starkware is doing or kind of, like, help them with anything there. I mean, Alameda is the market maker side of things, and FTX is, like, the exchange side of things. So, yeah, I don't think that I would classify Alameda as a VC either. Like, this is, this is what's actually been getting on my nerves a little bit lately is that there's a line blurring between VC's and funds. They're very, very different beasts. A VC, like, a typical VC or a traditional VC, venture capitalist firm or individual or whatever, usually has a longer timeframe, like five to ten years.
00:20:11.280 - 00:20:45.990, Speaker A: But because crypto is so accelerated, these timeframes are becoming. And now I would say that you can forget about having a ten year time horizon in crypto as a VC. It's just not going to work out. You have to have at least kind of, like, sorry, at maximum five years, probably, and even that's probably stretching it for how long. You know, a trade can play out or an investment can play out, because this ecosystem moves so quickly. So from that perspective, funds usually have a much shorter life cycle, you know, one, two, three years. So now the line between funds and VC's are blurring, because VC's need to shorten their times, their timeframe, as well, to keep up with crypto.
00:20:45.990 - 00:21:06.442, Speaker A: And funds are kind of, like, now selling themselves as being VC's because of those lines being blurred. As I said, I find this really annoying, because there are a lot of good VC's out there. There are a lot of VC's that help their portfolio companies. They don't just spray and pray in everything. They're pretty targeted about their approach. They. They like to kind of, like, be involved with projects, like, to help them.
00:21:06.442 - 00:21:40.180, Speaker A: And then there are a lot of funds who are literally just investing in these projects to make as much money as possible. They don't really care. I mean, not all of them, but a lot of them, because of the fact that this is the way they structured, they don't really care too much about helping the project out. They just kind of, like, give the money in there, you know, make sure they know what their vesting schedule is, and then go about their merry way. So from that point of view, I would say that, you know, I guess, like, I would say that those lines being blurred has actually been damaging to the space at this point in time. I would say there's not actually many good VC's left. There's maybe.
00:21:40.180 - 00:22:06.220, Speaker A: I mean, I don't even know if there's many good funds left, because, as I said, those lines are blurred. I don't even know what. It's a fundamental. What's a VC firm anymore? It typically is that they're, they're pretty much, like, the same thing at this point in time, which is kind of, like, hard to navigate through. So, yeah, hopefully that answers the first part of your question. And the second part you said, you know, I thought Solana was trying to pitch that doesn't need Altus to scale. Look, Alameda took a huge bet on Solana, of course, and so did SPF and FTX.
00:22:06.220 - 00:22:45.980, Speaker A: They've made a lot of money on Solana, billions of dollars easily on the Solana, on both the Sol token and the Solana ecosystem, because there were early backers there, which. Which is, which is whatever. But if you take that context and then you kind of apply it to what they're doing in their kind of, like, investment spree, it doesn't really kind of jowl or map, because, as I said, they invest in everything. So I don't think they actually even think about their investment in Solana. When investing in something like stockware, they just see a deal term that comes to them, or some kind of, like, terms that come to them, and they're like, okay, well, well, let's put some money into this. Uh, we know, you know, they may, they may know that it's a big deal for another ecosystem. They may know that, uh, it's a hyped up project.
00:22:45.980 - 00:23:15.920, Speaker A: Um, and they kind of, like, invest in that and invest in that way. Um, on. And I guess, like, on the technical technology side here, I've been saying for a very long time that Solana is either going to become a roll up on ethereum, or it's going to have roll ups on it, and that's how it's going to scale. And it's not just exclusive to Solana. It's all the monolithic l one chains. They're on borrowed time. They're already dead in my eyes, that they're a technological dead end, just like I believe bitcoin is a technological dead end, and proof of work is a technological dead end as well.
00:23:15.920 - 00:24:25.440, Speaker A: Maybe those are more controversial opinions, but, yeah, I've said plenty of times before that whether they want to or not, Solana is going to scale via roll ups. But the thing is, is that why would you, as a roll up, why would you even care to deploy to Solana, you know, unless you're trying to do it for some kind of opportunistic thing where you're writing the roll up hype and you put it on Solana so you can issue a token and have that token go up in value. Um, but for long term health and the long, the long term, actually actual kind of, like, sustainable roll ups, there is literally zero reason not to anchor yourself to the most decentralized and secure chain, uh, in existence. Uh, I mean, the only reason I can think of, and this isn't even really a reason, is that you may want to save on costs, right, as a roll up. But the thing is, these roll ups are going to be so popular, they're going to have so much transactional activity that the l one fees are going to be, aren't going to be that much of a concern when you're making so much revenue on l two. So, yeah, I see no reason for these l two s, these roll ups to ever settle on anything that's not ethereum in terms of, like, fundamental reasons, profit reasons, it's a different kind of, like, story. They'll probably do it because they'll be able to push a narrative and say, oh, we're a roll up on Solana.
00:24:25.440 - 00:24:51.640, Speaker A: Like, look how well the roll ups on Ethereum did. And you know how it goes, right? It's the same story that played out with all these EVM side chains that did exactly what Ethereum did in defi summer liquidity mining, you know, having a whole defi ecosystem, or all EvM based. They just did the same thing. They ported it over Avalanche and Phantom and all these other EVM chains. And it worked. Right, because narratives are powerful. So I expect the same thing to play out on these other chains.
00:24:51.640 - 00:25:19.542, Speaker A: I expect, you know, I actually do expect starkware to deploy their tech to Solana eventually as well. There seems to be a bit of overlap with, with those kind of teams. But again, I just don't see the point. I really like fundamentally don't see the point in doing that. And it's not just because it's Solana, but any chain. I don't see the point of anchoring a roll up to any chain except the most secure and decentralized one, which is obviously ethereum by far. Like, it's not even a question of what's first in terms of like, being able to be anchored to.
00:25:19.542 - 00:25:39.806, Speaker A: Obviously, bitcoin can't support roll ups, so that's already out. So it's Ethereum, and then there's like a long list of others that aren't even like they're all fighting to be in second place. They're not even close to second place. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question. There s Clark. Alright, onto one from Max invests. I've come to the conclusion that Ethereum no longer competes with alternative layer one.
00:25:39.806 - 00:26:11.982, Speaker A: S. Ethereum is objectively the best settlement layer and it has made this path clear. All of these other layer ones will need to choose between settlement and computation, and it seems like they will choose computation as they are good at this. Also, I don't like the l one and l two terminology, to be honest. I prefer computational layer and settlement layer. Do you share this sentiment? I mean, I think it's pretty obvious from, if you listen to the refuel that I definitely share this sentiment, and I think that there's literally no competition right now for ethereum l one as a settlement and security layer at all. Like, there's no, there's no one even trying to do this.
00:26:11.982 - 00:26:52.424, Speaker A: If you had to be charitable and say that, you know, which other ecosystems are trying to go down the same modular path that Ethereum has been going down, I would say that Celestia may be the only one and. But they're doing it a bit differently as well. They're actually not having any execution on the quote unquote l one. They're just doing it all at quote unquote l two. But I also share your sentiment around the terminology not being the best either, but at the same time, it, these kind of like terminologies are hard to break for the mainstream. Like, people are still using the ETH two terminology because of the fact that it got memed right into reality and it was used for a very long time. So changing terminology is very, very hard.
00:26:52.424 - 00:27:37.414, Speaker A: I'm not even gonna bother doing that, but I definitely will still push the kind of like modular terminology where it's the, the separation of concerns between better availability, security and settlement and execution. Right. But at the same time, that's like for people that are in the weeds for the mainstream normies, as we like to call them, I think the l one l two terminology is definitely the path forward for the short to medium term. And in the long term, I mean, in the long term, most people are not going to care about what we call this sort of stuff at all. Most people are just going to be interacting with Ethereum on these l two s. They're not even, you know, it's gonna get to a point where they're not even gonna realize they're interacting with Ethereum because these l two s have their own branding. You can imagine someone saying, oh, I'm gonna, I'm minting nfts on immutable.
00:27:37.414 - 00:28:11.880, Speaker A: This is really cool. And having absolutely zero idea what ethereum is and absolutely zero idea that ethereum is the thing kind of like securing immutable and immutable is putting their proofs on Ethereum. And, and you can bridge to a theorem and stuff like that. That's, that's, it's going to be abstracted away completely. So I think if we're talking about terminology for the insiders, it's going to be in flux all the time because it changes pretty regularly, especially considering that Ethereum's roadmap is in flux a lot. And I mean, the general high level roadmap is kind of like setting, not set in stone, but it's kind of like well known, but the implementation details are in flux. The terminology is in flux.
00:28:11.880 - 00:29:06.468, Speaker A: So I would say that even though it may be inaccurate terminology, it's still something that we can just use and we can chop and change with the modular stuff because I think if you're in the weeds, you understand the kind of like key differences there between them. So, so yeah, hopefully that answers your question, Max. All right, one here from Handasattack. Who asks, can contract based wallets like Argent just bridge all the ETH in the contract from l one to l two on behalf of all their wallet application users? Since it's a multi sig contract with the keys owned by the team, wouldn't that be cheaper than each of us bridging individually and pay the high gas fees? As far as I know, I don't think that the Argent team has access to anyone's funds, even though that they're a multi Sigma key holder. It would require you to sign any transactions. If they put, you know, if they wanted to kind of like do something, I would require you to sign it as well. So they can't do anything with your funds without your permission, as far as I know, unless they can.
00:29:06.468 - 00:29:45.510, Speaker A: I don't think that's, that's the, I don't think that's the case there. But in terms of like getting people onto l two from, from l one on behalf of users. I actually wrote about this in the newsletter the other day. It's called all on board the newsletter. If you want to go read that. It was Friday's one, so it's the latest one where I basically said that there's various things that teams can do to onboard people to l two. We saw Dydx do what they call gasless deposits, which is basically paying the gas fee for people depositing into DyDx with 1000 or $2,000 and then make their kind of like logic is they'll make that gas fee back from trading fees or maybe liquidation fees on the platform and in the process they basically get a new user.
00:29:45.510 - 00:30:10.406, Speaker A: So it's basically a custom acquisition strategy there and there's a cost to doing that. Of course, there are other ways that can be done to get funds from l one to l two. There's batched onboarding seller network is working on this sort of stuff and I think a few other kind of like teams as well. There's the teleporter for optimism as well from the Synthetix team. I think that's quite limited right now, but that's another kind of like initiative. Then there's the roll ups themselves being able to subsidize costs for users, right. To get.
00:30:10.406 - 00:30:50.190, Speaker A: To get them to kind of like bridge in Argent could do it as well. You know, when Argent launches their l two support, they could offer a thing to users saying, hey, bridge your assets to these l two s and we'll kind of like cover the gas costs for you. Because it was funny. Originally, Argent was actually covering the gas cost to create smart contract wallets in their platform, but then it got way too expensive. Like I'm talking, they were doing it when the fees were definitely a lot less than a create these wallets. Now to create this wallet, last time I checked is, is, you know, hundreds of dollars. So they're obviously not going to be able to do that in a sustainable way for end users, but to bridge assets across, they could do that, I think so we're going to have to see how they kind of like how that, how that shakes out.
00:30:50.190 - 00:31:38.512, Speaker A: But at the same time, as I said, like, I don't think that they, as far as I know, they can't access user funds without the user signing the transaction as well. So just because it's a multi SIg doesn't mean they have unilateral. Yeah, they don't, because it's a multi Sig, they don't have unilateral control over the, the funds there. So hopefully that answers your question. All right, one here from yawn the faun. Could you please explain to us how these new domain resolvers work? Eg, ens, unstoppable domains, decentral web, decentral web, et cetera. Are these simply organization partnerships with wallet providers whereby the wallet providers agree to look up a name address mapping in a specific contract? And how are these assurances that two different decentralized domain providers aren't going to use the same TLD extension and thereby create mapping conflicts? So all of the, like for ens, for example, all of it is handled by the smart contracts.
00:31:38.512 - 00:32:22.042, Speaker A: So if another system came along, forked ens, it would be a different set of smart contracts. You actually can't have mapping conflicts at all because there would be a completely different set of contracts, completely different set of controllers around those smart contracts. If it's a, you know, if it's the ENS governance forked, or if they're just doing it through a multi Sig wallet. And even if there was the same name, say you had like Sassle ETH on the original ans, and then you had sassle ETH on the forked ans, it would still be different contracts. Maybe it still maps to the same, same account of address. But the thing is, the wallets that are adding support for this sort of stuff have to support the forked ens as well. Right? So in terms of like, support for these things, they have to actually point to the contracts.
00:32:22.042 - 00:32:55.694, Speaker A: So right now they're appointing to the original Ens, smart contracts. Right. And I don't see a reason why they would change that because the, the whole ecosystem and community would basically say, well, this is, it wouldn't, it doesn't make sense to support a forked, a fork version of ENS because ANS is fine the way it is. It's, it's community governed now. It has all the, the mapping, has everything going well for it. Maybe in the future there is something that goes wrong with Ens, and we do have to fork off of it because the original one, something bad happens. Well, in that case, it would take the community to come together and convince the wallets and everything to support the new one in addition to the old one.
00:32:55.694 - 00:33:31.310, Speaker A: So in terms of conflicts, it's pretty much impossible for that to happen because of the fact that it's all based on smart contract logic. Even not even just with between, like ENS's, Ens and its possible forks, but also unstoppable domains and decentral web, it's all running on different contracts. So they cannot literally, it's literally impossible for there to be mapping conflicts. So. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question around that. And as I said, like, it's up to the kind of like the wallets to point to the correct contracts and resolve the correct names. Because whenever you put like, you know, say you're in like a mobile wallet that supports NS, I think rainbow supports it.
00:33:31.310 - 00:34:01.462, Speaker A: Put Sassle Ethan there. They're looking up kind of Sassel ETH using the ENS contracts and looking up what that resolves to, which is obviously my Ethereum address. And that's how they map it out. Now, if they were to look that up on the forked Ens, it would be a completely different thing. You know, I could have a different address set there or someone else could own tassel ETH there and it would be different to the new one. But, you know, it could be confusing for end users. You know, if say, for example, the wallet was to say, okay, we're going to support both of them, you'd have to like change it in a drop down menu.
00:34:01.462 - 00:34:34.464, Speaker A: You'd have to say, oh, well, I want sassle ETH on the original ens, or I want sassle ETH on the forked one. So from that perspective, it kind of like makes it so that these wallet interfaces don't want to support a forked version because it just gets messy from there. It would be very messy for the end user because the end user probably wouldn't want to click through again, would have to check these things that get confused by the fact that there's multiple, kind of like multiple different versions going on. So I think a forked version of Ens would, wouldn't take off at all. I don't think anyone would support it. So. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there.
00:34:34.464 - 00:35:41.142, Speaker A: All right, one here from Dom who asks, does Aave v Three's portal thing mean I could bite the bullet today and deposit my ETH bag on aave main net and then in the future borrow stable coins against it, but receive the stable coins on polygon arbitrum optimism. As soon as Aave deploys there, would there be l one fees involved for using that portal? As far as I know, yes, because I think this is how the current version of the portal is going to work, is that you'll be able to take your a tokens across chain and kind of like do things on different chains using your a tokens. I need to dive deeper into it. I don't know if there's more details about how the portal is going to work just yet, but essentially you would still have to pay l one fees, I believe. I don't think there's going to be a thing where you can have funds on Avev v three on layer one and then, you know, polygon. Arbitrary optimism reads from that and kind of like lets you borrow an l two, unless they implement it themselves as well. I think that might be one of the features and one of the end goals for the portal kind of like to feature, but I think as it currently stands, it's just for transferring a tokens across different layers at this point in time.
00:35:41.142 - 00:36:14.546, Speaker A: But I wouldn't be surprised to see them do do this feature where you can tap into and read state from different kind of like chains. It probably would only work for l two. Side chains get. Get murky because if you start reading state from l two from side chains, you're having like different security assumptions, whereas with l two s you're not, because the state is kind of like shared between ethereum l one and l two, and it's all secured by ethereum l one. So I think that they may do that for the l two s, but I'm not sure if they'd do that for the side chains. It definitely becomes a bigger security risk doing it like that. So hopefully that answers your question.
00:36:14.546 - 00:36:42.012, Speaker A: But I should dig deeper into the portal kind of like feature and see if the they've added more information about that. Because when they first announced, announced that, I remember the information wasn't too detailed, was a bit sparse. So I'll have to just do a bit of, bit of a deeper dive there. All right. One here from AvD who asks question about Mev and around the rise of Mev on alternative low fee l one s, including ones branded as Mev resistant. Haha. Mev resistant low f one s.
00:36:42.012 - 00:37:13.924, Speaker A: We all know how that turned out. Anyway, you ask, how would the ethereum l two s fight transaction spam from MevR bots once the fees are low enough? Is it something that even needs to be fought against as the arbs mev are pretty much essential to keep everything in check. So there is kind of like different versions of Mev or different kind of like types of mev, I should say. There's the quote unquote good mev, or useful mev, such as arbitrage. Right. Like keeping the prices in check across different liquidity pools on, within defi. That is good mev because it's needed.
00:37:13.924 - 00:37:47.898, Speaker A: Right. But, you know, obviously the people doing that, the people doing the arbitrage transactions are profiting from that. So. And if they're doing it through miners or through validators, it technically Mev. That's why people kind of like knock back against Emon who said that arbitrage wasn't Mev. It is the most kind of like elementary form of mev, but it is still Mev. Then there's the parasitic mev, like sandwich attacks and front running sandwich attacks are pretty, are in particular pretty bad because they essentially force the end user to buy something at a much higher price than the, or potentially at a much higher price than they thought they were going to buy it at.
00:37:47.898 - 00:38:21.890, Speaker A: And front running does the same, does a similar thing as well. And there's back running and then there's time banded attacks. Mev goes deep. Like it's, it's pretty, pretty wild. So, so with that context, you ask about like, how is Mev going to be traded at l two, this is an open question. I think. I actually do think that l one, MEV is going to eventually either be completely eradicated or at least go flow back to ETH holders, because with post merge validators, obviously, you know, are ETH holders because they have to stake 32 ETH, and all the MeV are going to be going to validators.
00:38:21.890 - 00:39:07.738, Speaker A: So it would flow back to them, which I guess is a lot more symbiotic than what it is now. But at the same time, once l one, ethereum literally just becomes a chain that only, that only validates proofs and data from l two s. As far as I know, there wouldn't actually be any mev to extract because there's no mev to be done on proofs or on core data because it's just storing these things on chain. There is no, there's like the front run. There is nothing to sandwich attack as far as I know. Maybe I'm wrong here, but I've asked this question to a few people and they haven't been able to kind of like break my assumptions here. So my assumption is that l one mev eventually will go away completely as a consequence of l two s filling up l one with.
00:39:07.738 - 00:39:36.986, Speaker A: With proofs and call data, which is, which is really cool. But then you push the mev to l two, which is already happening. I mean, any l two with multiple liquidity pools is going to have mev on it. And pretty much, I mean, I'm sure it's happening on arbitram right now in terms of, like, being able to arbitrage. But the thing is, arbitrum are the only one running the sequencer, and I don't think that arbitram are going to be doing MEV on their user, on. On any of the users. But it's when they decentralize the sequences, that's when it becomes, you know, it becomes more tricky.
00:39:36.986 - 00:40:08.774, Speaker A: Right. Because the sequences have the ability to order transactions, which means they have the ability to do MeV being nasty MeV, or just like the normal MEV, but that's still going to be able to do it. So there's been a few different ideas proposed of how to combat this. I know optimism talked about doing what was called. I think it was like auctioning off Mev Meva. So, MeV auctions, where they would essentially auction off the rights to MeV on the chain and then give the auctioned proceeds to public goods. This was controversial because it was.
00:40:08.774 - 00:40:36.618, Speaker A: People basically said, well, I mean, yeah, okay, the funds are going to public goods, but the. The MeV is still bad because the MeV is still happening. So I think that would be maybe a short to medium term solution, but the long term solution would be to just try and eradicate as much MEV as possible. And there are different ways you can do this. There are different research, kind of, like, initiatives going on in this area. One of the big ones is flashbots, which doesn't eradicate MeV, but it democratizes it, which makes it more fair. Again, there is kind of, like, arguments for and against this as well.
00:40:36.618 - 00:41:07.290, Speaker A: People say, just because you made me be more fair doesn't really mean anything for the end user. They're still getting screwed. Yeah, I get that argument, but at the same time, it's better than not know Democrat, don't know democratization. Sorry, mix my words there. But I think, like, in terms of, like, the l two s having low fees and trying to fight spam, that's another concern. And this is why I don't think fees can be zero. And this is, this is why I actually wasn't surprised when, kind of, like, Solana fell over, because their fees aren't zero, but their fees are, like, very, very cheap, right.
00:41:07.290 - 00:41:43.164, Speaker A: They offer whatever it is, 50K TPS, and their fees are like 0.001 or whatever. Now, because the fees are so cheap, it encourages bots. It encourages a lot of bots and encourages transaction spamming. And that's exactly what happened when that kind of thing, it was like an ido that went live and, and suddenly 400,000 transactions flooded the mempool other, and have a mempool. It like flooded the network in Solana and it caused the validators to go offline, which was effectively a DDoS attack or a DoS attack or a denial of service attack. Now, how do you, and this can, this exact same thing can happen on any chain that offers basically super low fees or no fees.
00:41:43.164 - 00:42:41.336, Speaker A: This is why fees exist in the first place, by the way, or a major reason to prevent against DOS attacks, among other things. So how do you keep fees really low for end users, but also fight against spam and kind of like, and related kind of like malicious things? On l two, the way Solana has done it is that they're doing what's called QoS or quality of service, where they've got some system in place, or they plan to put some system in place which drops transactions that they consider to be spam. I don't think this is a good solution, especially not for layer one. I think that is, it's basically censorship, because you will always going to have false positives in that, just like you always have. You sometimes have false positives in Web two. Web two deals with spam, by the way, by doing qos as well. There are providers for this, such as cloudflare DDoS protection providers, that basically drop packets of information from ips that they consider to be potential spam or potential bot activity, or potential DOS activity.
00:42:41.336 - 00:43:41.212, Speaker A: Now, that's okay for web two, because if for some reason you are flagged as a kind of like a bot, or you're flagged to someone trying to ddos the website, then you can just kind of refresh and that problem usually goes away. Or you just wait a little bit and it's okay. But I mean, you don't really expect web two to be censorship resistant, right? Or kind of like, it's a different kind of set of expectations there. And there's not no kind of like money involved or anything like that. It doesn't stop you from kind of like accessing your funds or anything like that, but in kind of like the web3 world, where you definitely expect to be able to access the chain whenever you want, then it becomes like a very big issue and dropping random transactions that you suspect are spam, you could end up dropping real user transactions. So I don't think that that is a sustainable solution either. At layer one, it could be, at L2, it could be a sustainable solution where you have these DOS protection of, you know, quality of service, of dropping transactions at L2 and all that sort of stuff.
00:43:41.212 - 00:44:41.422, Speaker A: But again, it, in my eyes, it's tantamount to censorship. But if it has to be done at L2, it's actually fine because if, you know, the worst case scenario, you can't do anything at L2 because you've been censored or, you know, your address has been blacklisted or whatever, blacklisted by the QoS system. Whatever happens there, you can always get your funds back out at layer one. Yes, the fees on layer one are probably going to be pretty expensive to get your fees to get your funds out, but it's better than, in my eyes at least, it's better than not being able to access your funds at all or not be able to do anything at all on kind of like the l two or on an l one that uses qoS to kind of like fight spam and DoS things. So hopefully that gives you an overview of how, you know, I'm thinking about Mev at l one, l two, how I think about spam and all that sort of stuff. It's definitely something that the l two teams are going to have to think long, think long and hard about. And it's going to be a balance that needs to be struck between, you know, how low the fees are and protecting against spam and DOS.
00:44:41.422 - 00:45:38.414, Speaker A: But I do think eventually fees for end users are just going to be zero in the interface and they're going to be hidden, so to speak, where the fees will be still collected and paid, but the end users will pay them not through quote unquote, gas fees, but through trading fees, marketplace fees if they're doing nft stuff, other sorts of fees that are just like part of using a service. This already happens on immutable x, by the way. The end user pays zero gas fees, but you pay marketplace fees, you pay minting fees, you pay blah blah blah fees, and that goes to immutable. They pay the gas fees for you and all's well and dandy. So I think that's what's going to be kind of like the end state for these l two s, because if we want to scale this to the world, you can't have these extra kind of like in your face gas fees in the, in the transaction flow, you have to abstract them away. And the easiest way to do that is to basically have the l two operators pay it, pay it for users, but make up for it in other kind of like ways there. So hopefully that gives you an overview there.
00:45:38.414 - 00:46:09.014, Speaker A: So I got a question from the audience, from Tobko. Hopefully I said that, right? I'm inviting you up on stage here. Just gotta accept my invite there, Tom. Nope. Okay. Maybe he's AFK or something like that. All good.
00:46:09.014 - 00:46:43.812, Speaker A: All right, while we're waiting for them, I'll continue through my list here of questions. All right. One here from yawn the faun or Dom? No, I think Dom's first. Yeah, one here from Dom. First, I have a few friends who tell me that even if the web3 utopia happens, the power structure would only shift from shareholders who have the most money to people who have the most coins. With regards to what happens to a project and how the value is shifted around that is that nothing would fundamentally, truly change and things would still be terrible, just in a slightly different way. I have my own answers to these claims, but would love to hear your thoughts to see if I'm missing anything.
00:46:43.812 - 00:47:34.164, Speaker A: So I would love to hear your answers to this if you want to kind of like follow this up in the Discord channel later on. But I guess, like, my answer is maybe multifaceted here. The first thing I would say is that I think building on a strong, decentralized and secure base layer is of utmost importance. And I've mentioned this before, without a strong foundation, everything else built on top tends to fall apart. So, for example, Ethereum layer one is a strong foundation to build on, right. You have relative certainty that it's not going to fall apart, that the network is stewarded by a vast and large worldwide community of thousands, tens of thousands of people who deeply care about the technology. You have a set of developers, core developers, otherwise, that deeply care about the Ethereum chain and making sure that it is long term, sustainable and healthy.
00:47:34.164 - 00:48:16.014, Speaker A: And you have a general culture of sustainability as well. So you can be really, you know, you can be very, very certain or relative, relatively certain compared to other things that ethereum is going to. Ethereum layer one is going to stay decentralized and secure. And also Ethereum layer one hasn't got on chain governance, so there is no people with the most coins being able to mess with the chain, and miners can't really do anything, stakers won't be able to do much. Ethereum being truly decentralized actually means something when you think about these questions. It means that no one actor or group or party can actually influence the network in kind of like a authoritarian way. Right? As, just use an example there.
00:48:16.014 - 00:48:47.596, Speaker A: For example, even the core devs can't do this. If the core devs put an EIp forward and it was a really shitty eIp, the whole community would come together and say it was a really shitty aip. Like, they're not going to just say, oh, yeah, this, this EIP from these cordes, that makes, that makes total sense, even though, like, it's, it's absolutely terrible for the chain. For. Let me give an example here of a terrible aip. Let's increase the ETH issuance by 10% a year, right? Let's say for some reason, the core devs all agreed to do this, which, I mean, I don't think they would, but let's just entertain this for this example. Let's say they all agreed.
00:48:47.596 - 00:49:10.590, Speaker A: Here's this EIP. We're going to increase ETH issuance 10% a year. Our reasoning is that we think that ETH should be much more inflationary, and that's that. Well, you're going to get pushback from pretty much everyone in the Ethereum community, because, one, it goes against precedent. Two, it makes zero sense to do this. Three, there is a defined roadmap for ETH issuance. You know, post merge, there is an issuance schedule that is variable based on how much ETH is staked.
00:49:10.590 - 00:49:46.326, Speaker A: We have the burn to offset that issuance. And everyone in the Ethereum, well, most people in the Ethereum community agree that ETH being a deflationary asset is desirable. So that's an example of some, something happening where even the core devs can't put in stuff that would adversely affect the network into, into Ethereum, that'd get pushed back on it, and the whole community would rally against them on that. I don't think they'd ever do that, to be honest. But, you know, just, just to say that. But I think it's a, it's a good example to illustrate my points. But then on to, I guess, like above Ethereum layer one, whether that be the apps built on top of it, or Altoos or anything like that.
00:49:46.326 - 00:50:59.286, Speaker A: Anything with, with coin vote, you know, coin voted governance or coin holder governance. I do think that your friend may have a point with regards to things centralizing around a small group of people, because this is why I've always been very bearish on, on chain governance for layer ones is that it will always, in my mind, devolve into a plutocracy, especially if that chain is being run as a deposit system or a delegated proof of stake system. I think the default and the incentives all just point towards that chain becoming a plutocracy. But when it comes to the applications built on top of, the good thing about the applications is that they're kind of like. I mean, they do talk to each other, but they can be isolated. So, for example, if an app on Ethereum, whether that be a big or small app, was to get taken over in a hostile takeover and everyone was trying to enrich themselves, the community would basically come together and fork that off, right, and either fork the project or remove their liquidity from the project or abandon the project really quickly and go to somewhere else. But if this happened on ethereum layer one, the only place that they could go to is one of these competing l one ecosystems, and that's a much harder switching costs.
00:50:59.286 - 00:51:30.426, Speaker A: Like the switching costs from going from Ethereum l one to another chain is massive, as opposed to going from an app to an app. We saw, like, little bits of this play out with the Uniswap and Sushiswap stuff, because originally Sushiswap said that they were created because they didn't like that Uniswap raised them. Vc's. It didn't feel like a community oriented thing, so they forked off. And then you had all the drama around it. But, you know, now Uniswap is still much bigger than Sushiswap because they haven't done anything to adversely affect the running of the protocol yet. Right.
00:51:30.426 - 00:52:10.216, Speaker A: It could happen in the future, but up until this point, Uniswap has been run really well. They've done major releases like v three, which is, you know, just killing the game. They recently did their 0.01% stablecoin feed pool, which seems to be killing the game as well. So from that perspective, even though there may be, like, concentration in the coins and kind of like the quote unquote shareholders of Uniswap and of governance, one, they're limited in what they can do in Unisop's case, and two, it seems the community and people in general are fine with what with the way they're running things, but if they weren't, they could switch to something else. We have other amms out there. People could pull the liquidity from Uniswap, go somewhere else if they wanted to, and it'd all be well and fine there.
00:52:10.216 - 00:52:58.984, Speaker A: So I think always splitting up the foundations from what's built on top is critically important because, as I've used the analogy before, you know, if you have a building, you build the foundations, and the foundations need to be the strongest thing of that building. Because if they're not, doesn't matter what you build on top, everything comes coming, crashing down. If the foundations break, it doesn't matter how fancy, you know, floor ten is, or how fancy floor 20 is. If the foundation is weak, the whole building comes down together, and there's nothing those floors can do to protect themselves. Whereas on Ethereum, you can have really good certainty around the fact that Ethereum as a base layer is not going to screw over your project. It doesn't have coin holder voting. There's no one that can do a hostile takeover of Ethereum, or at least it's near impossible to do a hostile takeover of Ethereum or anything like that.
00:52:58.984 - 00:53:32.760, Speaker A: And then the apps built on top, well, they have to earn that right, even if they have coin holder voting, they have to kind of show over time that they're not going to adversely affect. They're kind of like users of their app through on chain governance. But at the same time, it's limited, right? The damage is limited. If they do that, the damage doesn't spread to everywhere else. There's been multiple examples in Defi of projects that have had really bad governance or have had really bad, you know, teams running the project and the project falls apart completely. But that doesn't really adversely affect the other kind of projects on the network. It doesn't really affect Ethereum at all.
00:53:32.760 - 00:53:55.146, Speaker A: Ethereum keeps chugging. Ethereum as a protocol, doesn't actually care what's happening on its network. That's the beautiful thing about Ethereum, is that everything to the Ethereum protocol is the same. As long as it's following the Ethereum protocol specification and the rules, the Ethereum protocol doesn't care what you're doing on it. So if a project fails, Ethereum says nothing. It doesn't even notice that a project failed. It just keeps producing blocks every 13 seconds.
00:53:55.146 - 00:54:35.368, Speaker A: And there's nothing that anyone can do to change that, unless the whole community came together to change the base layer. But that's why having a fundamentally strong base layer is so important, so that these apps can be built on top, they can experiment, they can have these on chain governance things, and if they fail, it's okay, let's just move on to the next thing. And with Defi, things are obviously more interconnected and something as big as uniswap or maker Dao failing would send kind of like ripple effects across the ecosystem. But the thing is, Ethereum would still be able to recover from this because the Ethereum network, as I said, would still keep chugging. It would just require the app layer to kind of like, navigate around this. And we can, because everything's transparent. We can see everything that's happening.
00:54:35.368 - 00:55:17.140, Speaker A: No one can do things behind closed doors, because to do anything, you have to do it on chain, where everything's transparent. So that's another kind of like, key aspect to it as well. Where, you know, in, in companies, in centralized companies, you know, you, you can't really see what's going on, like, most of the time at all. Like, you can't see what, what changes are being made. Usually you have to wait till, like, the quarterly reports to see things as a shareholder, whereas on Ethereum, there's no such thing as a quarterly report. There's a every second report or every millisecond. Like, you can always look at the chain, you can always check the chain, you can always see what's going on at 24/7 so that radical transparency just adds another layer on top that allows you to basically have better guarantees around things.
00:55:17.140 - 00:56:09.860, Speaker A: Even though there may be concentration of coins for different various defi apps using on chain governance. But I think that only works at the app layer. The base layer doesn't work for. Because if the base layer is centralized, if it's. If it turns into plotagraphy, then you have very little wiggle room there, because essentially the base layer affects everything else built on top of it. And that everything else, you know, has to either migrate off of the base layout, which can be very painful, to do that to another base layer and build up a network effects there, and maybe compete with other projects there, or, you know, they could run the risk of something bad happening to their app, because the runners of the layer one chain want to do something to that app, something malicious to it, and then the chain doesn't become credibly neutral anymore, which is something that I've written about in the past as well. So maybe that's a long winded answer, but hopefully that answers your question there.
00:56:09.860 - 00:56:52.326, Speaker A: Dom, going to take a quick drink break. One sec, guys. All right, onto the next question from yawn, the faun who asks, just for fun, say you fall into a wormhole and get spit out. In January 2023, you go to check coinmarketcap. What do you see in the top ten and in roughly what order? This is a really fun question. Because if I'm being honest, every time I've tried to predict what the top ten is going to look like, it has completely failed. I don't think anyone can predict what the top ten is going to look like simply because the top ten is like, I've thought about this a lot.
00:56:52.326 - 00:57:23.180, Speaker A: The top ten for me is like this zone of, like, memes. That's what it is. Because if you look at the top ten over the years and how it's changed, what gets in there, a lot of the time has to do with, like, memes and attention. We had dogecoin in there, we had shib in there, we had Cardano at number three. It's now number six. That was all memes, right? And then they launched smart contracts and people realized that Cardano actually wasn't going to kill Aetherium. I guess, like, most people knew this already, but there was kind of like the fanboys and then you had, like, other things going there.
00:57:23.180 - 00:57:44.020, Speaker A: Like, litecoin was in there for a while. Litecoin is now, what, 16? I'm just looking at the list here on my, on my, my screen. And then, you know, Solana wasn't in there until recently. You have stable coins in there. I mean, if you remove the stable coins, XRP was at number three. Now it's number seven. You know, if you had told me that XRP would still be in the top ten in November 2021, I would have called you crazy.
00:57:44.020 - 00:58:18.334, Speaker A: But here we are, right? It's there. If you told me that Cardano would get to number three, would have called you crazy. You know, you just look at these sorts of things. It's just like, it's really insane. Dogecoin and Shib, if you told me they'd be in the top ten, I would have called you crazy. So I just don't have any predictions around this except that I believe, maybe I regret saying this, but I believe that there's a high chance ETH will be number one in January 2023 and bitcoin will be number two or lower than number two. Maybe that's controversial for me to say, maybe not for this crowd, but in general, maybe it is.
00:58:18.334 - 00:58:44.794, Speaker A: But I think that ETH has a shot at flipping BTC before the merge. Now, whether this is a temporary flip or a permanent flip is another thing. It's probably going to be temporary to start because of just the way the markets work. It's going to be a big deal when it happens, of course, but in terms of, like, long term, I mean, the merge, if you say the merge happens in June 2022. Then there's still another like six, seven months for ETH to get back to number one if it. If it falls. But it depends on what the market's doing.
00:58:44.794 - 00:59:10.278, Speaker A: Like are we in a bear market then it's kind of really hard to tell. But that's the only thing I could really say with relative certainty. The rest of it, you know, top ten could look completely different to what it is right now. I actually thought like the beginning of this year, that the top ten top 20 would consist mainly of Defi tokens by the end of this year. That was one of my predictions. I got that wildly wrong because Defi tokens have actually been one of the worst performers of this year. Most of them, at least some of them have done well.
00:59:10.278 - 00:59:34.262, Speaker A: But, you know, the 1.0 quote, quote unquote 1.0 tokens that people like to talk about, they have done really poorly, especially against ETH. I didn't see that coming. I thought that would be, that would actually do very well. And another thing I didn't see coming was like, the l one s pumping. And, you know, in hindsight, I should have seen this coming because of the high fees, but I didn't realize how aggressive these l one s would be with their liquidity mining programs and their incentive programs.
00:59:34.262 - 01:00:04.338, Speaker A: So, you know, as I said, like, it's just too hard to tell what's going to happen with the top ten, top 20, top, top whatever. So I don't really have any predictions there, but I do think with relative certainty that ETH will be number one by January 2023. I do. As I said, I do think it's going to happen before that leading up to the merge. I mean, if ETH was going to flip bitcoin at any time in its history, it would be leading up to the merge, because we have that massive issue introduction coming. We have ETH finally going to proof of stake, which has been a long time coming. And there's a very, very strong narrative around that.
01:00:04.338 - 01:00:33.220, Speaker A: And if you look at the ETH bitcoin ratio right now, the charts, just from a pure kind of technical perspective is extremely strong. I mean, ETH usually bleeds against bitcoin in q four and it's done that for the last six years, didn't do it this year. That's a huge precedent break there. And you're seeing the narrative shift right now. I mean, if you go on Twitter, go follow some traders, they're talking about this as well. It's just been in a constant uptrend and I think that's lot due to the fact that Ethereum has grown, you know, so rapidly. We have ERp 15 nine in place.
01:00:33.220 - 01:01:02.524, Speaker A: The scaling roadmap is coming to view, and people are like, well, okay, Ethereum is actually going to scale. It has solutions live today, and there's more coming. And everyone's talking about ZK stuff now and roll ups in general. So, you know, as I said, I. That's the only thing I can predict, is that I can. I can hope to predict is that I think that ETH will flip bitcoin before January 2023, and may even be number one in January 2023, as well as a permanent flip there. All right, onto one here from Zero X, Boomer.
01:01:02.524 - 01:01:47.314, Speaker A: Who asks, will optimistic Ross become extinct? If ZK tech really flourishes? It feels like all of the optimistic roll up l two s will be obsolete once ZK tech is generally available. If so, does that mean arbitrary optimism, et cetera, are gone, or do they migrate to generalized ZK roll up technology? So I think over the long term, the consensus that I've seen, at least for most people, is that optimistic roll ups will be obsolete eventually. Right. When we get those kind of, like, ZK evms, and we have them, like, on par with what optimistic roll ups can do today. We've battle tested them. They're safer and secure, then, yes, I do believe that ZK tech is going to eat everything in saying that there is still a lot of risks with ZK tech right now. Very untested.
01:01:47.314 - 01:02:14.374, Speaker A: The cryptography is very new. There's a lot of weird and wacky shit going on that people, you know, a lot of people look at and, like, how do you know, how does this work? I don't understand how this works because this is very new tech. So I would say that optimistic roll ups are going to be with us for. For a few years, at least, in terms of, like, availability and being used by different projects. And I. And, you know, the thing is, optimistic roll ups are very early still as well. So if optimistic roll ups are early, I would say ZK tech is still very, very early.
01:02:14.374 - 01:02:56.726, Speaker A: And there is a lot of hype for it. But I think the hype underestimates how kind of, like, difficult it is to do EVM stuff with this new technology because of the fact that it's so new that there's not really. To do EVM equivalents with ZK requires a lot more work than to do EVM equivalents with optimistic roll ups. So I think that optimistic roll ups work as, like, the next stage in the scaling journey. For ethereum, first we had side chains like the Polygon Pos chain, which, I mean, the Polygon Pos chain is hard to classify. It's not, you know, it's not technically a side chain, but it acts like a side chain, but it has other security guarantees. But in terms of, like, just EVM side chains in general, those have been kind of like, you know, went from ETH l one to EVM side chains.
01:02:56.726 - 01:03:26.534, Speaker A: Now it's swung back to roll ups. And I think that optimistic roll ups are what it's going to mostly swing back to because they're ready now. You can deploy apps there, you can use them. You can have the same experience as l one with cheaper fees. And as we progress through them, they're going to get even cheaper to use than they are right now. I know they're still a bit expensive, you know, four or $5 for a swap. We can hopefully get that down to under a dollar pretty quickly over the next maybe two, three months, depending on if call data compression is enabled and if this ERP goes through to reduce roll up costs by five times on l one.
01:03:26.534 - 01:04:03.400, Speaker A: But if we're talking like, you know, maybe two years, maybe could be less than two years. I don't know. But if we're talking about, like, two years out or something like that, two, three years out, I would be very surprised if ZK wasn't dominating everything at that point. And in that kind of, like, context, I would be very surprised if arbitram and optimism haven't also had ZK technology developed and put out into the wild as well. So, yeah, I don't think, just to summarize, optimistic rollups here to stay for the foreseeable future, don't think they're going to be obsoleted as quickly as people think they are. I think they serve a very good kind of, like, need right now. I think they, you know, they work right now.
01:04:03.400 - 01:04:35.244, Speaker A: They work to scale Ethereum right now. There's a lot of smart people working on them. And I think that the drawbacks people talk about are vastly over overstated at this point because the seven day withdrawal period, you know, for a long time, people were like, oh, this is kind of like a deal breaker. Now we have like, I don't know how many bridges. There's like ten of them at this point where you can go from an l two to an l one. We have arbitrum integration coming with, sorry, binance integrating arbitrum, and that became like a non issue right. So looking at it from that perspective, in that context, optimistic roll ups are not obsolete yet.
01:04:35.244 - 01:05:18.424, Speaker A: Probably will be eventually, but not for at least a couple of years, I believe. And that's going to give us another kind of like stepping stone to getting to the ultimate final boss. Or I guess like not boss, but like final form, which is ZK tech. And the way I kind of like think about it is if a theorem l one is like a 56k modem, and if optimistic roll ups are kind of like no, maybe Ethereum L1 is like is like dial up and optimistic roll ups are like broadband, then ZK is like fiber. So that's kind of like how I think about it in my head as a progressive, as a progression. Maybe Cardano is is 56k modem since they only can only do one transaction per block. But yeah, that's kind of like how I think about the scaling journey the Ethereum is currently going under.
01:05:18.424 - 01:05:34.024, Speaker A: And ETH l one feeds into all of this, of course, like sharding, people may be wondering about it. Sharding just works to enhance roll ups. It works for both optimistic and Zk roll ups. It doesn't matter which one they are. So that's all part of it. And same with like any changes on l one. It's all just to support the l two ecosystem.
01:05:34.024 - 01:06:05.446, Speaker A: So yeah, hopefully that covers your question there. Zero x boomers all right, one here from yawn the faun thoughts on shell protocol. Anything in particular that makes it special? So I heard about Shell protocol a while ago. For those who don't know what this is, it seems to be a kind of like stablecoin aggregator swap kind of like similar to curve. I haven't looked into it recently. I know that we're working on a v two. I don't know if that's live or anything, but yeah, I haven't checked in on it recently, so I don't really have much color to add here of why, what makes it special or anything like that, but if anyone else does.
01:06:05.446 - 01:06:39.062, Speaker A: Sorry, excuse me, if anyone else has looked into shell protocol, you can post about in the defi channel if you want to talk about it there. But yeah, sorry, I haven't really looked into it lately. All right, one here from Kushim who asks. Rocket pool finished their launch on November 22. If you had 28th but did not want to deal with the hardware side of running a node, would it be better to for the network to a use all nodes SaaS or software as a service to run your node or b simply stake 16 ETH to the protocol and receive ret in your wallet. Interested to hear your thoughts on this. I don't actually know what all nodes SAS is.
01:06:39.062 - 01:07:16.694, Speaker A: I'm assuming it's some kind of like service provider for running a node, maybe similar to something like DaP node or kind of like maybe something centralized. I haven't heard of it before. Sorry. But I would say that staking 16 ETH with rocket pool would probably be the better choice here because, I mean, rocket pool is trying to build and is building a decentralized staking network on top of Ethereum, right. So that people can stake with less than 32 ETH, of course. And you, from that kind of like vein, I would say that it's better to kind of like put your ETH in there, grow the rocket pool network, because it actually directly contributes to the decentralization of kind of like the beacon chain. So.
01:07:16.694 - 01:07:58.286, Speaker A: But as I said, I don't know much about all nodes. I don't know. Sorry, I don't know anything about all nodes, so I'm not, I don't know what I'm comparing rocket pool here to, but generally, you know, rocket pool is definitely a very, very good solution for, for staking with less than 32 ETH. All right, one here or two more here from yawn, the faun who asks you were talking about Unisop's low fee stable coin swap feature and mentioned that it had resulted in high trading volume. What does trading volume mean exactly? If you do a swap of one USDC for one die, does that transaction amount to a trading volume of $2? This is an interesting question because I've never thought about this before, but I'm going to, I'm going to assume it accounts for a trading volume of $2, right. Because it's a swap between $2. Right.
01:07:58.286 - 01:08:19.582, Speaker A: It's a swap between two stable coins, one and one. But I don't know. Actually, maybe I, maybe I'm wrong there. I should know the answer to this question, by the way. I've just never thought about it in this context before. Yeah, I mean, I assume that it would be like a trading volume of $2. Maybe I'm going to sound like a complete noob here by giving that answer, but yeah, I should definitely kind of like look into that.
01:08:19.582 - 01:09:02.724, Speaker A: Or maybe I'm brain fighting, but, but yeah, unfortunately, I don't know exactly how that's, how that's kind of like, counted because, you know, there are concerns about like wash trading and things like that and being able to fake volumes because you just like trade between yourself or trade between someone else and just like, keep trading the same thing in order to fake volumes. There are some ways to mitigate that or, sorry, some things that mitigate that, such as, like the trading fees on uniswap or the gas fees and stuff like that. But in terms of, like, counting the trading volume, I'm going to assume that it's. Yeah, I'm pretty confident that it would count it as kind of like $2 because it's like one USDC being traded for one die, you know, equals two. So I'm going to assume that. But if I'm wrong, then I have egg on my face. I'll admit that.
01:09:02.724 - 01:09:38.193, Speaker A: I'll take the l there. But, but, yeah, that's my kind of answer there. All right, next one. Next question you had was next year seems like the perfect storm of events to make 2022 the year of Ethereum, in particular, a successful merge combined with L two deployments, which would both simultaneously make ETH become low in supply, burned plus staked plus defi locked ETH and high in demand l two s enable low fees so that anyone can play on the network. Is it just me or do you also feel like 2022 is going to be bananas for ethereum? Not just you, my friend. I have been saying this for quite a while. I think, as I've been saying for a while, I think 2020.
01:09:38.193 - 01:10:09.524, Speaker A: Shoot, two is shaping up to be an absolutely amazing year for Ethereum because as you mentioned, we're going to have the merge. We're going to have l two deployments really ramp up. There's definitely going to be token incentives on these l two s 100%. Like, I have no doubt in my mind about that, that all the l two s are going to have tokens within six months. I put money, I'll put money on that. But, and, you know, Defi continuing to keep growing, nfts continue to, to keep growing, the merge leading to ETH becoming net deflationary all the time. Massive issue introduction, moving to proof of stake.
01:10:09.524 - 01:10:43.332, Speaker A: Finally, after six or seven years of being in research and development, and there's other upgrades that may be coming in 2022 as well, such as that EIP to lower gas fees for roll ups on L One. That's huge, by the way. Like that five times. That's an immediate five times increase in scalability for roll ups, as I mentioned on the refuel. Yeah, we really are. I mean, I've said this so many times, guys, we're at the golden age of Ethereum. If there was any period of a theorems life cycle to be in to experience like all of it and to experience the best things a theorem is going to have to offer.
01:10:43.332 - 01:11:33.800, Speaker A: It's right now, you know, obviously if you were earlier on, you could have like been there at the very beginning and that was, that was fun. That was obviously more, you know, that was obviously very profitable if you were there in 2019 buying Ethiopia kind of like in a very good position right now. But I think that we're really just getting to the point. As I said, we're going from like the dial up era to broadband with optimistic roll ups but, and then going to fiber with ZK stuff. But I do think that maybe the analogy doesn't work one to one. I do think that for most users going from l one to l two will feel like a fiber experience even with optimistic roll ups because l one is just so stupidly expensive. Right? Like I've been doing some trades lately and a bunch of other stuff and I'm spending so much gas on l one and, you know, I'm less sensitive to it just because of the position that I'm in.
01:11:33.800 - 01:12:06.090, Speaker A: But at the same time, even for me, I'm looking at it right now and I'm like, that's like ETH, right? That's not, that's not like a stable coin that I'm paying, that's ETH. And I have to, what I do is actually replenish my ETH. Every time I use it for gas fees, I buy it back on an exchange. But like I'm looking at that and I'm just like like so expensive. So, you know, I think l two is just like such a big deal in of itself. But then you have all this other stuff happening in Ethereum as well. So yeah, definitely agree with you that 2022 is going to be an absolutely amazing year for Ethereum.
01:12:06.090 - 01:12:27.322, Speaker A: It could be even more amazing than we even know because there are things that we probably can't even see that is going to happen. Right? Like for example, I didn't see NFTs blowing up as much as they did this year. I don't think anyone saw that happening. Maybe 2022 is the year of the daos and we have like so many daos everywhere. People are, you know, speculating here, speculating there. Norm is getting involved in daos. This stuff happens as air drops everywhere.
01:12:27.322 - 01:13:17.082, Speaker A: I mean it's been airdrops everywhere this year, but like more airdrops, you know, more money, who knows, right? Maybe nfts have another kind of like, go at it, and we have, like, different nfts that get popular. Maybe the. The art nfts get really popular this time or something, or maybe there's a use case that comes along that we haven't even thought of yet. There's all this stuff that could happen, but if you just look at the stuff that we can actually see coming and we see happening, it's already amazing. So the fact that we have all of that stuff that we know about and then all of the stuff that we don't know about that could happen in 2022, which, let's be honest, because there's so much experimentation going on, on Ethereum all the time, we're bound to see really, really cool stuff happen in 2022. And even, even, you know, beyond that, of course, I do truly believe that Ethereum in 2022 is going to be amazing. And I'm obviously going to be covering it every weekday on the refuel, and I can't wait to see what, what, what happens in 2022.
01:13:17.082 - 01:13:39.174, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, it's funny that I'm talking about 2022 as if it's something that's. That that's kind of like, in the distance, it's kind of, like really close, right? It's a month and a bit left of this year, and Christmas came around quickly. I was actually thinking about that today. I was thinking about, well, I have to put the Christmas tree up soon, so. So, yeah, anyway, that was a little bit of a tangent there. Yeah, definitely share your kind of, like, excitement. Yawn.
01:13:39.174 - 01:14:08.012, Speaker A: All right. One here from Tim J. Robinson, who asks, I've heard you mention that when the merge happens, the APy for ETH two node runners will go up. Do you have any details on what it will change to post merge? So it's hard to tell exactly what it's going to be post merge, but you can do some napkin math. Take the fees that aren't being burned right now, so the fees that are being paid to miners, calculate that. Annualize that, then annualize that, return for validators. Um, and then you'll get the Apy boost.
01:14:08.012 - 01:14:46.190, Speaker A: Justin Drake has a spreadsheet for this. I believe it might be on his Twitter somewhere. So if you want to kind of find that spreadsheet, you can go to his Twitter to find it. But that's how you would get the APY. The estimations from, I think, a few months ago was over 10% APY, and that then that would mean that, like, it'd be 5% from the block awards, 5% from the fees, but it's variable because fees obviously vary greatly throughout the year. So annualizing fear of a new for Ethereum is kind of hard because, you know, we had like less than ten gray transactions in June and then since like August, we've had like 100 plus consistent gray transactions. So like a ten times increase.
01:14:46.190 - 01:15:37.672, Speaker A: So it's very hard to annualize out fees. So it's very hard to kind of like know exactly what the APY is going to be on an annual, you know, for the whole year. It's going to be variable, of course, because of the fee revenue. But I would say that you can do like napkin math and just take a period of the year, say take like a three month period, average that out and then annualize it, and you can get like a rough estimate of what the APY will be post merge there. And then you had a second follow up question. Do you know if anyone has studied the possibility of mitigation of miners performing real attacks against Ethereum in a few days before the merge? As they have little incentive to act honestly, they could try malicious tactics. If they do do something malicious, can the ETH, two nodes that take over validation, do anything about it, or is the chain finalized on the merge switch over block? So this has been thought about a lot and actually this is one of the main things that the researchers and the client implementers have been thinking about with regards to the merge.
01:15:37.672 - 01:16:38.038, Speaker A: The solution presented itself as the merge block happens at a certain kind of like difficulty height. So there's no block number from, from kind of like from the current spec. From what I know, it's basically do the merge once these difficulty reaches a certain height. I mean, I can't remember the exact details, but this was a direct result of them realizing that, yes, there's kind of like bad incentive incentives for miners, you know, especially in the final hours leading up to the merge or at least the final days or weeks leading up to the merge for them to play games. I have talked about this before on the refuel, I think, but I basically said that I don't believe that miners are going to play these games regardless, because miners have known about this for a long time. All the big industrial miners are definitely preparing for this already, whether that's being hedging their exposure with their kind of like mining equipment or stacking their as much ETH as they can to be stakers, and a lot of them already are stakers. So for them to screw the merge would be screwing themselves a lot of the time as well.
01:16:38.038 - 01:17:28.348, Speaker A: So I just don't see any kind of attack happening. But obviously you always have to kind of like be prepared just in case something does. And that's why they've come to this conclusion of instead of doing it at a block number where everyone knows what when it would happen, you do it with like a target difficulty rate or mining difficulty rate, and then it can kind of be like pseudo randomized there. I may be butchering the explanation there about that. There are more details about that. If you go to like the merge details on the GitHub for the Ethereum GitHub, you can just google it and you'll be able to find some more details about that. So, and then I guess like your follow up question after that was, if they do do something malicious, can the ETH two nodes that take over validation do anything about it? Or is the chain finalized on the merge switch over blockchain? I don't think the chains finalize on the merge switch over block because finalization takes twelve minutes or 30 minutes.
01:17:28.348 - 01:17:48.828, Speaker A: Twelve minutes. Twelve minutes. So it would have to wait until kind of like that that happens there. But again, some of this stuff is in flux. So it may be worth checking out the repo and checking out the supporting documentation around the merge to see what the current kind of like thinking is around this from the researchers themselves. All right, next question. Another one from you on the phone question about token voting.
01:17:48.828 - 01:18:25.450, Speaker A: Currently, the general model is to wait. Voting power proportional to the amount of tokens owned, which concentrates voting power in the hands of the wealthy and creates dysfunctional scenario such as the one that played out in the recent liquidity mining on uniswap proposal. Wouldn't it be more democratic to have voting power, be one address, one vote with some thresholds to be able to vote, eg, holding some minimum amount of the governance token. So the reason why it's not done like this is because every ethereum address is anonymous or pseudonymous. You don't know. Anyone can spin up as many ethereum addresses as they want and they can act in any which way they want. And you have no idea who that is because there's no KYC, there's nothing to identify them or anything like that.
01:18:25.450 - 01:19:10.216, Speaker A: That's why it's kind of like gone towards coin holder voting, because that way you have like an on chain verifiable proof of what they're doing, right? Like, oh, sorry, what they hold and kind of like their voting power. I agree with you. It is not a great system. It's plutocratic, it's kind of like really shitty, as you mentioned, that uniswap liquidity mining proposal example, that was a shitty outcome. But to do the one address, one vote thing, you would have to have a way to do, to tag addresses and to make sure that it's done in a civil resistant way. The only way to do this in the, I mean, in a way that kind of like ensures as much civil resistance as possible is to id the address in some way. Now, there are things like that gitcoin have been, has been running, like proof of humanity.
01:19:10.216 - 01:19:37.778, Speaker A: There's a bunch of other things on there to verify yourself. There is kind of like taking the activity that the address has done over time. You know, maybe popes that they pops that they're holding, I should say, sorry, stuff like that. In order to identify an address and to make sure that that address is kind of like unique or a unique person without kind of like directly identifying that person, that presents its own challenges. Obviously, it's less scalable. It's kind of like hard to get everyone involved. It can be exclusionary.
01:19:37.778 - 01:20:23.198, Speaker A: So, you know, that's why we've still kind of like defaulted to this kind of like coin holder voting thing. And then you say, you know, can we do other thresholds, like holding some minimum amount of the governance token? No, because if someone has like 10,000 tokens, they can just split the tokens up into like 100 different addresses. If you have like a minimum of ten, sorry. If you have a minimum of 100 tokens per address, then they can just split up those hun, you know, 100 tokens from that 10,000 into, you know, 100 different addresses. So that doesn't work either. But civil resistance is a very, very hard problem. By the way, this isn't just a problem for crypto, this is a problem for like online in general, because you don't really, you know, you don't know, you don't know the person's identity, you don't know an IP address's identity unless you kind of like go through regular law, law channels.
01:20:23.198 - 01:20:48.500, Speaker A: But that's kind of like a whole process, you know, law enforcement channels and stuff like that. So you can't know, you can't really even do that with Ethereum addresses. So. So, yeah, it's something that's being worked on for sure, but hopefully that gives you a kind of like overview of the state of that. All right. One here from Fran who asks, can you explain why certain dapps only work with certain wallets? Most everything except metamask, but other wallets sometimes won't connect to a particular Dapp. As far as I know.
01:20:48.500 - 01:21:35.246, Speaker A: I'm not a developer here. As far as I know, the wallet has to add support for that app or the app has support for, for that wallet on, on their kind of like interface. This is why things like Wallet Connect are pretty popular, because Wallet Connect is basically a standard where if a website supports or web3 website or defi app or whatever supports Wallet Connect, then any other apps that support wallet Connect can interact with it. So that's why people are encouraging the apps to just integrate wallet connect. Because then you don't have to worry about doing a kind of wallet by wallet basis of integrations there. But as far as I know, every interface has to integrate a certain wallet so that it will work with, with their DAP. All right, one here from looking handsome, who says handheld follow up question regarding our 8th.
01:21:35.246 - 01:22:19.512, Speaker A: What's the downside of stock stacking our 8th on arbitrary? My assumption DCA australian dollars into crypto.com to stack our 8th by the arbitrary withdrawal gives you exposure to ETH appreciation plus 4% interest. Is this a viable alternative to services like Celsius for those who can't afford to stake with rocket pull on mainnet? Yes, definitely a viable alternative. I would say the only downside is the fact that arbitrum is more risky to use than ethereum layer one, because it's new arts, still got admin keys and centralization vectors, stuff like that. But generally, yeah, I don't think there's much downside there. There's, you know, as I said, there's just the risk aspect to it. Earning a nice 4% interest on, on ETH is, is great, right? Like, you know, and kind of like holding Ra to do that.
01:22:19.512 - 01:22:41.048, Speaker A: Great. And that's the whole point of rocketball, to give users exposure to staked ETH without having to kind of like stake either. You know, just being able to hold a token. So, see, I can't see any kind of like any downsides besides some added risk there, which obviously comes with everything that you use on chain. There's always risks everywhere. So as long as you understand that, then, yeah, you should be fine. All right.
01:22:41.048 - 01:23:33.574, Speaker A: One here from Brian Peace, who asks congrats on the one year anniversary of the daily way regarding validiums. What's the point of posting proofs on chain if coredata is kept off chain? If access to the core data is lost or censored, aren't the proofs basically worthless? In which case, why not just store everything off chain so no. So the, the reason why this isn't useless is because validium isn't the final form of off chain data volition is. And what the volition will enable you to do is to either run in validium mode or in roll up mode, or store your data wherever you want to store it. So, for example, the proof is still posted on chain under evolution model. But say you want to store the data yourself, you want to put it on your own computer and you'll be responsible for your own data. But say for some reason, you kind of like lose the data and you, and you have to kind of like get it back at some point in the future somehow.
01:23:33.574 - 01:24:09.738, Speaker A: Say you've lost it because you've accidentally deleted it and you're doing some data recovery, but that takes some time. Well, the thing is, is that you, just because the data is lost doesn't mean that the proofs are worthless. Because without the proofs being on chain, you wouldn't be able to get the, get kind of like your funds back, no matter what, even if you were able to achieve that data. But even in that kind of like aspect as well. Imagine that you've kind of like put your data on a data availability committee and they go offline and they run away with your data. But say someone else comes along and says, well, hey, like, I actually had this data, I was acting as a backup. You can download it from me.
01:24:09.738 - 01:24:43.662, Speaker A: If you just go to this kind of like, you know, you have this torrent and you download it like in a peer to peer fashion, then you get your data. Well, you know, you have the data now, the proofs are on chain, so you can just present the data to the chain and everything will be our well and good, and you'll be able to unlock your funds. So I don't think it's worthless to have the proofs on chain at all. I think it's, it's very necessary because, um. And I don't think you can store the proofs off chain, by the way, because for the, for the proofs, you actually need the chain to come to consensus on it. So it's actually impossible to have the proofs on chain. From what, from what I know, I may have to double check on that.
01:24:43.662 - 01:25:10.902, Speaker A: Maybe Paulina knows the answer, but I'm pretty certain that you actually can't have proofs on chain to begin with. But as I said, like, the other stuff still applies, where even if you could, it's just, it's not, you know, it doesn't make sense to do that. And it does, it's, it doesn't make it worthless. Just. Sorry, the proofs don't become worthless just because you lose data. You lose access to that data because you can always gain access to that data back. And then you have guarantees that the proofs are still there on layer one Ethereum.
01:25:10.902 - 01:26:01.746, Speaker A: Because for them to be lost on layer one Ethereum, the Ethereum chain would either have to go offline or get attacked to delete those proofs, which, you know, it's very obviously near impossible for that stuff to happen. So. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. But I think, like, the crux of the answer is that, like, the proofs, as far as I know, can't actually be off chain. They have to be on chain, because the proofs are what the, you know, validators or miners, whatever, come to consensus on when building the blocks and everything like that and securing things. And you had a follow up question here, Brian, or another question regarding Vitalik's suggestion to reduce gas costs for rollouts posting their proofs. Why not reduce gas costs for other transaction types, too? Could we reduce the gas required for sending funds from l one to l two? So Vitalik's proposal is to reduce a specific type of, kind of like opcode being the core data opcode.
01:26:01.746 - 01:26:31.082, Speaker A: As far as I understand it, this is very specific to rollups, because rollups use call data. I don't know if other kind of like smart contracts use it, but rollups use it heavily. I mean, all rollups use it. It's basically critical to their operation. And then, you know, and then that's kind of like, why the way it is. But in terms of other transaction types, if you reduce the gas required for sending funds from l one to l two, you can't actually do this because the chain doesn't know that you're sending funds from l one to l two. The chain just sees that you're sending funds to a smart contract.
01:26:31.082 - 01:27:23.682, Speaker A: So if you change the cost of sending funds to a smart contract, you change it for every smart contract, right? And, you know, you change it for like, like, literally every contract that's ever been kind of like deployed, kind of like on Ethereum. So that actually wouldn't help because it would actually just, it wouldn't just apply to altos, it would apply to everything. So that's why you can't do it there. I'm sure there are some opcodes that can be maybe fine tuned to allow cheaper sending. I mean, I actually think ETH costing 21,000 gas to send is probably too expensive. But at the same time, ETH is the kind of like, ETH sends is one of the most active kind of like, activities on the ethereum network. And gas costs are pretty much in place to make sure that the chain kind of sorry in place for various different things, but mostly to make sure the chain state doesn't blow too hard or like that, that too big of transactions can't, like push the network over or can't dos the network.
01:27:23.682 - 01:27:55.704, Speaker A: So there is kind of like a reasoning around this. But, yeah, it wouldn't be possible to reduce the gas cost of sending funds from l one to l two because sending to l two is just sending it to a smart contract. And to Ethereum, the smart contracts are all the same in terms of, like, how they're supposed to act based on their op codes. All right, last one on the sheet here from Hondas attack, who says, explain like I'm five Mev? Oh, explain like I'm five Mev. That's, I mean, I can explain that Mev, like you're 30, but like you're five. Hmm. Let me, let me quickly think of something.
01:27:55.704 - 01:28:40.884, Speaker A: If I was explaining mev to a five year old, if you want the literal kind of explanation to a five year old, I would maybe explain it in such a way where, imagine you're buying, okay, imagine there's an ice cream truck in your street, and they only have, like, five ice cream cones left, or ice creams left before they sell out. Now imagine there's a line of five people, and they're all going to go by the ice cream cone, right? But then a 6th person shows up. Well, there's only five ice creams. There's six people. So what does the 6th person do? Well, they cut the line. They buy an ice cream, and then the other four people buy their ice cream, but the fifth person doesn't get one. But then that, that 6th person comes along and says, hey, I'll give you an ice cream, but they'll sell it to you at like a 10% markup.
01:28:40.884 - 01:29:16.014, Speaker A: That is an example of front running, where the six person front ran, you know, the, the kind of, like, last person in the line there. Well, technically, they would front run the first person in the line, but let's just, for the sake of the argument, say they front ran the last person in line, and the last person ends up having to pay higher for their, for their ice cream than they otherwise would have because they got front run by the, you know, the 6th person. So that is my best explain, like, I'm five Mev, like, on. On the spot there. Hopefully that makes sense. But Mev. So, so that explains front running, which is just an elementary part of MeV.
01:29:16.014 - 01:30:01.606, Speaker A: MEV standing for minor extractable value is literally just like any value that can be extracted by the miner or the staker or kind of like the sequencer or anyone producing blocks ordering transactions. Now, this is going, like, this is not going to be explained like, I'm five anymore because I don't have something prepared to explain that come five. But essentially, that's what. That's what Mev is. So you can have, like, any type of Mev, whether it be like, back running, sandwich attacks and front running, or, you know, time banded attacks as well, which is time banded attacks basically got to do with reorgs, where essentially miners can, like, Reorg each other and then reorg each other again. And it's kind of like the chain seems to be doing kind of like time travel, so to speak. It gets really messy.
01:30:01.606 - 01:30:46.640, Speaker A: And really, it's really cool when you think about it, but this sort of stuff can happen, but there's, like, different incentives that are preventing it from happening. But I can't begin to explain, like, I'm five, that maybe not even explain, like, I'm 30 because I'm not an MEV expert, but. But, yeah, hopefully that kind of, like, explained it as well as I could on the spot. All right, I think there's a bunch more questions in the AMA series channel I'll get to now. So one here from Pakabo, who asks, what would be the TPS on ETH? Two, proof of stake without the roll ups and sharding the same as it is today, proof of stake doesn't increase scalability at all. Then there's no kind of like, TPS increase on layer one, ethereum with the merge, which is the proof of stake. Kind of like merge there and without roll ups and charting.
01:30:46.640 - 01:31:17.892, Speaker A: Yeah, it'd be the exact same. It is. It is today on layer one. One here from crumpy with something like polygon having multiple scaling solutions. What is the process of all these dapps already on the POS chain? Moving over to polygon, future ZK roll ups is the smooth and easy transition, or is this a burden in any way? They would just basically have to redeploy to these future ZK rollups just like they have to redeploy to other ecosystems. There's not really a simple way to yank your app and all the liquidity. I mean, there isn't really a way to do this at all, to yank your app and all your liquidity from one chain and put it on another.
01:31:17.892 - 01:31:44.684, Speaker A: Obviously, that is a very centralizing thing, too. So that obviously is not something that the teams want to do either, even if they have the ability to do so through a mo, through an admin key. So, yeah, it's basically just like migrating across one here from G 4D GMI. I want to get your opinion regarding om. I can't seem to understand how they get the insane apy. I won't give my opinion on arm because, like, it's a controversial thing where some people think it's a ponzi, some people think it's. It's not.
01:31:44.684 - 01:32:07.672, Speaker A: The reason why they can get that insane apy is because they do what's. It's not, it's not rebalancing, it's. Oh, man, what's, what's the thing called? Man, the words escaping me right now. Rebasing. Rebasing. That's what it's called. Because they do rebasing where they have like a target price that they want to get to and, and they rebase every so often to get to that target price.
01:32:07.672 - 01:32:37.274, Speaker A: And by rebasing, they give everyone else more tokens than what they had. And that feeds into the APY. But on top of that, they also kind of get the APY fed in from the trading fees because they do what's called protocol owned liquidity, where they buy their own liquidity shares and then, like, manage it themselves. And the APY, as far as I know, from the trading fees, goes to the arm stakers, but I think most of it comes from the rebasing. So hopefully that answers. That answers your question. The insane APY is actually like a.
01:32:37.274 - 01:33:06.796, Speaker A: I mean, it. There's a lot of risk attached there because what can end up happening is that these rebasing coins can death spiral, where people will sell them and then the price will dump and then it'll rebase, and then people will sell it again and rebase and sell it again. You know? You know what I mean? Like, it can death spiral, but it did it. I mean, it attempted to death spiral a few weeks ago, but then it kind of like, bounced back. But a lot of smart people think it's just going to eventually hit a point where it just. Death sprawls completely. I'm not convinced of that yet, but I'm not going to give my opinion on if I think it's a ponzi or not.
01:33:06.796 - 01:33:52.490, Speaker A: That's up to the. I think like the general viewer to decide that one here from Jima 888 is Wagmi or we going to make it legit or just marketing? What does making it look like? I think making it for most people looks like making enough money in order not to work a normal, kind of like full time, nine to five or quote unquote wage cuck job anymore. I think that's at least that's what making it was for me. And not just financially, but also a lot of people. It's also like, kind of like socially and professionally. So what I mean by that is having a career that they enjoy doing that allows them to kind of like, keep advancing and progressing, getting better at what they do. Grow their own kind of like social capital, grow their own community.
01:33:52.490 - 01:34:19.474, Speaker A: A lot of people have done this. I mean, speaking from personal experience here, I'm pretty, like, at this point in time, I'm pretty comfortable saying that I've done both. Like, I've made it both financially and kind of, like, socially and professionally. I'm doing what I love every single day. You know, everything that I do is growing. I have a great community of people that I managed to foster, which really, really makes me happy. And yeah, I can't really think of anything else that I would be doing that would need, that would make me more, make it.
01:34:19.474 - 01:34:42.184, Speaker A: I feel like I've already gotten to that point. So I think for, for most people, it's basically that. And I think just, you know, saying wa GMI is just kind of like a mantra that the crypto community uses to spread positive and good vibes around. You know, whether it be, if the price is going up or down, it doesn't really matter. It's just all about spreading good vibes. But I mean, everything is marketing when you really think about it. Everything's narratives, but there are good and bad narratives.
01:34:42.184 - 01:35:30.336, Speaker A: And I think that we're going to make it is a good narrative, but at the same time, it can be used in a bad way where people say we're going to make it, and then, like, they're just like dumping their tokens on you in the back room. Right? So if you just take it like, as like a high level, I think it's a good way to spread positive vibes around. All right, one here from dark light. One who asked, would it be better to invest in L2 coins such as matic than ETH? Talking about the long term, as most people will be interacting with a theorem through a roll up, it seems like that would pump the price of the L2 coins into the layer one coin. I'm sorry, dark lad, I'm going to give you the cop out answer of I don't give investment advice, so I'm not going to answer that question directly. And also I am an advisor to Polygon. I've invested in most of the l two s private rounds, so I have conflicts of interest out the ask here, so I'm not going to give you an answer.
01:35:30.336 - 01:35:56.674, Speaker A: But, you know, if you've listened to any of my content that I obviously am extremely bullish on ETH. I have said before that I don't believe that most things are going to outperform ETH over the long term. It does depend on your entry on things as well. But yeah, I can't give it direct investment advice here. I would suggest posting about this in the Discord channel somewhere. There's a lot of people looking at having the same questions as you in the community and talking about it. They might be able to give you like direct answers, but unfortunately I can't.
01:35:56.674 - 01:36:14.894, Speaker A: Um, just, I don't feel responsible giving it an answer to that question. So sorry about that. Uh uh, sorry. Don't feel comfortable giving an answer. They're not responsible. Uh, one here from Jan. What's something you changed your mind about in the last three months in the Ethereum space? Ah, this is, this is a good question.
01:36:14.894 - 01:36:57.236, Speaker A: You know, the funny thing is, I don't want to kind of like toot my own horn here, but a lot of the things that I've been talking about for a long time have basically come true. And I don't think I've missed the mark on a lot of things. As I said, I did kind of like earlier in the year, think that DeFi tokens would have performed a lot better than what they did. But that's like a market related thing, I think in terms of like fundamentals based stuff. In the last three months in the Ethereum space, I would actually know. This is one thing that I've been thinking about a lot lately, and this is probably just the last couple weeks. I think that the Ethereum space can be more pragmatic and sacrifice a little bit of short term, kind of like decentralization for growth.
01:36:57.236 - 01:37:24.268, Speaker A: Now what I mean by this is that obviously the fees are high on layer one Ethereum, because we want to keep the chain as decentralized as possible. We want users to be able to run nodes, you know, full nodes. We want people to be able to validate the chain on consumer hardware. But what is the use of allowing users to validate the chain of consumer hardware if they can't even afford to use the chain to begin with. Right. So there's that kind of like dichotomy there. And yes, I know I've said like plenty of times before that layer one is the settlement layer.
01:37:24.268 - 01:38:04.324, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that between now and when we get sharding L2, fees are still probably going to be relatively high, you know, or higher than what we would like them to be. So that's, you know, when Vitalik came along and basically proposed this thing of kind of like reducing the, the gas cost of call data in order to give us that scalability boost for roll ups. But in doing so, there is a consequence. The consequence being that the chain becomes harder to run because you're adding more kind of states to the chain. And in the worst case, I think it adds another. How much terabytes a year? Like a few terabytes a year? Three. I think it was three terabytes a year to the chain.
01:38:04.324 - 01:38:45.960, Speaker A: So it does make it harder to run the chain. But as the kind of trade off is that we get much better scalability for L2s. But I think it strikes a good balance. I think that, yes, that makes it harder to run the chain, but it allows L2s to have cheaper fees, which allows end users to have cheaper fees. And it basically allows them to use the kind of, use the chain again and basically migrate to roll ups faster and kind of like get people off layer one. And then in the kind of like longer term, in the longer term, when we get sharding and things like that, it becomes less of a concern. And then obviously we have like statelessness and state and state expiry or history expiry and other things going on with the chain as well to make it easier to run nodes and like clients and stuff.
01:38:45.960 - 01:39:43.904, Speaker A: But as I said, that's all like longer term stuff, like two, three years maybe, for most of that stuff to be rolled out. So from that perspective, I've changed my mind on the fact that I'm happy for us to sacrifice a little bit of kind of like decentralization in that it's going to become harder for users to run nodes if we do this eIp, that reduces the cost for roll ups, but we get a massive boost in scalability for roll ups, which to me is a fair trade. So that's what I've something I've changed my mind in the last three months, or probably just like the last week, to be honest, because I was very, I was a very ardent supporter of keeping layer one as maximally, kind of like decentralized as possible and easy to run as possible. But the argument around getting users to L2 and to use them as quickly as possible also fits into what I've been saying about we need to migrate everyone to L2. And if we can do that while only sacrificing a little bit of, you know, decentralization in the short term, then I'm happy to, happy for that to go ahead. So, so hopefully that answers your question, Jan. I think that's going to be it.
01:39:43.904 - 01:40:13.680, Speaker A: I know there's one here from, from Jima 888 that comes in again. Do you think that any of the crypto debt debit card offerings are worth considering versus normal off ramp to bank to my to bank? Any favorites? Um, I think that they are if you kind of care about, like, cash back and things like that. Like, I know that crypto.com has one and, but the thing is for, I think for the crypto.com, and they make you stake crow tokens, so you would actually have exposure to a token. I don't know how much they make you stake. I'm sure it's not a lot, but that's kind of like a risk that you have to take on.
01:40:13.680 - 01:40:34.728, Speaker A: You know, maybe the crow token falls in value and you lose money or whatever, but I've heard good things about the crypt.com one in terms of, like, cashback, but I'm not endorsing it. I haven't tried it myself. So don't take that as an endorsement, just, just as an example. And I think there's a bunch of others out there. If they do cash back, it might, you know, it's probably, it could be worth it, but I haven't tried any of them myself just yet, so. Sorry.
01:40:34.728 - 01:41:03.352, Speaker A: That answers your question, Jima, but I think that's going to be it, unless anyone else has a question in the audience. Otherwise, I'm going to wrap it up for today, so I'll give it a few seconds. Just raise your hand if you have a question. If not, I'm going to end it there. All right, well, that's it. Thank you, everyone, for tuning in to the 15th daily way AMA. I do these every two weeks, I think through the Christmas period.
01:41:03.352 - 01:41:23.584, Speaker A: I might not do another one of these for another month or so, maybe another five weeks till the new year, because I'm going to be busy moving into my new house. As you know, I announced on the refill the other day. And also it's Christmas time, so we'll see how I go. I'll announce it in the Discord Channel if it will be going ahead in two weeks. If not, expect a new one in the new year. But, yeah, thanks, everyone, for tuning in, and I'll see you in the Discord Channel.
