00:00:00.240 - 00:00:23.374, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliquary refuel, where you cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and the nazis are known as the 10 April 2024 all right everyone, let's get into it. So sorry for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. Another rug fuel. I hope you enjoyed the meme that I actually put in the deadly way Discord channel when I announced that I wasn't doing a refuel. Just something fun there to tide you over. But back today with a bunch of stuff to get through.
00:00:23.374 - 00:01:00.034, Speaker A: So first off, we're starting off with some new ETF news, I guess, or like rumors slash news, but generally it's not positive, I guess. But I'm going to talk through exactly what it is. So there's two tweets here. The first one comes from Nate. Actually, both of them come from Nate here, where he tweeted out several ETF issuers have met with the SEC with regards to the spot ETH ETF, but according to Barron's, which is a media website, those, and I quote, those discussions have largely been one sided without the agency giving companies critical feedback needed to finalize their products. End quotes. And the May 23 deadline is quickly approaching.
00:01:00.034 - 00:01:54.690, Speaker A: Now, of course, we all know that the main reason the Bloomberg guys are bearish on the ETH ETF's is because there hasn't been this back and forth. And as I've discussed before, I don't believe there really needs to be much back and forth because of the fact that the ETF is a copy paste of the BTC ETF. But at the same time, there has to be some back and forth, right? There has to be the paperwork done in time for these things to get approved on May 23. Now, Nate put out another tweet just today where he was quoting the Vanek CEO saying that they believe that the ETF will probably be rejected in May. And the full quote is, and this comes from the Vanex CEO where they say we were the first to file as well for Ethereum in the US and we and Ark invest Cathy Wood are kind of the first in line for May, I guess, to probably be rejected. So and then I think they continue it. Vanek CEO continues and says the way the legal process goes is the regulators will give you comments on your application.
00:01:54.690 - 00:02:37.282, Speaker A: And that happened for weeks and weeks before the bitcoin ETF's. And right now pins are dropping as far as Ethereum is concerned. And obviously using the pins are dropping to say that there's silence from the SEC on this. But as I just mentioned, you know, I know that this is obviously the Vaneck CEO, one of the issuers saying this, but as I just mentioned, like there doesn't seem to be any reason for that to be much back and forth here on this, but there is a deadline here. It's like mid to late April, I guess is like the deadline here in terms of just getting the paperwork done in time. So overall, you know, not bullish news, I guess, or not bullish approval news on this right now. It seems that the, you know, as I've said before, the market and in general, people have fully priced in a May 23 denial here from both from like a sentiment perspective, but also from a price perspective.
00:02:37.282 - 00:03:26.874, Speaker A: But at the same time, time, I think that either way it's going to be very interesting to see what happens on May 23. Right. Like as I've discussed before, and approval obviously is going to be super interesting because it'll be completely against the consensus take right now and it will be completely against, I guess, like what everyone has been saying for a few weeks now is that the ETF's are going to get denied based on the fact that there's not that back and forth with, with kind of the paperwork is not that back and forth between the issuers and the SEC, which would have implications for future ETF's, you know, crypto and non crypto, and how the SEC may be taking a different approach now to any ETF that looks and a little bit hyped up because I don't want to create a circus around it. They don't want to create noise around it. So that would be an interesting application there. And then, of course, it'll be interesting to see what kind of flows ETH gets because obviously Eric, one of the Bloomberg guys has said that he does. He leaves ethy small potatoes compared to BTC and the flows won't be that large.
00:03:26.874 - 00:04:10.602, Speaker A: So it'll be interesting to see if that is true or not. But then I think it's even more interesting to see what happens when the ETH ETF's get denied because it's going to be, I guess, like what reason is the SEC going to deny these things? Because there, as I've discussed before, the two main reasons that people think that the SEC are going to use is one, they're going to say that ETH is a security or they believe ETH is a security, or they're unsure of ETH status as a security or commodity. And because of that they are denying the ETF's or two, they deny based on weak correlation between spot and futures. Either of those reasons, to me, you know, scorched earth approach, very weak. They're going to get sued over it, you know, so on and so forth. But I think that's the way we're at right now. People are convinced that they're going to get denied and then just waiting for the reason as to why they're going to get denied here.
00:04:10.602 - 00:04:54.136, Speaker A: Like, what reason is the SEC going to use? Because that, again, has broad implications for all of crypto, basically. And it's broad implications from the, for the SEC, I think broad implications for Gensler, and we're going to see lawsuits following that. Of course. You know, no matter what reason they use to deny the ETH, I think there's going to be lawsuits regardless of the reasoning given here. But it's going to be interesting to, to see how that shakes out. And unfortunately, there's still six weeks left of this circus, and all of this could change, like, let's say in the next couple of weeks, we start, we start seeing some actual back and forth between the SEC and the issue is then all of this changes overnight, basically. And I think that people would immediately get bullish on the ETF's being approved because, as I said, the main reason that they're bearish on it is because there hasn't been this back and forth here, even though there kind of has been.
00:04:54.136 - 00:06:10.756, Speaker A: I mean, it's kind of funny that the, the issuers are actually meeting with the SEC and it's been one sided. So what does that mean actually look like? Do they just sit in the meeting and the SEC people just sit there and say nothing and just stare blankly at the walls or something? Like, I don't know what that actually means because it wasn't, uh, coming from, I guess, like anything but this, this media article here, which was based on, quote, unquote, sources, right. We all know what that means. You know, they're not going to reveal who their sources are here, but what does that mean actually look like? You know, is the SEC just completely stonewalling? Like, the issuers are kind of talking to them, saying, hey, you know, what do you need from us to get this over the line? And the SEC is just staring back at them with a blank face. Like, I can't imagine that's actually what's happening, but I'd be very curious to know what is happening there, you know, what the SEC is saying or what they're not saying because they can't really, you know, say things that they're not, you know, supposed to say or not allowed to say that it can't really confidence when there isn't confidence. But at the same time, are they taking this very kind of brutal and Stonewall approach because of the fact that they hated how the BTC ETF circus went, the fact that there was so much hype around it, so much media attention on it, and the fact that, you know, that you had the fake news from the Cointelegraph intern, and then you had the SEC's Twitter account getting hacked on January 9, you know, a day before the BTC ETF's were approved. You know, did that kind of like, stir the pot too much? Did that, did that wake up the hive too much and cause too much of a ruckus? And that's why they're being so stonewall about it.
00:06:10.756 - 00:06:36.372, Speaker A: So maybe that's opium. Some people will call that hopium. But I'm just trying to run through all of the different, I guess, like facets to this because there are so many different things that go into this because we're really just speculating on really nothing at the end of the day. We're speculating on little bits of information that we get here and there. We're speculating on what's happened in the past. We're speculating on people's different opinions on these things. And then ultimately we're speculating on what the market impact for ETH will be, whether it gets denied or approved.
00:06:36.372 - 00:06:57.528, Speaker A: I actually think both things are going to be bullish for ETH. I think the denial has been priced in already. So by the time it actually does get denied, I don't think there's going to be anyone left to sell, really. But then an approval will be a surprise as well. People will be like, oh, okay, they actually got approved. And that will be bullish, too, because no one was expecting that. So either way, I actually think it's going to be fine for ETH over, you know, I mean, maybe not immediately.
00:06:57.528 - 00:07:29.692, Speaker A: You know, obviously, traders do their thing. If it gets denied, traders are like, oh, time to short ETH. Right? Time to sell off ETH. But I don't think that's going to be a lasting thing at all. I really do think that, you know, in general, kind of ETH, the dial denial has been, you know, priced in at this point. And last thing I'll say on this with regards to market impact, if you go back and look at what happens to BTC before it even got an ETF it actually grew in market cap, the same size as eats market cap. So its mark cap went up by, you know, hundreds of billions of dollars, you know, basically the same size as its current market cap.
00:07:29.692 - 00:07:58.124, Speaker A: And that was not ETF flows. That was flows outside of the ETF. So anyone saying that, oh, ETH can't go up without the ETF, I think that's completely wrong. Ethan can very easily go up without the ETF. I mean, there are many, many different reasons people buy ETH and speculate on ETH and speculate on assets generally, but I think it's wrong to say that ETH can't go up without the ETF flows. Yes, it'll probably have a harder time, especially going up against, like, bitcoin, you know, the e BTC ratio and things like that. That may be harder because of the fact that it can't compete with BTC flows.
00:07:58.124 - 00:08:24.556, Speaker A: But at the same time, I don't think it needs an ETF to go to, like, that 1520k price that I've been saying this cycle. I think that it can go there just as easily with or without the ETF. The ETF is not just some magic money printer, guys. It's not some magic thing that's going to basically moon any asset that that kind of has an ETF. What it does is create a really bullish narrative. And as you saw the narrative trade play out of BTC, going from, like, twenty five k to, you know, whatever. It was like 50k or something before the ETF's were.
00:08:24.556 - 00:08:52.916, Speaker A: Were approved, maybe even higher than that. And you saw that kind of play out there, that was a doubling of BTC, at least that was a doubling of its market cap, which I went back and looked, I think was around $400 billion worth of market cap, which is its current market cap, I think. Yeah, its current market cap is about 420 billion. So when you look at it like that, yeah, I mean, there's plenty of money out there. There are plenty of money that speculates on things for different reasons. So that's my general view on the market impact there. But, yeah, another ten minutes of a refuel talking about the ETF's hope.
00:08:52.916 - 00:09:45.480, Speaker A: It was insightful, though, as usual. But as I said, we still have six weeks left of this circus, unfortunately, and I'll be covering it as best I can. I think it's just critically important to cover this stuff and to make sure people are educated on this. And, yeah, we'll see what happens over the next few weeks. All right, moving on to some Ethereum specific news on the technical side of things, Vitalik shared this ETH research post that was put together by Tony here, analyzing what we're calling correlated attestation penalties, which is a recent proposal from Vitalik, which, if you can scroll up to the top here, he proposed this about two weeks ago, where he titled this supporting decentralized staking through more anti correlation incentives. So you can go read this post for yourself. I think I may have highlighted it on the refill at the time, but the gist of this post is to basically try and identify which validators are part of pools and which validators are part, you know, are solo staking, which smaller operations, so on and so forth.
00:09:45.480 - 00:10:26.224, Speaker A: And the way that you would do this is by looking at the correlation kind of penalties between validators. So essentially, for example, if a validator was to miss an attestation, but then that validator is not alone, like, let's say, maybe a better way of explaining this is, let's say, you know, Coinbase is validators. They have 100,000 of them, whatever it is, and then one of them or a bunch of them miss attestations at the same time. Well, you can correlate that. You can basically say, okay, well, these validators are all part of the same node operator set. They're all run by the same person, because typically the validators will be run on the same full node or will be segmented into like certain chunks that will be run on the same full, no, you know, talking to the same full node and run on the same infrastructure. So essentially, you have a way to correlate there.
00:10:26.224 - 00:11:13.456, Speaker A: Whereas, for example, if my validators miss attestations, you can correlate that to me as a node operator. But, like, I don't have hundreds of thousands of validators, right? I mean, I wish I did, but I don't have that many validators. So you can basically say that, well, you know, it looks like this person is more of a solo staker because they've got tens of validators, or, you know, maybe less than ten validators, right? So they're a solo staker there. Whereas if you start seeing correlation between tens of thousands of validators and you could be like, okay, well, this is a staking pool, right? This is a staking service. So the whole idea is to use this information to potentially improve Ethereum's decentralization of their validator set and basically make it, you know, less punishing for solo stakers to be correlated and more punishing for pools to be correlated. So that's not at least that's my understanding of how this works here. Now, as I said, Vitalik proposed these two weeks ago.
00:11:13.456 - 00:11:45.352, Speaker A: It's just a proposal, it's not an EIP or anything like that. It's not a change that's going into the network anytime soon from what I've seen. But yeah, you can go read that proposal there. But then the analysis that Tony did was basically putting some hard numbers on this. And he's got a bunch of nice diagrams and charts that you can look at in this post, which I'll link in the description below. And from my understanding, basically what he showed is that metallic research was true. You can actually correlate, or you can actually basically study the data and see that when validators miss attestations, they tend to do it as part of a group.
00:11:45.352 - 00:12:20.874, Speaker A: So if the validators are all part of the same group, and they'll miss those same attestations based on the same kind of like, reasoning that the other ones missed attestations, they all kind of correlate there. So you can go check out the data for yourself. I mean, I'm still ingesting this overall. There are back, and I mean, there is back and forth on the thread about whether this is actually, you know, data that's good enough to identify these things, whether we should be using this to inform decisions around, you know, increasing penalties for pools or decreasing penalties for solo stakers and so on and so forth. There's lots of information here to unpack. There's lots of back and forth to unpack. And obviously, there's lots of different incentives at play as well.
00:12:20.874 - 00:13:19.544, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, the incentive for, I guess, like, bigger pools is to essentially cast doubt on this research and cast doubt on this generally. Because for them, if we were to implement something like this, it would basically make their overhead larger. So they would have to essentially, if they wanted to mitigate this, they would have to split up their staking operations into more segmented places. So, for example, right now, if Coinbase is running all of their staking on one data center or one kind of like, you know, AWS or Google cloud or whatever it is, they would have to change that and basically split that up and split that up into not just different cloud instances, but different kind of places altogether. So let's just say Coinbase was to run their validator, you know, a bunch of them in the US, a bunch of them in Europe, a bunch of them somewhere else, so that there wouldn't be that correlation between them there. Now, obviously, that's better for the decentralization of the network. And that tends to kind of, I guess like dissuade pooling of assets into just like one, you know, one place essentially.
00:13:19.544 - 00:13:42.640, Speaker A: So overall better for decentralization. But at the same time it does increase operator overhead. I mean not, probably not by that much, to be honest, but it does generally increase the overhead here. And then you think about the implications that it has when Max Eb goes live. Obviously with Max Eb going live, there's going to be a lot less validators on the network. So your correlation will be done based on less validators. So I mean it's based on the amount of ethaked as well.
00:13:42.640 - 00:14:29.326, Speaker A: Like obviously less validators. You know, once you consolidate with Max eBay, doesn't mean that the ETH stake is going to go down. Like if you have, you know, 32 ETH on ten validators, so 32 ETH each, on ten validators, you have 320 ETH total staked. And then you consolidate that down to one validator, you still have 320 ETH staked. So it would be based on, I imagine, the staked ETH and not so much the validators, the correlation penalties themselves. But then it becomes the question of, okay, what, what is that going to look like? Are people going to essentially forego consolidating because they want to be able to split up their operation more? Are they going to use DBT to split that up as well? Uh, that's at least from my understanding, but this is a very fresh kind of research proposal two weeks ago by Vitalik, and this analysis was only done today. So, yeah, I mean, that's my kind of, I guess like, um, I'll read on it.
00:14:29.326 - 00:15:29.396, Speaker A: And Tony's conclusion in his post was that implementing anti correlation penalties is a great way to counter economies of scale without requiring the protocol to differentiate between individual validators. While this analysis looked and, and staking at staking operators and consensus layer clients, there are many more properties to analyze, such as hardware setup, execution layer clients, geographical location, ISP provider, et cetera. Finally, anti correlation penalties are a great way to improve decentralization, and the Ethereum community should definitely, definitely consider it in future updates. I will talk to the first part of this where he said that it's basically a way to counter economies of scale. I think, I didn't really directly mention that, but I mean, that's one of the big points here, is that essentially staking pools have these economies of scale that they can take advantage of by basically centralizing all of their operations and this is a way to force them to decentralize their operations, force them to not use economies of scale to their advantage, which is a pretty good way to, I guess, like mitigate that. Sorry, it's a pretty good target to mitigate. But at the same time, I think the debate is around, you know, whether this actually mitigates it or not.
00:15:29.396 - 00:15:50.600, Speaker A: So we're going to be doing more analysis on this. It's going to be more data coming out, and there's going to be a lot of discussion around this. So I encourage getting involved in those discussions. If you're interested, if you're a solo staker as well, is definitely in your interest to do this. But great work here, both from obviously Vitalik, but also Tony, for putting data to this. All right, so a big day for Eigen layer. So they have launched their mainnet just randomly.
00:15:50.600 - 00:16:16.348, Speaker A: There's no announcement that it's coming soon or no announcement of a launch date. They've just launched it today. And with that came their flagship product, which is Eigen Da. So you can actually go to app Dot Eigenlayer, Dot XYZ, go to the AV's dashboard, and you can see that the currently live AV's is Eigen Da. And you can click into that and then you can see a bunch of stats around this. You can see the amount of ETH that they've got staked against the Eigen Da. The operators running the actual Eigen da.
00:16:16.348 - 00:16:58.932, Speaker A: Like they're all kind of listed here, you know, familiar names like peer to and I guess like all nodes and luganodes and stake. You've seen these across other private providers there. But yeah, I mean, the only AV's that's live today is Eigen Da. You can go to operators and you can see which operators are currently, are running on as part of Eigen Layer, which I spun up to run with Eigen layer. And then you've got the usual kind of dashboard and the restake dashboard here to restake, if you want to, as part of the Eigen layer effort here. But the full information about everything is in this Twitter thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. I'm very excited to see Eigen Da go live in particular, because I really want to see projects start utilizing Eigen Da and see how scalable they can become.
00:16:58.932 - 00:17:35.622, Speaker A: Because as you guys know, rollups use ethereum l one for da. They're currently using blobs. They were using core data, but with eigen da now L2s, as a general term, get to use a, you know, in my opinion, a very secure and very economically secure off chain da solution with Eigen da. Now, of course, if they're using off chain da, they are not. A roll up, like a roll up has a very strict definition that you have to use the same layer or the same settlement layer, the same root of trust for both your kind of proofs and your data, essentially. And I think that the layer true definition is a bit more loose about it. I know that some people disagree with me on this.
00:17:35.622 - 00:18:04.956, Speaker A: I think even Vitalik doesn't refer to what we call validiums as L2s. But validium is basically a construction that uses, you know, it still uses Ethereum L1 for its proofs, for its bridging and all that. But it uses a off chain or a non Ethereum l one data availability network. So there are many of these things. Obviously celestial went live recently, you have avail going live soon. Eigen Da went live today. You have data availability committees that are just made up of a bunch of permissions kind of operators that aren't part of any, any project here.
00:18:04.956 - 00:18:40.060, Speaker A: They're kind of like their own thing. But as I've discussed before, I truly believe that Eigen Da is the, I mean, it's not the gold standard. Ethereum l one DA is the gold standard, but Eigen DA is the next best thing. I do believe that the fact that it has, you know, similar node operators to what Ethereum has, it has 8th economic security behind it with restaked ETH. And at the end of the day, I think it's even more scalable than any of the other Da layers out there. Right now, I think that Eigen Da is the, the golden choice after ethereum l one for your da. Now, of course, Eigen Da because of the fact that it is, you know, purpose built to be a Da layer.
00:18:40.060 - 00:19:00.624, Speaker A: And it is not like Ethereum l one. It is not, you know, as limited as Ethereum L1. It has more throughput. It's going to offer cheaper costs on the DA side for these, I guess, l two s. But in saying that right now we aren't even at capacity for blobs, right. We were for a little bit because of blobscriptions or inscriptions on there. But right now we're not really our capacity on the Da side of things.
00:19:00.624 - 00:19:27.360, Speaker A: But that can change very, very quickly, obviously, with some of these more, I guess, like inherently scalable l two s, like eclipse going live. They're using the SVM, which can do, I guess, like more tps and more scalable than the current crop of EvM l two s. There's fluent, there's move. There's a bunch of them kind of going live here. They're not going to, as far as I kind of know, going to use blobs from the get go. They're going to use off chain da. And I think that they should be choosing Eigen da here.
00:19:27.360 - 00:19:56.128, Speaker A: I think that is the best solution for them or the best choice for them. And I'm great, you know, I'm very, very happy to see this all live here today because it now gives those, I guess, builders the option. So as I said, there's a long thread here from the Eigen layer account on Twitter that discusses exactly what went live today. There's no slashing live yet. I believe if you actually go, there's one tweet in particular where they say there's no slashing live. I'm trying to find the tweet here. Where is it? I should have had it up before, but yeah, there's no slashing live today.
00:19:56.128 - 00:20:24.256, Speaker A: None of that sort of stuff. And I think the yields are definitely not going to be, oh yeah, here they say it. This mainnet launch does not include in protocol payments from avss to operators and slashing. So we are allowing the Eigen layer marketplace to develop and stabilize before introducing in protocol payments and slashing to mainnet later this year. So essentially it's, I mean, it's basically in, in beta right now. This is not like, I mean, it's on Mainet, but it's not like a full kind of product launch. Uh, there's no, yeah, there's no payments from avss to operators right now.
00:20:24.256 - 00:21:02.734, Speaker A: And slashing isn't implemented at all. So it is that kind of soft main net launch that they're doing here in order to bootstrap this marketplace in order to bootstrap the Eigen layer ecosystem, which I think is a fair play. But yeah, if you are interested in, I guess, becoming an operator, you can register with Eigen layer and opt into running avss. If you are part of a pool such as like Etherfy or swell or you know, whoever else, they will be doing that on your behalf, they'll be coming operators of these, of Eigen layer on your behalf there. So you can kind of get involved and see what those are, what those communities are doing there. But yeah, anyway, you can go read this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:21:02.734 - 00:21:35.226, Speaker A: All right. Speaking of data, we have a nice little recap of EIP 4844 blobs one month on. Now, I did say to you guys that I'd love to see data coming as the months went on from when blobs went live because of the fact that we're not going to get good data unless we wait a while. And so we have really great data here. So Liam, who is one of the core people, as part of optimism, put out a tweet with four charts. So you can see here that the median gas, median gas fees have lowered by ten times from fifty cents to three cents. Blobs are meeting l two demand.
00:21:35.226 - 00:22:24.406, Speaker A: Despite inscriptions, the optimism collective profit is at record highs at l two s, seeing all time high record usage are five times in demand. Now, for anyone who's been following the refuel and anyone's been following, you know, a lot of people's tweets and cast on Farcaster there, this comes as no surprise to you and anyone who's been using these networks. I mean, you feel the cheaper fees, right? So overall, cheaper fees, more scalability, more usage, and just a huge boon to the ethereum ecosystem. And especially on the revenue side, which is something that people don't talk about a lot, these l two s are making a lot of revenue right now. Now, of course, that is because of the fact that we lowered the cost of data. And they're getting basically, I wouldn't call it like a rebate, but they're getting basically some kind of. It's maybe akin to like, tax incentives of, you know, when kind of governments give tax incentives to businesses to build within their kind of like, country or to build within.
00:22:24.406 - 00:22:51.236, Speaker A: Within a city, for example. And it's the same thing with ethereum. We're basically given like these, I guess, like incentives to the l two s to the roll ups to build and to scale up themselves because they've given them cheap da. So they don't have to worry about DA cost anymore. Now they have to worry about the execution layer side of things. So the scale up themselves, as we've seen, you know, base is doing, but arbitram is doing it as well with stylus, and there's a bunch of other ones doing it, too. So essentially it acts as like an economic stimulus package for these l two s, which has been great to see.
00:22:51.236 - 00:23:26.050, Speaker A: So I do expect those l two revenues to level out over time. I do expect them to still be high because the l two s are going to be capturing a lot of fear of a new from their users. But at the same time, the data costs are going to go up as well. They're not just going to be at rock bottom because as demand goes up on the execution side, the data consumption goes up on the, on the, on the blob side. And then eventually you reach a point where blobs start kicking in the usual fee market like they did when inscriptions was taking up a lot of blobs. And then we have to increase the blob capacity. So it is that, as I mentioned before, cat and mouse game of chasing data, chasing the execution, scaling and just basically ping ponging off of that there.
00:23:26.050 - 00:24:09.368, Speaker A: But you can go check out these charts for yourself. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do. So staying on the L2 topic, Jesse Pollack here tweeted out, or cast it out on Firecaster that there was a few minutes of 300 to 400 transactions per second on base with no issues. Now I do want to talk a little bit about this because I think that when he says no issues here, he's maybe being a little bit generous because there were a bunch of failed transactions in this. Now of course when you talk about failed transactions, uh, it's different to, I think, how Solana handles failed transactions. It's not an apples to apples comparison here. But at the end of the day, like when you're talking about real TPS that has been landed on chain, I don't think it was three to 400.
00:24:09.368 - 00:24:46.660, Speaker A: And also this is like extrapolating it out from a few minutes of activity, which probably isn't the best way to do this either. And this is again why TPS is a really, really shit measure of activity in my eyes. I don't think it's something that we should be targeting at all. I really think that overall we should be targeting the other metrics. Maybe, maybe not TVL because I also think TvL isn't great. But things like fear of a new for these l two s, which again isn't perfect, but it is a better metric, I believe than TPS gas used as well. And beyond that, like the active addresses on the network too, I know that doesn't map one to one with users, but like active addresses is still, I think, better than TPS overall.
00:24:46.660 - 00:25:24.368, Speaker A: I just don't think the TPS is the best metric out there. And I don't think that we can be kind of extrapolating, you know, three to 400 TPS from just a few minutes of activity. And then when you actually look at the real underlying landed on chain TPS, the actual process TPS is going to be lower than that because I think it's a bit hypocritical of the Ethereum ecosystem to, I don't know, make fun of Solana or say, oh, look at all the failed transactions on Solana. And then the Solana people trying to do mental gymnastics and say, well, we have failed transactions because we've got so much demand, when in reality it's just a lot of spam. I mean, you don't really, I mean, to me it's not like, it's not good demand. It's just like spam. Like, yes, okay, these are permissionless environments and anyone can, can do what they want on them.
00:25:24.368 - 00:25:55.134, Speaker A: But doesn't mean that us as humans have to value every, every little bit of activity the same way we can have subjective values about it. And at the end of the day, I think we can all agree that pure spam that adds no value to the network is, is useless and should not be encouraged on, even on a permissionless network. And we should find ways of mitigating that or making it costly to spam the network. I mean, we've already done that on Ethereum since day one. We have priority fees, right? We have a way to meter that where essentially, if you want to span the network, go ahead. It's a permissionless environment, but hey, you're going to pay for that. You know, you're going to, and you're going to pay dearly for that.
00:25:55.134 - 00:26:25.634, Speaker A: So l one deals with that with high fees and it kind of dissuades that. But when you come to l two, they now have to deal with the similar things that Solana has to deal with, wherein that they have cheap fees. So they're, they're, they're prone to spam or they're prone to, you know, failed transactions. So I don't think that we should be kind of a grave dancer or anything like that. As I've always said, l two s compete with these monolithic chains like Solana, like they are execution environments. L1 ethereum does not. So l one ethereum doesn't have to worry about those issues of spam and failed transactions because it's costly to do that.
00:26:25.634 - 00:27:33.016, Speaker A: But in the same vein, as I said, like, you can't be comparing Ethereum l one to Solana because ethereum l one is not an optimized execution environment, is not trying to be super scalable. You know, it does like 15 tps. I know I said that TPS isn't the best measure here, but that's like capacity for Ethereum I mean, I think if all of the transactions were ETH transfers, we could probably hit like 60 tps, right? So yeah, I mean, when you look at it from that perspective, if you want to use TPS as a metric here, there is a very strong kind of argument to be made around the fact that, you know, there's real TPS versus fake TPS or like, I guess like non on chain or non landed TPS and all that sorts of stuff. But yeah, I mean, the real issue at the end of the day is that when it's cost, when it doesn't cost much to spam, you're going to see spam, especially in an environment like a permissionless blockchain where there is financial incentive to spam. Because for example, if your trying to do Mev and then you're trying to beat all the other people trying to do Mev, and it's cheap for you to do that, you're just going to keep spamming the chain, which degrades the user experience for everyone. So I just think I wanted to make it clear that, you know, even though Solana is having these issues, it's not exclusive to Solana. It's going to happen on the l two s.
00:27:33.016 - 00:28:13.548, Speaker A: But again, this goes back to why I say that having an l one be a monolith and having to deal with these issues and try to scale up execution while keeping fees low at layer one. I've always believed for many years now this is the wrong approach, this is the wrong way of doing things. And I believe it's not sustainable or scalable long term. And I think I've been vindicated on that. I think that is playing out. And sure, they're going to implement fixes, they're going to implement ways of making the network better. But at the end of the day, I think it's a fundamental thing where essentially it's not really based on technicals, it's more based on the economics behind the game theory behind it, and the fact that even when it comes into the technicals, there is a kind of ceiling here on this, or there is kind of like a limit to this.
00:28:13.548 - 00:28:50.350, Speaker A: Whereas at the l two s, they do have to deal with this issue, but they deal with it in kind of like a contained way. Our one a theorem doesn't have to deal with this, it has to do with Mev, but it doesn't have to deal with the issue of spam because we have a mitigation there with high fees. Yes, there's a trade off here in that ethereum l one has high fees, but then the l two s all get to experiment on different ways of dealing with this sorts of stuff, all get to handle it in different ways. And then we have many l two. So it's not just like if you're on, you know, one of these l two s, you're trapped there basically. If it becomes, you know, if it becomes bogged down or if it becomes, or if it comes out that, okay, well, they can't scale because of some fundamental flaw or something like that. There are other experiments playing out.
00:28:50.350 - 00:29:25.170, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, in a properly constructed l two, you're always able to exit your funds on Mainnet. So from my understanding, even if you were to not be able to get your transactions through on the l two itself, because the sequences offline or getting spammed, you could still pay the fee on l one ethereum and do that. What is it called? Is that there's a technical term for it, escape hatch. You can still escape back to l one and get your funds out even in the worst case scenario. So that's a really unique and a nice property of roll ups here, but we'll have to see how this all plays out. Guys, I think that anyone claiming to have scaled at this point is lying. L two s, l one s doesn't matter.
00:29:25.170 - 00:29:47.528, Speaker A: We haven't scaled yet. We are in the process of scaling. We are at the start of the journey here and we're going to keep scaling from here. But all these grandiose promises of, you know, hundreds of thousands, millions of tps and all that, like, as I said before, narrative is narrative, reality is reality. And the reality is, is that none of this stuff is scalable. Still, right now we're in the process of doing it. Ethereum is doing it one way, other chains are doing it other ways, and we'll see which way wins out long term.
00:29:47.528 - 00:30:15.614, Speaker A: I mean, I truly believe that the Ethereum roll up centric roadmap, the modular approach, is the winner and will continue to be the winner from here going forward. But it's a winner in relation to the monolithic approach. It is not the winner in relation to what scale we need to be at yet. We still need to scale from here thousands of times. Guys like, there is still so much work to do, but I'm very confident that we're going to get there. So, yeah, anyway, just wanted to have a little bit of a rant about that one there. And last thing I wanted to highlight was just this video here that was shared by Taiki or Taki.
00:30:15.614 - 00:30:44.514, Speaker A: Sorry if I've said your name wrong there from this conference that took place in New York recently. So this is Nick Sherlock basically giving a seven minute spiel on what makes ETH and Ethereum valuable and what enables for tradfi institutions and institutional investors generally. I think this is a really great clip. It's probably not news to any of us, but I think that you should be sharing this clip with anyone that may be on the fence about Ethereum or Ethan doesn't understand it. This is really great. So definitely go watch this video if you haven't yet. Just wanted to give a shout out there.
00:30:44.514 - 00:30:55.074, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I think for today that's going to be it. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
