00:00:00.090 - 00:00:38.230, Speaker A: If you look at just traditional finance, the derivative market is between 40 to 80 times the size of the spot market. So that means any given day on Wall street, for every $1 that's traded with the spot market, there's $40 to $80 that are traded within the derivative market. And Lavana intends to capture that audience and that focus by providing an objectively better system for generating these leverage markets, literally for any asset that can be expressed with a price feed.
00:00:40.890 - 00:01:30.770, Speaker B: Hey everyone, welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm Defi dad here with nomadic from Fourth Revolution Capital. Today's show covers the fastest growing D five perps protocol on Cosmos with over 200 million in total trade volume. Called Levana Finance, Levana currently supports perps markets with up to 30 x leverage for major crypto assets such as wrapped bitcoin, ETH, and atom, as well as up to 100 x leverage for newly launched forex markets, including the euro and the british pound. In this episode, we'll interview Jonathan Keras, a core contributor at Lavana, about the promising traction they've found as the new Goto DFI derivatives trading app on Cosmos. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the edge podcast possible. For most of us, our crypto journey started with Metamask, and now with Metamask portfolio, we can do so much more.
00:01:30.770 - 00:02:08.678, Speaker B: Metamask portfolio puts you in control. Use the dashboard to see all your assets and balances across your wallets in one place. The buy feature allows us to buy crypto assets effortlessly with fiat options such as PayPal or credit card. The swap feature allows us to swap any tokens anytime by finding a selection of available rates. The bridge feature allows us to bridge between networks, including Ethereum L Ones and L two s, based on the best price and fastest delivery time. And with the stake feature, anyone in a few clicks can stake ETH and earn rewards. Do more in web three your way with a safe, simple, and convenient tool that's all in one place.
00:02:08.678 - 00:02:41.520, Speaker B: Track and manage your web three everything at Metamask IO portfolio, whether you're a trader, farmer, analyst, or newbie, you can trade smart with Kyberswap, the OG decentralized exchange and aggregator on 13 chains. Swap at the best rates farm with real yields, set limit orders, use their proprietary trading and AI tools with the best UX and DFI securely and permissionlessly. Get better rates, better opportunities, better alpha, and a better trading experience. Tradesmart now@kyberswap.com.
00:02:44.150 - 00:03:25.710, Speaker C: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multi chain uX. Redesigned from the ground up. The first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas one gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC and native access to Instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:03:26.450 - 00:03:34.194, Speaker B: All right, so let's introduce Jonathan Keras, a core contributor from Lavana Protocol. Jonathan, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:03:34.312 - 00:03:57.522, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you for having me. I lead communications at Levana. Levana is a Cosmos protocol which enables up to 100 x leverage on a lot of your favorite assets, including crypto forex, and is excited to expand to many other fields within the defi ecosystem.
00:03:57.666 - 00:04:39.858, Speaker B: Given your background as like a true crypto OG, I'm just excited to not only talk to you about Levana, but maybe also get your perspective as a builder in the midst of what we call like a crypto winter or crypto bear market. So we normally start with just a bit of your background. So I'd love to kind of get the highlights real of your career going all the way back to bitcoin. And then I might take at least a moment to just kind of get your perspective about why you still believe in crypto in 2023. But anyways, can we kind of start with the highlights real of your time in crypto?
00:04:39.954 - 00:05:47.914, Speaker A: Sure. So I first heard about bitcoin in 2011 when I was in college, and I had a college partner that I was going for a computer engineering degree at the Jerusalem College of Technology. And I had a fellow student that was very bullish on digital currency, bitcoin at the time. And so we set up a mining rig and we played around with it. I was very active in the torrenting space, and so I looked at bitcoin as a great way for reputation management within various servers, for distributed file sharing. And I didn't really see much economic value in the token or use beyond primarily illicit use cases at the time. And so I kind of shelved it and didn't really hold on to any bitcoin from that time period, which it didn't have much value at the time.
00:05:47.914 - 00:07:06.694, Speaker A: So easy come, easy go. And then I rediscovered it in 2016 after I had an exit from a web two company that I had built. And I was interested in acquiring gold coins, primarily just as an economic hedge against inflation and economic policy that I didn't agree with. And I found so much friction in the purchase of gold that just by one way or another, some of my coworkers were like, oh, why don't you just buy bitcoin? It's basically digital gold. And so I read the white paper, really fell in love with it, and the rest was history. By 2017, I had created a crypto hedge fund, a prop trading desk with one of my investors. And then in 2018, we formalized it, took on some outside capital, started investing in some early stage companies, made some seed investments, liking companies like Salana and near, and about 60 companies in total, or projects in total.
00:07:06.694 - 00:07:38.960, Speaker A: I think that's when you and I were introduced, was during that time period while I was working at that hedge fund. And then later I went on to participate in some specific projects. Badger Dow, probably about half a dozen or so projects. And nervous network was an early project. I was fans with urine Protocol. I was pretty early on. Makerdal, I was early on.
00:07:38.960 - 00:08:38.750, Speaker A: And then I found my way to Starkware, where I led business development. I brought about 300 or so companies through the door there. We closed with DydX, with so rare, God's unchained, immutable, diversify, argent wallet, unstoppable, a few other notable companies within the ethereum ecosystem. I was very early on to the Dow ecosystem. I joined the Lao and Metacartel, and probably at this point, about maybe 20 or so Dow infrastructures. And I left Darkware to join Delphi when they created Delphi Labs, and they kickstarted a few core projects for the terra ecosystem. And one of them was a derivative project which became Lavana.
00:08:38.750 - 00:09:52.630, Speaker A: And so that's how I got involved there. And Levana has been around for almost three years now. It's done a number of different projects, from the gamepa ecosystem to derivatives within options, derivatives within constant product, virtual amm perpetuals. And then now what we've released onto osmosis, which is a brand new type of perpetual product, which is super exciting and is far more capital efficient, lower fees, higher yield, far less risky than the majority of other perpetual products within the global crypto landscape. And we launched a little over two months ago, and we've seen about $200 million of trading volume. We've got about a dozen pairs that are live paired against crypto assets, paired against the US dollar. And we're really just excited about creating a system that can provide leverage to any asset, which that's the acronym for Lavana.
00:09:52.630 - 00:10:23.006, Speaker A: It means leverage, any asset. And we've got team members and contributors all over the world. We're a team of about a dozen today, and we're probably the fastest growing project within the cosmos ecosystem. And we just released our forex pairs, which have been wildly successful. And we're just excited to be able to continue to expand and to continue to be able to solve real world problems and offer real world yield.
00:10:23.118 - 00:11:18.262, Speaker B: One thing about your story, Jonathan, that has always been very striking for me. It's one of the lessons I've learned from being friends with you, getting to invest in projects that you work with. I think you've continually demonstrated that having an open mind, being very curious in what's the next sort of innovation in the space has served you well. There's a lot of friends of ours, mutual friends and other acquaintances that I'm sure we could call out, have missed the boat on a lot of the innovation in this space. For whatever reason, they chose to focus on just bitcoin or maybe some other ecosystem. And for me, it's been about continually being open minded to all of the cool things that are being built. And I think your highlights reel there very clearly covers that.
00:11:18.262 - 00:11:28.486, Speaker B: There's just so many projects that you've had a hand in and I'm sure have continued to inform the direction that you're taking with your own career.
00:11:28.598 - 00:12:03.374, Speaker A: Absolutely, I'm happy to talk about that. And I think that we're at such an infancy stage of crypto, and the general thesis of interoperable, non nation state driven financial systems is so innovative that the only way to maintain a competitive advantage in the space is to recognize your own humility and ignorance.
00:12:03.502 - 00:12:17.506, Speaker D: Jonathan, I want to get into Lavana protocol, and you've kind of touched on the various parts of it already, but if you were to explain it to the average defi user, what would be kind of like your elevator pitch? Like Lavana?
00:12:17.538 - 00:14:02.950, Speaker A: In a nutshell, Lavana enables the creation of leverage markets, which are significantly more capital efficient than spot markets for potentially any asset that can be expressed on a blockchain. It's a core defi primitive, which is designed to enable a flourishing of assets to be able to be expressed through financial services on blockchains with a like that we have never seen from any other product in the space. Our goal is the same disruption that uniswap created when it brought the automated market maker, and how it totally disrupted centralized exchanges. So Levana, with the ability to leverage any asset, intends to disrupt an even broader financial primitive, which is the derivative market. And if you look at just traditional finance, the derivative market is between 40 to 80 times the size of the spot market. So that means any given day on Wall street, for every $1 that's traded with the spot market, there's $40 to $80 that are traded within the derivative market. And Lavana intends to capture that audience and that focus by providing an objectively better system for generating these leverage markets, literally for any asset that can be expressed with a price feed.
00:14:03.110 - 00:14:17.898, Speaker B: Could we talk about that audience for Lavana? Like, what types of traders is it designed to cater to? Maybe what are some of the most common use cases for folks that are using Levana?
00:14:17.994 - 00:15:36.002, Speaker A: Sure. So we offer about a dozen markets today on cosmos, and we're deployed on three different chains, osmosis, say, and injective. And the most common use case is to get leverage exposure, meaning directional exposure with essentially borrowed assets, in order to create directional bets on the price movement of an underlying asset, whether that is a forex asset like the euro, or the great british pound, or bitcoin, or ethereum, or atom. And so I would really put it that we've got three different types of customers for the protocol. One, like I just described, has a concise opinion about the future of an asset. They think bitcoin is going to go up, and they want to be able to express that opinion in a capital efficient manner. So it's not capital efficient to just go out and buy bitcoin, because if you have $100 and you're really bullish on bitcoin, so then you can only express that through purchasing $100 of bitcoin.
00:15:36.002 - 00:16:27.946, Speaker A: If you want to get the stronger that you suspect that the price will move, that's not going to change your exposure. You can only go out and buy spot of 100 bitcoin. But within the derivative market with Lavana, we provide access to 30 x leverage today, and in the future it will be 50 x leverage, God willing. So that means that the more bullish that you are, the more that you can be exposed, and the more bearish that you are, the more bearish that you can be exposed. So our first customer on the protocol is a directional trader, and that could be expressed long or short. Now, our second customer is a little bit more nuanced. They want to actually hedge existing exposure that they have.
00:16:27.946 - 00:17:33.546, Speaker A: So let's say, for example, that you are a large holder of a staked asset. So that could be ethereum, that could be Solana, that could be dot from Polkadot, or that could be Adam from Cosmos. Now, you may be very happy with the rewards that you're getting through the validators as some type of distributed proof of stake. But you might not be totally happy with the directional exposure that you have to the underlying asset. So you can use hedging in the form of shorting to diminish your directional exposure to the asset, but at the same time continue to receive those rewards in terms of participating in consensus. So perpetuals is a great way to be able to minutely adjust your exposure to these directional assets in a cost effective manner. So that's our second type of user.
00:17:33.546 - 00:18:41.678, Speaker A: Now, our third type of user doesn't really necessarily have an opinion about whether or not in the short term an asset is going to go up or down. They just want to earn additional yield on that asset. So you might be a bitcoin holder, and you say, I have no idea where bitcoin is going to be in a month, or in three months, or in six months or in ten years, but ultimately I want to just stack SATs. I would just want more bitcoin. So Lavana enables a way where you can just deposit bitcoin. And I'll tell you right now, depositors of bitcoin are earning roughly 20% APR, no impermanent loss, you just deposit bitcoin on Lavana, and then you just earn every 6 seconds where there's a new block on osmosis that's been packaged onto the blockchain, you just earn your 20%, or almost 20% APR. So it becomes a great way to just allow to provide that liquidity for directional traders.
00:18:41.678 - 00:20:04.618, Speaker A: And you're essentially betting on the house, so to speak. And if you've ever been to a casino, and you look, my father always told me that if you go to a casino and you look at the nice tables, you see all the drinks that are being passed around, you see the nice outfits that the waiters and waitresses are wearing, and you ask yourself, who's paying for all of that? It's you that's sitting and making the directional bets on the slot machine, or the poker table, or blackjet, or roulette, et cetera. And so what Lavana offers is a really easy way for anybody to be able to play the house. And what's nice about Lavana, which differentiates us from many other perpetual swaps, is that we have exceptional protection for the house, which other perpetual swaps or leveraged traders don't have. And that's in the form of delta neutrality, that we aggressively provide services which bring the directional trading exposure back to delta neutral zero, which means that even if you are providing liquidity within the house, even if traders win, that isn't necessarily going to come from your pocket. Now, obviously there's risk. There's no way to get 20% apr on bitcoin without taking risk.
00:20:04.618 - 00:21:00.394, Speaker A: We provide 32% apr on atom. We've got about 5% APR on Dot, 30% apr on the Euro great british pound. I could go on the list of all of the assets, and I'm just reading from real time. And by the time that you record this or edit this or publish it, the numbers may be very different. But we provide the data, all the data that you would need as a liquidity provider to be able to make informed decisions, such as what is the delta neutrality between long and short? What's the current funding rate? What is the exposure? And so this way you can see, historically, has the house profited more than the traders, or vice versa? And what's your exposed risk so that you can make an informed decision as to where you want to deploy your capital for the long term?
00:21:00.522 - 00:21:20.114, Speaker B: So, going to this LP versus XLP, we have an option to basically earn more yield when we deposit one of those assets. Can you talk about what's the difference between the LP and XLP? What's the incentive design there, and how does that benefit Lavana?
00:21:20.242 - 00:22:27.382, Speaker A: So, Lavana has two types of liquidity positions. One is a fluid liquidity position, which can be unbonded instantly. And assuming that the pools are not at 100% utilization, similar to Ave or compound, you've got the ability to just withdraw your capital at any moment. Now, the XLP positions have an unbonding period of 45 days. And this is a linear unbonding period, which means that every block, which is roughly every 6 seconds, there's a little bit more of your tokens that during the unbonding period, become liquid. And halfway through the 45 day periods, half of your position is unbonded, and you're earning fees the entire time that you go through the unbonding period. But the motivation for the system to encourage people to get higher yield by committing to this 45 day period is that it simplifies a lot of the risk calculations, which is entirely on chain.
00:22:27.382 - 00:23:56.054, Speaker A: Within the smart contracts, there's really no off chain element that is sequencing or processing the orders or managing an order book or any of these things, which can be very easily gamed. So it's an entirely distributed system that runs within the cosmos ecosystem. And so the 45 day unbonding period for XLP holders really justifies the extra yield that they're entitled to, because it ensures that there's going to be the capital there which prevents insolvency. One of the problems that Lavonna came to solve, looking on the backs of many of these other leveraged trading platforms, both within DeFi and outside of DeFi, is that they all become insolvent. Anytime that your leverage trading platform needs an insurance fund means that fundamentally, on the math level, they're overexposing themselves, that there are ample scenarios where the system just becomes insolvent and then can result in a bank round, meaning that only a certain percentage of the participants are going to actually be able to withdraw their capital, and then the rest of them are, to speak, within less dignified company. They're totally effed. So we wanted to solve that at the protocol level.
00:23:56.054 - 00:25:54.702, Speaker A: And so that is part of the well funded model which separates Lavana from every other leverage trading protocol out there, whether it's on Wall street or on the crypto street. And we've enabled that through both locked capital and the fact that we limit the amount of open positions and the amount of total rewards or Max gains that a position could be entitled to at the time of a position opening. And you'll see this expressed in the UI, that when any individual opens a position on Lavada, they're going to identify what are the max gains that that position can be entitled to, and that's going to directly impact the fees that they pay to the protocol. So the tighter that you can, you can think of it almost like concentrated liquidity from Uniswap V three, you get better rewards by having a tighter range. So we've taken that concept and we brought it to leverage trading, that the tighter the rewards are that you have to your leverage trading, and it could be you have 100 x on euro, but if you put that take profit at $2, you're going to pay a drastically different price than if you were to pay for a $5 max gain position on that same trade. And we express this very transparently to the end user, where they can see when they create the position, exactly how much gains they'll be entitled to. Is it going to be ten X your collateral? Is it going to be 50 extra collateral? Is it going to be 100 extra collateral? And you will pay a very reasonable sum based on the amount of gains that you want to be entitled to.
00:25:54.836 - 00:26:41.930, Speaker D: Thanks for that rundown, Jonathan. That was actually my next question was to kind of go through some of the differentiators for Lavana defied Ad and I have talked to a number of different perps players in the space now we're both super bullish on where the perps market is going to go over this next hopeful bull run that we're about to go into. Fingers crossed, please, God. And it's cool to have them all on the pod. Like, we've talked to Gaines network, we went over GMXV two quinta polynomial. We just recently spoke to Contango, who has their own flavor of perps using looping under the hood. And everybody has their own kind of approach.
00:26:41.930 - 00:27:37.280, Speaker D: And I think what you've just ran through is very sound, starting from the foundational principles of insolvency, risk, and like, hey, is my capital safe? It's all well and good to take this role of being the house and walking through, oh, the house always wins and stuff, but at the end of the day, you want your capital to be safe still. So that's really nice to hear. One thing I would just love you to riff on just for a second. If we can be allowed to get bullish here, where do you think this perps market is going? Obviously, you're a builder in this space, but how big could it get for me? We've just seen very early product market fit here, and the l two s are just getting started. The app chains, you name it. So where's all this going?
00:27:37.650 - 00:28:25.242, Speaker A: Well, I think with a lot. We've built, our team over the last three years has built, I think, five or six leverage trading products. So we built the looping like you described. We built american options, we built european options, we built mark based Oracle perpetuals, we've built GMX style perpetuals. And all of that experience has really led us to the Magnum opus, which is this well funded model. And really it comes on the backbone. And really know, I'd say the gravesite of terra is that we went through the crash and death of the terra ecosystem.
00:28:25.242 - 00:29:17.754, Speaker A: And we started out by saying, we're not going to do that again. We're not going to build something that can fall apart because of infrastructure failure to that extent. So we didn't want to be dependent on any stablecoin. We didn't want to be dependent on a specific mark price. We wanted to be hyper capital efficient. We didn't want to be limited to certain pools. Like you look at the DyDX model, you look at the GNS model, you look at the GMX model, and they are severely limited to the extent of markets that they can deploy because they have tel risk and they have exposure, global exposure, to their entire ecosystem by whatever markets that they deploy.
00:29:17.754 - 00:30:04.942, Speaker A: And so that was not acceptable to our engineers, and we've got a phenomenal architect that came from. I mean, whatever. I don't need to dox him, but just a phenomenal mathematician. That has been the cornerstone that I've been so blessed to work with for the last two and a half years to really design this ecosystem that I take very little credit for. I just get to be the microphone to bring it to the world. And what we've seen is that we've set boundaries and expectations for ourselves that are far beyond what any other purps has made. And so we ask ourselves, let's model bitcoin to 100K.
00:30:04.942 - 00:31:07.886, Speaker A: Let's model bitcoin to 500K. What happens to the LPs? What happens to the traders? Does a bank run occur? Does insolvency occur? How big of an insurance fund do you need to really be able to handle bitcoin when it rips the way that we've seen it historically and that we expect it? And I am a bitcoin bull. I have metal plates buried in multiple locations for my grandchildren. I'm as all in as you can be all in in terms of expecting bitcoin to do its thing. And I fully expect to see the. I don't want to put doom and gloom, but I expect to see the collapse of the financial ecosystem that we all hold dear to our hearts and to our bank accounts. And we intend to build a system that's going to survive that crash.
00:31:07.886 - 00:31:45.306, Speaker A: Bitcoin is not going to become a million dollars because everything was just hunky dory. And what's going to be the price of a Coca Cola when bitcoin is a million dollars? It's going to suck. It's not going to be the $0.25 that you and I grew up with. And it's not even that today. We've seen inflation in our life. My father was sitting around the dinner table, and we were just rifting with his grandkids about how he paid a nickel to go to the movie theaters, and we're paying like $45 to go to the movie theaters.
00:31:45.306 - 00:32:31.654, Speaker A: It's ridiculous. And even just like the pre COVID price of assets, like the shrink fllation, how they put effort into hiding inflation, like you look at a Snickers today versus Snickers five years ago. It's a joke. It's like that. Remember the hungry? Why wait? It's like hungry. I'm going to have to buy three of you guys. And we don't live in a world where there is economic stability like there was even a few years ago, and with the global uncertainty of what we're experiencing today, we need to build a core financial primitive that's going to be able to survive the spikes and ebbs and flows that are not even speculation, that are just inevitable.
00:32:31.654 - 00:32:51.010, Speaker A: And we don't know. We can't put a point on the calendar of when this is going to happen, but we know it's going to happen. And so Lavana is designed to be a leverage protocol which will survive these crashes that our neighboring protocols are not designed to withstand.
00:32:51.590 - 00:33:17.190, Speaker D: I want to switch gears a little bit, because whenever we have a perps platform on the pod, we always want users to kind of walk away understanding the fee structure. So maybe you can just tell us, like, if we're going to set up a trade on Lavana, what sort of fees should we expect as a trader, whether it be a funding rate fee? Is there any other upfront fees? Maybe just walk us through how that works, Jonathan?
00:33:17.350 - 00:34:15.786, Speaker A: Sure. So there's a few different fees, and I'm actually just going to pull up the protocol. We have phenomenal transparency in terms of the fee structure. You can actually see in real time that the fees that you're either paying or have profited from because there are funding rates, there are delta neutrality fees, which can go negative. And in the case of negative fees, that means you actually made money. And we see a very prominent and lucrative use case where people are actually just making trades into the negative fee infrastructure and then just profiting from that. I was in Istanbul at Cosmoverse a few weeks ago and I sat with people that were like, yeah, I've made over $100,000 since you guys launched, which is like in the past two months just on negative fee infrastructure.
00:34:15.786 - 00:35:08.910, Speaker A: And I'm like, dude, can you build a defi protocol about that? And they're like, not yet. So we do expect there to be vaults and everything that mirror trade and perform these negative fee infrastructures. But one of the things that the majority of fees as what we've seen before, can be broken up into two sectors. So it's the funding rate which is just paid peer to peer. It's player versus player, where the popular side is paying the not popular side, and that's what keeps the system balanced. Along those lines, we've got delta neutrality fees, which are just one time payments. You can think of it as like an artificial slippage which benefits you if you open up a counter position bringing the system to delta neutrality or has an extra fee to prevent manipulation.
00:35:08.910 - 00:36:23.190, Speaker A: If you're trading in and out of the popular side of the trade. And then we've got the borrow fee, which is where you're borrowing against the liquidity providers, and that's like the bread and butter, because the more that you borrow against the LPs, the more that you need to incentivize them to provide capital. Now, one of the things that separates us from all other platforms is our take profit. That the closer that your take profit is to the current index price, the lower that your borrow fees are going to be. And you're not going to find this on any other perpetual swap, whether it's in CFI, on binance, whether it's in Tradefi on Wall street, your Charles Schwab account, et cetera, or whether it's on these other perp dexes like drift, or perpetual finance, DyDX, GMX, et cetera. So if you use Lavana as it was designed to be used, you're going to be paying drastically lower fees than what you're going to be paying on any other platform, because we incentivize solvency, and that's at a core principle. Now, in addition to that, you're going to be paying a trade fee, which is just on opening, it's like 0.1%
00:36:23.190 - 00:37:33.722, Speaker A: and that's just fixed. And then we've got something which is called the crank fee, which is, if you're familiar, you come from the days of like Makerdao, you're going to be familiar with incentivizing keeperbots. So these are off chain mechanisms which are permissionless and are constantly monitoring the health of the global ecosystem of the protocol. And anybody can build a crank bot. And we have now multiple, many participants that are cranking the system, which is just updating the onchain oracles, and we're primarily using pith for the oracle. So writing that to the blockchain which incurs blockchain fees, because it's write actions onto the chain, they're also just checking to see all open positions, if there's any liquidations that need to occur, or there's any trigger orders, such as limit orders, take profits, or stop losses that need to incur. And so the whole system is designed to encourage decentralized architecture, which means that we don't need to have that in many perpetual swaps.
00:37:33.722 - 00:37:56.286, Speaker A: You need to have a single off chain order book or sequencer, you need to have some type of packager of blocks or what order that the updates are going to occur. And so we just, from the get go, got rid of all of that Bs, because we wanted something that could just live purely on chain.
00:37:56.398 - 00:38:12.646, Speaker D: Awesome. And then a quick follow on this, kind of like a noob trader question. Say you have five x leverage. Are you to assume as a user then that you're kind of leveraging the funding rate by five x as well? While you're in that position, the funding.
00:38:12.678 - 00:39:04.022, Speaker A: Rate is paid out against your notional exposure. So it's a combination of your collateral plus your borrowed assets, which is expressed in the form of your leverage. So you are being exposed. Like for example, if your funding rate is negative, like, I'll just pull it up to look at some of these markets. So let's say, for example, that the atom market has shorts, have a funding rate of negative 14%. So if you go short on Adam, you're being paid 14%, and I'll just do a spot check on bitcoin is actually even better. You can get paid 28% APR to short bitcoin right now, and that's great.
00:39:04.022 - 00:39:38.190, Speaker A: And especially you don't even need to be directionally short to bitcoin because you could just do like a barbell strategy or cash and carrier basis, where I long bitcoin either through a spot or future or options market, and then I short it on Lavana, so I'm directionally neutral to the movement of bitcoin. Obviously you have to manage it because it's an active position and there's liquidation fears, but you can actually get paid that 28% to hold a bitcoin position, which is just unbelievable if you are even a moderately sophisticated user.
00:39:38.350 - 00:40:05.422, Speaker D: You just sparked my mind about something like, obviously we saw all these kind of third party platforms cropping up on top of GMX doing delta neutral strategies. Do you know of any, or are there protocols out there, like doing stuff or talking to you about building maybe exactly what you just said, like an automated delta neutral strategy on top of Levana, or is that anything you're thinking of doing in house?
00:40:05.556 - 00:40:48.202, Speaker A: Yeah, we've spoken to four independent teams that are actively building it. Two of them expressed it in the form of vaults that would be publicly available. The other two are doing it as part of their hedge funds prop trading operations. So they don't intend to release this alpha to the public, but we've actually created comprehensive API documentation with typescript sample code, which makes it rather trivial for any competent developer or chat GPT enthusiast to build trading strategies that interact with.
00:40:48.256 - 00:41:41.162, Speaker B: The lavana contracts that has been the ultimate alpha the last few months. Those first, just the passive yields on Levana, like being able to deposit a single asset like wrapped bitcoin on one of the supported cosmos chains and just passively earn from the net losses of traders. But then the alternative being just a little more sophisticated. I think as you pointed out, this isn't a super advanced strategy, but the example you gave where the funding rate is paying us to short bitcoin, that's such a beautiful setup for someone who, like myself, is super long bitcoin at all times and would like to hedge a bit. And now I'm actually being paid to hedge. I've still got to manage that position. I want to make sure that I mitigate my losses there.
00:41:41.162 - 00:42:11.622, Speaker B: But if I'm opening that as a hedge, it's a wonderful thing to be able to get paid. Just one caution there. Obviously, none of this is financial advice, and we want to be crystal clear. Those funding rates fluctuate a lot. So I've talked to countless friends and colleagues about great opportunities when the funding rate is paying one way or the other. But then you got to constantly monitor that because it can flip pretty quickly on you.
00:42:11.756 - 00:42:59.510, Speaker A: Also why we publish via API, which is available in our docs, all of the historical funding rates, so you can really track it, and you can really easily build a bot that's going to adjust your position based on not only the current funding rate, but also the trends of the funding rate. And I do want to caveat this, that none of this is available or recommended for Americans. Americans are protected by their government to the dangers of Defi and leverage trading. And if you are american, you should never use our system or intend to use your system, because the government has protected you from what we do.
00:42:59.660 - 00:43:05.286, Speaker B: And we are so grateful for that protection. I feel protected right now each and every day.
00:43:05.388 - 00:43:07.158, Speaker A: Yep. Bless America.
00:43:07.244 - 00:43:46.950, Speaker B: Jonathan, we've got two more questions for you. One of those being, I noticed that there's, I think, about nine trading pairs on Levana osmosis, two of which now are actually forex trading pairs. Those recently went live for the euro and for the british pound. What goes into listing a new perps market or a new trading pair? If you can tell us just a little bit about what does that process look like right now, and then what might it look like in the future, assuming that there will be some sort of tokenized governance?
00:43:47.290 - 00:44:38.114, Speaker A: So, great question. Under the hood, there's multiple systems that Lavana runs. So the first system we described was called the notional well funded perps, which is where you deposit bitcoin to provide collateral to go long or short. Bitcoin if you are an LP, you deposit bitcoin, you earn yield in bitcoin, it's real yield in bitcoin. And it's also worth noting that Lavana does not have a token yet. We are venture backed, and we do have intention someday to launch a governance token which will control what markets are deployed and how fees are set up and collected and distributed and things of that nature. But we're not there yet, and we have no exact time frame as to anything for a token launch.
00:44:38.114 - 00:46:02.618, Speaker A: But the second system that we've created is a synthetic system. So if we wanted to give inaccurate comparisons to other existing DeFi protocols, I'd say the first one we described is probably most closely described to GMX, but we're a drastic improvement on GMX. And then the second one is most closely described to GNS or gains network. But again, we're a much improved system of gains network as well. And so the second synthetic market allows for us to offer assets which are not locally available on the blockchain that we're deployed on, whether it's that they're just not blockchain assets like the great british pound, or the euro, or the yen, or soybeans, or gold, silver, titanium, et cetera, or they're just not bridged. So we have BNB, which is a popular asset which we recently deployed on Lavana. And the advantage there is that you can take USDC or other stablecoins and you can have them as cross collateral in order to be able to get exposure to these synthetic markets.
00:46:02.618 - 00:47:04.750, Speaker A: So as long as we have a price feed, which is available today. Twenty four seven. And we'll be updating it so we can support price feeds that are during Wall street working hours, like the yuan and the yen and soybeans and things like that, which are not 24/7 they're generally 21 five. So we'll be able to support those as well. That'll be coming in November, God willing. And the idea there is that there's many price exposures that cannot be readily expressed on chain through spot, and users want to be able to express them through the use of their stablecoins. Now, we lament that the majority of stablecoins today are centralized stablecoins, but the system that we've designed really could be implemented as a cross collateral asset, really, with any market.
00:47:04.750 - 00:48:16.406, Speaker A: And what we're most excited to bring to market is bitcoin, cross settled assets where you will actually be able to just deposit directly your bitcoin, which will be Segwit bitcoin Lightning network bitcoin or legacy bitcoin. And you'll be able to deposit it directly through a QR code. You'll be able to log in without having to download metamask or Kepler or anything else just through a social login, either through some type of cryptography or through a username and password of a single sign in, like your Gmail. It'll all be multiparty computation. It will be self custody. Like, we won't control your funds, nobody will have access to your funds, and you'll be able to use that bitcoin to be able to get exposure to forex assets like 100 x exposure on oil or other fun things like euro, and as I mentioned before, soybeans and other commodities or forex currencies. And it will all be through open source, peer to peer distributed systems.
00:48:16.406 - 00:48:24.922, Speaker A: That will be self custody, because ultimately that's where we feel like we provide the most value to the ecosystem.
00:48:25.066 - 00:49:14.734, Speaker D: That's really cool. I mean, as a guy that still stores native bitcoin on a ledger that can't do much with it, I think you're kind of speaking to people like me and then a lot of other bitcoiners out there that want to be able to do things. I know there's protocols like stacks trying to build for that future as well, but. Yeah, just good to hear. One thing you mentioned off the top that I want to just circle back to and maybe discuss a little bit more if you can. But understand that this is all evolving right now is the Lavana token. I listened to a recent Twitter spaces that you were on, and you were discussing kind of like different options, maybe not even doing a token, maybe something with the.
00:49:14.734 - 00:49:28.590, Speaker D: I think it was like the atom economic zone. You're kind of like running through some different ideas. Where's your head at today with thinking through this, this kind of like impending token?
00:49:30.050 - 00:49:35.702, Speaker A: Know, it's so funny, I didn't think anybody listened to that space, and we just kind of went wild with it.
00:49:35.756 - 00:49:36.520, Speaker D: Got you.
00:49:38.490 - 00:52:35.642, Speaker A: But I think there was like ten live listeners, so it's good to see that there's a long tail to these spaces. But one of my real inspirations as an entrepreneur leans back to jobs, and one of the lectures that he gave was on rejecting the status quo and challenging yourself to be a free thinker. And so we constantly challenge the assumptions of token economics and token issuance and ask ourselves questions like what would best suit the customer, what would best suit the protocol, what would best suit decentralization and the current thought process. Lends ourselves to the superior uiux of a governance token that having an independent token, which starts out with low float and low liquidity, having it be largely locked up by the friends and family, so to speak, of the protocol creators, which is primarily VCs and team, and then having that distributed slowly through farming rewards and a governance based issuance provides the best security features and path to decentralization, which then essentially evolves to a distributed governance that oversees the issuance of new markets, the configuration of those markets, and then the allocation of resources and funds collected from those markets to various pools and resource distribution allocation. And that is definitely the leading thought process, and we've continuously challenged that, playing devil's advocate of, like, could we just have LPs govern the protocol? Could we have Twitter votes govern it? Or just like, maybe, I don't know, like people mail in ballots, I don't know, absolutely ridiculous thought processes. But all indications lend themselves that issuing a governance token and then having that governance token slowly be distributed to the protocol participants through farming endeavors ensures that the best interests of the users of the protocol and the protocol itself are aligned throughout the next decade.
00:52:35.786 - 00:53:35.566, Speaker B: I will definitely second that, of all the different types of Defi protocols, a governance token in perps protocols has, I think, already proven itself to be necessary for the continued growth and health of those protocols. But I love the fact that you're thinking through all the possibilities here. Again, it speaks to just the critical thinking, the deep thinking I've always known you for over the years. But Jonathan, this is a great place for us to start to wrap up. So I want to remind listeners that they should, first off, go learn about Lavana finance by going to Lavonna finance. And then second, they should, of course, follow Lavana on Twitter, or X, whatever people call it now at Lavonna, they can follow you, your personal account on Twitter, at madcaps. Laugh.
00:53:35.566 - 00:53:54.390, Speaker B: We'll put that on screen there so folks can find the correct handle. And then I just want to give you the final word. Any other bit of alpha or milestones or anything you can tease us about that's coming in the next six to twelve months in relation to Levana.
00:53:54.810 - 00:56:05.682, Speaker A: So I think that we are largely impressed by the success of Bitmex, but we think that Bitmex missed the boat in terms of its centralization and its closed source and custody aspects. And we think that Lavana really can correct those fallacies. We're a cosmos product, but what we love about Cosmos is that late stage blockchain, we believe will be completely segregated from the underlying infrastructure level, meaning that the application will live on its own. So we strive to essentially hide the fact that we have anything to do with Cosmos. We support metamask through our injective build, and we'll support it through our osmosis build through metamask snaps. We will support multiparty computation, self custody, wallets that are entirely secured through face scans and email logins and other services which do not have the same friction for web two participants or crypto recent crypto enthusiasts that might not be familiar with a twelve or 24 word seed phrase, or be ready for all of the responsibility for the traditional self custody aspects. And so where Levana is going is really designed to be the premier perpetual protocol, which will have lower fees than our competitors will have, better trust assumptions, better security, better Uiux and a wider array of assets, while at the same time catering to the bitcoin ecosystem in a way that no other perpetual swap can cater to.
00:56:05.816 - 00:56:41.814, Speaker B: I'd put it as simply as this. If you've enjoyed using the likes of GMX, but you find a home base, especially on Cosmos, or you want to be using more defi on Cosmos, I think this is, according to the trading volume, the growth of that daily active traders. This is one of, if not the fastest growing DeFi apps on Cosmos, so be sure to check that out. It's Lavana finance. And Jonathan, just thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us. Always a privilege to get to pick your brain.
00:56:41.942 - 00:57:06.178, Speaker A: Thank you so much. And that's trade Levana finance. And so, if you've got any questions, if you want a VIP tour, you can always join our discord. You can just say, hey, can somebody give me a VIP tour? And we'll have one of the community members just walk you through all the Uiux. They'll teach you the ropes, they'll teach you just opening your first position, and then they'll walk you through some of the more advanced trading strategies.
00:57:06.354 - 00:57:18.930, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge pod.
