00:00:02.250 - 00:00:48.346, Speaker A: Okay, I think we can get started. Yeah. First of all, thanks for coming. This is for monetize your caro HTML five games on Sellers existing production blockchain based mobile Esports platform. I know the name is a little bit long, but bear with me. The whole thing will be very simple and I have a few slides, but after that it actually will be kind of a live demo to show you as a Seller X developer, what would the experience be? And I'm Jinda I'm, co founder and CTO of the Seller network. So first of all, what do we do when you go check Seller network? You might get a little bit confusing because we have this underlying L2 state channel.
00:00:48.346 - 00:01:51.870, Speaker A: We work with L four counterfactual together for the standardization. And you also see this Seller X, which actually looks less like a blockchain app, but more like a gaming app, right? So it's actually pretty simple. We started as the L2 scaling project. The goal is simple, we want to scale all blockchains. And after several iterations of the protocol of the implementation, quickly we kind of reached a production level, say oh, we have the thing down, the system is there, what's the next question we need to answer is what do you do with it? As we say, we get all the benefits of instant finality, zero transaction fee, zero latency everything coming from blockchain. But the next question people ask what's the real world use case? Right? You might heard a lot people talking about oh, DeFi or whatever, but for us we kind of say oh, there is a vertical that can significantly benefit from the technology we have built. Is the mobile games.
00:01:51.870 - 00:02:40.238, Speaker A: To be more precise, is the Cellar X. Now we are branding it as Cellarx. You can see on the screen it gives the user the seamless experience, just like playing a normal game, but underlying it's our accelerated blockchain technology. So that's the power and we kind of say hey, Esports itself is already a proven model, right? We don't have to convince people say hey, Esports is a valid business model, it's already proven. People see Fortnite, people see League of Legends and we say hey, we want to bring to mobile to make it even the caro game developer, like independent game developer instead of the deep pocket game studios. Even the individual developers can benefit from this system. And it turns out it's actually been pretty good.
00:02:40.238 - 00:03:38.610, Speaker A: This actually is the old number. I didn't get the latest number yet, but next time we will definitely refresh this page with much much higher numbers. Like I think in the past week alone, we already have more than 100,000 new games gets played, right? So this is all the power that benefits from the L2 scaling solution seller has already running in production on Ethereum. And this map is one of my favorites actually, to really see the potential of blockchain right? So if you think about, I think there are some number Facebook put out say hey, there are still like almost 3 billion people are still unbanked. Basically they cannot access the financial system. The people in developed countries have been used to take it for granted. And if you see this map clearly shows because blockchain is truly a global thing, as long as you have internet access, you can benefit from system.
00:03:38.610 - 00:04:35.374, Speaker A: Actually a fun fact is several of our most active users are actually coming from Madagascar. So if you think about that's, something kind of really hit me oh, this actually makes sense. At the same time we always position ourselves as a platform provider. We never want to say oh, we want to become a game studio or something, right? We have a few games, kind of a showcase to tell people how you can make it work. But fundamentally we want to pitch to for example, the typical game developer community to say hey, this is a completely new way to monetize your game. I think if you have some knowledge about how games today make money, especially on mobile, either the inapp purchase or it's ads, both of them hurt the user experience. For some developers it's actually really hard choice.
00:04:35.374 - 00:05:26.546, Speaker A: For them they still need to make a living, but at the same time they want to have a high quality polished game that players enjoy. And for us we basically say you don't have to sacrifice, right? As long as your game is a good game, people love playing that and people can build up the skills using your game. That's the revenue share model the seller provides to the developer. And to really make it down to the bottom simple, that's the API for a simple solo game you need to do like let's assume you have an existing game. We always set two lines of code, that's it. And then I will show you later the whole end to end flow. You can download our production app, scan a special QR code showing on your developer portal and you have it, your game, you can test it.
00:05:26.546 - 00:06:45.982, Speaker A: And then the next thing is the games will be under review and then we're published on our production app and I might skip a little bit too fast, I forgot if I have this number here. So now our monthly active players is around like 15K. This is kind of not a big number in a traditional sense, but if you think about in the blockchain community, right, this actually is pretty surprising numbers. Yeah, so that's basically our pitch for more like the gaming vertical. But remember underlying our platform is still there. So that's why we also have open more like you could say less about the use case, less about the gaming use case, but more for your flexibility to say DeFi prediction, market whatever you want to do or even protect the user privacy when they do like decentralized exchanges, right? So that's our web SDK you can also go and take a look. It definitely will require a little more experience like not only JavaScript, you have to be aware of some of the solidity and don't worry about we do have a very well written documentation and also a sample solidity plus off chain code.
00:06:45.982 - 00:07:38.698, Speaker A: You can take a look on our GitHub. Yeah, this part is talking about the smart contract code the full protocol specification and all the samples project you can take a look at are all open source. This is really I would say not for typical developers. This actually is really more on the hike level 9000 level. The thing here is that underneath Seller we build it with the extensible architecture in mind. So basically first it's a layered architecture and then you can plug and play different, completely different primitives. Think about how internet works, right? You have this IP layer then on top of it you can have TCP, UDP and some other streaming transport protocol.
00:07:38.698 - 00:08:32.122, Speaker A: Then on top of that you can build application very similar here. But again honestly speaking, we don't expect within 36 hours someone can really get something like really hardcore like this done. But again, I would be super happy if someone figured this out. This is more like say I'm not even satisfied with the simple state channel I want to build my own things that you can still do that on top of the Seller system. Yeah, I think this slide is about we are the official sponsor for the East Global. Almost every event will go with our team members and to help developers answer their questions and also we get the awards, right? So this is for this hackathon the awards we set up. Yeah, I think that's all for the slides.
00:08:32.122 - 00:10:08.480, Speaker A: I will just show you something really quick. I think I still have almost 20 minutes so first yeah, I already have this local in my I just try chrome GitHub seller seller X was it a sample? Where is the sample? Then? Seller X example go seller here just clone the project. There are two branches. One is Master, that is a vanilla HTML five game and then this one is answer and I want to show you is literally the difference between yeah there are some other random sum but the only thing that matters is here. Yes, index you search for Seller you it this line, this code symbol just make it bigger. SellerX on start you will reset the game and you call SellerX get match to get all the matching information that's needed to be provided to your game and then you call Seller X ready? That's it. And that starts the game already and then after game is done you have another thing called semi score right here.
00:10:08.480 - 00:11:12.880, Speaker A: Just take a quick look and I will show you. After this, let's say you take a game or whatever you already have a game or you develop a new interesting HTML. Five games and with these lines of code it already can be published on SellerX platform. And now we switch to the developer portal. SellerX integrate. Now log in there and you say I want to create a new game, right? Just give it a name. Let's say East Waterloo demo subtitle seller Rocks description I think these are optional device orientation.
00:11:12.880 - 00:11:32.320, Speaker A: This is landscape. Pick a primary color. This is more for the UI to show and make it more pretty. And here you have the choice. Yes, I did just show you the simpler like solo game. So it simply say the game does not require player to player interaction. You just play within the game.
00:11:32.320 - 00:11:59.404, Speaker A: After that you have a score. You just compare the score. If you select Solo game then you have a choice. Is it high score wins or low score wins? Yeah. And then you are done. Next step is I think someone already here, already went through the process, right? So you can skip all this. Just make sure you upload the game assets.
00:11:59.404 - 00:13:09.122, Speaker A: The assets if you want to get a sense of it. I will just try to drag the open dot. Okay, looks like sit down. Go test it on seller X You see the QR code, right? And then you download say the Seller X app on either Android or iOS. I cannot present this, right? But going to the SellerX app on the right top corner there is a very subtle scanner. Now you can see you are being switched to the developer mode. Okay, I think you can see my screen.
00:13:09.122 - 00:13:33.050, Speaker A: So basically that's the whole flow. And then sometime it takes a few minutes for the back end to get completely in sync with the assets and resources. But that's it. After that's done, you can see I tapped loading. I think now it's pretty quick. You can see you can already test your game with Minet tokens. This is this is Die and the Seller.
00:13:33.050 - 00:14:03.610, Speaker A: And you can play with your friends. You can try to do a public matching which will be you have to have other people scan as well. Or you can do a private match. Basically create another QR code for your friend to scan. I think that's basically it for people who want to be a little bit more into the advanced space. This is a solo game, right? We also support the generic state channel term based game. So basically you still need to write your own smart contracts in Solidity.
00:14:03.610 - 00:14:34.078, Speaker A: But then again, remember this website, the developer select app. All the detailed workthrough tutorials for Solo game and also for turn based games are here. And they also include a link to the GitHub project you can download as a starting point. Basically we have the whole skeleton. Everything is already set up. You just need to fill in your own logic. So I think that's the whole point.
00:14:34.078 - 00:15:08.390, Speaker A: What we are trying to make the developer especially coming to hackathons. I know everyone is kind of short on time. Make sure it's more efficient for you and also hoping everyone can spend minimal effort fighting with infrastructure. Basically focus more on your own innovative ideas. Less about how do I configure this gRPC endpoint? I've been there. I kind of get enough of it. Why can't we do better for developers? So basically that's our answer for the hackathon hackers.
00:15:08.390 - 00:15:30.280, Speaker A: And our booth is near the entrance. We'll have people there answer questions. And also if you do not want to walk over because too cold, you just send a message on discord. Okay? Any questions? No? Good. Yeah, just happy hacking. Thanks. So.
